It is unclear how motivation leads to improved motor performance. Here we test the hypothesis that motivation interacts with behavioural performance in the basal ganglia. We recorded trial-to-trial performance in a bimanual motor task in 10 patients with Parkinson's disease with electrodes chronically implanted in the subthalamic nucleus for deep brain stimulation. Motivation-associated improvements in trial-to-trial performance were contrasted with and without stimulation at high frequency. Motivation and stimulation improved trial-to-trial performance, but the effect of motivation was halved during stimulation. We conclude that the subthalamic area is mechanistically important in those processes linking motivation to improvement in motor performance. This finding may be relevant to some of the cognitive and emotional changes associated with bilateral subthalamic stimulation.
To investigate the development of semantic priming effect in school children, we examined the event-related potentials in 120 children from 7 to 12 years when they were instructed to perform a lexical decision task. The well-known N400 component and a late positive component showed parabolic changes with the age growing. In addition, the lateralization of the brain potentials indicated the early stage in elementary school was the curial time for development of linguistic neural networks. This finding first revealed the detailed changes of semantic priming effect in childhood.

We report the utilization of microfluidic technology to phage selection and demonstrate that accurate control of washing stringency in our microfluidic magnetic separator (MMS) directly impacts the diversity of isolated peptide sequences. Reproducible generation of magnetic and fluidic forces allows controlled washing conditions that enable rapid convergence of selected peptide sequences. These findings may provide a foundation for the development of automated microsystems for rapid in vitro directed evolution of affinity reagents.



The rat facial whiskers form a high-resolution sensory apparatus for tactile information coding and are used by these animals for the exploration and perception of their environment. Previous work on the rat vibrissae system obtained evidence for vibration-based feature extraction by the whiskers, texture classification by the cortical neurons, and &quot;low-pass&quot;, &quot;high-pass&quot;, and &quot;band-pass&quot; filtering properties in both thalamic and cortical neurons. However, no data are available for frequency-dependent information processing in the brainstem sensory trigeminal complex (STC), the first relay station of the vibrissae pathway. In the present paper, we studied the frequency-dependent processing characteristics of the STC nuclei that mainly project to the thalamus, nuclei principalis, and interpolaris. This is the first time that STC nuclei have been studied together via a wide range of stimulation frequencies (1-40 Hz), four different and complementary metrics, and the same experimental protocol. Moreover, the role of corticofugal projection to these nuclei as well as the influence of input from the whiskers has been analyzed. We show that both nuclei perform frequency-dependent coding of tactile information: low pass and band-pass filtering occurs for the spiking rate in short post-stimuli time intervals, high-pass and band-pass filtering occurs for the spiking rate in long trains of stimuli, and an increase of response latencies and low pass filtering occurs for phase-locked stimuli. These information-processing characteristics are neither imposed by the sensorimotor cortex nor introduced by the afferent fibres. The sensorimotor cortex exerts a distinct modulatory effect on each nucleus.
In mammals, the 24 h-rhythmicity of many physiological events is driven by the circadian clock contained in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN). In the SCN, clock gene expressions produce the rhythmicity and control the expression of clock-controlled genes which play a role in the distribution of daily messages. The daily expression of all these genes is modulated by the duration of the light phase (i.e. photoperiod). The aim of this study was first to determine if these daily changes of expression reflect a real integration of a new photoperiod by the circadian clock or reflect only a passive effect of the light. In this way, we performed a time course of the modifications of gene expression after a transfer of Syrian hamsters from long to short photoperiod (LP and SP). Our results demonstrate that the core of the SCN (clock genes) integrates quickly a new photoperiod which entrains a slow adaptation of the clock-controlled gene expressions and induces a differential daily functioning of an SCN-target tissue, the pineal gland. We next asked the question whether SCN are involved in the photorefractory phase observed in Syrian hamsters exposed to SP for 26 weeks. All genes analyzed present a similar daily expression in SP-refractory and in SP with the exception of Clock. Its particular expression in SP-refractory is different than ones observed in SP or in LP. Thus, Clock seems to play a role in the development of the photorefractory phase, or this physiological state may modify the expression of Clock in the SCN. As a conclusion, it appears that the photoperiodic time measurement involves daily modifications of the molecular functioning of the SCN and that SCN also play a role in the measurement of the duration of the time passed in a short photoperiod.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor and nitricoxide syntheses are the emerging target sites for development of novel drug molecules because their modulation affects the long term potentiation (LTP) process. NMDA receptor antagonists and nitric oxide synthase inhibitors induce amnesia in animals and therefore have been employed for evaluation of efficacy of several novel antiamnesic agents.Bacopa monniera Linn (syn. Brahmi) is commonly used in the ancient Indian medical system for improvement of memory deficit.We have earlier described the involvement of GABAergic and cholinergic system to account for the antiamnesic effects of B. monniera on diazepam- and scopolamine-induced amnesia.In extension to our previous study this study was designed to investigate the downstream mechanism of B. monniera by evaluation of its effect on MK-801 (an NMDA receptor antagonist) and N(w)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) (a nitric oxide inhibitor)induced memory deficit. We used a Morris water maze scale and compared the degree of reversal of amnesia induced by the two agents. Male Swiss albino mice were subjected to a Rotarod muscle incoordination test followed by water maze tasks.Our data revealed that L-NNA and MK-801 produced anterograde and retrograde amnesia and B. monniera significantly attenuated the L-NNA-induced anterograde amnesia, partially reversing L-NNA-induced retrograde amnesia. On the other hand, B. monniera neither attenuated the MK-801-induced anterograde amnesia nor improved retrograde amnesia caused by it.
In the inferior colliculus (IC), GABAergic inhibition mediated by GABA(A) receptors has been shown to play a significant role in regulating physiological responses, but little is known about the physiological role of GABA(B) receptors in IC neurons. In the present study, we used whole-cell patch clamp recording in vitro to investigate the effects of activation of GABA(B) receptors on membrane excitability and synaptic transmission of neurons in the rat's dorsal cortex of the inferior colliculus (ICD). Repetitive stimulation of GABAergic inputs to ICD neurons at high frequencies could elicit a slow and long-lasting postsynaptic response, which was reversibly abolished by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist, CGP 35348. The results suggest that postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors can directly mediate inhibitory synaptic transmission in ICD. The role of postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors in regulation of membrane excitability was further investigated by application of the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen. Baclofen hyperpolarized the cell, reduced the membrane input resistance and firing rate, increased the threshold for generating action potentials (APs), and decreased the amplitude of the AP and its associated after-hyperpolarization. The Ca2+-mediated rebound depolarization following hyperpolarization and the depolarization hump at the beginning of membrane depolarization were also suppressed by baclofen. In voltage clamp experiments, baclofen induced inward rectifying K+ current and reduced low- and high-threshold Ca2+ currents, which may account for the suppression of membrane excitability by postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors. Application of baclofen also reduced excitatory synaptic responses mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors, and inhibitory synaptic responses mediated by GABA(A) receptors. Baclofen increased the ratios of 2nd/1st excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents to paired-pulse stimulation of the synaptic inputs. These results suggest that fast glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission in ICD can be modulated by presynaptic GABA(B) receptors.
We combined retrograde tracing with immunohistochemistry for choline acetyltransferase to identify the source of cholinergic input to the inferior colliculus (IC) in guinea pigs. Injection of a retrograde tracer into one IC labeled cells in many brainstem nuclei. Retrogradely-labeled cells that were also immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase were identified in two nuclei in the midbrain tegmentum: the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPT) and the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDT). More PPT and LDT cells project ipsilaterally than contralaterally to the IC and, on both sides, there are more projecting cells in the PPT than in the LDT. Double-labeled cells were not found in any other brainstem nucleus. A common feature of cholinergic cells in PPT and LDT is collateral projections to multiple targets. We placed different retrograde tracers into each IC to identify cells in PPT and LDT that project to both ICs. In both PPT and LDT, a substantial proportion (up to 57%) of the immunoreactive cells that contained tracer from the contralateral IC also contained tracer from the ipsilateral IC. We conclude that acetylcholine in the IC originates from the midbrain tegmental cholinergic nuclei: PPT and LDT. These nuclei are known to participate in arousal, the sleep/wake cycle and prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle. It is likely that the cholinergic input to the IC is directly associated with these functions.
The septohippocampal pathway, which is mostly composed of cholinergic and GABAergic projections between the medial septum/diagonal band (MS/DB) and the hippocampus, has an established role in learning, memory and disorders of cognition. In Wernicke-Korsakoff's syndrome (WKS) and the animal model of the disorder, pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD), there is both diencephalic damage and basal forebrain cell loss that could contribute to the amnesic state. In the current experiment, we used the PTD animal model to access both cholinergic (choline acetyltransferase [ChAT] immunopositive) and GABAergic (parvalbumin [PV]; calbindin [CaBP]) neuronal loss in the MS/DB in relationship to midline-thalamic pathology. In addition, to gain an understanding about the role of such neuropathology in behavioral dysfunction, animals were tested on a non-rewarded spontaneous alternation task and behavioral performance was correlated to neuropathology. Unbiased stereological assessment of neuronal populations revealed that ChAT-positive neurons were significantly reduced in PTD rats, relative to control pair-fed rats, and thalamic mass and behavioral performance correlated with ChAT neuronal estimates. In contrast, both the PV- and CaBP-positive neurons in the MS/DB were not affected by PTD treatment. These results support an interactive role of both thalamic pathology and cholinergic cell loss in diencephalic amnesia.
Prostaglandin D(2) (PGD(2)) is the most abundant prostaglandin produced in the brain. It is a metabolite of arachidonic acid and synthesized by prostaglandin D(2) synthases (PGDS) via the cyclooxygenase pathway. Two distinct types of PGDS have been identified: hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase (H-PGDS) and lipocalin-type prostaglandin D synthase (L-PGDS). Because relatively little is known about the role of L-PGDS in the CNS, here we examined the outcomes in L-PGDS knockout and wild-type (WT) mice after two different cerebral ischemia models, transient middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion (tMCAO) and permanent distal middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). In the tMCAO model, the MCA was occluded with a monofilament for 90 min and then reperfused for 4 days. In the pMCAO model, the distal part of the MCA was permanently occluded and the mice were sacrificed after 7 days. Percent corrected infarct volume and neurological score were determined after 4 and 7 days, respectively. L-PGDS knockout mice had significantly greater infarct volume and brain edema than did WT mice after tMCAO (P&lt;0.01). Similarly, L-PGDS knockout mice showed greater infarct volume and neurological deficits as compared to their WT counterparts after pMCAO (P&lt;0.01). Using the two models enabled us to study the role of L-PGDS in both early (tMCAO) and delayed (pMCAO) ischemic processes. Our findings suggest that L-PGDS is beneficial for protecting the brain against transient and permanent cerebral ischemia. These results provide a better understanding of the role played by the enzymes that control eicosanoid synthesis and how they can be utilized as potential targets to prevent damage following either acute or potentially chronic neurological disorders.
Active neuronal transport along microtubules participates in the targeting of mRNAs, proteins and organelles to their sites of action. Cytoplasmic dynein represents a minus-end-directed microtubule-dependent motor protein. Due to the polarity of microtubules in axonal and distal dendritic compartments, with microtubule minus-ends pointing toward the inside of the cell, dyneins mainly mediate retrograde transport pathways in neurons. Since dyneins transport synaptic proteins, we asked whether changes in neuronal activity would in general influence dynein transport. KCl-induced depolarization, a condition that mimics the effects of neuronal activity, or pharmacological blockade of neuronal action potentials, respectively, was combined with neuronal live cell imaging, using an autofluorescent dynein intermediate chain fusion (monomeric red fluorescent protein [mRFP]-dynein intermediate chain [DIC]) as a model protein. Notably, we found that induced activity significantly reduced dynein particle mobility, as well as both the total distance and velocity of movements in mouse cultured hippocampal neurons. In contrast, blockade of neuronal action potentials through TTX did not alter any of the parameters analyzed. Neuronal depolarization processes therefore represent candidate mechanisms to regulate intracellular transport of neuronal cargoes.
Trypsin and other trypsin-like serine proteases have been shown to play important roles in neural development, plasticity and neurodegeneration. Their activity is modulated by serine protease inhibitors, serpins. However, for human brain trypsin, trypsin-4, no brain-derived inhibitors have been described. Here, we report that nexin-1 inhibits trypsin-4, and forms stable complexes only with this trypsin-isoenzyme. This result suggests that nexin-1 could modulate trypsin activity in brain where both nexin-1 and trypsin-4 are expressed.
Ionotropic GABA(A) receptors are heteromeric structures composed of a combination of five from at least 16 different subunits. Subunit genes are expressed in distinct cell types at specific times during development. The most abundant native GABA(A) receptors consist of alpha1-, beta2-, and gamma2-subunits that are co-expressed in numerous brain areas. alpha3-, theta-, And epsilon-subunits are clustered on the X chromosome and show striking overlapping expression patterns throughout the adult rat brain. To establish whether these subunits are temporally and spatially co-expressed, we used in situ hybridization to analyze their expression throughout rat development from embryonic stage E14 to postnatal stage P12. Each transcript exhibited a unique or a shared regional and temporal developmental expression profile. The thalamic expression pattern evolved from a restricted expression of epsilon and theta transcripts before birth, to a theta and alpha3 expression at birth, and finally to a grouped epsilon, theta and alpha3 expression postpartum. However, strong similarities occurred, such as a grouped expression of the three subunits within the hypothalamus, tegmentum and pontine nuclei throughout the developmental process. At early stages of development (E17), epsilon and theta appeared to have a greater spatial distribution before the dominance of the alpha3 subunit transcript around birth. We also revealed expression of alpha3, theta, and epsilon in the developing spinal cord and identified neurons that express epsilon in the postnatal dorsal horn, intermediolateral column and motoneurons. Our findings suggest that various combinations of alpha3-, theta- and epsilon-subunits may be assembled at a regional and developmental level in the brain.
Rolling mouse Nagoya (tg(rol)) is a spontaneously occurring P/Q-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channel (VGCC) mutant mouse. A P/Q-type VGCC with the tg(rol) mutation has lower voltage sensitivity of activation, and mice with a homozygous genotype (tg(rol)/tg(rol)) but not with a heterozygous genotype (tg(rol)/+) show impaired motor coordination of the hind limbs. To investigate the roles of P/Q-type VGCC in pain sensing mechanisms, behavioral responses of adult tg(rol) mice to thermal, mechanical and chemical nociceptive stimuli were examined by the plantar, tail-flick, von Frey and formalin tests. The latency of the withdrawal response to thermal stimuli in the plantar or tail-flick tests was significantly longer in tg(rol)/tg(rol) mice than in tg(rol)/+ and wild-type (+/+) mice, and in tg(rol)/+ mice than in +/+ mice. The withdrawal response to mechanical stimuli in the von Frey test was lower in tg(rol)/tg(rol) mice than in +/+ mice. Although the licking time during the first 5 min after the formalin injection was similar among all of the three genotypes, that during 5-60 min was significantly shorter in tg(rol)/tg(rol) mice than in tg(rol)/+ and +/+ mice, and in tg(rol)/+ mice than in +/+ mice. Artificial inflammation induced by injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into a hind paw significantly enhanced the withdrawal response recorded in the plantar and von Frey tests regardless of the mouse genotype. The CFA-enhanced response in the tg(rol)/tg(rol) mice was similar to the response in +/+ mice without the CFA injection. These results suggest that tg(rol) mutant mice show hypoalgesic responses caused by a lower sensitivity to nociceptive thermal, mechanical and chemical stimuli. It is concluded that the P/Q-type VGCC has a pro-nociceptive role and that the tg(rol) mutant mouse may be a useful tool to investigate the role of the P/Q-type VGCC in pain sensing mechanisms.
Spinules found in brain consist of small invaginations of plasma membranes which enclose membrane evaginations from adjacent cells. Here, we focus on the dynamic properties of the most common type, synaptic spinules, which reside in synaptic terminals. In order to test whether depolarization triggers synaptic spinule formation, hippocampal slice cultures (7-day-old rats, 10-14 days in culture) were exposed to high K+ for 0.5-5 min, and examined by electron microscopy. Virtually no synaptic spinules were found in control slices representing a basal state, but numerous spinules appeared at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses after treatment with high K+. Spinule formation peaked with approximately 1 min treatment at 37 degrees C, decreased with prolonged treatment, and disappeared after 1-2 min of washout in normal medium. The rate of disappearance of spinules was substantially slower at 4 degrees C. N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) treatment also induced synaptic spinule formation, but to a lesser extent than high K+ depolarization. In acute brain slices prepared from adult mice, synaptic spinules were abundant immediately after dissection at 4 degrees C, extremely rare in slices allowed to recover at 28 degrees C, but frequent after high K(+) depolarization. High pressure freezing of acute brain slices followed by freeze-substitution demonstrated that synaptic spinules are not induced by chemical fixation. These results indicate that spinules are absent in synapses at low levels of activity, but form and disappear quickly during sustained synaptic activity. The rapid turnover of synaptic spinules may represent an aspect of membrane retrieval during synaptic activity.
mRNA and protein presence of Na+/H+ exchanger (NHE) 1 (NHE1) and 5 (NHE5) in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and dorsal spinal cord as well as its possible role in three inflammatory nociception tests were determined. Local peripheral ipsilateral, but not contralateral, administration of NHE inhibitors 5-(N,N-dimethyl)amiloride hydrochloride (DMA, 0.3-30 microM/paw), 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)amiloride (EIPA, 0.3-30 microM/paw) and amiloride (0.1-10 microM/paw) significantly increased flinching but not licking behavior in the capsaicin and 5-HT tests. Moreover, DMA and EIPA (0.03-30 microM/paw) as well as amiloride (0.1-1 microM/paw) augmented, in a dose-dependent manner, 0.5% formalin-induced flinching behavior during phase II but not during phase I. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction showed the expression of NHE1 and NHE5 in DRG and dorsal spinal cord. Western blot analysis confirmed the presence of NHE1 in DRG and spinal cord. Moreover, NHE5 was expressed in dorsal spinal cord, but not in DRG where a 45 kDa truncated isoform of NHE5 was identified. Collectively, these data suggest that NHE1, but not NHE5, plays an important role reducing inflammatory pain in rats.
The perioculomotor urocortin-containing population of neurons (pIIIu: otherwise known as the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus) is sensitive to alcohol and is involved in the regulation of alcohol intake. A recent study indicated that this brain region is also sensitive to psychostimulants. Since pIIIu has been shown to respond to stress, we investigated how psychostimulant-induced pIIIu activation compares to stress- and ethanol-induced activation, and whether it is independent from a generalized stress response. Several experiments were performed to test how the pIIIu responds to psychostimulants by quantifying the number of Fos immunoreactive nuclei after acute i.p. injections of saline, 10-30 mg/kg cocaine, 5 mg/kg methamphetamine, 5 mg/kg amphetamine, 2.5 g/kg ethanol, 2 h of restraint stress, 10 min of swim stress, or six applications of mild foot shock in male C57BL/6 J mice. We also compared Fos immunoreactivity in pIIIu after acute (20 mg/kg cocaine) and repeated cocaine exposure (7 days of 20 mg/kg cocaine) injections in male C57BL/6 J mice in order to investigate the potential habituation of this response. Finally, we quantified the number of Fos immunoreactive nuclei in pIIIu after administration of saline, 2.5 g/kg ethanol, 20 mg/kg cocaine, or 2 h of restraint stress in male Sprague-Dawley rats. We found that exposure to psychostimulants and ethanol induced significantly higher Fos levels in pIIIu compared to stress in mice. Furthermore, repeated cocaine injections did not decrease Fos immunoreactivity as would be expected if this response were due to stress. In rats, exposure to ethanol, psychostimulant and restraint stress all induced pIIIu Fos immunoreactivity compared to saline-injected controls. In both mice and rats, ethanol- and cocaine-induced Fos immunoreactivity occurred exclusively in urocortin 1-positive, but not in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive, cells. These results provide evidence that the pIIIu Fos-response to psychostimulants is independent of a generalized stress in mice, but not rats. They additionally show that the pIIIu response to stress differs significantly between species.
Adolescence may be a critical period for drug addiction. Young adolescent male rats have greater locomotor responses than adults after acute low dose cocaine administration. Further, repeated cocaine administration produces as much or more conditioned place preference but reduced locomotor sensitization in adolescents compared to adults. Acute activation of neurons by cocaine induces long-term changes in behavior by activating transcriptional complexes. The purpose of the present study was to correlate cocaine-induced locomotor activity with neuronal activation in subregions of the striatum and cortex by acute cocaine in young adolescent (postnatal (PN) 28) and adult (PN 65) male rats by measuring the induction of the plasticity-associated immediate early genes (IEGs) c-fos and zif268 using in situ hybridization. Animals were treated with saline, low (10 mg/kg), or high (40 mg/kg) dose cocaine in locomotor activity chambers and killed 30 min later. Low dose cocaine induced more locomotor activity and striatal c-fos expression in adolescents than adults whereas high dose cocaine induced more locomotor activity, striatal c-fos, and striatal zif268 expression in adults. Locomotor activity correlated with the expression of both genes in adults but correlated with striatal c-fos only in adolescents. Finally, there was a significant correlation between the expression of c-fos and zif268 in the adult striatum but not in adolescents. Our results suggest that the coordinated expression of transcription factors by cocaine continues to develop during adolescence. The immature regulation of transcription factors by cocaine could explain why adolescents show unique sensitivity to specific long-term behavioral alterations following cocaine treatment.
Cerebral ischemia is a major cause of death and disability and may be a complication of neurosurgery. Certain anesthetics may improve recovery after ischemia and hypoxia by altering electrophysiological changes during the insult. Intracellular recordings were made from CA1 pyramidal cells in hippocampal slices from adult rats. Desflurane or propofol was applied 10 min before and during 10 min of hypoxia (95% nitrogen, 5% carbon dioxide). None of the untreated CA1 pyramidal neurons, 46% of the 6% desflurane- and 38% of the 12% desflurane-treated neurons recovered their resting and action potentials 1 h after hypoxia (P&lt;0.05). Desflurane (6% or 12%) enhanced the hypoxic hyperpolarization (4.9 or 4.7 vs. 2.6 mV), increased the time until the rapid depolarization (441 or 390 vs. 217 s) and reduced the level of depolarization at 10 min of hypoxia (-13.5 or -13.0 vs. -0.6 mV); these changes may be part of the mechanism of its protective effect. Either chelerythrine (5 microM), a protein kinase C inhibitor, or glybenclamide (5 microM), a K(ATP) channel blocker, prevented the protective effect and the electrophysiological changes with 6% desflurane. Propofol (33 or 120 microM) did not improve recovery (0 or 0% vs. 0%) 1 h after 10 min of hypoxia; it did not significantly enhance the hypoxic hyperpolarization (3.6 or 3.1 vs. 2.6 mV) or increase the latency of the rapid depolarization (282 or 257 vs. 217 s). The average depolarization at 10 m of hypoxia with 33 microM propofol (-4.1 mV) was slightly but significantly different from that in untreated hypoxic tissue (-0.6 mV). Desflurane but not propofol improved recovery of the resting and action potentials in hippocampal slices after hypoxia, this improvement correlated with enhanced hyperpolarization and attenuated depolarization of the membrane potential during hypoxia. Our results demonstrate differential effects of anesthetics on electrophysiological changes during hypoxia.
Current neurobiological theory of drug use is based on the observation that all addictive drugs induce changes in activity of dopaminergic circuitry, interfering with reward processing, and thus enhancing drug seeking and consumption behaviors. Current theory of drug origins, in contrast, views almost all major drugs of abuse, including nicotine, cocaine and opiates, as plant neurotoxins that evolved to punish and deter herbivores. According to this latter view, plants should not have evolved compounds that reward or reinforce plant consumption. Mammals, in turn, should not have evolved reinforcement mechanisms easily triggered by toxic substances. Situated in an ecological context, therefore, drug reward is a paradox. In an attempt to resolve the paradox, we review the neurobiology of aversive learning and toxin avoidance and their relationships to appetitive learning. We seek to answer the question: why does aversive learning not prevent the repeated use of plant drugs? We conclude by proposing alternative models of drug seeking and use. Specifically, we suggest that humans, like other animals, might have evolved to counter-exploit plant neurotoxins.
Expression of c-fos in the medial geniculate body (MGB) and the inferior colliculus (IC) in response to bicuculline-induced corticofugal activation was examined in rats at different time points after bilateral cochlear ablation (4 h-30 days). Corticofugal activation was crucial in eliciting Fos expression in the MGB after cochlear ablation. The pars ovoidea (OV) of the medial geniculate body ventral division (MGv) showed dense Fos expression 4 h after cochlear ablation; the expression declined to very low levels at 24 h and thereafter. In turn, strong Fos expression was found in the pars lateralis (LV) of the MGv 24 h after cochlear ablation and dropped dramatically at 14 days. The dorsal division of the MGB (MGd) showed high Fos expression 7 days after cochlear ablation, which persisted for a period of time. Using multi-electrode recordings, neuronal activity of different MGB subnuclei was found to correlate well with Fos expressions. The temporal changes in cortically activated Fos expression in different MGB subnuclei after bilateral cochlear ablation indicate differential denervation hypersensitivities of these MGB neurons and likely point to differential dependence of these nuclei on both auditory ascending and corticofugal descending inputs. After bilateral cochlear ablation, significant increases in Fos-positive neurons were detected unilaterally in all IC subnuclei, ipsilateral to the bicuculline injection.
Gap junctional communication plays an important role in various models of brain pathology, but the changes of gap junctions in Parkinsonism are still not understood. In this study, we show that a major gap junctional protein, connexin43 (Cx43), in astrocytes is enhanced both in a rat Parkinson's disease (PD) model induced with rotenone, a widely used pesticide that inhibits mitochondrial complex I, and in vitro in cultured astrocytes stimulated with rotenone. Enhancement of Cx43 protein levels in rotenone-treated cultured astrocytes occurred in parallel with an increase in gap junctional intercellular communication, but was not accompanied with an increase in Cx43 mRNA levels. Furthermore, the rotenone-induced increase of Cx43 protein levels both in vitro and in vivo was associated with increased levels of phosphorylated Cx43, which is required for gap junctional intercellular communication. In our rat PD model, phosphorylated Cx43 was selectively enhanced in the basal ganglia regions, which contain DA neurons or their terminal areas. The increase of Cx43 levels was lower in the substantia nigra pars compacta and the striatum than in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the globus pallidus. Our findings indicate that modulation of Cx43 protein, and consequently gap junctional cellular communication, in astrocytes may play an important role in PD pathology.
Transgenic mice that express enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the control of a cell-specific promoter have been used with great success to identify and label specific cell types of the retina. We studied the expression of EGFP in the retina of mice making use of four transgenic mouse lines. Expression of EGFP driven by the calretinin promoter was found in amacrine, displaced amacrine and ganglion cells. Comparison of the EGFP expression and calretinin immunolabeling showed that many but not all cells appear to be double labeled. Expression of EGFP under the control of the choline acetyltransferase promoter was found in amacrine cells; however, the cells did not correspond to the well known cholinergic (starburst) cells of the mouse retina. The expression of EGFP under the control of the parvalbumin promoter was restricted to amacrine cells of the inner nuclear layer and to cells of the ganglion cell layer (displaced amacrine cells and ganglion cells). Most of the cells were also immunoreactive for parvalbumin, however, differences in labeling intensity were observed. The expression of EGFP driven by the promoter for the 5-HT3 A receptor (5-HTR3A) was restricted to type 5 bipolar cells. In contrast, immunostaining for 5-HTR3A was found in synaptic hot spots in sublamina 1 of the inner plexiform layer and was not related to type 5 bipolar cells. The results show that these transgenic mice are very useful for future electrophysiological studies of specific types of amacrine and bipolar cells that express EGFP and thus permit directed microelectrode targeting under microscopic control.
Previous work from our laboratory has shown that the ability of estradiol to enhance object memory consolidation in young ovariectomized mice is dependent on dorsal hippocampal activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK/MAPK) signaling pathway [Fernandez SM, Lewis MC, Pechenino AS, Harburger LL, Orr PT, Gresack JE, Schafe GE, Frick KM (2008) Estradiol-induced enhancement of object memory consolidation involves hippocampal extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation and membrane-bound estrogen receptors. J Neurosci 28:8660-8667]. However, it is unclear if estradiol modulates memory or ERK activation similarly in the presence of progesterone. Therefore, the present study investigated effects of combined estradiol and progesterone treatment on object memory consolidation and dorsal hippocampal ERK activation in young ovariectomized C57BL/6 mice. Object memory was tested in a novel object recognition task. Immediately after training, mice received intraperiotoneal (i.p.) injections of vehicle, 17beta-estradiol (E(2); 0.2 mg/kg), or E(2) plus 5, 10, or 20 mg/kg progesterone (P). Forty-eight hours later, mice receiving E(2) alone or E(2) plus 10 or 20 mg/kg P exhibited significantly enhanced memory for the novel object relative to chance, whereas those receiving vehicle or E(2) plus 5 mg/kg P spent no more time than chance with the novel object. Two weeks later, ERK phosphorylation was measured in the dorsal hippocampus 1 h after i.p. injection of vehicle, E(2), or E(2) plus P. Consistent with our previous work [Fernandez SM, Lewis MC, Pechenino AS, Harburger LL, Orr PT, Gresack JE, Schafe GE, Frick KM (2008) Estradiol-induced enhancement of object memory consolidation involves hippocampal extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation and membrane-bound estrogen receptors. J Neurosci 28:8660-8667], E(2) alone significantly increased phospho-p42 ERK protein levels in the dorsal hippocampus relative to vehicle controls. In contrast, no combination of E(2) and P affected dorsal hippocampal phospho-ERK levels. These data indicate that, unlike E(2) alone, the beneficial effects of combined E(2) plus P treatment on memory are not associated with ERK activation in the dorsal hippocampus 1 h after treatment, and suggest that E(2) alone and combined E(2) plus P may influence ERK activation in different time frames or enhance memory through different mechanisms.
Current theories of neuropathic hypersensitivity include an imbalance of supraspinal inhibition and facilitation. Our overall hypothesis is that the locus coeruleus (LC), classically interpreted as a source of pain inhibition, may paradoxically result in facilitation after tibial and common peroneal nerve transection (spared sural nerve injury--SNI). We first tested the hypothesis that non-noxious tactile hind paw stimulation of the spared sural innervation territory increases neuronal activity in the LC in male rats. We observed a bilateral increase in the stimulus-evoked expression of transcription factors Fos and phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) in LC after SNI but not sham surgery; these markers of neuronal activity correlated with the intensity of tactile allodynia. We next tested the hypothesis that noradrenergic neurons contribute to the development of neuropathic pain. To selectively destroy these neurons, we delivered antidopamine-beta-hydroxylase saporin (anti-DbetaH-saporin) into the i.c.v. space 2 weeks before SNI. We found that anti-DbetaH-saporin, but not an IgG-saporin control, reduced behavioral signs of tactile allodynia, mechanical hyperalgesia, and cold allodynia from 3 to 28 days. after SNI. Our final experiment tested the hypothesis that the LC contributes to the maintenance of neuropathic pain. We performed SNI, waited 2 weeks for maximal allodynia and hyperalgesia to develop, and then administered the local anesthetic lidocaine (4%) directly into the LC parenchyma. Lidocaine reduced all behavioral signs of neuropathic pain in a reversible manner, suggesting that the LC contributes to pain facilitation. We conclude that, in addition to its well-known inhibition of acute and inflammatory pain, the LC facilitates the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain in the SNI model. Further studies are needed to determine the facilitatory pathways emanating from the LC.
Exposure of neurons to a non-lethal hypoxic stress greatly reduces cell death during subsequent severe ischemia (hypoxic preconditioning, HPC). In organotypic cultures of rat hippocampus, we demonstrate that HPC requires inositol triphosphate (IP3) receptor-dependent Ca2+ release from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) triggered by increased cytosolic NAD(P)H. Ca2+ chelation with intracellular BAPTA, ER Ca2+ store depletion with thapsigargin, IP3 receptor block with xestospongin, and RNA interference against subtype 1 of the IP3 receptor all blunted the moderate increases in [Ca2+](i) (50-100 nM) required for tolerance induction. Increases in [Ca2+](i) during HPC and neuroprotection following HPC were not prevented with NMDA receptor block or by removing Ca2+ from the bathing medium. Increased NAD(P)H fluorescence in CA1 neurons during hypoxia and demonstration that NADH manipulation increases [Ca2+](i) in an IP3R-dependent manner revealed a primary role of cellular redox state in liberation of Ca2+ from the ER. Blockade of IP3Rs and intracellular Ca2+ chelation prevented phosphorylation of known HPC signaling targets, including MAPK p42/44 (ERK), protein kinase B (Akt) and CREB. We conclude that the endoplasmic reticulum, acting via redox/NADH-dependent intracellular Ca2+ store release, is an important mediator of the neuroprotective response to hypoxic stress.
Age-related hearing loss, presbycusis, can be thought of, in part, as a slow progressive peripheral deafferentation. Previous studies suggest that certain deficits seen in presbycusis may partially result from functional loss of the inhibitory neurotransmitter glycine in dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN). The present study assessed age-related behavioral gap detection changes and neurochemical changes of postsynaptic glycine receptor (GlyRs) subunits and their anchoring protein gephyrin in fusiform cells of young (7-11 months) and aged (28-33 months) Fischer brown Norway (FBN) rats. Aged rats showed significantly (20-30 dB) elevated auditory brainstem-evoked response thresholds across all tested frequencies and worse gap detection ability compared to young FBN rats. In situ hybridization and quantitative immunocytochemistry were used to measure GlyR subunit message and protein levels. There were significant age-related increases in the alpha(1) subunit message with significant age-related decreases in alpha(1) subunit protein. Gephyrin message and protein showed significant increases in aged DCN fusiform cells. The pharmacologic consequences of these age-related subunit changes were assessed using [3H] strychnine binding. In support of the age-related decrease of alpha(1) subunit protein levels in DCN, there was a significant age-related decrease in the total number of GlyR binding sites with no significant change in affinity. These age-related changes may reflect an effort to reestablish a homeostatic balance between excitation and inhibition impacting on DCN fusiform cells by downregulation of inhibitory function in the face of an age-related loss of peripheral input. Age-related decrease in presynaptic glycine release results in altered subunit composition and this may correlate with loss of temporal coding of the aged fusiform cell in DCN. The previously reported role for gephyrin in retrograde intracellular receptor subunit trafficking could contribute to the alpha(1) decrease in the face of increased message.
Children exposed to bilingual input typically learn 2 languages without obvious difficulties. However, it is unclear how preverbal infants cope with the inconsistent input and how bilingualism affects early development. In 3 eye-tracking studies we show that 7-month-old infants, raised with 2 languages from birth, display improved cognitive control abilities compared with matched monolinguals. Whereas both monolinguals and bilinguals learned to respond to a speech or visual cue to anticipate a reward on one side of a screen, only bilinguals succeeded in redirecting their anticipatory looks when the cue began signaling the reward on the opposite side. Bilingual infants rapidly suppressed their looks to the first location and learned the new response. These findings show that processing representations from 2 languages leads to a domain-general enhancement of the cognitive control system well before the onset of speech.
Mutations in doublecortin (DCX) are associated with intractable epilepsy in humans, due to a severe disorganization of the neocortex and hippocampus known as classical lissencephaly. However, the basis of the epilepsy in lissencephaly remains unclear. To address potential functional redundancy with murin Dcx, we targeted one of the closest homologues, doublecortin-like kinase 2 (Dclk2). Here, we report that Dcx; Dclk2-null mice display frequent spontaneous seizures that originate in the hippocampus, with most animals dying in the first few months of life. Elevated hippocampal expression of c-fos and loss of somatostatin-positive interneurons were identified, both known to correlate with epilepsy. Dcx and Dclk2 are coexpressed in developing hippocampus, and, in their absence, there is dosage-dependent disrupted hippocampal lamination associated with a cell-autonomous simplification of pyramidal dendritic arborizations leading to reduced inhibitory synaptic tone. These data suggest that hippocampal dysmaturation and insufficient receptive field for inhibitory input may underlie the epilepsy in lissencephaly, and suggest potential therapeutic strategies for controlling epilepsy in these patients.


Ethanol withdrawal is linked to elevated oxidative damage to neurons. Here we report our findings on the contribution of phenolic antioxidants (17beta-estradiol, p-octyl-phenol and 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol) to counterbalance sudden ethanol withdrawal-initiated oxidative events in hippocampus-derived cultured HT-22 cells. We showed that ethanol withdrawal for 4 h after 24-h ethanol treatment provoked greater levels of oxidative damage than the preceding ethanol exposure. Phenolic antioxidant treatment either during ethanol exposure or ethanol withdrawal only, however, dose-dependently reversed cellular oxidative damage, as demonstrated by the significantly enhanced cell viability, reduced malondialdehyde production and protein carbonylation, compared to untreated cells. Interestingly, the antioxidant treatment schedule had no significant impact on the observed neuroprotection. In addition, the efficacy of the three phenolic compounds was practically equipotent in protecting HT-22 cells in spite of predictions based on an in silico study and a cell free assay of lipid peroxidation. This finding implies that free-radical scavenging may not be the sole factor responsible for the observed neuroprotection and warrants further studies to establish, whether the HT-22 line is indeed a suitable model for in vitro screening of antioxidants against EW-related neuronal damage.
We previously showed that chronic psychostimulant exposure induces the transcription factor DeltaFosB in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons of the caudal tier of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). This subregion was defined as the tail of the VTA (tVTA). In the present study, we showed that tVTA can also be visualized by analyzing FosB/DeltaFosB response following acute cocaine injection. This induction occurs in GABAergic neurons, as identified by glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) expression. To characterize tVTA further, we mapped its inputs by using the retrograde tracers Fluoro-Gold or cholera toxin B subunit. Retrogradely labeled neurons were observed in the medial prefrontal cortex, the lateral septum, the ventral pallidum, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the substantia innominata, the medial and lateral preoptic areas, the lateral and dorsal hypothalamic areas, the lateral habenula, the intermediate layers of the superior colliculus, the dorsal raphe, the periaqueductal gray, and the mesencephalic and pontine reticular formation. Projections from the prefrontal cortex, the hypothalamus, and the lateral habenula to the tVTA were also shown by using the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA). We showed that the central nucleus of the amygdala innervates the anterior extent of the VTA but not the tVTA. Moreover, the tVTA mainly receives non-aminergic inputs from the dorsal raphe and the locus coeruleus. Although the tVTA has a low density of dopaminergic neurons, its afferents are mostly similar to those targeting the rest of the VTA. This suggests that the tVTA can be considered as a VTA subregion despite its caudal location.

Vertigo is a commonly-reported side effect of exposure to the high magnetic fields found in magnetic resonance imaging machines. Although it has been hypothesized that high magnetic fields interact with the vestibular apparatus of the inner ear, there has been no direct evidence establishing its role in magnet-induced vertigo. Our laboratory has shown that following exposure to high magnetic fields, rats walk in circles, acquire a conditioned taste aversion (CTA), and express c-Fos in vestibular and visceral relays of the brainstem, consistent with vestibular stimulation and vertigo or motion sickness. To determine if the inner ear is required for these effects, rats were chemically labyrinthectomized with sodium arsanilate and tested for locomotor circling, CTA acquisition, and c-Fos induction after exposure within a 14.1 T magnet. Intact rats circled counterclockwise after 30-min exposure to 14.1 T, but labyrinthectomized rats showed no increase in circling after magnetic field exposure. After 3 pairings of 0.125% saccharin with 30-min exposure at 14.1 T, intact rats acquired a profound CTA that persisted for 14 days of extinction testing; labyrinthectomized rats, however, did not acquire a CTA and showed a high preference for saccharin similar to sham-exposed rats. Finally, significant c-Fos was induced in the brainstem of intact rats by 30-min exposure to 14.1 T, but magnetic field exposure did not elevate c-Fos in labyrinthectomized rats above sham-exposed levels. These results demonstrate that an intact inner ear is necessary for all the observed effects of exposure to high magnetic fields in rats.
Adult meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus) are solitary in the spring-summer reproductive season, but during winter months, females and males are socially tolerant and aggregate in groups. This behavioral difference is triggered by day length: female meadow voles housed in short, winter-like day lengths form same-sex partner preferences, whereas those housed in long, summer-like day lengths are less social. The present study demonstrates that same-sex social attachments in short day lengths are not exclusive; females formed concurrent attachments with more than one individual, and with non-kin as well as siblings. Partner preferences between females were established within one day of cohousing and did not intensify with greater durations of cohabitation. Males also formed same-sex social attachments, but unlike female affiliative behavior, male partner preferences were not significantly affected by day length. These data are discussed in the context of field behavior and the physiological mechanisms supporting social behavior in voles.
The behavioural satiety sequence (BSS) is an important method for assessing the selectivity of treatment (physiological, pharmacological and/or genetic) effects on food intake in rodents. The concept describes the natural progression from feeding to resting, with the transition between the two a useful biomarker of behavioural satiety. Although treatments can accelerate (anorexigenics) or delay (orexigenics) this transition without disrupting behavioural structure, the detection of such changes depends upon the timing of the transition under control conditions. Fasting and presatiation are known to affect this timing. However, recent observations in our laboratory have suggested that phase of testing (light or dark) might also be an important consideration. The present study therefore directly compared food intake and the BSS in thoroughly habituated male rats maintained either on a normal light cycle and tested during the light phase or on a reversed light cycle and tested during the dark phase. The results show that phase of testing had relatively little impact on food intake or diverse measures of ingestive and non-ingestive behaviour. Although modest differences were detected in locomotion, grooming and scratching (higher in dark phase), by far the largest difference concerned resting behaviour which had both a later onset and a much lower peak level during dark phase testing. Importantly, these behavioural differences delayed the transition between eating and resting. The potential contribution of diurnal differences in rate of eating is discussed as are the implications of these findings for future studies on the neurobiology of feeding behaviour.
Siberian hamsters markedly reduce their body/lipid mass ( approximately 20-45%) in short 'winter-like' days (SD). Decreases in body/lipid mass associated with food deprivation or lipectomy result in increases in foraging and food hoarding. When at their SD-induced body/lipid mass nadir, food hoarding is not increased despite their decreases in body/lipid mass, but hoarding was not tested during the dynamic period of body/lipid mass loss (first 5-6 weeks of SDs). Therefore, we tested for changes in foraging/hoarding during this initial period in Siberian hamsters housed in a simulated burrow with a wheel running-based foraging system and exposed to either long 'summer-like' days (LD) or SDs. Two foraging effort conditions were used: 10 Revolutions/Pellet (pellet delivered after running 10 revolutions) and a Free Wheel/Free Food condition (wheel available, food pellets non-contingently available). Regardless of the foraging condition, body mass was significantly reduced across 8 weeks of SDs ( approximately 15%). Foraging increased after 7 weeks in SDs, but food hoarding did not increase compared to LDs. Instead food hoarding significantly decreased in SDs at Weeks 2-5 compared with Week 0 values, with the 10 Revolutions/Pellet foraging group returning to LD levels thereafter and the Free Wheel/Free Food group remaining reduced from Weeks 2-7. Collectively, we found that SDs decreased body mass, increased foraging after 7 weeks, and increased food hoarding, but only after an initial decrease and not above that seen in LDs. These data suggest that SD-induced body/lipid mass losses do not engender similar behavioral responses as seen with food deprivation or lipectomy.

We have attempted to explore the neuroprotective effectiveness of levetiracetam (LEV) by measuring its in vivo antioxidant effect in the hippocampus of rats in a freely moving state. Male Wistar rats were used for the estimation of the in vivo antioxidant effect of LEV through microdialysis combined with electron spin resonance spectroscopy. The antioxidant effect was examined using the principle by which a systemically administered blood-brain barrier-permeable nitroxide radical (PCAM) decreases in an exponential decay manner that is correlated with the amount of antioxidant in the brain. The PCAM decay ratio during perfusion with normal Ringer's solution was compared with that during 32 microM and 100 microM LEV co-perfusion. The in vivo antioxidant effect was examined. In addition, the expressions of the cystine/glutamate exchanger (xCT) and the inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) protein related to redox regulation were measured in the hippocampus of rats after 14 days of administration of LEV at a dose of 54 mg/day i.p. The half-life of PCAM was statistically shortened after LEV perfusion compared with the results of the control experiment. While the expression of the pro-oxidant protein iNOS was decreased, that of the antioxidant protein xCT was statistically increased by the administration of LEV. The role of xCT is to transport cystine, the internal material of glutathione, into the cell. The shortened half-life of the nitroxide radical by co-perfusion of LEV with increased xCT and decreased iNOS expression revealed the enhancement of the endogenous antioxidant effect or free-radical scavenging activity. The results of this study suggest that LEV synergistically enhances the basal endogenous antioxidant effect in the hippocampus with ascorbic acid and alpha-tocopherol. Our findings further suggest that LEV exerts a neuroprotective role by 1) modifying the expression of xCT and iNOS in connection with lipid peroxidation, 2) synergistically enhancing the increased basal endogenous antioxidant ability in the hippocampus, and 3) decreasing the basal concentration of glutamate followed by up-regulation of the intake of cystine, an internal material of GSH.
Studies in both humans and rodents suggest that exercise can be neuroprotective, but the mechanisms by which this occurs are still poorly understood. Three weeks of voluntary, physical activity in rats upregulates prepro-galanin messenger RNA levels in the locus coeruleus. Galanin is a neuropeptide extensively coexisting with norepinephrine that decreases neuronal hyperexcitability both in vivo and in vitro. Thus, exercise may diminish neural hyperexcitability through a galaninergic mechanism. The current experiments tested whether voluntary activity wheel running would protect against kainic acid-evoked seizures and whether galaninergic signaling is a necessary factor in this protection. In experiment 1, rats were given access to running wheels or remained sedentary for three weeks. After this period, rats received an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of 0, 7, 10 or 14 mg/kg kainic acid. Exercise decreased the severity of or eliminated seizure behaviors and hippocampal c-fos expression induced by kainic acid. In experiment 2, exercising or sedentary rats were injected intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) with 0.2 or 0.4 microg of kainic acid following either an injection of M-40 (a galanin receptor antagonist) or saline. Exercise decreased kainic acid-induced seizures at the 0.2 microg dose, and M-40 (6 nmol) decreased this effect. In contrast, there were no detectable differences between exercising and sedentary rats in behavior at the 0.4 microg dose. The results suggest that the protective effects of exercise against seizures are at least partially mediated by regulation of neural excitability through a process involving galanin.
The outgrowth of axons and dendrites from neuronal cell bodies to their appropriate targets is the canonical means of creating new processes. Heiman and Shaham (2009) now show that neuronal processes can also be made by anchoring dendrite tips at their target locations while the cell body pulls away, a process termed retrograde extension.
In the present study, we have investigated acetylcholine esterase (AChE) activity and muscarinic M(1), M(3) receptors kinetics in the brainstem of both young and old streptozotocin induced and insulin treated diabetic rats (D + I). Also, the functional role of acetylcholine and muscarinic receptors in insulin secretion from the pancreatic islets was studied in vitro. 90 week old control rats showed decreased V(max) (P &lt; 0.001) for AChE compared to 7 week old control rats. V(max) was decreased (P &lt; 0.001) in 7 week diabetic groups whereas 90 week old diabetic groups showed increased (P &lt; 0.001) V(max) when compared to their respective controls. Binding studies using [(3)H]QNB and [(3)H]DAMP of 90 week old control showed significant increase in the B(max) (P &lt; 0.001) and K(d) (P &lt; 0.01) of muscarinic M(1) receptors whereas M(3) receptor number was decreased significantly (P &lt; 0.001) with no change in affinity when compared to 7 week old control respectively. M(1) receptor number was decreased significantly (P &lt; 0.001) whereas M(3) receptor number was increased significantly (P &lt; 0.001) in both 7 week and 90 week old diabetic rat groups compared to their respective controls. The competition curve for [(3)H]QNB fitted for two sited model in 7 week old groups whereas fitted for one sited model in 90 week old groups. [(3)H]DAMP was fitted for two sited model in both 7 week and 90 week old groups. Insulin treatment significantly reversed (P &lt; 0.001) the binding parameters to near control level. In vitro studies showed that acetylcholine through muscarinic M(1) and M(3) receptors stimulated insulin secretion from the pancreatic islets. Thus our studies suggest that both brainstem and pancreatic muscarinic M(1), M(3) receptors differentially regulate the cholinergic activity and insulin secretion which will have clinical significance in the management of diabetes and insulin treatment as a function of age.
Cells are equipped with an efficient quality control system to selectively eliminate abnormally folded and damaged proteins. Initially the cell tries to refold the unfolded proteins with the help of molecular chaperones, and failure to refold leads to their degradation by the ubiquitin proteasome system. But how this proteolytic machinery recognizes the abnormally folded proteins is poorly understood. Here, we report that E6-AP, a HECT domain family ubiquitin ligase implicated in Angelman syndrome, interacts with the substrate binding domain of Hsp70/Hsc70 chaperones and promotes the degradation of chaperone bound substrates. The expression of E6-AP was dramatically induced under a variety of stresses, and overexpression of E6-AP was found to protect against endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced cell death. The inhibition of proteasome function not only increases the expression of E6-AP but also causes its redistribution around microtubule-organizing center, a subcellular structure for the degradation of the cytoplasmic misfolded proteins. E6-AP is also recruited to aggresomes containing the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator or expanded polyglutamine proteins. Finally, we demonstrate that E6-AP ubiquitinates misfolded luciferase that is bound by Hsp70. Our results suggest that E6-AP functions as a cellular quality control ubiquitin ligase and, therefore, can be implicated not only in the pathogenesis of Angelman syndrome but also in the biology of neurodegenerative disorders involving protein aggregation.
To clarify the antiepileptic mechanisms of zonisamide (ZNS), we determined the interaction between ZNS and inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate receptor (IP3R) on exocytosis of GABA and glutamate in rat frontal cortex using microdialysis. ZNS increased basal GABA release, but not glutamate, concentration-dependently, and reduced concentration-dependently K(+)-evoked GABA and glutamate releases. Inhibition and activation of IP3R reduced and enhanced basal and K(+)-evoked GABA releases, respectively. The K(+)-evoked glutamate release was reduced and enhanced by IP3R antagonist and agonist, respectively, whereas basal glutamate release was increased by IP3R agonist but not affected by IP3R antagonist. Under extracellular Ca(2+) depletion, IP3R agonist increased basal GABA and glutamate releases. The latter effects of IP3R agonist were weakly enhanced by ZNS, but such stimulatory action of ZNS was abolished by extracellular Ca(2+) depletion. In contrast, ZNS inhibited the stimulatory effect of IP3R agonist on K(+)-evoked release. The stimulatory effect of IP3R agonist on basal release was regulated by N-type voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channel (VSCC) rather than P- and L-type VSCCs, whereas the stimulatory effect of IP3R agonist on K(+)-evoked release was regulated by P- and L-type VSCCs rather than N-type VSCC. These results suggest that ZNS-activated N-type VSCC enhances IP3R-associated neurotransmitter release during resting stage, whereas ZNS-induced suppression of P- and L-type VSCCs possibly attenuates IP3R-associated neurotransmitter release during neuronal hyperexcitability. Therefore, the combination of both of these two actions of ZNS on IP3R-associated neurotransmitter release mechanism seems to be involved, at least in part, in the mechanisms of antiepileptic and neuroprotective actions of ZNS.
The maternal environment is thought to be important for fetal brain development. However, the effects of maternal environment are not fully understood. Here, we investigated whether enrichment of the maternal environment can influence prenatal brain development and postnatal behaviors in mice. An enriched environment is a housing condition with several objects such as a running wheel, tube and ladder, which are thought to increase sensory, cognitive and motor stimulation in rodents compared with standard housing conditions. First, we measured the number of BrdU-positive cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus of fetuses from pregnant dams housed in an enriched environment. Our results revealed that maternal enrichment influences cell proliferation in the hippocampus of female, but not male, fetuses. Second, we used the open-field test to investigate postnatal behaviors in the offspring of dams housed in the enriched environment during pregnancy. We found that maternal enrichment significantly affects the locomotor activity and time spent in the center of the open-field in female, but not male, offspring. These results indicate that maternal enrichment influences prenatal brain development and postnatal behaviors in female offspring.
Neuroprotective effects of enriched environment (EE) have been well established. Recent study suggests that exposure to EE can protect dopaminergic neurons against MPTP-induced Parkinsonism. After 64 female SAMP8 mice were reared in EE and standard environment (SE) for 3 months, the effects of EE and SE were compared on behavioural change, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreaction positive neuron and dopaminetransporter (DAT) expression in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine(MPTP)-treated SAMP8. EE mice showed decreased spontaneous activity compared with SE mice. But EE+MPTP mice showed less decreased spontaneous activity compared with SE+MPTP mice. Otherwise, EE mice showed increased percentage of entries into the open arms and percentage of time spent in the open arms. Furthermore, EE mice demonstrated reduced neurotoxicity, with less decreased TH mRNA and protein expression in Substantia Nigra (SN) after MPTP administration compared with SE mice. SE mice showed a 53.77% loss of TH-positive neurons, whereas EE mice only showed a 42.28% loss. Moreover, EE mice showed decreased DAT mRNA and protein expression compared with SE mice. These data demonstrate that EE can protect dopaminergic neurons against MPTP-induced neuronal damage, which suggest that the probability of developing Parkinson's disease (PD) may be related to life environment.
During chemotaxis, activation of the small guanosine triphosphatase Rac is spatially regulated to organize the extension of membrane protrusions in the direction of migration. In neutrophils, Rac activation is primarily mediated by DOCK2, an atypical guanine nucleotide exchange factor. Upon stimulation, we found that DOCK2 rapidly translocated to the plasma membrane in a phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate-dependent manner. However, subsequent accumulation of DOCK2 at the leading edge required phospholipase D-mediated synthesis of phosphatidic acid, which stabilized DOCK2 there by means of interaction with a polybasic amino acid cluster, resulting in increased local actin polymerization. When this interaction was blocked, neutrophils failed to form leading edges properly and exhibited defects in chemotaxis. Thus, intracellular DOCK2 dynamics are sequentially regulated by distinct phospholipids to localize Rac activation during neutrophil chemotaxis.





Although corticothalamic feedback is ubiquitous across species and modalities, its role in sensory processing is unclear. This study provides a detailed description of the visual physiology of corticogeniculate neurons in the primate. Using electrical stimulation to identify corticogeniculate neurons, we distinguish three groups of neurons with response properties that closely resemble those of neurons in the magnocellular, parvocellular, and koniocellular layers of their target structure, the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the thalamus. Our results indicate that corticogeniculate feedback in the primate is stream specific, and provide strong evidence in support of the view that corticothalamic feedback can influence the transmission of sensory information from the thalamus to the cortex in a stream-selective manner.
Ligand-mediated dimerization has emerged as a universal mechanism of growth factor receptor activation. Neurotrophins interact with dimers of the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)), but the mechanism of receptor activation has remained elusive. Here, we show that p75(NTR) forms disulphide-linked dimers independently of neurotrophin binding through the highly conserved Cys(257) in its transmembrane domain. Mutation of Cys(257) abolished neurotrophin-dependent receptor activity but did not affect downstream signaling by the p75(NTR)/NgR/Lingo-1 complex in response to MAG, indicating the existence of distinct, ligand-specific activation mechanisms for p75(NTR). FRET experiments revealed a close association of p75(NTR) intracellular domains that was transiently disrupted by conformational changes induced upon NGF binding. Although mutation of Cys(257) did not alter the oligomeric state of p75(NTR), the mutant receptor was no longer able to propagate conformational changes to the cytoplasmic domain upon ligand binding. We propose that neurotrophins activate p75(NTR) by a mechanism involving rearrangement of disulphide-linked receptor subunits.
The molecular mechanisms controlling the termination of cortical interneuron migration are unknown. Here, we demonstrate that, prior to synaptogenesis, migrating interneurons change their responsiveness to ambient GABA from a motogenic to a stop signal. We found that, during migration into the cortex, ambient GABA and glutamate initially stimulate the motility of interneurons through both GABA(A) and AMPA/NMDA receptor activation. Once in the cortex, upregulation of the potassium-chloride cotransporter KCC2 is both necessary and sufficient to reduce interneuron motility through its ability to reduce membrane potential upon GABA(A) receptor activation, which decreases the frequency of spontaneous intracellular calcium transients initiated by L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channel (VSCC) activation. Our results suggest a mechanism whereby migrating interneurons determine the relative density of surrounding interneurons and principal cells through their ability to sense the combined extracellular levels of ambient glutamate and GABA once GABA(A) receptor activation becomes hyperpolarizing.
Medial temporal lobe structures are responsible for recording the continuous stream of autobiographical memories that define our unique personal history. Remarkably, these areas can construct durable memories from brief exposures to the constantly changing activity patterns arriving from antecedent cortical areas. Using a computer model of the hippocampal Schaffer collateral pathway that incorporates evidence for dendritic spikes in CA1 pyramidal neurons, we searched for biologically-plausible long-term potentiation (LTP) and homeostatic depression (HD) rules that maximize &quot;online&quot; learning capacity. We found memory utilization is most efficient when (1) very few synapses are modified to store each pattern, (2) LTP, the learning operation, is dendrite-specific and gated by distinct pre- and postsynaptic thresholds, (3) HD, the forgetting operation, co-occurs with LTP and targets least-recently potentiated synapses, and (4) both LTP and HD are all-or-none, leading de facto to binary-valued synaptic weights. In networks containing up to 40 million synapses, the learning scheme led to order-of-magnitude capacity increases compared to conventional plasticity rules.
In nature, sounds of interest arrive at the eardrums accompanied by echoes that reflect off of surfaces. This superposition can distort the cues by which we localize the source of a sound. Yet, we seem to have no difficulty turning precisely toward the source even in the presence of moderately intense echoes. The article by Devore and colleagues in this issue of Neuron suggests that the auditory system can perform this feat by being more responsive to the early portion of a sound which includes the earliest portions when the echoes have yet to arrive.
Peroxynitrite crosses the red blood cell (RBC) membrane and reacts with hemoglobin (Hb) producing mainly metHb, which is reduced back to ferrousHb by NADH- and NADPH-dependent reductases. Peroxynitrite also induces band 3 (B3) tyrosine phosphorylation, a signaling pathway believed to activate glucose metabolism. This study was aimed to decipher the relationship between these two peroxynitrite-dependent processes. Peroxynitrite induced a burst of the hexose monophosphate shunt (HMS), revealed by NMR studies, and a burst of the glycolytic pathway, measured by lactate production. The HMS plays a prominent role in membrane signaling, as demonstrated by B3 phosphotyrosine inhibition by the glycolytic pathway inhibitor 2-deoxy-glucose (2DG) and activation by dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), an inhibitor of HMS. Peroxynitrite-induced B3 tyrosine phosphorylation was paralleled by the inhibition of membrane-associated phosphotyrosine phosphatase (PTP) activity, which was protected by 2DG but not DHEA. Interestingly, heme poisoning with CO inhibited peroxynitrite-dependent Hb oxidation and lactate production but did not affect PTP down regulation. These results suggest two distinct and concurrent effects of peroxynitrite: one mediated by Hb which, likely in its oxidized state, binds more strongly to B3, and another mediated by PTP-dependent B3 phosphorylation. Both effects are directed towards a surge in glucose utilization.
A phenylalanine residue (Phe1519) in the sixth transmembrane segment of domain III (IIIS6) of the cockroach BgNa(v) sodium channel is required for the binding and action of pyrethroids. However, whether or not other residues in IIIS6 participate in the action of pyrethroids remains to be determined. In the present study, we conducted a systematic analysis of 20 residues in IIIS6 of the BgNa(v) channel using alanine-scanning mutagenesis. Our results show that alanine substitutions of four residues, Ile1514, Gly1516, Phe1518 and Asn1522, altered sodium channel sensitivity to pyrethroid insecticides. Whereas the G1516A, F1518A and N1522A substitutions diminished sodium channel sensitivity to all seven pyrethroids examined, including four type I (lacking the alpha-cyano group at the phenoxybenzyl alcohol) and three type II (containing the alpha-cyano group) pyrethroids, the I1514A substitution enhanced sodium channel sensitivity to four type I and type II pyrethroids that contain the phenoxybenzyl alcohol only. We also show that alanine/lysine substitutions of Leu1521 and Ser1517 affected the action of BTX (batrachotoxin), but not pyrethroids. In the Kv1.2-based homology model of the open sodium channel, side chains of Ile1514, Phe1518 and Asn1522 are exposed towards helix IIS5 and linker IIS4-IIS5, which contain previously identified pyrethroid-interacting residues, whereas Ser1517 and Leu1521 face the inner pore where the BTX receptor is located. Thus the present study provides further evidence for structural models in which pyrethroids bind to the lipid-exposed interface formed by helices IIIS6, IIS5 and linker helix IIS4-IIS5, whereas BTX binds to the pore-exposed side of the IIIS6 helix.



A series of heterocyclic sulfonamides have been developed which are potent and selective inhibitors of hGlyT1. SAR studies to optimise the in vitro and in vivo properties are described. Optimisation of the central scaffold resulted in cyclohexane sulfones 28 and 29, which have good PK properties and show promise for further development.
8-[2-(4-Aryl-1-piperazinyl)ethyl]-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-ones have been identified as highly potent 5-HT(1A/B/D) receptor antagonists with and without additional SerT activity and a high degree of selectivity over hERG potassium channels. Modulation of the different target activities gave compounds with a range of profiles suitable for further in vivo characterization.


Delta-like 3 (Dll3) is a Delta family member expressed broadly in the developing nervous system as neural progenitor cells initiate differentiation. A proximal promoter sequence for Dll3 is conserved across multiple species and is sufficient to direct GFP expression in a Dll3-like pattern in the neural tube of transgenic mice. This promoter contains multiple E-boxes, the consensus binding site for bHLH factors. Dll3 expression and the activity of the Dll3-promoter in the dorsal neural tube depends on the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors Ascl1 (Mash1) and Neurog2 (Ngn2). Mutations in each E-box identified in the Dll3-promoter allowed distinct enhancer or repressor properties to be assigned to each site individually or in combination. In addition, each E-box has distinct characteristics relative to binding of bHLH factors Ascl1, Neurog1, and Neurog2. Surprisingly, novel Ascl1 containing DNA binding complexes are identified that interact with specific E-box sites within the Dll3-promoter in vitro. These complexes include Ascl1/Ascl1 homodimers and Ascl1/Neurog2 heterodimers, complexes that in some cases require additional undefined factors for efficient DNA binding. Thus, a complex interplay of E-box binding proteins spatially and temporally regulate Dll3 levels during neural tube development.
The cause of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is largely unknown, but genetic factors are thought to play a significant role in determining susceptibility to motor neuron degeneration. To identify genetic variants altering risk of ALS, we undertook a two-stage genome-wide association study (GWAS): we followed our initial GWAS of 545 066 SNPs in 553 individuals with ALS and 2338 controls by testing the 7600 most associated SNPs from the first stage in three independent cohorts consisting of 2160 cases and 3008 controls. None of the SNPs selected for replication exceeded the Bonferroni threshold for significance. The two most significantly associated SNPs, rs2708909 and rs2708851 [odds ratio (OR) = 1.17 and 1.18, and P-values = 6.98 x 10(-7) and 1.16 x 10(-6)], were located on chromosome 7p13.3 within a 175 kb linkage disequilibrium block containing the SUNC1, HUS1 and C7orf57 genes. These associations did not achieve genome-wide significance in the original cohort and failed to replicate in an additional independent cohort of 989 US cases and 327 controls (OR = 1.18 and 1.19, P-values = 0.08 and 0.06, respectively). Thus, we chose to cautiously interpret our data as hypothesis-generating requiring additional confirmation, especially as all previously reported loci for ALS have failed to replicate successfully. Indeed, the three loci (FGGY, ITPR2 and DPP6) identified in previous GWAS of sporadic ALS were not significantly associated with disease in our study. Our findings suggest that ALS is more genetically and clinically heterogeneous than previously recognized. Genotype data from our study have been made available online to facilitate such future endeavors.
A sensitive and specific LC-MS/MS method for simultaneous detection of 10 plant-derived psychoactive substances (atropine, N,N-dimethyltryptamine, ephedrine, harmaline, harmine, ibogaine, lysergic acid amide, psilocin, scopolamine and yohimbine) in urine was developed. Direct injection of urine diluted with 3 deuterated internal standards allowed for a readily accessible method suitable for application in clinical intoxication cases. Separation was achieved using reversed phase chromatography and gradient elution with a total analysis time of 14 min. Electrospray ionization was used and ions were monitored in the positive selected reaction monitoring mode. The calibration curves were linear (r(2)&gt;0.999) and the total imprecision at high (1000 microg/L) and low (50 microg/L) substance concentrations were 4.9-13.8% and 8.3-26%, respectively. Infusing the analytes post column and injecting matrix samples showed limited influence by ion suppression. The multi-component method proved to be useful for investigation of authentic cases of intoxication with plant-derived psychoactive drugs and was indicated to cover the clinically relevant concentration ranges.

IL-12p70 (p40:p35) and IL-23 (p40:p19) are bioactive cytokines and their role in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model for multiple sclerosis, are becoming clear. On the other hand, the IL-12p40 homodimer (p40(2)) was considered as an inactive or inhibitory molecule and its functions are poorly understood. To facilitate the studies on p40(2), we have recently generated neutralizing mAb against mouse p40(2). The present study demonstrates the effectiveness of p40(2) mAb in treating the disease process of relapsing-remitting EAE in female SJL/J mice. The p40(2) mAb ameliorated clinical symptoms and disease progression of EAE in recipient mice and suppressed the generation of encephalitogenic T cells in donor mice. Histological and blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood-spinal cord barrier (BSB) permeability studies reveal that p40(2) mAb effectively inhibited the infiltration of mononuclear cells into brain and spinal cord and improved the integrity of BBB and BSB in EAE mice. Consequently, p40(2) mAb also suppressed the expression of proinflammatory molecules, normalized the expression of myelin genes, and blocked demyelination in the CNS of EAE mice. On the other hand, recombinant mouse p40(2) increased the infiltration of mononuclear cells into the CNS, enhanced the permeability through BBB and BSB, stimulated CNS expression of proinflammatory molecules, and aggravated the disease process of EAE. Taken together, our results suggest that p40(2) participates in the pathogenesis of EAE and that neutralization of p40(2) may be beneficial in multiple sclerosis patients.
The observation of decline in mitochondrial electron transport chain function, specifically at complex I, in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) has been reported by several groups. This study investigates whether a defect of mitochondrial function is present in the platelets of PD patients from an Indian population. We found that the NADH dehydrogenase activity in the platelets of PD patients is lower than that in healthy age- and gender-matched controls, while the succinate dehydrogenase activity was similar in both groups. Furthermore, there was no change in either of the activities in patients with Parkinson plus syndrome or atypical parkinsonism. This is the first report indicating a decline in mitochondrial function in the platelets of PD patients from the Indian population, offering further support to the role of a mitochondrial defect in PD.
Hippocampal mossy fiber (Mf) synapses are viewed as conditional detonators, assisting CA3 cells in complex network functions. By analyzing mice deficient for GluK2 (GluR6), GluK3 (GluR7) and GluK5 (KA2) genes we show that kainate receptors (KARs) play a crucial role in the control of synaptic integration and spike transmission efficacy at Mf synapses. We dissected out the role of the different KAR functions at Mf synapses and we show that presynaptic and postsynaptic KARs concur to amplify unitary Mf synaptic inputs to trigger spike discharge within a wide range of frequencies (from 1 to 50 Hz). Moreover, KARs strongly favor spike transmission in response to patterns of presynaptic activity mimicking in vivo dentate granule cell activity. By amplifying spike transmission, KARs also facilitate the induction of associative long-term potentiation in CA3. Hence the actions of KARs as amplifiers of spike transmission contribute largely to the &quot;conditional detonator&quot; function of Mf synapses and are likely important for spatial information processing.
Although the reticulospinal tract is a major descending motor pathway in mammals, its contribution to upper limb control in primates has received relatively little attention. Reticulospinal connections are widely assumed to be responsible for coordinated gross movements primarily of proximal muscles, whereas the corticospinal tract mediates fine movements, particularly of the hand. In this study, we used intracellular recording in anesthetized monkeys to examine the synaptic connections between the reticulospinal tract and antidromically identified cervical ventral horn motoneurons, focusing in particular on motoneurons projecting distally to wrist and digit muscles. We found that motoneurons receive monosynaptic and disynaptic reticulospinal inputs, including monosynaptic excitatory connections to motoneurons that innervate intrinsic hand muscles, a connection not previously known to exist. We show that excitatory reticulomotoneuronal connections are as common and as strong in hand motoneuron groups as in forearm or upper arm motoneurons. These data suggest that the primate reticulospinal system may form a parallel pathway to distal muscles, alongside the corticospinal tract. Reticulospinal neurons are therefore in a position to influence upper limb muscle activity after damage to the corticospinal system as may occur in stroke or spinal cord injury, and may be a target site for therapeutic interventions.
More than 90% of geniculocortical axons from the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus innervate layer 4 (L4) of V1 (primary visual cortex). Excitatory neurons, which comprise &gt;80% of the neuronal population in L4, synapse mainly onto adjacent L4 neurons and layer 2/3 (L2/3) neurons. It has been suggested that intralaminar L4-L4 connections contribute to amplifying and refining thalamocortical signals before routing to L2/3. To unambiguously probe the properties of the synaptic outputs from these L4 excitatory neurons, we used multiple simultaneous whole-cell patch-clamp recording and stimulation from two to four neighboring L4 neurons. We recorded uEPSCs (evoked unitary synaptic currents) in response to pairs of action potentials elicited in single presynaptic L4 neurons for 102 L4 cell pairs and found that their properties are more diverse than previously described. Averaged unitary synaptic response peak amplitudes spanned almost three orders of magnitude, from 0.42 to 192.92 pA. Although connections were, on average, reliable (average failure rate, 25%), we recorded a previously unknown subset of unreliable (failure rates from 30 to 100%) and weak (averaged response amplitudes, &lt;5 pA) connections. Reliable connections with high probability of neurotransmitter release responded to paired presynaptic pulses with depression, whereas unreliable connections underwent paired-pulse facilitation. Recordings from interconnected sets of L4 triplets revealed that synaptic response amplitudes and reliability were equally variable between independent cell pairs and those that shared a common presynaptic or postsynaptic cell, suggesting local perisynaptic influences on the development and/or state of synaptic function.
We have associated behavioral, pharmacological, and quantitative immunohistochemical study in a rat analog of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia to understand whether alterations in dopamine receptor fate in striatal neurons may be involved in mechanisms leading to movement abnormalities. Detailed analysis at the ultrastructural level demonstrates specific alterations of dopamine D(1) receptor (D(1)R) subcellular localization in striatal medium spiny neurons in l-DOPA-treated 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats with abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs). This includes exaggerated D(1)R expression at the plasma membrane. However, D(1)R retains ability of internalization, as a challenge with the potent D(1)R agonist SKF-82958 induces a strong decrease of labeling at membrane in animals with AIMs. Since a functional cross talk between D(1)R and D(3)R has been suggested, we hypothesized that their coactivation by dopamine derived from l-DOPA might anchor D(1)R at the membrane. Accordingly, cotreatment with l-DOPA and the D(3)R antagonist ST 198 restores normal level of membrane-bound D(1)R. Together, these results demonstrate that AIMs are related to abnormal D(1)R localization at the membrane and intraneuronal trafficking dysregulation, and suggest that strategies aiming at disrupting the D(1)R-D(3)R cross talk might reduce l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia by reducing D(1)R availability at the membrane.
In mammalian basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits, GABAergic pallidal neurons are thought to &quot;gate&quot; or modulate excitation in thalamus with their strong inhibitory inputs and thus signal to cortex by pausing and permitting thalamic neurons to fire in response to excitatory drive. In contrast, in a homologous circuit specialized for vocal learning in songbirds, evidence suggests that pallidal neurons signal by eliciting postinhibitory rebound spikes in thalamus, which could occur even without any excitatory drive to thalamic neurons. To test whether songbird pallidal neurons can also communicate with thalamus by gating excitatory drive, as well as by postinhibitory rebound, we examined the activity of thalamic relay neurons in response to acute inactivation of the basal ganglia structure Area X; Area X contains the pallidal neurons that project to thalamus. Although inactivation of Area X should eliminate rebound-mediated spiking in thalamus, this manipulation tonically increased the firing rate of thalamic relay neurons, providing evidence that songbird pallidal neurons can gate tonic thalamic excitatory drive. We also found that the increased thalamic activity was fed forward to its target in the avian equivalent of cortex, which includes neurons that project to the vocal premotor area. These data raise the possibility that basal ganglia circuits can signal to cortex through thalamus both by generating postinhibitory rebound and by gating excitatory drive and may switch between these modes depending on the statistics of pallidal firing. Moreover, these findings provide insight into the strikingly different disruptive effects of basal ganglia and cortical lesions on songbird vocal learning.
The gap junction (GJ) protein connexin32 (Cx32) is expressed by myelinating Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes and is mutated in X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. In addition to a demyelinating peripheral neuropathy, some Cx32 mutants are associated with transient or chronic CNS phenotypes. To investigate the molecular basis of these phenotypes, we generated transgenic mice expressing the T55I or the R75W mutation and an IRES-EGFP, driven by the mouse Cnp promoter. The transgene was expressed in oligodendrocytes throughout the CNS and in Schwann cells. Both the T55I and the R75W mutants were localized in the perinuclear cytoplasm, did not form GJ plaques, and did not alter the expression or localization of two other oligodendrocytic GJ proteins, Cx47 and Cx29, or the expression of Cx29 in Schwann cells. On wild type background, the expression of endogenous mCx32 was unaffected by the T55I mutant, but was partly impaired by R75W. Transgenic mice with the R75W mutation and all mutant animals with Gjb1-null background developed a progressive demyelinating peripheral neuropathy along with CNS myelination defects. These findings suggest that Cx32 mutations result in loss of function in myelinated cells without trans-dominant effects on other GJ proteins. Loss of Cx32 function alone in the CNS causes myelination defects.
Synchronous calcium oscillations are observed in primary cultures of rat cortical neurons when mature networks are formed. This spontaneous neuronal activity needs an accurate control of calcium homeostasis. Alteration of intraneuronal calcium concentration is described in many neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer disease (AD). Although processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) that generates Abeta peptide has critical implications for AD pathogenesis, the neuronal function of APP remains unclear. Here, we report that expression of human APP (hAPP) in rat cortical neurons increases L-type calcium currents, which stimulate SK channels, calcium-dependent K(+) channels responsible for medium afterhyperpolarization (mAHP). In a neuronal network, increased mAHP in some neurons expressing hAPP leads to inhibition of calcium oscillations in all the cells of the network. This inhibition is independent of production and secretion of Abeta and other APP metabolites. In a neuronal network, reduction of endogenous APP expression using shRNA increases the frequency and reduces the amplitude of calcium oscillations. Altogether, these data support a key role for APP in the control of neuronal excitability.
Previous data suggest that methylphenidate can have variable effects on different cognitive tasks both within and between individuals. This is thought to be underpinned by inverted U-shaped relationships between cognitive performance and dopaminergic activity in relatively separate fronto-striatal circuits and reflected by individual differences in trait impulsivity. Direct evidence for this is currently lacking. In this study, we demonstrate for the first time that therapeutic doses of oral methylphenidate administered to young healthy subjects result in different sized changes in D(2)/D(3) receptor availability in different regions of the human striatum and that the change in receptor availability within an individual subregion predicts cognitive performance on a particular task. Methylphenidate produced significantly different effects on reversal learning and spatial working memory tasks within individuals. Performance on the reversal learning task was predicted by the drug-induced change in D(2)/D(3) receptor availability in postcommissural caudate, measured using [(11)C]-raclopride radioligand PET imaging, whereas performance on the spatial working memory task was predicted by changes in receptor availability in the ventral striatum. Reversal learning performance was also predicted by subjects' trait impulsivity, such that the most impulsive individuals benefited more from methylphenidate, consistent with this drug's beneficial effects on cognition in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
In vivo electrophysiological recordings from groups of distinguishable neurons in behaving mice is a technique with a rapidly growing appeal, particularly because it can be combined with gene targeting techniques. This methodology is deemed essential for achieving a flexible and versatile coupling of molecular-genetic manipulations with behavioral and system level analyses of the nervous system. One major obstacle in obtaining this technological integration is the relatively high weight and bulk size of the available implantable devices for ensemble recordings as compared to the size of the animal. This imposes considerable physical stress on the animals and may prevent them from performing complex behavioral tasks for more than a few minutes. We developed a novel micro-drive which allows independent day-to-day positioning of up to 6 tetrodes in the mouse brain, with an extremely reduced weight and size. The system is based on an &quot;exoskeleton&quot; as its structural element, and allows a completely rectilinear path of the electrodes inside the drive and into the brain. Tests showed that mice can tolerate the chronically implanted device very well up to 12 weeks after implantation, while exhibiting normal behavior. Cell yields and stability obtained with this drive in two different brain areas (the hippocampus and orbitofrontal cortex) were comparable to those of traditional recording systems, usually applied to rats. The device may greatly expand possibilities to combine gene targeting and ensemble recording techniques, in behaviorally varied as well as cognitively demanding settings.
Recent neuroscience methods have provided the basis upon which to develop effective gait training methods for recovery of the coordinated components of gait after neural injury. We determined that there was not an existing observational measure that was, at once, adequately comprehensive, scored in an objectively-based manner, and capable of assessing incremental improvements in the coordinated components of gait. Therefore, the purpose of this work was to use content valid procedures in order to develop a relatively inexpensive, more comprehensive measure, scored with an objectively-based system, capable of incrementally scoring improvements in given items, and that was both reliable and capable of discriminating treatment response for those who had a stroke. Eight neurorehabilitation specialists developed criteria for the gait measure, item content, and scoring method. In subjects following stroke (&gt;12 months), the new measure was tested for intra- and inter-rater reliability using the Intraclass Correlation Coefficient; capability to detect treatment response using Wilcoxon Signed Ranks Test; and discrimination between treatment groups, using the Plum Ordinal Regression. The Gait Assessment and Intervention Tool (G.A.I.T.) is a 31-item measure of the coordinated movement components of gait and associated gait deficits. It exhibited the following advantages: comprehensive, objective-based scoring method, incremental measurement of improvement within given items. The G.A.I.T. had good intra- and inter-rater reliability (ICC=.98, p=.0001, 95% CI=.95, .99; ICC=.83, p=.007, 95% CI=.32, .96, respectively. The inexperienced clinician who had training, had an inter-rater reliability with an experienced rater of ICC=.99 (p=.0001, CI=.97, .999). The G.A.I.T. detected improvement in response to gait training for two types of interventions: comprehensive gait training (z=-2.93, p=.003); and comprehensive gait training plus functional electrical stimulation (FES; z=-3.3, p=.001). The G.A.I.T. was capable of discriminating between two gait training interventions, showing an additive advantage of FES to otherwise comparable comprehensive gait training (parameter estimate=1.72, p=.021; CI, .25, 3.1).

The mechanisms by which the nucleus accumbens integrates afferent input from limbic and cortical structures have been influential in the development of models of psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. Previous studies of the response of nucleus accumbens (Nacb) cells to the stimulation of afferent inputs from hippocampus (HC) and prefrontal cortex (PFC) have demonstrated that PFC throughput can be modulated by preceding HC input. Examination of the post-synaptic potential size has suggested, however, that summation of these inputs is sublinear. All studies to date examining Nacb integration of inputs via stimulation of afferents have been performed in the anaesthetized rat. The present experiments compare the response of Nacb cells to different combinations of PFC and HC stimulation in awake and isoflurane-anaesthetized rats that were chronically implanted with both stimulating and recording electrodes. The results of these experiments suggest that summation of afferent input in the Nacb of the awake rat is predominantly sublinear, with only a minority of neurons demonstrating modulation of PFC inputs by the HC in the awake or the anaesthetized animal. The response profile of many cells changed during anaesthesia when compared to the awake condition, and on average showed suppression to PFC input 50 and 150 ms following HC stimulation while under deep isoflurane anaesthesia. These results suggest that sublinear integration of afferent input from the PFC and HC is the dominant mode of integration of Nacb cells in the awake animal, which has implications for corticostriatal models of psychiatric dysfunction.
The second messenger, 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), is known to be modulated in taste buds following exposure to gustatory and other stimuli. Which taste cell type(s) (Type I/glial-like cells, Type II/receptor cells, or Type III/presynaptic cells) undergo taste-evoked changes of cAMP and what the functional consequences of such changes are remain unknown. Using Fura-2 imaging of isolated mouse vallate taste cells, we explored how elevating cAMP alters Ca(2+) levels in identified taste cells. Stimulating taste buds with forskolin (Fsk; 1 microm) + isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX; 100 microm), which elevates cellular cAMP, triggered Ca(2+) transients in 38% of presynaptic cells (n = 128). We used transgenic GAD-GFP mice to show that cAMP-triggered Ca(2+) responses occur only in the subset of presynaptic cells that lack glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD). We never observed cAMP-stimulated responses in receptor cells, glial-like cells or GAD-expressing presynaptic cells. The response to cAMP was blocked by the protein kinase A inhibitor H89 and by removing extracellular Ca(2+). Thus, the response to elevated cAMP is a PKA-dependent influx of Ca(2+). This Ca(2+) influx was blocked by nifedipine (an inhibitor of L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels) but was unperturbed by omega-agatoxin IVA and omega-conotoxin GVIA (P/Q-type and N-type channel inhibitors, respectively). Single-cell RT-PCR on functionally identified presynaptic cells from GAD-GFP mice confirmed the pharmacological analyses: Ca(v)1.2 (an L-type subunit) is expressed in cells that display cAMP-triggered Ca(2+) influx, while Ca(v)2.1 (a P/Q subunit) is expressed in all presynaptic cells, and underlies depolarization-triggered Ca(2+) influx. Collectively, these data demonstrate cross-talk between cAMP and Ca(2+) signalling in a subclass of taste cells that form synapses with gustatory fibres and may integrate tastant-evoked signals.
Funding for biomedical and neuroscience research has increased over the last decade but without a concomitant increase in new therapies. This study's objectives were to determine the level and principal sources of recent funding for Parkinson disease (PD) research and to determine the current state of PD drug development. We determined the level and principal sources of recent funding for PD research from the following sources: US federal agencies, large PD foundations based in the United States, and global industry. We assessed the status of PD drug development through the use of a proprietary drug pipeline database. Funding for PD research from the sources examined was approximately $1.1 billion in 2003 and $1.2 billion in 2005. Industry accounted for 77% of support from 2003 to 2005. The number of drugs in development for PD increased from 67 in 2003 to 97 in 2007. Of the companies with at least one compound in development for PD in 2007, most were small (62% had annual revenue of less than $100 million), and most (53%) were based outside the United States. These companies will likely require partnerships to drive successful development of new PD therapies.
In the present work, we aimed at assessing whether patients with idiopathic restless legs syndrome (RLS) showed alterations of sensory-motor plasticity, an indirect probe for motor learning, within the motor cortex (M1). Previous findings suggest that learning in human M1 occurs through LTP-like mechanisms. To test our hypothesis, we employed the paired associative stimulation (PAS) protocol by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), which is able to induce LTP-like effects in the motor cortex of normal subjects. Twelve patients with idiopathic RLS and 10 age- and sex-matched control subjects were recruited. PAS protocol consisted of 0.05 Hz electrical median nerve stimulation (90 stimuli), paired with 0.05 Hz TMS (90 stimuli) over the hot spot for stimulating the abductor pollicis brevis (APB) muscle given 25 milliseconds after the onset of the electrical stimulus. Corticospinal excitability recorded in APB muscle, as indexed by MEP obtained after single stimulus, was tested before and up to 30 minutes after PAS protocol. Eight of 12 patients were studied before and after 4 weeks of dopaminergic treatment. PAS protocol increased significantly corticospinal excitability as long as 30 minutes in healthy subjects. On the contrary, PAS protocol did not change the amplitude of MEPs in patients with idiopathic RLS without treatment. PAS associative plasticity was restored after 4 weeks of dopaminergic treatment. Our data demonstrated that associative sensory-motor plasticity, an indirect probe for motor learning, is impaired in idiopathic RLS patients but may be reverted to normal after dopaminergic treatment.
The neural basis of tinnitus is unknown. Recent neuroimaging studies point towards involvement of several cortical and subcortical regions. Here we demonstrate that tinnitus may be associated with structural changes in the auditory cortex. Using individual morphological segmentation, the medial partition of Heschl's gyrus (mHG) was studied in individuals with and without chronic tinnitus using magnetic resonance imaging. Both the tinnitus and the non-tinnitus group included musicians and non-musicians. Patients exhibited significantly smaller mHG gray matter volumes than controls. In unilateral tinnitus, this effect was almost exclusively seen in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the affected ear. In bilateral tinnitus, mHG volume was substantially reduced in both hemispheres. The tinnitus-related volume reduction was found across the full extent of mHG, not only in the high-frequency part usually most affected by hearing loss-induced deafferentation. However, there was also evidence for a relationship between volume reduction and hearing loss. Correlations between volume and hearing level depended on the subject group as well as the asymmetry of the hearing loss. The volume changes observed may represent antecedents or consequences of tinnitus and tinnitus-associated hearing loss and also raise the possibility that small cortical volume constitutes a vulnerability factor.
Understanding causal relationships and violations of those relationships is fundamental to learning about the world around us. Over time some of these relationships become so firmly established that they form part of an implicit belief system about what is possible and impossible in the world. Previous studies investigating the neural correlates of violations of learned relationships have focused on relationships that were task-specific and probabilistic. In contrast, the present study uses magic-trick perception as a means of investigating violations of relationships that are long-established, deterministic, and that form part of the aforementioned belief system. Compared to situations in which expected causal relationships are observed, magic trick perception recruited dorso-lateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), brain regions associated with the detection of conflict and the implementation of cognitive control. These activations were greater in the left hemisphere, supporting a role for this hemisphere in the interpretation of complex events. DLPFC is more greatly activated by magic tricks than by surprising events, but not more greatly activated by surprising than non surprising events, suggesting that this region plays a special role in causality processing. The results suggest a role for cognitive control regions in the left hemisphere in a neurobiology of disbelief.
Brain activity relies on transient, fluctuating interactions between segregated neuronal populations. Synchronization within a single and between distributed neuronal clusters reflects the dynamics of these cooperative patterns. Thus absence epilepsy can be used as a model for integrated, large-scale investigation of the emergence of pathological collective dynamics in the brain. Indeed, spike-wave discharges (SWD) of an absence seizure are thought to reflect abnormal cortical hypersynchronization. In this paper, we address two questions: how and where do SWD arise in the human brain? Therefore, we explored the spatio-temporal dynamics of interactions within and between widely distributed cortical sites using magneto-encephalographic recordings of spontaneous absence seizures. We then extracted, from their time-frequency analysis, local synchronization of cortical sources and long-range synchronization linking distant sites. Our analyses revealed a reproducible sequence of 1) long-range desynchronization, 2) increased local synchronization and 3) increased long-range synchronization. Although both local and long-range synchronization displayed different spatio-temporal profiles, their cortical projection within an initiation time window overlap and reveal a multifocal fronto-central network. These observations contradict the classical view of sudden generalized synchronous activities in absence epilepsy. Furthermore, they suggest that brain states transition may rely on multi-scale processes involving both local and distant interactions.
[(11)C]flumazenil is the reference radioligand for Positron Emission Tomography (PET) studies of central benzodiazepine (BZ) receptors. Fluorine is available in the flumazenil molecule and [(18)F]flumazenil has recently been prepared. The aim of the present PET-study in 8 male subjects was to examine the binding of [(18)F]flumazenil in the human brain by direct comparison with [(11)C]flumazenil. Each subject participated in two 93-minute PET-measurements with [(11)C]flumazenil and [(18)F]flumazenil, respectively. Data were analyzed using compartment models with metabolite-corrected arterial plasma input and reference tissue models using the pons as reference region. There was no evident difference between the kinetic behaviors of the two ligands. Overall, the noise in the time activity curves for [(18)F]flumazenil was lower at late time points, and the variance of the kinetic parameters was lower than for [(11)C]flumazenil. In BZ receptor rich regions, such as the neocortex, the 3-compartment model was statistically favored, whereas the 2-compartment model was favored in the pons. Binding potential values obtained by the reference tissue models were in good agreement with those obtained by the kinetic analysis. There was no support for the presence of specific binding in the pons. In conclusion, the binding and the kinetic behavior of [(11)C]flumazenil and [(18)F]flumazenil were similar. The present analysis supports the use of pons as reference region in simplified protocols without arterial blood sampling. [(18)F]flumazenil should thus be an excellent choice for applied studies at centers not having a cyclotron.
A number of studies suggest that OLGs (oligodendrocytes), the myelinating cells of the central nervous system, are also a source of trophic molecules, such as neurotrophins that may influence survival of proximate neurons. What is less clear is how the release of these molecules may be regulated. The present study investigated the effects of BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) derived from cortical OLGs on proximate neurons, as well as regulatory mechanisms mediating BDNF release. Initial work determined that BDNF derived from cortical OLGs increased the numbers of VGLUT1 (vesicular glutamate transporter 1)-positive glutamatergic cortical neurons. Furthermore, glutamate acting through metabotropic, and not AMPA/kainate or NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartate), receptors increased BDNF release. The PLC (phospholipase C) pathway is a key mediator of metabotropic actions to release BDNF in astrocytes and neurons. Treatment of OLGs with the PLC activator m-3M3FBS [N-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)-2,4,6-trimethylbenzenesulfonamide] induced robust release of BDNF. Moreover, release elicited by the metabotropic receptor agonist ACPD [trans-(1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid] was inhibited by the PLC antagonist U73122, the IP3 (inositol triphosphate 3) receptor inhibitor 2-APB (2-aminoethoxydiphenylborane) and the intracellular calcium chelator BAPTA/AM [1,2-bis-(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetic acid tetrakis(acetoxymethyl ester)]. Taken together, these results suggest that OLG lineage cells release BDNF, a molecule trophic for proximate neurons. BDNF release is regulated by glutamate acting through mGluRs (metabotropic glutamate receptors) and the PLC pathway. Thus glutamate and BDNF may be molecules that support neuron-OLG interactions in the cortex.
OPCs (oligodendrocyte precursor cells) express golli proteins which, through regulation of Ca2+ influx, appear to be important in OPC process extension/retraction and migration. The aim of the present study was to examine further the role of golli in regulating OPC development. The effects of golli ablation and overexpression were examined in primary cultures of OPCs prepared from golli-KO (knockout) and JOE (golli J37-overexpressing) mice. In OPCs lacking golli, or overexpressing golli, differentiation induced by growth factor withdrawal was impaired. Proliferation analysis in the presence of PDGF (platelet-derived growth factor), revealed that golli enhanced the mitogen-stimulated proliferation of OPCs through activation of SOCCs (store-operated Ca2+ channels). PDGF treatment induced a biphasic increase in OPC intracellular Ca2+, and golli specifically increased Ca2+ influx during the second SOCC-dependent phase that followed the initial release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. This store-operated Ca2+ uptake appeared to be essential for cell division, since specific SOCC antagonists completely blocked the effects of PDGF and golli on OPC proliferation. Additionally, in OPCs overexpressing golli, increased cell death was observed after mitogen withdrawal. This phenomenon could be prevented by exposure to VOCC (voltage-operated Ca2+ channel) blockers, indicating that the effect of golli on cell death involved increased Ca2+ influx through VOCCs. The results showed a clear effect of golli on OPC development and support a role for golli in modulating multiple Ca2+-regulatory events through VOCCs and SOCCs. Our results also suggest that PDGF engagement of its receptor resulting in OPC proliferation proceeds through activation of SOCCs.
Purinergic P2 receptors and gap junctions are two groups of proteins involved in the transmission of ICWs (intercellular calcium waves) between astrocytes. The extent to which ICWs spread among these glial cells depends on the amount of ATP released, which can occur through membrane channels, as well as other pathways. Our previous studies have shown that the pore-forming P2X7R (P2X7 receptor) contributes to the amplification of ICW spread by providing sites of ATP release through Panx1 (Pannexin1) channels. To gain insight into the signal transduction events mediating this response we compared the properties of the P2X7R-Panx1 complex in astrocytes from a mouse strain (C57Bl/6) containing a naturally occurring point mutation (P451L) in the C-terminus of the P2X7R to that of non-mutated receptors (Balb/C mice). Electrophysiological, biochemical, pharmacological and fluorescence imaging techniques revealed that the P451L mutation located in the SH3 domain (a Src tyrosine kinase-binding site) of the C-terminus of the P2X7R attenuates Panx1 currents, ATP release and the distance of ICW spread between astrocytes. Similar results were obtained when using the Src tyrosine inhibitor (PP2) and a membrane-permeant peptide spanning the P451L mutation of the P2X7R of the C57Bl6 astrocytes. These results support the participation of a tyrosine kinase of the Src family in the initial steps mediating the opening of Panx1 channels following P2X7R stimulation and in the transmission of calcium signals among astrocytes.


Improved survival is likely linked to the ability to generate stable memories of significant experiences. Considerable evidence in humans and mammalian model animals shows that steroid hormones, which are released in response to emotionally arousing experiences, have an important role in the consolidation of memories of such events. In insects, ecdysone is the major steroid hormone, and it is well characterized with respect to its essential role in coordinating developmental transitions such as larval molting and metamorphosis. However, the functions of ecdysone in adult physiology remain largely elusive. Here, we show that 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E), the active metabolite of ecdysone that is induced by environmental stimuli in adult Drosophila, has an important role in the formation of long-term memory (LTM). In male flies, the levels of 20E were found to be significantly increased after courtship conditioning, and exogenous administration of 20E either enhanced or suppressed courtship LTM, depending on the timing of its administration. We also found that mutants in which ecdysone signaling is reduced were defective in LTM, and that an elevation of 20E levels was associated with activation of the cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), an essential regulator of LTM formation. Our results demonstrate that the molting steroid hormone ecdysone in adult Drosophila is critical to the evolutionarily conserved strategy that is used for the formation of stable memories. We propose that ecdysone is able to consolidate memories possibly by recapturing molecular and cellular processes that are used for normal neural development.
Localizing individual sound sources under reverberant environmental conditions can be a challenge when the original source and its acoustic reflections arrive at the ears simultaneously from different paths that convey ambiguous directional information. The acoustic parasitoid fly Ormia ochracea (Diptera: Tachinidae) relies on a pair of ears exquisitely sensitive to sound direction to localize the 5-kHz tone pulsatile calling song of their host crickets. In nature, flies are expected to encounter a complex sound field with multiple sources and their reflections from acoustic clutter potentially masking temporal information relevant to source recognition and localization. In field experiments, O. ochracea were lured onto a test arena and subjected to small random acoustic asymmetries between 2 simultaneous sources. Most flies successfully localize a single source but some localize a 'phantom' source that is a summed effect of both source locations. Such misdirected phonotaxis can be elicited reliably in laboratory experiments that present symmetric acoustic stimulation. By varying onset delay between 2 sources, we test whether hyperacute directional hearing in O. ochracea can function to exploit small time differences to determine source location. Selective localization depends on both the relative timing and location of competing sources. Flies preferred phonotaxis to a forward source. With small onset disparities within a 10-ms temporal window of attention, flies selectively localize the leading source while the lagging source has minimal influence on orientation. These results demonstrate the precedence effect as a mechanism to overcome phantom source illusions that arise from acoustic reflections or competing sources.
Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are the largest group of structurally related proteins encoded by the human genome. As signal effectors and allosteric regulators, GPCRs dynamically recruit not only specific heterotrimeric G proteins but also the cytosolic scaffold proteins, beta-arrestin 1 and 2, which were originally thought only to serve as negative regulators of GPCR signaling. Although about half of currently available therapeutics target GPCR function, usually at the ligand-binding, orthosteric site, evidence suggests that beta-arrestins may be therapeutic targets themselves. Indeed, a hitherto undiscovered action of various antipsychotics is to inhibit the ability of the dopamine D2 receptor to engage beta-arrestin 2 and activate glycogen synthase kinase 3, which may be a target for developing therapeutics for schizophrenia. Also, certain beta-antagonists (blockers) used to treat heart failure, such as carvedilol, have the added effect of promoting activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase through beta-arrestin. It seems likely that the structure of beta-arrestins allows them to detect different types and conformational states of GPCRs and to respond in functionally distinct fashions by using separate cohorts of signaling proteins, thus generating additional possibilities for therapeutic intervention.
While midbrain DA neurons show phasic activations in response to both reward-predicting and salient non-reward events, activation responses to primary and conditioned rewards are sustained for several hundreds of milliseconds beyond those elicited by salient non-reward-related stimuli. The longer-duration DA reward response and corresponding elevated DA release in striatal target sites may selectively strengthen currently-active corticostriatal synapses, i.e., those associated with the successful reward-procuring behavior. This paper describes how similar models of DA-mediated plasticity of corticostriatal synapses may describe both stimulus-response and response-outcome learning. DA-mediated strengthening of corticostriatal synapses in regions of the dorsolateral striatum receiving afferents from primary sensorimotor cortex is likely to bind corticostriatal inputs representing the previously-emitted movement to striatal outputs contributing to the selection of the next movement segment in a behavioral sequence. Within the striatum, more generally, inputs from distinct regions of the frontal cortex that code independently for movement direction and reward expectation send convergent projections to striatal output cells. DA-mediated strengthening of active corticostriatal synapses promotes the future output of the striatal cell under similar input conditions. This is postulated to promote persistence of neuronal activity in the very cortical cells that drive corticostriatal input, leading to the establishment of sustained reverberatory loops that permit cortical movement-related cells to maintain activity until the appropriate time of movement initiation.
The basal ganglia (BG) are critical for the coordination of several motor, cognitive, and emotional functions and become dysfunctional in several pathological states ranging from Parkinson's disease to Schizophrenia. Here we review principles developed within a neurocomputational framework of BG and related circuitry which provide insights into their functional roles in behavior. We focus on two classes of models: those that incorporate aspects of biological realism and constrained by functional principles, and more abstract mathematical models focusing on the higher level computational goals of the BG. While the former are arguably more &quot;realistic&quot;, the latter have a complementary advantage in being able to describe functional principles of how the system works in a relatively simple set of equations, but are less suited to making specific hypotheses about the roles of specific nuclei and neurophysiological processes. We review the basic architecture and assumptions of these models, their relevance to our understanding of the neurobiological and cognitive functions of the BG, and provide an update on the potential roles of biological details not explicitly incorporated in existing models. Empirical studies ranging from those in transgenic mice to dopaminergic manipulation, deep brain stimulation, and genetics in humans largely support model predictions and provide the basis for further refinement. Finally, we discuss possible future directions and possible ways to integrate different types of models.
Since the late eighties of the last century, when the so-called serial reaction time (SRT) task was first presented, analysis of sequential learning and performance has developed into a prosperous area of neurocognitive research in human subjects and non-human primates. In more recent years, rodent implementations of SRT tasks have become available, which will be summarized here and discussed with respect to their advantages, but also to their methodological and theoretical drawbacks. Then, a review of new neurobiological findings with such rodent tasks will be provided, that will be embedded into the existing theoretical framework, originally obtained from the work with primate species. Among others, this review will show that rodent SRT tasks allow actualizing and thus, studying many psychological features of human sequential tasks, for example, cognitive complexity of sequences. Since these rodent tasks can be used for a number of neuronal analyses, it is assumed that they will provide important insights for the neural mechanisms underlying such cognitive functions.
Hand preferences of primates are discussed as part of the broad perspective of brain lateralization in animals, and compared with paw preferences in non-primates. Previously, it has been suggested that primates are more likely to express a species-typical hand preference on complex tasks, especially in the case of coordinated hand use in using tools. I suggest that population-level hand preferences are manifested when the task demands the obligate use of the processing specialization of one hemisphere, and that this depends on the nature of the task rather than its complexity per se. Depending on the species, simple reaching tasks may not demand the obligate use of a specialized hemisphere and so do not constrain limb/hand use. In such cases, individuals may show hand preferences that are associated with consistent differences in behaviour. The individual's hand preference is associated with the expression of behaviour controlled by the hemisphere contralateral to the preferred hand (fear and reactivity in left-handed individuals versus proactivity in right-handed individuals). Recent findings of differences in brain structure between left- and right-handed primates (e.g. somatosensory cortex in marmosets) have been discussed and related to potential evolutionary advances.
Brain asymmetries are a widespread phenomenon among vertebrates and show a common behavioural pattern. The right hemisphere mediates more emotional and instinctive reactions, while the left hemisphere deals with elaborated experience-based behaviours. In order to achieve a lateralized behaviour, each hemisphere needs different information and therefore different representations of the world. However, how these representations are accomplished within the brain is still unknown. Based on the pigeon's visual system, we present experimental evidence that lateralized behaviour is the result of the interaction between the subtelencephalic ascending input directing more bilateral visual information towards the left hemisphere and the asymmetrically organized descending telencephalic influence on the tecto-tectal balance. Both the bilateral representation and the forebrain-modulated information processing might explain the left hemispheric dominance for complex learning and discrimination tasks.
Insulin and glucagon secretion from the islets of Langerhans is highly regulated. Although an increased plasma glucose level is the major stimulus for insulin exocytosis, roles for glutamine and glutamate have been suggested. Interestingly, the islet cells display elements associated with synaptic transmission. In the central nervous system (CNS), glutamine transport by SN1 and SAT2 sustain the generation of neurotransmitter glutamate. We hypothesized that the same transporters are essential for glutamine transport into the islet cells and for subsequent formation of glutamate acting as an intracellular signaling molecule. We demonstrate that islet cells express several transporters which can mediate glutamine transport. In particular, we show pronounced expression of SN1 and SAT2 in B-cells and A-cells, respectively. The cell-specific expression of these transporters together with their functional characteristics suggest an important role for glutamine in the regulation of insulin secretion.
The alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) plays an important role in cognitive processes and has generated recent interest as a potential drug target for treating neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). The property of Ca(2+) permeation associated with alpha7 nAChR agonism may lead to Ca(2+)-dependent intracellular signaling that contribute to the procognitive and neuroprotective effects that have been described with this pharmacology. In this study, we investigated whether alpha7 nAChR agonism leads to increased phosphorylation of the inhibitory regulating amino acid residue Ser-9 on GSK3beta, a major kinase responsible for tau hyperphosphorylation in AD neuropathology. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the selective alpha7 agonist A-582941 increased S(9)-GSK3beta phosphorylation in mouse cingulate cortex and hippocampus that was not observed in alpha7 nAChR knock-out mice. A-582941 steady state exposure through continuous (2 wk) infusion also increased S(9)-GSK3beta phosphorylation in the hippocampus of Tg2576 (APP), as well as wild-type mice. Moreover, A-582941 continuous infusion decreased phosphorylation of tau in hippocampal CA3 Mossy fibers and spinal motoneurons in a hypothermia-induced tau hyperphosphorylation mouse model and AD double transgenic APP/tau mouse line, respectively. These studies demonstrate that inactivation of GSK3beta may be associated with alpha7 nAChR-induced signaling leading to attenuated tau hyperphosphorylation, raising the intriguing possibility that alpha7 nAChR agonism may have disease modifying benefit in the treatment of tauopathies, in particular AD.
Huntington disease and its related autosomal-dominant polyglutamine (pQ) neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by intraneuronal accumulation of protein aggregates. Studies on protein aggregates have revealed the importance of the ubiquitin-proteasome system as the front line of protein quality control (PQC) machinery against aberrant proteins. Recently, we have shown that the autophagy-lysosomal system is also involved in cytoplasmic aggregate degradation, but the nucleus lacked this activity. Consequently, the nucleus relies entirely on the ubiquitin-proteasome system for PQC. According to previous studies, nuclear aggregates possess a higher cellular toxicity than do their cytoplasmic counterparts, however degradation kinetics of nuclear aggregates have been poorly understood. Here we show that nuclear ubiquitin ligases San1p and UHRF-2 each enhance nuclear pQ aggregate degradation and rescued pQ-induced cytotoxicity in cultured cells and primary neurons. Moreover, UHRF-2 is associated with nuclear inclusion bodies in vitro and in vivo. Our data suggest that UHRF-2 is an essential molecule for nuclear pQ degradation as a component of nuclear PQC machinery in mammalian cells.
Calbindin (CB) and S100 are calcium-binding proteins expressed in the inner ear in vertebrates. Information about their developmental roles is incomplete. This study investigated the expression patterns of CB and S100 in C3H mice using immunohistochemistry, from embryonic day 11 (E11) to postnatal day 10 (P10). CB was expressed in the otocyst and vestibulocochlear ganglion (VCG) from E11. In the cochlea at E17, CB immunoreactivity clearly labeled the VCG, the outer and inner hair cells, and the stria vascularis. CB staining was also present in the vestibular sensory cells, including their nerve fibers. Two days later, to this expression pattern was added the labeling of Klliker's organ. Early postnatal CB expression encompassed VCG neurons, auditory hair cells, their afferent nerve fibers, and cells of the cochlear lateral wall. The first signs of S100 immunostaining of cochlear and vestibular epithelial cells appeared at E14. At E17 S100 immunoreactivity was found in a restricted expression pattern in the cochlea. Immunostaining was also present in the sacculus and utriculus and their afferent fibers. The Deiters', pillar and inner hair cells, and the VCG were S100-positive from E19. Postnatally, S100 staining also appeared in the inner hair cells and Deiters' cells, in some VCG neurons, and, in addition, in the spiral limbus, the spiral prominence, and the intermediate cells of the stria vascularis. This study demonstrates that the sites of CB and S100 expression in the mouse inner ear during embryonic and early postnatal development do not overlap and signal independent developmental patterns.
The establishment of appropriate neural circuitry depends on the coordination of multiple developmental events across space and time. These events include proliferation, migration, differentiation, and survival-all of which can be mediated by hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) signaling through the Met receptor tyrosine kinase. We previously found a functional promoter variant of the MET gene to be associated with autism spectrum disorder, suggesting that forebrain circuits governing social and emotional function may be especially vulnerable to developmental disruptions in HGF/Met signaling. However, little is known about the spatiotemporal distribution of Met expression in the forebrain during the development of such circuits. To advance our understanding of the neurodevelopmental influences of Met activation, we employed complementary Western blotting, in situ hybridization, and immunohistochemistry to comprehensively map Met transcript and protein expression throughout perinatal and postnatal development of the mouse forebrain. Our studies reveal complex and dynamic spatiotemporal patterns of expression during this period. Spatially, Met transcript is localized primarily to specific populations of projection neurons within the neocortex and in structures of the limbic system, including the amygdala, hippocampus, and septum. Met protein appears to be principally located in axon tracts. Temporally, peak expression of transcript and protein occurs during the second postnatal week. This period is characterized by extensive neurite outgrowth and synaptogenesis, supporting a role for the receptor in these processes. Collectively, these data suggest that Met signaling may be necessary for the appropriate wiring of forebrain circuits, with particular relevance to the social and emotional dimensions of behavior.

The different alleles of the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE-gene, ApoE-protein) have been reported to influence recovery after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in both human patients and animal models, with the e4 allele typically conferring poorer prognosis for recovery. How the E4 allele, and consequently the ApoE4 isoform, affects recovery is unknown, but proposed mechanisms include neurogenesis, inflammatory response and amyloid processing or metabolism. Using the controlled cortical impact (CCI) model of brain injury and microarray technology we have characterized the genomic response to injury in the brains of APOE2, APOE3 and APOE4 transgenic mice and identified quantitatively and qualitatively significantly different profiles of gene expression in both the hippocampus and the cortex of the APOE3 mice compared to APOE4. The observed gene regulation predicts functional consequences including effects on inflammatory processes, cell growth and proliferation, and cellular signaling, and may suggest that the poor recovery post-TBI in APOE4 animals and human patients is less likely to result from a specific activation of neurodegenerative mechanisms than a loss of reparative capability.
Dopamine receptor activity in the rodent medial preoptic area (mPOA) is crucial for the display of maternal behaviors, as well as numerous other physiological and behavioral functions. However, the origin of dopaminergic input to the mPOA has not been identified through neuroanatomical tracing. To accomplish this, the retrograde tracer Fluorogold was iontophoretically applied to the mPOA of postpartum laboratory rats, and dual-label immunocytochemistry for Fluorogold and tyrosine hydroxylase later performed to identify dopaminergic cells of the forebrain and midbrain projecting to the mPOA. Results indicate that the number of dopaminergic cells projecting to the mPOA is moderate ( approximately 90 cells to one hemisphere), and that these cells have an unexpectedly wide distribution. Even so, more than half of the dual-labeled cells were found in either what has been considered extensions of the A10 dopamine group (particularly the ventrocaudal posterior hypothalamus and adjacent medial supramammillary nucleus), or in the A10 group of the ventral tegmental area. The rostral hypothalamus and surrounding region also contained numerous dual-labeled cells, with the greatest number found within the mPOA itself (including in the anteroventral preoptic area and preoptic periventricular nucleus). Notably, dual-labeled cells were rare in the zona incerta (A13), a site previously suggested to provide dopaminergic input to the mPOA. This study is the first to use anatomical tracing to detail the dopaminergic projections to the mPOA in the laboratory rat, and indicates that much of this projection originates more caudally than previously suggested.
Many patients with trigeminal neuropathies suffer severe chronic pain which is inadequately alleviated with centrally-acting drugs. These drugs also possess severe side effects making compliance difficult. One strategy is to develop new treatments without central side effects by targeting peripheral sensory neurons, since sensory neuron excitability and neurotransmitter release increase in chronic pain states. Such treatments may include the highly purified botulinum toxin type A 150 kDa (BoNT/A) which reportedly blocks vesicular neurotransmitter release. We set out to determine if experimental trigeminal neuropathy induced by infraorbital nerve constriction (IoNC) in rats could alter neurotransmitter release from somata of trigeminal sensory neurons and if it could be attenuated by BoNT/A. Thus, we monitored the secretory activity of acutely dissociated trigeminal ganglion (TRG) neurons from nave and IoNC rats by measuring the fluorescence intensity of the membrane-uptake marker (N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(6-(4-(diethylamino)phenyl)hexatrienyl)pyridinium dibromide (FM4-64). FM4-64 staining showed that neurons possess a pool of recycled vesicles which could be released by high KCl (75 mM) application. BoNT/A pre-treatment of acutely dissociated TRG neurons from nave rats significantly reduced the rate of FM4-64 dye release. Neurons isolated from TRG ipsilateral to IoNC exhibited significantly faster onset of FM4-64 release than neurons contralateral to IoNC (sham surgery). IoNC also produced long-lasting ipsilateral tactile allodynia, measured as large decreases of withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimulation. Intradermal injection of BoNT/A in the area of infraorbital branch of the trigeminal nerve (IoN) innervation alleviated IoNC-induced mechanical allodynia and reduced the exaggerated FM4-64 release in TRG neurons from these rats. Our results suggest that BoNT/A decreases neuropathic pain behaviors by decreasing the exaggerated neurotransmitter release from TRG sensory neurons.
The nucleus accumbens (Acb) is a part of the striatum which integrates information from cortical and limbic brain structures, and mediates behaviors which reinforce reward. Previous work has suggested that neuronal synchrony mediated by gap junctions in Acb-related areas is involved in brain pleasure and reward. In order to gain insight into functional aspects of the neural information processing at the level of the striatum, we explored the possible role of Acb gap junctional communication and chemical synapses on reward self-stimulation in rats using positive reinforcement. Rats were trained to press a lever that caused an electrical current to be delivered into the hypothalamus, which is recognized to cause pleasure/reward. Intracerebral infusion into the Acb of the gap junctional blocker carbenoxolone (CBX) decreased the lever-pressing activity. Considering that the net effect of blocking gap junctions is a reduced synchronized output of the cellular activities, which at some level represents a decrease in excitability, two other inhibitors of neuronal excitability, carbamazepine (CBZ) and tetrodotoxin (TTX), were infused into the Acb and their effects on lever-pressing assessed. All manipulations that diminished excitability in the Acb resulted in reduced lever-pressing activity. CBX and TTX were also infused into motor cortex mediating forelimb lever-pressing with no effect. However, a manipulation that has the net effect of increasing excitation, the infusion of the opiate antagonist naloxone, also decreased significantly brain self-stimulation. We conclude that reward behaviors depend to a great extent on both excitability and gap junction-mediated mechanisms in Acb neuronal networks. Thus, the Acb provides a site for the study of pleasure/reward, addiction and conscious experience.
We previously demonstrated that ultra-low dose naloxone restores the antinociceptive effect of morphine in rats with pertussis toxin (PTX)-induced thermal hyperalgesia by reversing the downregulation of glutamate transporter (GT) expression and suppressing spinal neuroinflammation. In the present study, we examined the underlying mechanisms of this anti-inflammatory effect in PTX-treated rats, particularly on the expression of GTs. Male Wistar rats were implanted with an intrathecal catheter and, in some cases, with a microdialysis probe. All rats were injected intrathecally with saline (5 microl) or PTX (1 microg), then, 4 days later, were randomly assigned to receive a single injection of saline, ultra-low dose naloxone (15 ng), or the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor SB203580 (5 microg), followed by morphine injection (10 microg) 30 min later. Our results showed that PTX injection induced activation of microglia and a significant increase in P-p38 MAPK expression in the spinal cord. Ultra-low dose naloxone plus morphine significantly inhibited the effect of PTX on P-p38 MAPK expression in the spinal cord, while the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580 attenuated the PTX-induced mechanical allodynia, thermal hyperalgesia, increase in spinal cerebrospinal fluid excitatory amino acids, and downregulation of GTs. These results show that the restoration of the antinociceptive effect of morphine and GT expression in PTX-treated rats by ultra-low dose naloxone involves suppression of the p38 MAPK signal transduction cascade.
In this study, we have mapped amyloid beta (Abeta) deposition in the amygdala of five aged Japanese monkeys (from 23 to 30 years old). In brief, the aged monkey amygdala shows a topographic distribution of Abeta deposits that is subnucleus specific and exhibits a distinct temporal progression. The pattern is similar to the distribution of Abeta deposits in the human amygdala of Alzheimer's patients and of high plaque nondemented cases. The spatial distribution and temporal progression were correlated with the distribution of free zinc (Zn), which is known to mediate Abeta aggregation. For the basolateral group of subnuclei in particular, there is a clear dorsoventral gradient in the progressive distribution of Abeta. Abeta depositions first appear in the ventral division of the lateral nucleus and parvicellular division of the accessory basal nucleus, and then extend into the ventral part of the basal and paralaminar nuclei. All these nuclei are also Zn-dense. Conversely, Zn-weak nuclei, which are more dorsally situated (i.e. dorsal division of lateral nucleus and magnocellular division of basal nucleus) showed only a low level of Abeta deposits, even in brains with the greatest Abeta burden. In contrast to the basolateral group, the central and medial nuclei and cortical group had Abeta deposits only at later stages. In the central and medial nuclei, we identified a lateromedial gradient of Abeta deposits, again similar to the gradient of Zn-distribution. In the cortical group, Abeta deposits are densest in the deep layer, where Zn is also densest. Thus, we suggest the macaque amygdala, with its clear topographic distribution of Abeta deposits, may be an effective model for examining the complex mechanisms of vulnerability to Abeta deposits. A primate model would be advantageous for experimental interventions geared toward therapeutic protection from Alzheimer's disease, including by microarray analysis and genetic manipulation.
Exposure to stress alters the behavioral and neurochemical effects of drugs of abuse. However, it is unknown if chronic stress can affect the serotonergic depletions induced by the psychostimulant drug 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). Rats were exposed to 10 days of chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) which resulted in the predicted elevation of basal plasma corticosterone concentrations. On the 11th day, rats received four challenge doses of MDMA (5 mg/kg every 2 h, i.p.) or saline. Five days later, rats were killed and serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine content were measured in the striatum, hippocampus, and frontal cortex. MDMA produced greater depletions of 5-HT in all three brain regions of rats pre-exposed to CUS compared to rats not exposed to CUS. CUS-exposed rats also had an augmented acute hyperthermic response but a similar increase in plasma corticosterone after challenge injections of MDMA compared with non-stressed rats similarly challenged with MDMA. Moreover, CUS-exposed rats exhibited an MDMA-induced depletion of striatal dopamine that was absent in non-stressed rats that received MDMA. To investigate the role of corticosterone in these effects, the corticosterone synthesis inhibitor, metyrapone (50 mg/kg i.p.), was administered prior to each stressor on each of the 10 days of CUS. Metyrapone blocked the chronic stress-induced elevation in basal plasma corticosterone, prevented the enhancement of MDMA-induced hyperthermia, and blocked the enhanced depletions of 5-HT and dopamine in CUS-exposed rats, but had no effect on the acute MDMA-induced increases in plasma corticosterone. These findings suggest that CUS alone can increase the basal level of corticosterone that in turn, plays an important role in enhancing the sensitivity of both 5-HT and dopamine terminals to the hyperthermic and monoamine depleting effects of MDMA without altering the acute corticosterone response to an MDMA challenge.
Adenosine A2A receptor agonists produce a hypokinetic state (catalepsy) that is believed to reflect antagonistic interaction of A2A and dopamine D2 receptors in the basal ganglia. In addition to catalepsy, pharmacological blockade of D2 receptors produces rigidity. However there are conflicting data about the effect of A2A agonists on muscle tone, with some reports indicating an increase, while other data suggest that A2A catalepsy is dominated by muscle hypotonia. We investigated the effect on resistance to imposed movements of systemic cataleptic doses of the selective A2A agonist CGS21680 (5 mg/kg), and compared it with the effect of the D2 antagonist raclopride (5 mg/kg), in rats. Total resistance is made up of elastic and viscous components. The elastic component is velocity independent, and is referred to as &quot;stiffness,&quot; whereas viscosity, which dampens responses to imposed movements, is velocity dependent. Using a method for quantifying total joint resistance that enabled separate identification of stiffness and viscosity, we found that during catalepsy evoked by either drug there was a clear increase in joint rigidity. Both CGS21680 and raclopride significantly increased joint stiffness, the velocity independent component of rigidity that is most affected in Parkinsonism. In contrast, the effect of CGS21680 on the velocity-dependent viscosity component was less robust than for raclopride, and did not reach significance, possibly reflecting an interaction with sedative effects via extrastriatal receptors. The effect of CGS21680 and raclopride on joint stiffness is thus consistent with previous findings suggesting functional antagonism of A2A and D2 receptors in the basal ganglia.
It is firmly established that women experience major depression (MD) at roughly twice the rate of men and that dysregulation of the immune system is associated with the appearance and course of this condition. In the present study, we sought to identify whether &quot;sickness behavior&quot;, an inflammatory model of MD, is characterized by sexual dimorphism by focusing on both neurochemical and behavioral responses. Therefore, we investigated the serotonergic and dopaminergic activity of various brain regions implicated in the pathophysiology of affective disorders (hypothalamus, hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, amygdala and striatum) in response to a mild lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge, in rats of both sexes. According to our results, at 2 h post-LPS administration (100 microg/kg i.p.), the neurochemical substrate was primarily altered in female rats with the serotonergic function being markedly enhanced in all brain regions examined. Dopaminergic activation following immune system sensitization with LPS was not apparent in male rats and only modest in female rats with the exception of striatum. LPS administration also affected sickness-associated behaviors to a different extent in male and female rats, as assessed in the forced swim test (FST), the hot plate test (HPT) and the open-field arena. LPS-treated female rats coped better with the stressful FST procedure, as evidenced by an increase in swimming duration. The effects of LPS treatment appeared to be more robust in male rats, as far as suppression of locomotor activity is concerned, while the antinociceptive properties of LPS were evident in both sexes though showing sex-dependent kinetics. Moreover, when traditional measures of sickness (i.e. sucrose consumption, social exploration, food intake) were assessed, males and females appeared to be similarly affected, except for food intake. These data are the first to demonstrate that the serotonergic system is affected to a greater extent in female rats at 2 h post-LPS administration and further contribute to our understanding regarding sexual dimorphism upon sickness establishment.
To clarify the mechanism of yokukansan (TJ-54), a traditional Japanese medicine, against glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity, the effects of TJ-54 on glutamate uptake function were first examined using cultured rat cortical astrocytes. Under thiamine-deficient conditions, the uptake of glutamate into astrocytes, and the levels of proteins and mRNA expressions of glutamate aspartate transporter of astrocytes significantly decreased. These decreases were ameliorated in a dose-dependent manner by treatment with TJ-54 (100-700 microg/ml). The improvement of glutamate uptake with TJ-54 was completely blocked by the glutamate transporter inhibitor DL-threo-beta-hydroxyaspartic acid. Effects of TJ-54 on glutamate-induced neuronal death were next examined by using cultured PC12 cells as a model for neurons. Addition of 17.5 mM glutamate to the culture medium induced an approximately 50% cell death, as evaluated by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. TJ-54 (1-1000 microg/ml) inhibited the cell death in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, competitive binding assays to glutamate receptors showed that TJ-54 bound potently to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, in particular, to its glutamate and glycine recognition sites. These results suggest that TJ-54 may exert a neuroprotective effect against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity not only by amelioration of dysfunction of astrocytes but also by direct protection of neuronal cells.
We determined whether two classes of Drosophila larval motor terminals with known differences in structure and transmitter release also showed differences in Ca(2+) regulation. Larval motor neurons can be separated into those producing large synaptic boutons (Ib) and those with small boutons (Is). Ib terminals release less transmitter during single action potentials (APs) than Is terminals, but show greater facilitation during high-frequency stimulation. We measured Ca(2+) transients produced by single APs and AP trains after loading the terminals with the dextran-conjugated Ca(2+) indicator Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-1 (OGB-1). The two pairs of Is and Ib terminals innervating muscle fiber 4 and fibers 6 and 7 were examined. The OGB-1 concentrations were measured in order to compare measurements from terminals with similar OGB-1 loading. For single APs, the change in OGB-1 fluorescence (DeltaF/F) in Is boutons was significantly larger than in Ib boutons due to greater Ca(2+) influx per bouton volume. The Is boutons had greater surface area and active zone number per bouton volume than Ib boutons; this could account for the differences in Ca(2+) influx and argues for similar Ca(2+) influx at Is and Ib active zones. As previously reported for the Ib boutons, the distal Is boutons had larger single-AP Ca(2+) transients than proximal ones on muscle fibers 6 and 7, but not on fiber 4. This difference was not due to proximal-distal differences in surface area or active zones per bouton volume and may be due to greater Ca(2+) influx at distal active zones. During AP trains, the Is Ca(2+) transients were larger in amplitude and had longer decay time constants than Ib ones. This can be explained by a slower rate of Ca(2+) extrusion from the Is boutons apparently due to lower plasma membrane Ca(2+) ATPase activity at Is boutons compared to Ib boutons.
Flavonoid-rich foods have been shown to be effective at reversing age-related deficits in learning and memory in both animals and humans. However, little investigation of the preventative effects of flavonoids on the naturally aged animals was reported. In our study, 14-month-old female C57BL/6 J mice were orally administered 0.025%, 0.05% and 0.1% green tea catechins (GTC, w/v) in drinking water for 6 months; we found that a supplementation with 0.05% or 0.1% GTC prevented age-related spatial learning and memory decline of mice in the Morris water maze. Better performance of GTC-treated mice was associated with increased levels of cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation in the hippocampus. The expressions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and Bcl-2, two target genes of CREB which can exhibit long-term regulatory roles in synaptic plasticity and synaptic structure, were also increased. We also found that long-term 0.05% or 0.1% GTC administration prevented age-related reductions of two representative post-synaptic density proteins PSD95 and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, suggesting that synaptic structural changes may be involved. These results demonstrated that long-term 0.05% or 0.1% green tea catechin administration may prevent age-related spatial learning and memory decline of female C57BL/6 J mice by regulating hippocampal CREB signaling cascade.
Increased caloric intake in dietary obesity could be driven by central mechanisms that regulate reward-seeking behavior. The mesolimbic dopamine system, and the nucleus accumbens in particular, underlies both food and drug reward. We investigated whether rat dietary obesity is linked to changes in dopaminergic neurotransmission in that region. Sprague-Dawley rats were placed on a cafeteria-style diet to induce obesity or a laboratory chow diet to maintain normal weight gain. Extracellular dopamine levels were measured by in vivo microdialysis. Electrically evoked dopamine release was measured ex vivo in coronal slices of the nucleus accumbens and the dorsal striatum using real-time carbon fiber amperometry. Over 15 weeks, cafeteria-diet fed rats became obese (&gt;20% increase in body weight) and exhibited lower extracellular accumbens dopamine levels than normal weight rats (0.007+/-0.001 vs. 0.023+/-0.002 pmol/sample; P&lt;0.05). Dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens of obese rats was stimulated by a cafeteria-diet challenge, but it remained unresponsive to a laboratory chow meal. Administration of d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg i.p.) also revealed an attenuated dopamine response in obese rats. Experiments measuring electrically evoked dopamine signal ex vivo in nucleus accumbens slices showed a much weaker response in obese animals (12 vs. 25x10(6) dopamine molecules per stimulation, P&lt;0.05). The results demonstrate that deficits in mesolimbic dopamine neurotransmission are linked to dietary obesity. Depressed dopamine release may lead obese animals to compensate by eating palatable &quot;comfort&quot; food, a stimulus that released dopamine when laboratory chow failed.
The posterior hypothalamus (PH) is known to reduce nociceptive pain, but the effect of PH stimulation on neuropathic pain is not known. Because neurons containing the neurotransmitter orexin-A are located in the PH in some strains of rat and intrathecal injection of orexin-A produces antinociception in a neuropathic pain model, we hypothesized that orexin-A from neurons in the PH modifies nociception in the spinal cord dorsal horn. To test this hypothesis, the cholinergic agonist carbachol or normal saline was microinjected into the PH of lightly anesthetized female Sprague-Dawley rats with chronic constriction injury (CCI) and foot withdrawal latencies (FWL) were measured. Carbachol-induced PH stimulation produced dose dependent antinociception as shown by significantly increased FWL compared to saline controls. To investigate the role of orexin-A in PH-induced antinociception, the orexin-1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 or dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) for control, was given intrathecally following carbachol-induced PH stimulation. SB-334867 decreased FWL compared to DMSO controls. These data are suggestive that stimulating the PH produces antinociception in a neuropathic pain model and that the antinociceptive effect is mediated in part by orexin-1 receptors in the spinal cord dorsal horn.
When retinal waves are inhibited binocularly, eye-specific segregation of retinal axons is disrupted, and retinal axons from the two eyes remain intermingled in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). This effect of binocular retinal wave inhibition is mediated by the lack of activity-dependent competition between retinal axons from the two eyes, but it is unknown whether this effect is also mediated by the developmental arrest of the LGN in an immature state. Here we find developmental markers of the LGN during eye-specific segregation. The expression levels of Purkinje cell protein 4 (PCP4/PEP19), transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2/TCF4) and LIM homeobox protein 9 (Lhx9) in the LGN change significantly during eye-specific segregation. Using PCP4, TCF7L2 and Lhx9 as developmental markers of the LGN, we examine whether LGN development is affected by binocular disruption of retinal waves during eye-specific segregation. Binocular injection of epibatidine strongly inhibits eye-specific segregation, whereas it does not affect the expression of PCP4, TCF7L2 and Lhx9. Furthermore, the expression of PCP4, TCF7L2 and Lhx9 is normal in binocularly enucleated animals and in mice treated with the monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) inhibitor, clorgyline. In addition, our experiments using LGN slice cultures show that the expression of PCP4 and TCF7L2 in LGN slices changes as in vivo. Our results suggest that LGN development proceeds, at least in part, even in the absence of retinal inputs. PCP4, TCF7L2 and Lhx9 should be useful to examine LGN development during eye-specific segregation in mice and in ferrets.
We have reported that hypoxia affects the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and behavior by driving the expression of central corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and its receptors in adult mammals, and this effect is modulated by other factors. Here, we address whether or not intermittent hypoxia (IH) or restraint (R) or a combination of both (IH+R) during gestation would result in differential alteration of the HPA axis and behavior of the adult male offspring. Gravid rats were exposed to IH in a hypobaric chamber (10.8% O(2), altitude of 5 km), R, or both, daily for 4 h for 21 days. Control parameters were set at sea level (20.9% O(2)). All the stressors significantly and differentially increased CRH and corticotropin-releasing factor receptor type 1 (CRHR1) expression but decreased corticotropin-releasing factor receptor type 2 (CRHR2) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), enhanced CRHR1 mRNA and CRHR2 mRNA expression in the anterior pituitary, and increased plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone (CORT) levels and adrenal weight in adult male offspring aged 120 days. Furthermore, norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA) levels significantly increased in the locus coeruleus (LC), while the percentage of entries into the open arms of the elevated-plus maze test (EPM) markedly declined. In all the above effects, the combination-induced effect was stronger than each stressor alone. Confocal imaging showed a rich colocalization of CRHR1 with CRH or urocortin I (Ucn I), and CRHR2 with CRH or urocortin III (Ucn III) in the PVN, and CRHR1 with CRH in the LC in EPM-tested groups. In conclusion, IH or R alone or both in combination during gestation sensitize the HPA axis and induce anxiety-like behavior of the adult male offspring, and the combined effects are significantly great than IH or R alone. The CRH-NE neural circuit between the PVN and LC through CRH receptor driving might partly be involved in the effects. The differential colocalization of CRH with CRHR1 might be the neural basis of these effects.
The ability for incentive properties of reward stimuli to maintain motivated behavior in the absence of the rewards themselves may be reliant in part on a glutamatergic projection from the basolateral (BLA) amygdala to the nucleus accumbens septi (NAS). The present work examined this idea in regard to food reward. In the first part of this study, lever pressing by rats on a fixed ratio 16 (FR16) schedule of food reinforcement was suppressed in a dose-dependent manner following bilateral infusion of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol to the BLA. Consumption of food when freely available was unaffected by the highest dose of muscimol, suggesting no change in the primary reward value of the food. Bilateral infusion of the broad-spectrum dopamine (DA) receptor antagonist flupenthixol to the NAS also resulted in a significant decrease in FR16 performance. As with the amygdala, consumption of freely available food was not affected by flupenthixol injections into the NAS. When unilateral injection of flupenthixol to the NAS was combined with contralateral injection of muscimol to the BLA, FR16 performance was suppressed. No significant change in lever press performance was observed following unilateral NAS injection of flupenthixol combined with ipsilateral injection of muscimol to the BLA. The results of this study support the idea that a functional connection between the BLA and NAS transmits incentive information necessary for the maintenance of responding in the absence of primary reward.
Injection drug use accounts for approximately one-third of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections in the United States. HIV-associated proteins have been shown to interact with various drugs of abuse to incite concerted neurotoxicity. One common area for their interaction is the nerve terminal, including dopamine transporter (DAT) systems. However, results regarding DAT function and regulation in HIV-infection, regardless of drug use, are mixed. Thus, the present experiments were designed to explicitly control Tat and cocaine administration in an in vivo rat model in order to reconcile differences that exist in the literature to date. We examined Tat plus cocaine-induced alterations using no-net-flux microdialysis, which is sensitive to alterations in DAT function, in order to test the potential for DAT as an early mediator of HIV-induced oxidative stress and neurodegeneration in vivo. Within 5 h of intra-accumbal administration of the HIV-associated protein, Tat, we noted a significant reduction in local DAT efficiency with little change in DA overflow/release dynamics. Further, at 48 h post-Tat administration, we demonstrated a concerted effect of the HIV-protein Tat with cocaine on both uptake and release function. Finally, we discuss the extent to which DAT dysfunction may be considered a predecessor to generalized nerve terminal dysfunction. Characterization of DAT dysfunction in vivo may provide an early pharmacotherapeutic target, which in turn may prevent or attenuate downstream mediators of neurotoxicity (i.e., reactive species) to dopamine systems occurring in neuro-AIDS.
Although the predominant role of tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (TPH2) in the CNS and its influence on the vulnerability to psychiatric disorders have clearly been demonstrated in several studies, the role of TPH1 on neuronal mechanisms, respectively on behavioral traits is still poorly understood. In a previous study of tryptophan hydroxylase 1 (TPH1) and TPH2 mRNA expression in different human brain regions we observed significantly higher TPH1 than TPH2 mRNA concentrations in the pituitary (unpublished observations). Considering the importance of the pituitary in the functional circuits between brain and body, we investigated the TPH1 and TPH2 mRNA expression in more detail, using human postmortem samples of the posterior and anterior pituitary compared to cortex, hippocampus and raphe nuclei. Specimens were available from different psychiatric patients (drug abusers, n=12; suicide victims, n=11; schizophrenics, n=9) and controls (n=15). Additionally we performed immunohistochemical analysis applying monospecific antibodies for both TPH isoforms to verify that the mRNA is of cellular and not just vascular or other origin. Highest TPH2 mRNA levels were observed in the raphe nuclei in patients and controls. By contrast, in the anterior and posterior pituitary TPH1 was found to be the predominantly expressed isoform in all subgroups. TPH1 and TPH2 mRNA expression in the further brain regions was only marginal and nearly identical except in the hypothalamus where higher TPH1 than TPH2 mRNA levels could be measured. Interindividual differences between the subgroups were not detectable. The results of the present study extended our previous findings by the additional immunohistochemical determination of the neuronal TPH1 and TPH2 protein expression in the anterior pituitary and provide evidence against a strictly separated duality of the serotonergic system. It seems that TPH1 might also have an impact on neuronal mechanisms via hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis regulation by its predominant localization in the pituitary. These observations may open up new research strategies not only for several psychiatric disorders, but also for the relationship between psychiatric and somatic diseases.
The role of GABA(A) receptors in the mediodorsal thalamus (mdT) in turning behaviour of rats was studied. Neither the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol (50 ng) nor the antagonist bicuculline (200 ng) unilaterally injected into the mdT elicited any behavioural change. Unilateral injection of the acetylcholine receptor agonist (carbachol, 5 microg) into the nucleus accumbens shell has been found to elicit contraversive circling while unilateral injection of a mixture of dopamine D(1) ((+/-)-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol [SKF 38393], 5 microg) and D(2) (quinpirole, 10 microg) receptor agonists into the same site is known to elicit contraversive pivoting. The contraversive circling induced by unilateral injection of carbachol (5 microg) into the nucleus accumbens shell was dose-dependently inhibited by muscimol (25 and 50 ng) injected into the mdT. This inhibitory effect of muscimol (50 ng) was antagonised by co-administration of bicuculline (200 ng), which alone did not modify the contraversive circling induced by carbachol (5 microg). The contraversive pivoting induced by unilateral injection of a mixture of SKF 38393 (5 microg) and quinpirole (10 microg) into the nucleus accumbens shell was inhibited by muscimol (25 and 50 ng) injected into the mdT, whereas bicuculline (200 ng) injected into the mdT did not significantly modify the pivoting. The inhibitory effect of muscimol (50 ng) on the pivoting induced by a mixture of SKF 38393 (5 microg) and quinpirole (10 microg) was not dose-dependent and not antagonised by bicuculline (200 ng). The present study suggests that GABA(A) receptors in the mdT play a limited role in spontaneously occurring locomotor activity. Secondly, this study demonstrates that GABA(A) receptors in the mdT transmit accumbens-dependent cholinergic circling, but not accumbens-dependent dopaminergic pivoting, to other brain structures. Finally, the present study shows that muscimol-sensitive, non-GABA(A) receptors in the mdT influence the accumbens-dependent dopaminergic pivoting. To what extent GABA(B) receptors in the mdT mediate the muscimol-induced effects upon the dopaminergic pivoting behaviour requires additional research.
Brief ( approximately 2 day) constant light exposure (LL(b)) in hamsters dramatically enhances circadian phase-resetting induced by the 5-HT receptor agonist, (+/-)-2-dipropyl-amino-8-hydroxyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronapthalene (8-OH-DPAT) and other nonphotic stimuli. The present study was undertaken to determine if LL(b) can also amplify phase-resetting responses to endogenous 5-HT and accelerate re-entrainment to large-magnitude advance and delay shifts of the light/dark (LD) cycle. First, central serotonergic activity was increased by i.p. injection of L-tryptophan+/-the 5-HT reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine. Hamsters under LD or exposed to LL(b) received vehicle or drugs during the early morning, and phase-shifts of the locomotor activity rhythm were measured after release to constant darkness. Neither drug phase-shifted animals not exposed to LL(b) (P&gt;0.5 vs. vehicle); however in animals receiving LL(b,)L-tryptophan with and without fluoxetine produced large phase-advance shifts (means=2.5+/-0.4 h and 2.6+/-0.2 h, respectively; both P&lt;0.035 vs. vehicle). Next, the effects of LL(b) combined with 8-OH-DPAT or L-tryptophan+fluoxetine on serotonergic re-entrainment to 10 h phase-advance and phase-delay shifts of the LD cycle were assessed. In groups not exposed to LL(b), vehicle controls re-entrained slowly to the advance and delay shifts (means=16+/-1 and 24+/-4 days, respectively), but those treated with 8-OH-DPAT re-entrained faster (means=11+/-2 and 9+/-2 days, respectively; both P&lt;0.05 vs. vehicle). In groups exposed to LL(b), vehicle controls re-entrained slowly to the advance and delay shifts (means=15+/-2 and 25+/-3 days, respectively); however those receiving 8-OH-DPAT rapidly re-entrained to the delay and advance shifts, with the majority (75%) requiring only 1-2 days (means=2+/-1 and 4+/-2 days, respectively; both P&lt;0.05 vs. vehicle). Animals exposed to LL(b) and treated with L-tryptophan+fluoxetine also exhibited accelerated re-entrainment to a 10 h advance shift (mean=5+/-2 days; P&lt;0.05 vs. vehicle). Thus through enhancing serotonergic phase-resetting, LL(b) facilitates rapid re-entrainment to large shifts of the LD cycle which offers a potential approach for treating circadian-related desynchronies.
Human bodies provide a particularly rich source of visual information. Whereas most previous studies have focused on the neural mechanisms during the perception and recognition of human bodies, the aim of the present study was to investigate the time course and location of brain activation during mental imagery of human bodies. When participants were asked to imagine themselves in the position of a visually presented human body as seen from many different angles and at two orientations (upright or inverted), their reaction times were faster for upright as compared to inverted bodies and correlated differently with the tested angles. These behavioral effects were also reflected in brain activation patterns, but only during the time period from 220 to 490 ms after stimulus onset. Evoked potential mapping and electrical neuroimaging revealed three distinct and sequential steps of processing related to mental body transformation: (1) an early activation in temporo-occipital and temporo-parietal cortex (220-360 ms) that does not distinguish between upright and inverted bodies, but closely reflects the effort of mental transformation, followed (2) by an activation in temporo-occipital and medial parieto-occipital cortex (350-460 ms) that encodes mental transformation for upright bodies, and (3) a later activation in temporo-occipital and prefrontal cortex (390-490 ms) that encodes mental transformation for inverted bodies. These data suggest that the mental transformation of human bodies is not a single process but a sequence of temporally distinct processing steps, where each step reflects a distinct aspect of the transformation process that consists of activations in a network of posterior brain areas including extrastriate cortex, temporo-parietal cortex, and medial parieto-occipital cortex, as well as an anterior brain region in prefrontal cortex.
Zebrafish, like other teleosts, continuously produce new cells in numerous regions of the adult brain. Immunolabeling employing antisera against phosphorylated histone-H3 and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine revealed that approximately 6%-7% of such cells exhibited nuclear aberrations. These aberrations, presumably the result of mitotic segregation defects, included single and multiple laggards (both during metaphase and anaphase) and anaphase bridges. Cells with such aberrations persisted long-term and comprised, when examined 7.5 months after their generation, approximately 2.5% of the total population of adult-born cells. The drop in relative frequency of aberrations in the course of further development appears to be caused by elimination of cells with nuclear aberrations, presumably by apoptotic cell death. The cells with nuclear aberrations that persisted long-term were capable of neuronal differentiation, as demonstrated by combining anti-5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine immunohistochemistry with immunostaining against the neuronal marker protein Hu or the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker of catecholaminergic neurons. We hypothesize that the alterations in chromosome number and/or chromosome structure caused by nuclear aberrations do not necessarily result in loss of vital functions or in tumorigenesis. Instead, cells with such aberrations are able to undergo what appears to be normal development.
Impaired regulation of presynaptic intracellular calcium is thought to adversely affect synaptic plasticity and cognition in the aged brain. We studied presynaptic cytosolic and mitochondrial calcium (Ca) dynamics using axonally loaded Calcium Green-AM and Rhod-2 AM fluorescence respectively in young (2-3 months) and aged (23-26 months) CA3 to CA1 Schaffer collateral excitatory synapses in hippocampal brain slices from Fisher 344 rats. After a tetanus (100 Hz, 200 ms), the presynaptic cytosolic Ca peaked at approximately 10 s in the young and approximately 12 s in the aged synapses. Administration of the membrane permeant Ca chelator, bis (O-aminophenoxy)-ethane-N,N,N,N-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA-AM), significantly attenuated the Ca response in the aged slices, but not in the young slices. The presynaptic mitochondrial Ca signal was much slower, peaking at approximately 90 s in both young and aged synapses, returning to baseline by 300 s. BAPTA-AM significantly attenuated the mitochondrial calcium signal only in the young synapses. Uncoupling mitochondrial respiration by carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) application evoked a massive intracellular cytosolic Ca increase and a significant drop of mitochondrial Ca, especially in aged slices wherein the cytosolic Ca signal disappeared after approximately 150 s of washout and the mitochondrial Ca signal disappeared after 25 s of washout. These signals were preserved in aged slices by BAPTA-AM. Five minutes of oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD) was associated with a significant increase in cytosolic Ca in both young and aged synapses, which was irreversible in the aged synapses. These responses were significantly attenuated by BAPTA-AM in both the young and aged synapses. These results support the hypothesis that increasing intracellular calcium neuronal buffering in aged rats ameliorates age-related impaired presynaptic Ca regulation.
This study examined the hypothesis that apoptotic inhibition via mitochondrial pathway was involved in hyperbaric oxygen preconditioning (HBO-PC)-induced neuroprotection on ischemia-reperfusion injury in rat brain. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (250 approximately 280 g, n=144) were divided into control, middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) for 90 min, and HBO-PC plus MCAO groups. HBO-PC was conducted four times by giving 100% oxygen at 2.5 atm absolute (ATA), for 1 h at 12 h intervals for 2 days. At 24 h after the last HBO-PC, MCAO was performed and at 24 h after MCAO, neurological function, brain water content, infarct volume, and cell death were evaluated. Enzymatic activity of capase-3 and -9, and expression of cytochrome c, Bcl-2 and Bax proteins were performed in the samples from hippocampus, ischemic penumbra and core of the brain cortex, respectively. HBO-PC reduced brain edema, decreased infarction volume, and improved neurological recovery. HBO-PC reduced cytoplasm cytochrome c levels, decreased caspase enzyme activity, upregulated the ratio of Bcl-2 and Bax expression, and abated the apoptosis of ischemic tissue. HBO-PC protects brain tissues from ischemia-reperfusion injury by suppressing mitochondrial apoptotic pathways.
We examined the possibility that chronic, low-dose peripheral leptin infusion would inhibit food intake but not increase blood pressure. Male Fisher Brown Norway (FBNF1) and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were instrumented for cardiovascular telemetry, housed in metabolic chambers, and given leptin (LEP: 600 microg/kg/day) or vehicle (SAL: 10 microl/h) via a subcutaneous osmotic pump for seven days. Leptin infusion increased plasma leptin levels to about 40 ng/ml, decreased food intake by 25-35% and stimulated lipolysis in both strains of rats. Leptin infusion for one week decreased mean arterial pressure from baseline. The reduction developed slowly, was generally about 3 to 7 mm Hg, and observed in both strains. The peripheral, hypotensive effect of chronic leptin in FBNF1 rats was prevented by blockade of nitric oxide production with L-NAME treatment. These results indicate that peripheral leptin treatment, at a level which inhibits food intake and induces lipolysis, produces nitric oxide-dependent decreases in blood pressure.
The power spectrum of local field potentials (LFPs) has been reported to scale as the inverse of the frequency, but the origin of this 1/f noise is at present unclear. Macroscopic measurements in cortical tissue demonstrated that electric conductivity (as well as permittivity) is frequency-dependent, while other measurements failed to evidence any dependence on frequency. In this article, we propose a model of the genesis of LFPs that accounts for the above data and contradictions. Starting from first principles (Maxwell equations), we introduce a macroscopic formalism in which macroscopic measurements are naturally incorporated, and also examine different physical causes for the frequency dependence. We suggest that ionic diffusion primes over electric field effects, and is responsible for the frequency dependence. This explains the contradictory observations, and also reproduces the 1/f power spectral structure of LFPs, as well as more complex frequency scaling. Finally, we suggest a measurement method to reveal the frequency dependence of current propagation in biological tissue, and which could be used to directly test the predictions of this formalism.
The objective of this investigation was to use a pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD) approach to describe and evaluate a PK model of nicotinic acid (NiAc) in guinea pigs and a PD feedback model of changes in non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA) concentrations in rats following multiple intravenous infusions of NiAc at different rates and durations of inhouse and literature (NEFA after extravascular NiAc dosing) data. Serial arterial blood samples were taken for evaluation of NiAc exposure in guinea pigs and NEFA in rats. The biophase kinetics of NiAc was assumed to impact on NEFA turnover with feedback incorporated via an inhibitory moderator compartment. The response acted linearly on the production of moderator, which then acted inversely on the turnover rate of response. The potency, expressed as the amount of NiAc in the biophase causing a 50 % inhibitory effect (ID(50)), was 6.5 nmol +/- 31 % and the half-life of response (t(1/2, kout)) 2 min +/- 18 %. The half-life of tolerance (t(1/2, ktol)) was 9 min +/- 27 %. The model can be used to provide information about factors that determine the time course of NEFA response following different rates and routes of administration of NiAc or NiAc analogues.
11-cis-retinal is the light-sensitive component in rod and cone photoreceptors, and its isomerization to all-trans retinal in the presence of light initiates the visual response. For photoreceptors to function normally, all-trans retinal must be converted back into 11-cis-retinal through a series of enzymatic steps known as the visual cycle. The interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) is a proposed retinoid transporter in the visual cycle, but rods in Irbp(-/-) mice have a normal visual cycle. While rods are primarily responsible for dim light vision, the ability of cones to function in constant light is essential to human vision and may be facilitated by cone-specific visual cycle pathways. We analyzed the cones in Irbp(-/-) mice to determine whether IRBP has a cone-specific visual cycle function. Cone electroretinogram (ERG) responses were reduced in Irbp(-/-) mice, but similar responses from Irbp(-/-) mice at all ages suggest that degeneration does not underlie cone dysfunction. Furthermore, cone densities and opsin levels in Irbp(-/-) mice were similar to C57BL/6 (wild-type) mice, and both cone opsins were properly localized to the cone outer segments. To test for retinoid deficiency in Irbp(-/-) mice, ERGs were analyzed before and after intraperitoneal injections of 9-cis-retinal. Treatment with 9-cis-retinal produced a significant recovery of the cone response in Irbp(-/-) mice and shows that retinoid deficiency underlies cone dysfunction. These data indicate that IRBP is essential to normal cone function and demonstrate that differences exist in the visual cycle of rods and cones.
During behavioral adaptation through interaction with human and nonhuman agents, marked individual differences are seen in both real-life situations and games. However, the underlying neural mechanism is not well understood. We conducted a neuroimaging experiment in which subjects maximized monetary rewards by learning in a prisoner's dilemma game with two computer agents: agent A, a tit-for-tat player who repeats the subject's previous action, and agent B, a simple stochastic cooperator oblivious to the subject's action. Approximately 1/3 of the subjects (group I) learned optimally in relation to both A and B, while another 1/3 (group II) did so only for B. Post-experiment interviews indicated that group I exploited the agent strategies more often than group II. Significant differences in learning-related brain activity between the two groups were only found in the superior temporal sulcus (STS) for both A and B. Furthermore, the learning performance of each group I subject was predictable based on this STS activity, but not in the group II subjects. This differential activity could not be attributed to a behavioral difference since it persisted in relation to agent B for which the two groups behaved similarly. In sharp contrast, the brain structures for reward processing were recruited similarly by both groups. These results suggest that STS provides knowledge of the other agent's strategies for association between action and reward and highlights learning competence during interactive reinforcement learning.
The mammalian thalamus is located in the diencephalon and is composed of dozens of morphologically and functionally distinct nuclei. The majority of these nuclei project axons to the neocortex in unique patterns and play critical roles in sensory, motor, and cognitive functions. It has been assumed that the adult thalamus is derived from neural progenitor cells located within the alar plate of the caudal diencephalon. Nevertheless, how a distinct array of postmitotic thalamic nuclei emerge from this single developmental unit has remained largely unknown. Our recent studies found that these thalamic nuclei are in fact derived from molecularly heterogeneous populations of progenitor cells distributed within at least two distinct progenitor domains in the caudal diencephalon. In this study, we investigated how such molecular heterogeneity is established and maintained during early development of the thalamus and how early signaling mechanisms influence the formation of postmitotic thalamic nuclei. By using mouse genetics and in utero electroporation, we provide evidence that Sonic hedgehog (Shh), which is normally expressed in ventral and rostral borders of the embryonic thalamus, plays a crucial role in patterning progenitor domains throughout the thalamus. We also show that increasing or decreasing Shh activity causes dramatic reorganization of postmitotic thalamic nuclei through altering the positional identity of progenitor cells.
Some epilepsies are linked to inherited traits, but many appear to arise through acquired alterations in neuronal excitability. Status epilepticus (SE) is associated with numerous changes that promote spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS), and studies have suggested that hippocampal T-type Ca(2+) channels underlie increased bursts of activity integral to the generation of these seizures. The thalamus also contributes to epileptogenesis, but no studies have directly assessed channel alterations in the thalamus during SE or subsequent periods of SRS. We therefore investigated longitudinal changes in thalamic T-type channels in a mouse pilocarpine model of epilepsy. T-type channel gene expression was not affected during SE; however Ca(V)3.2 mRNA was significantly upregulated at both 10 d post-SE (seizure-free period) and 31 d post-SE (SRS-period). Overall T-type current density increased during the SRS period, and the steady-state inactivation shifted from a more hyperpolarized membrane potential during the latent stage, to a more depolarized membrane potential during the SRS period. Ca(V)3.2 functional involvement was verified with Ca(V)3.2 inhibitors that reduced the native T-type current in mice 31 d post-SE, but not in controls. Burst discharges of thalamic neurons reflected the changes in whole-cell currents, and we used a computational model to relate changes observed during epileptogenesis to a decreased tendency to burst in the seizure-free period, or an increased tendency to burst during the period of SRS. We conclude that SE produces an acquired channelopathy by inducing long-term alterations in thalamic T-type channels that contribute to characteristic changes in excitability observed during epileptogenesis and SRS.
Cellular stress caused by genetic or environmental factors are considered to be the major inducers of cell death under pathological conditions. Induction of the apoptotic function of the tumor suppressor p53 is a common cellular response to severe genotoxic and oxidative stresses. In the nervous system, accumulation of p53 and increased p53 activity are associated with neuronal loss in acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders. Here, we show that regulation of the p53 gene (trp53) is an integral part of a synaptic activity-controlled, calcium-dependent neuroprotective transcriptional program. Action potential (AP) bursting suppresses trp53 expression and downregulates key proapoptotic p53 target genes, apaf1 and bbc3 (puma). At the same time, AP bursting activates the nuclear calcium-induced neuroprotective gene, btg2. Depletion of endogenous p53 levels using RNA interference or expression of Btg2 renders neurons more resistant against excitotoxicity-induced mitochondrial permeability transitions and promotes neuronal survival under severe cellular stresses. We propose that suppression of p53 functions together with nuclear calcium-regulated neuroprotective genes in a coordinate and synergistic manner to promote neuronal survival through the stabilization of mitochondria against cellular stresses.
Neurogenesis in the subventricular zone (SVZ), which gives rise to new neurons in the olfactory bulb, continues throughout life but declines with increasing age. Little is known about how aging affects the intrinsic properties of the neural stem and progenitor cells (NSCs) in SVZ and the functional characteristics of their neuronal progeny. Here, we have compared the properties of NSCs isolated from embryonic lateral ganglionic eminence and adult and aged SVZ in mice using in vivo and in vitro systems, analyzed their gene expression profile, and studied their electrophysiological characteristics before and after differentiation into neurons. We show a loss of NSCs in SVZ from aged mice accompanied by reduced expression of genes for NSC markers, developmentally important transcription factors, and neurogenic factors. However, when isolated in vitro, the NSCs from SVZ of aged animals have capacity for proliferation and multilineage differentiation, including production of functional neurons, similar to that of NSCs in adult mice, albeit with lower efficacy. These properties are of major importance when considering therapeutic applications of neuronal replacement from endogenous NSCs in the injured, aged brain.
Macaque neurophysiology and human neuropsychology results suggest that parietal cortex encodes a unique representation of space within reach of the arm. Here, we used slow event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate whether human brain areas involved in reaching are more activated by objects within reach versus beyond reach. In experiment 1, graspable objects were placed at three possible locations on a platform: two reachable locations and one beyond reach. On some trials, participants reached to touch or grasp objects at the reachable location; on other trials participants passively viewed objects at one of the three locations. A reach-related area in the superior parieto-occipital cortex (SPOC) was more activated for targets within reach than beyond. In experiment 2, we investigated whether this SPOC response occurred when visual and motor confounds were controlled and whether it was modulated when a tool extended the effective range of the arm. On some trials, participants performed grasping and reaching actions to a reachable object location using either the hand alone or a tool; on other trials, participants passively viewed reachable and unreachable object locations. SPOC was significantly more active for passively viewed objects within reach of the hand versus beyond reach, regardless of whether or not a tool was available. Interestingly, these findings suggest that neural responses within brain areas coding actions (such as SPOC for reaching) may reflect automatic processing of motor affordances (such as reachability with the hand).

This study presents a detailed investigation of near-infrared one- and two-photon absorption (TPA) in a series of highly conjugated (porphinato)zinc(II) compounds. The chromophores interrogated include meso-to-meso ethyne-bridged (porphinato)zinc(II) oligomers (PZn(n) species), (porphinato)zinc(II)-spacer-(porphinato)zinc(II) (PZn-Sp-PZn) complexes, PZn(n) structures featuring terminal electron-releasing and -withdrawing substituents, related conjugated arrays in which electron-rich and -poor PZn units alternate, and benchmark PZn monomers. Broadband TPA cross-section measurements were performed ratiometrically using fluorescein as a reference. Superficially, the measurements indicate very large TPA cross-sections (up to approximately 10(4) GM; 1 GM = 1x10(-50) cm(4) s photon(-1)) in the two-photon Soret (or B-band) resonance region. However, a more careful analysis of fluorescence as a function of incident photon flux suggests that significant one-photon absorption is present in the same spectral region for all compounds in the series. TPA cross-sections are extracted for the first time for some of these compounds using a model that includes both one-photon absorption and TPA contributions. Resultant TPA cross-sections are approximately 10 GM. The findings suggest that large TPA cross-sections reported in the Soret resonance region of similar compounds might contain significant contributions from one-photon absorption processes.

Predation plays a central role in evolutionary processes, but little is known about how predators affect the expression of heritable variation, restricting our ability to predict evolutionary effects of predation. We reared families of three-spined stickleback Gasterosteus aculeatus from two populations-one with a history of fish predation (predator sympatric) and one without (predator naive)-and experimentally manipulated experience of predators during ontogeny. For a suite of ecologically relevant behavioural ('personality') and morphological traits, we then estimated two key variance components, additive genetic variance (VA) and residual variance (VR), that jointly shape narrow-sense heritability (h2=VA/(VA+VR)). Both population and treatment differentially affected VA versus VR, hence h2, but only for certain traits. The predator-naive population generally had lower VA and h2 values than the predator-sympatric population for personality behaviours, but not morphological traits. Values of VR and h2 were increased for some, but decreased for other personality traits in the predator-exposed treatment. For some personality traits, VA and h2 values were affected by treatment in the predator-naive population, but not in the predator-sympatric population, implying that the latter harboured less genetic variation for behavioural plasticity. Replication and experimental manipulation of predation regime are now needed to confirm that these population differences were related to variation in predator-induced selection. Cross-environment genetic correlations (rA) were tight for most traits, suggesting that predator-induced selection can affect the evolution of the same trait expressed in the absence of predators. The treatment effects on variance components imply that predators can affect evolution, not only by acting directly as selective agents, but also by influencing the expression of heritable variation.
The capacity to anticipate and prepare for future events is thought to be critical for cognitive control. Dominant accounts of cognitive control treat the developing system as merely a weaker version of the adult system, progressively strengthening over time. Using the AX Continuous Performance Task (AX-CPT) in combination with high-resolution pupillometry, we find that whereas 8-year-old children resemble adults in their proactive use of cognitive control, 3.5-year-old children exhibit a qualitatively different, reactive form of cognitive control, responding to events only as they unfold and retrieving information from memory as needed in the moment. These results demonstrate the need to reconsider the origins of cognitive control and the basis for children's behaviors across domains.
During the past 20 years there has been much research into the factors that modulate awareness of contralesional information in neurological patients with visual neglect or extinction. However, the potential role of the individual's emotional state in modulating awareness has been largely overlooked. In the current study, we induced a pleasant and positive affective response in patients with chronic visual neglect by allowing them to listen to their pleasant preferred music. We report that the patients showed enhanced visual awareness when tasks were performed under preferred music conditions relative to when tasks were performed either with unpreferred music or in silence. These results were also replicated when positive affect was induced before neglect was tested. Functional MRI data showed enhanced activity in the orbitofrontal cortex and the cingulate gyrus associated with emotional responses when tasks were performed with preferred music relative to unpreferred music. Improved awareness of contralesional (left) targets with preferred music was also associated with a strong functional coupling between emotional areas and attentional brain regions in spared areas of the parietal cortex and early visual areas of the right hemisphere. These findings suggest that positive affect, generated by preferred music, can decrease visual neglect by increasing attentional resources. We discuss the possible roles of arousal and mood in generating these effects.
Social isolation has dramatic long-term physiological and psychological consequences; however, the mechanisms by which social isolation influences disease outcome are largely unknown. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of social isolation on neuronal damage, neuroinflammation, and functional outcome after focal cerebral ischemia. Male mice were socially isolated (housed individually) or pair housed with an ovariectomized female before induction of stroke, via transient intraluminal middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), or SHAM surgery. In these experiments, peri-ischemic social isolation decreases poststroke survival rate and exacerbates infarct size and edema development. The social influence on ischemic damage is accompanied by an altered neuroinflammatory response; specifically, central interleukin-6 (IL-6) signaling is down-regulated, whereas peripheral IL-6 is up-regulated, in isolated relative to socially housed mice. In addition, intracerebroventricular injection of an IL-6 neutralizing antibody (10 ng) eliminates social housing differences in measures of ischemic outcome. Taken together, these data suggest that central IL-6 is an important mediator of social influences on stroke outcome.
In response to early or developmental lesions, responsiveness of sensory cortex can be converted from the deprived modality to that of the remaining sensory systems. However, little is known about capacity of the adult cortex for cross-modal reorganization. The present study examined the auditory cortices of animals deafened as adults, and observed an extensive somatosensory conversion within as little as 16 days after deafening. These results demonstrate that cortical cross-modal reorganization can occur after the period of sensory system maturation.
The hereditary hearing-vision loss disease Usher syndrome (USH) is caused by defects in several proteins, most of which form an integrated protein network called Usher interactome. Harmonin/Ush1C is a master scaffold in the assembly of the Usher protein complexes, because harmonin is known to bind to every protein in the Usher interactome. However, the biochemical and structural mechanism governing the Usher protein complex formation is largely unclear. Here, we report that the highly-conserved N-terminal fragment of harmonin (N-domain) immediately preceding its PDZ1 adopts an autonomously-folded domain. We discovered that the N-domain specifically binds to a short internal peptide fragment of the cadherin 23 cytoplasmic domain. The structures of the harmonin N-domain alone and in complex with the cadherin 23 internal peptide fragment uncovered the detailed binding mechanism of this interaction between harmonin and cadherin 23. We further elucidated the harmonin PDZ domain-mediated cadherin 23 binding by solving the structure of the second harmonin PDZ domain in complex with the cadherin 23 carboxyl tail. The multidentate binding mode between harmonin and cadherin 23 provides a structural and biochemical basis for the harmonin-mediated assembly of stable tip link complex in the auditory hair cells.
During the course of daily activity, our level of engagement with the world varies on a moment-to-moment basis. Although these fluctuations in vigilance have critical consequences for our thoughts and actions, almost nothing is known about the neuronal substrates governing such dynamic variations in task engagement. We investigated the hypothesis that the posterior cingulate cortex (CGp), a region linked to default-mode processing by hemodynamic and metabolic measures, controls such variations. We recorded the activity of single neurons in CGp in 2 macaque monkeys performing simple tasks in which their behavior varied from vigilant to inattentive. We found that firing rates were reliably suppressed during task performance and returned to a higher resting baseline between trials. Importantly, higher firing rates predicted errors and slow behavioral responses, and were also observed during cued rest periods when monkeys were temporarily liberated from exteroceptive vigilance. These patterns of activity were not observed in the lateral intraparietal area, an area linked to the frontoparietal attention network. Our findings provide physiological confirmation that CGp mediates exteroceptive vigilance and are consistent with the idea that CGp is part of the &quot;default network&quot; of brain areas associated with control of task engagement.
For over 50 years, it has been recognized that two distinct modes of neurotransmission are operative at synapses: the release of neurotransmitter triggered by the invasion of action potentials into presynaptic terminals and spontaneous neurotransmitter release that occurs independently of action potentials. In the past, spontaneous neurotransmitter release has been dismissed as mere synaptic noise, but recent studies have suggested that spontaneous release has important functional roles at synapses. New evidence indicates that spontaneous release and action potential-evoked release preferentially activate distinct subsets of postsynaptic receptors, suggesting that synapses use physically segregated pathways to decode spontaneous and evoked neurotransmission.

We simultaneously recorded local field potentials from three sites along the olfactory-entorhinal axis in rats lightly anesthetized with isoflurane, as part of another experiment. While analyzing the initial data from that experiment with spectrograms, we discovered a potentially novel form of correlated neural activity, with near-simultaneous occurrence across the three widely separated brain sites. After validating their existence further, we named these events Synchronous Frequency Bursts (SFBs). Here we report our initial investigations into their properties and their potential functional significance. In Experiment 1, we found that SFBs have highly regular properties, consisting of brief (approximately 250 ms), high amplitude bursts of LFP energy spanning frequency ranges from the delta band (1-4 Hz) to at least the low gamma band (30-50 Hz). SFBs occurred almost simultaneously across recording sites, usually with onsets &lt;25 ms apart, and there was no clear pattern of temporal leading or lagging among the sites. While the SFBs had fairly typical, exponentially decaying power spectral density plots, their coherence structure was unusual, with high peaks in several narrow frequency ranges and little coherence in other bands. In Experiment 2, we found that SFBs occurred far more often under light anesthesia than deeper anesthetic states, and were especially prevalent as the animals regained consciousness. Finally, in Experiment 3 we showed that SFBs occur simultaneously at a significant rate across brain sites from putatively different functional subsystems--olfactory versus motor pathways. We suggest that SFBs do not carry information per se, but rather, play a role in coordinating activity in different frequency bands, potentially brain-wide, as animals progress from sleep or anesthesia toward full consciousness.
An impaired glutathione (GSH) synthesis was observed in several multifactorial diseases, including schizophrenia and myocardial infarction. Genetic studies revealed an association between schizophrenia and a GAG trinucleotide repeat (TNR) polymorphism in the catalytic subunit (GCLC) of the glutamate cysteine ligase (GCL). Disease-associated genotypes of this polymorphism correlated with a decrease in GCLC protein expression, GCL activity and GSH content. To clarify consequences of a decreased GCL activity at the proteome level, three schizophrenia patients and three controls have been selected based on the GCLC GAG TNR polymorphism. Fibroblast cultures were obtained by skin biopsy and were challenged with tert-butylhydroquinone (t-BHQ), a substance known to induce oxidative stress. Proteome changes were analyzed by two dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and results revealed 10 spots that were upregulated in patients following t-BHQ treatment, but not in controls. Nine corresponding proteins could be identified by MALDI mass spectrometry and these proteins are involved in various cellular functions, including energy metabolism, oxidative stress response, and cytoskeletal reorganization. In conclusion, skin fibroblasts of subjects with an impaired GSH synthesis showed an altered proteome reaction in response to oxidative stress. Furthermore, the study corroborates the use of fibroblasts as an additional mean to study vulnerability factors of psychiatric diseases.
The robustness of an individual's circadian rhythms has been correlated with the quality of their cognitive aging. This has been observed in both human and non-human animals and circadian rhythms are especially disrupted in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is possible that the circadian disruption observed in AD contributes to the cognitive decline in these patients; however, this has not been conclusively proven. A common observation in AD patients is the loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, some of which project to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) responsible for maintaining circadian rhythms. We were interested to see if cholinergic depletion increased susceptibility to circadian disruption, and to explore possible interactions between these two factors on measures of learning and memory. We lesioned the cholinergic neurons of the medial septum in rats using the specific immunotoxin 192 IgG Saporin and then disrupted circadian rhythms using a six day phase shifting procedure. We looked at measures of circadian rhythmicity, as well as behaviour on tasks designed to test hippocampal dependent (water maze) or hippocampal independent (fear conditioning) learning and memory. We found no difference between the groups on any of the measures examined suggesting that the cholinergic depletion of the medial septum does not increase susceptibility to circadian disruption, and that this combination of risk factors does not contribute to learning and memory impairments.
Recent advances in experimental neuroscience allow non-invasive studies of the white matter tracts in the human central nervous system, thus making available cutting-edge brain anatomical data describing these global connectivity patterns. Through magnetic resonance imaging, this non-invasive technique is able to infer a snapshot of the cortical network within the living human brain. Here, we report on the initial success of a new weighted network communicability measure in distinguishing local and global differences between diseased patients and controls. This approach builds on recent advances in network science, where an underlying connectivity structure is used as a means to measure the ease with which information can flow between nodes. One advantage of our method is that it deals directly with the real-valued connectivity data, thereby avoiding the need to discretize the corresponding adjacency matrix, i.e. to round weights up to 1 or down to 0, depending upon some threshold value. Experimental results indicate that the new approach is able to extract biologically relevant features that are not immediately apparent from the raw connectivity data.
Albino mammals exhibit a range of visual deficits including disrupted hemispheric pathways, an underdeveloped central retina, and nystagmus. Recently, it has been reported that albino animals also show deficits in the processing of visual motion, exhibiting higher motion coherence thresholds (MCTs; the proportion of coherently moving elements within a field of randomly moving distracters required to reliably report direction). Here we compare MCTs-collected from human observers with albinism-with an equivalent noise analysis of their fine-direction discrimination and report that their loss in motion sensitivity operates at both the level of local motion processing (of small objects) and at the later stage of global motion pooling. We also compare results from observers with aniridia (characterized by underdeveloped central retina and nystagmus but normal hemispheric visual pathways) and a rare group of observers with albinism who show no nystagmus. For the observers tested, nystagmus proved to be a common feature of individuals showing elevated MCTs. Since it is likely that motion perception is influenced by environmental factors early in development we postulate that the effect of congenital nystagmus on the temporal structure of the natural visual diet disrupts the ability of motion pathways to form normally.
The 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) is associated with an increased prevalence (20-30%) of schizophrenia. Therefore, it is likely that one or more genes within the 22q11.2 region are causally related to schizophrenia. Recently, a significant association with schizophrenia in the general population was reported for three SNPs in phosphatidyl-inositol-4-kinase-catalytic-alpha (PIK4CA), a gene located in the 22q11.2 region. In the current study, we tested the hypothesis that the same PIK4CA risk-alleles would be associated with schizophrenia in individuals with 22q11DS. Our analysis of the PIK4CA genotypes in a sample of 79 adults with typical 22q11.2 deletions, comparing those with schizophrenia to those without, revealed a significant association. Our findings represent an independent replication of the previously reported PIK4CA association with schizophrenia in the general population. Second, the results of this study indicate that variation at PIK4CA may be a relevant factor influencing the risk of schizophrenia in individuals with 22q11DS.
Family and twin studies have indicated that genetic factors play a role in the development of eating disorders, such as anorexia and bulimia nervosa, but novel views and tools may enhance the identification of neurobiological mechanisms underlying these conditions. Here we propose an integrative genetic approach to reveal novel biological substrates of eating disorder traits analogous in mouse and human. For example, comparable to behavioral hyperactivity that is observed in 40-80% of anorexia nervosa patients, inbred strains of mice with different genetic backgrounds are differentially susceptible to develop behavioral hyperactivity when food restricted. In addition, a list of characteristics that are relevant to eating disorders and approaches to their measurement in humans together with potential analogous rodent models has been generated. Interspecies genetics of neurobehavioral characteristics of eating disorders has the potential to open new roads to identify and functionally test genetic pathways that influence neurocircuits relevant for these heterogeneous psychiatric disorders.
Animal studies are important for the identification and functional characterization of the biological substrates underlying complex psychiatric disorders. However, novel insights into the relationship between the genome and behavior are needed for the development of fully valid translational models. Based on the notion that in different species, the same genes may independently give rise to alleles with similar functional and phenotypic effects, either under similar selection or through similar genomic mechanisms, we propose the use of genetic validity as a tool for identifying analogous pathology between animals and human neuropsychiatric disorders. Furthermore, the identification of copy number variants which disrupt entire genes, reinforces the notion that transgenic animals, such as knockouts or knock-ins, may provide unexpectedly valid disease models for psychiatric traits. To illustrate interspecies comparison of genetic variations in relation to neurobehavioral traits, examples are provided for the BDNF, COMT, and DISC1 genes in mouse and man. We propose that alignment of individual genetic variations with endophenotypes obtained from mice and across categories of neuropsychiatric disorders will provide an important step in translational research.
DNA topoisomerase II (topo II) is an essential determinant of chromosome structure and function, acting to resolve topological problems inherent in recombining, transcribing, replicating and segregating DNA. In particular, the unique decatenating activity of topo II is required for sister chromatids to disjoin and separate in mitosis. Topo II exhibits a dynamic localization pattern on mitotic chromosomes, accumulating at centromeres and axial chromosome cores prior to anaphase. In organisms ranging from yeast to humans, a fraction of topo II is targeted for SUMO conjugation in mitotic cells, and here we review our current understanding of the significance of this modification. As we shall see, an emerging consensus is that in metazoans SUMO modification is required for topo II to accumulate at centromeres, and that in the absence of this regulation there is an elevated frequency of chromosome non-disjunction, segregation errors, and aneuploidy. The underlying molecular mechanisms for how SUMO controls topo II are as yet unclear. In closing, however, we will evaluate two possible interpretations: one in which SUMO promotes enzyme turnover, and a second in which SUMO acts as a localization tag for topo II chromosome trafficking.

The postsynaptic density (PSD) is crucial for synaptic functions, but the molecular architecture retaining its structure and components remains elusive. Homer and Shank are among the most abundant scaffolding proteins in the PSD, working synergistically for maturation of dendritic spines. Here, we demonstrate that Homer and Shank, together, form a mesh-like matrix structure. Crystallographic analysis of this region revealed a pair of parallel dimeric coiled coils intercalated in a tail-to-tail fashion to form a tetramer, giving rise to the unique configuration of a pair of N-terminal EVH1 domains at each end of the coiled coil. In neurons, the tetramerization is required for structural integrity of the dendritic spines and recruitment of proteins to synapses. We propose that the Homer-Shank complex serves as a structural framework and as an assembly platform for other PSD proteins.
Mutations of the presenilin 1 (PS1) gene are the most common cause of early onset familial Alzheimer disease (FAD). PS1 mutations alter the activity of the gamma-secretase on the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP), leading to selective overproduction of beta-amyloid (Abeta) 42 peptides, the species that forms oligomers that may exert toxic effects on neurons. Here we show that PS1 mutations, expressed both transiently and stably, in non-neuronal and neuronal cell lines increase the expression and the activity of the beta-secretase (BACE1), the rate-limiting step of Abeta production. Also, BACE1 expression and activity are elevated in brains of PS1 mutant knock-in mice compared with wild type littermates as well as in cerebral cortex of FAD cases bearing various PS1 mutations compared with in sporadic AD cases and controls. The up-regulation of BACE1 by PS1 mutations requires the gamma-secretase cleavage of APP and is proportional to the amount of secreted Abeta42. Abeta42, and not AICD (APP intracellular domain), is indeed the APP derivative that mediates the overexpression of BACE1. The effect of PS1 mutations on BACE1 may contribute to determine the wide clinical and pathological phenotype of early onset FAD.
Metabolic control analysis was used to determine the spread of control exerted by the electron transport chain complexes over oxygen consumption rates in the nerve terminal. Oxygen consumption rates and electron transport chain complex activities were titrated with appropriate inhibitors to determine the flux control coefficients and the inhibition thresholds in rat brain synaptosomes. The flux control coefficients for complex I, complex II/III, complex III, and complex IV were found to be 0.30 +/- 0.07, 0.20 +/- 0.03, 0.20 +/- 0.05, and 0.08 +/- 0.05, respectively. Inhibition thresholds for complex I, complex II/III, complex III, and complex IV activities were determined to be approximately 10, approximately 30, approximately 35, and 50-65%, respectively, before major changes in oxygen consumption rates were observed. These results indicate that, of the electron transport chain components, complex I exerts a high level of control over synaptosomal bioenergetics, suggesting that complex I deficiencies that are present in neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson disease, are sufficient to compromise oxygen consumption in the synaptosomal model of the nerve terminal.
We recently demonstrated mitochondrial localization of estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta). We herein confirm the mitochondrial localization of ERbeta by the loss of mitochondrial ERbeta immunoreactivity in ERbeta knockdown cells. A phenotype change characterized as an increase in resistance to oxidative stressors is associated with ERbeta knockdown. ERbeta knockdown results in a lower resting mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsim) and increase in resistance to hydrogen peroxide-induced Deltapsim depolarization in both immortal hippocampal cells and primary hippocampal neurons. ERbeta knockdown cells maintained ATP concentrations despite insults that compromise ATP production and produce less mitochondrial superoxide under oxidative stress. Furthermore, similar mitochondrial phenotype changes were identified in primary hippocampal neurons derived from ERbeta knock-out mice. These data demonstrate that ERbeta is expressed in mitochondria and function as a mitochondrial vulnerability factor involved in Deltapsim maintenance, potentially through a mitochondrial transcription dependent mechanism.
Acetylcholine (ACh), the first neurotransmitter to be identified, regulate the activities of central and peripheral functions through interactions with muscarinic receptors. Changes in muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) have been implicated in the pathophysiology of many major diseases of the central nervous system (CNS). Previous reports from our laboratory on streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetic rats showed down regulation of muscarinic M1 receptors in the brainstem, hypothalamus, cerebral cortex and pancreatic islets. In this study, we have investigated the changes of acetylcholine esterase (AChE) enzyme activity, total muscarinic and muscarinic M1 receptor binding and gene expression in the corpus striatum of STZ--diabetic rats and the insulin treated diabetic rats. The striatum, a neuronal nucleus intimately involved in motor behaviour, is one of the brain regions with the highest acetylcholine content. ACh has complex and clinically important actions in the striatum that are mediated predominantly by muscarinic receptors. We observed that insulin treatment brought back the decreased maximal velocity (Vmax) of acetylcholine esterase in the corpus striatum during diabetes to near control state. In diabetic rats there was a decrease in maximal number (Bmax) and affinity (Kd) of total muscarinic receptors whereas muscarinic M1 receptors were increased with decrease in affinity in diabetic rats. We observed that, in all cases, the binding parameters were reversed to near control by the treatment of diabetic rats with insulin. Real-time PCR experiment confirmed the increase in muscarinic M1 receptor gene expression and a similar reversal with insulin treatment. These results suggest the diabetes-induced changes of the cholinergic activity in the corpus striatum and the regulatory role of insulin on binding parameters and gene expression of total and muscarinic M1 receptors.

Vertical disparities influence the perception of 3D depth, but little is known about the neuronal mechanisms underlying this. One possibility is that these perceptual effects are mediated by an explicit encoding of two-dimensional disparity. Recently, J. C. A. Read and B. G. Cumming (2006) pointed out that current psychophysical and physiological evidence is consistent with a much more economical one-dimensional encoding. Almost all relevant information about vertical disparity could in theory be extracted from the activity of purely horizontal-disparity sensors. Read and Cumming demonstrated that such a 1D system would experience Ogle's induced effect, a famous illusion produced by vertical disparity. Here, we test whether the brain employs this 1D encoding, using a version of the induced effect stimulus that simulates the viewing geometry at infinity and thus removes the cues which are otherwise available to the 1D model. This condition was compared to the standard induced effect stimulus, presented on a frontoparallel screen at finite viewing distance. We show that the induced effects experienced under the two conditions are indistinguishable. This rules out the 1D model proposed by Read and Cumming and shows that vertical disparity, including sign, must be explicitly encoded across the visual field.

We designed a model-based analysis to predict the occurrence of population patterns in distributed spiking activity. Using a maximum entropy principle with a Markovian assumption, we obtain a model that accounts for both spatial and temporal pairwise correlations among neurons. This model is tested on data generated with a Glauber spin-glass system and is shown to correctly predict the occurrence probabilities of spatiotemporal patterns significantly better than Ising models only based on spatial correlations. This increase of predictability was also observed on experimental data recorded in parietal cortex during slow-wave sleep. This approach can also be used to generate surrogates that reproduce the spatial and temporal correlations of a given data set.
Mitochondria continuously undergo two opposing processes, fission and fusion. The disruption of this dynamic equilibrium may herald cell injury or death and may contribute to developmental and neurodegenerative disorders. Nitric oxide functions as a signaling molecule, but in excess it mediates neuronal injury, in part via mitochondrial fission or fragmentation. However, the underlying mechanism for nitric oxide-induced pathological fission remains unclear. We found that nitric oxide produced in response to beta-amyloid protein, thought to be a key mediator of Alzheimer's disease, triggered mitochondrial fission, synaptic loss, and neuronal damage, in part via S-nitrosylation of dynamin-related protein 1 (forming SNO-Drp1). Preventing nitrosylation of Drp1 by cysteine mutation abrogated these neurotoxic events. SNO-Drp1 is increased in brains of human Alzheimer's disease patients and may thus contribute to the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration.

Mature myeloid cells (macrophages and CD11b(+) dendritic cells) form a prominent component of neuroinflammatory infiltrates in multiple sclerosis and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). The mechanism by which these cells are replenished during relapsing and chronic neuroinflammation is poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that CD11b(+)CD62L(+)Ly6C(hi) monocytes with colony-forming potential are mobilized into the bloodstream by a granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor-dependent pathway immediately before EAE relapses. Circulating Ly6C(hi) monocytes traffic across the blood-brain barrier, up-regulate proinflammatory molecules, and differentiate into central nervous system dendritic cells and macrophages. Enrichment of Ly6C(hi) monocytes in the circulating pool is associated with an earlier onset and increased severity of clinical EAE. Our studies indicate that granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor-driven release of Ly6C(hi) precursors from the bone marrow prevents exhaustion of central nervous system myeloid populations during relapsing or chronic autoimmune demyelination, suggesting a novel pathway for therapeutic targeting.


In invertebrate predators such as the praying mantis and vertebrate predators such as wild cats the ability to detect small differences in inter-ocular retinal disparities is a critical means for accurately determining the depth of moving objects such as prey. In mammals, the first neurons along the visual pathway that encode binocular disparities are found in the visual cortex. However, a precise functional architecture for binocular disparity has never been demonstrated in any species, and coarse maps for disparity have been found in only one primate species. Moreover, the dominant approach for assaying the developmental plasticity of binocular cortical neurons used monocular tests of ocular dominance to infer binocular function. The few studies that examined the relationship between ocular dominance and binocular disparity of individual cells used single-unit recordings and have provided conflicting results regarding whether ocular dominance can predict the selectivity or sensitivity to binocular disparity. We used two-photon calcium imaging to sample the response to monocular and binocular visual stimuli from nearly every adjacent neuron in a small region of the cat visual cortex, area 18. Here we show that local circuits for ocular dominance always have smooth and graded transitions from one apparently monocular functional domain to an adjacent binocular region. Most unexpectedly, we discovered a new map in the cat visual cortex that had a precise functional micro-architecture for binocular disparity selectivity. At the level of single cells, ocular dominance was unrelated to binocular disparity selectivity or sensitivity. When the local maps for ocular dominance and binocular disparity both had measurable gradients at a given cortical site, the two gradient directions were orthogonal to each other. Together, these results indicate that, from the perspective of the spiking activity of individual neurons, ocular dominance cannot predict binocular disparity tuning. However, the precise local arrangement of ocular dominance and binocular disparity maps provide new clues regarding how monocular and binocular depth cues may be combined and decoded.
Psychiatry includes the assessment, treatment, and prevention of complex brain disorders, such as depression, bipolar disorder, anxiety disorders, schizophrenia, developmental disorders (e.g., autism), and neurodegenerative disorders (e.g., Alzheimer dementia). Its core mission is to prevent and alleviate the distress and impairment caused by these disorders, which account for a substantial part of the global burden of illness-related disability. Psychiatry is grounded in clinical neuroscience. Its core mission, now and in the future, is best served within this context because advances in assessment, treatment, and prevention of brain disorders are likely to originate from studies of etiology and pathophysiology based in clinical and translational neuroscience. To ensure its broad public health relevance in the future, psychiatry must also bridge science and service, ensuring that those who need the benefits of its science are also its beneficiaries. To do so effectively, psychiatry as clinical neuroscience must strengthen its partnerships with the disciplines of public health (including epidemiology), community and behavioral health science, and health economics.The authors present a Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT) analysis of psychiatry and identify strategies for strengthening its future and increasing its relevance to public health and the rest of medicine. These strategies encompass new approaches to strengthening the relationship between psychiatry and neurology, financing psychiatry's mission, emphasizing early and sustained multidisciplinary training (research and clinical), bolstering the academic infrastructure, and reorganizing and refinancing mental health services both for preventive intervention and cost-effective chronic disease management.
Psychiatry's traditional strengths have lain in an appreciation of the philosophy and psychology of treatment rather than in an ability to advance the public health through the mass delivery of treatment programs. Given how insecurely established treatment effects are for current interventions, and the capacity for developments in neuroscience to create markets rather than to advance understanding, it seems important to maintain traditional strengths. To have a clinical evidence base, consistent with a wider public health mission, psychiatry would need to track more rigorously the effects of the treatments it now administers before advocating for an even wider distribution of even more interventions with physical treatments than happens at present.
In his response to Reynolds and colleagues' &quot;The Future of Psychiatry as Clinical Neuroscience,&quot; the author considers three themes prominent in the history of psychiatry: stigma, conscience, and science, considering each in the past, present, and into the future. A series of conclusions follow these historical perspectives. One, unraveling the web of stigma in the future depends more on moral, educational, and political achievements than neuroscientific ones. Two, psychiatry's future depends upon the public trust, which has fluctuated over its history and into the present era, during which legacies of undue influence and failed regulation have damaged this trust. While explaining the mechanisms for mental disorders is crucial, the returns from these scientific investments are decades away, and failures of conscience today undermine the vital public trust and impede psychiatry's abilities to immediately address the plight of the mentally ill. Three, the researcher-entrepreneur in perennial search of funding has replaced the old model of the curious researcher-practitioner. This drive for funding promotes hubris and failures of conscience in psychiatric science. Moreover, the information explosion and superspecialization of contemporary academic medicine has led to an intellectual fragmentation analogous to the service fragmentation at the beginnings of psychiatry. Attention to integrative synthesis of research information, as well as conscientious moral reflection on scientific advances, will promote humility over hubris: enhancing the public trust, assuring public confidence in psychiatric science, and empowering patients.

Recent studies (Prabakaran et al. in Mol Psychiat 9:684-697, 2004; Hanson and Gottesman in BMC Med Genet 6:7, 2005; Harris et al. in PLoS ONE 3:e3964, 2008) have suggested that microvascular abnormalities occur in the brains of patients with schizophrenia. To assess the integrity of the microvasculature in subcortical brain regions in schizophrenia, we investigated the microvessel length density, total microvessel length, and microvessel length per neuron using design-based stereologic methods in the caudate nucleus, putamen, nucleus accumbens, mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus, and lateral nucleus of the amygdala in both hemispheres of 13 postmortem brains from male patients with schizophrenia and 13 age-matched male controls. A general linear model multivariate analysis of variance with diagnosis and hemisphere as fixed factors and illness duration (patients with schizophrenia) or age (controls), postmortem interval and fixation time as covariates showed no statistically significant differences in the brains from the patients with schizophrenia compared to the controls. These data extend our earlier findings in prefrontal cortex area 9 and anterior cingulate cortex area 24 from the same brains (Kreczmanski et al. in Acta Neuropathol 109:510-518, 2005), that alterations in microvessel length density, total length, and particularly length per neuron cannot be considered characteristic features of schizophrenia. As such, compromised brain metabolism and occurrence of oxidative stress in the brains of patients with schizophrenia are likely caused by other mechanisms such as functional disruption in the coupling of cerebral blood flow to neuronal metabolic needs.
It has been proposed that schizophrenia results partly from altered brain connectivity. Gene microarray analyses performed in gray matter have indicated that several myelin-related genes normally expressed in oligodendrocytes have decreased expression levels in schizophrenia. These data suggest that oligodendrocytes may be involved in the deficits of schizophrenia and may be decreased in number in the case of disease. The anterior cingulate cortex in particular has been demonstrated to be affected in schizophrenia, with studies reporting altered neuronal arrangement, decreased anisotropy in diffusion tensor images, and hypometabolism. We used a stereologic nearest-neighbor estimator of spatial distribution to investigate oligodendrocytes in the anterior cingulum bundle using postmortem tissue from 13 chronic schizophrenics and 13 age-matched controls. Using a spatial point pattern analysis, we measured the degree of oligodendrocyte clustering by comparing the probability of finding a nearest-neighbor at a given distance in schizophrenics and controls. At the same time, we also estimated the number and density of oligodendrocytes in the region of interest. In the present study, we found no significant differences in the oligodendrocyte distribution or density in the cingulum bundle between the two groups, in contrast to earlier data from the prefrontal subcortical white matter. These results suggest that a subtler oligodendrocyte or myelin anomaly may underlie the structural deficits observed by brain imaging in the cingulum bundle in schizophrenia.
Purines appear to be the most primitive and widespread chemical messengers in the animal and plant kingdoms. The evidence for purinergic signalling in plants, invertebrates and lower vertebrates is reviewed. Much is based on pharmacological studies, but important recent studies have utilized the techniques of molecular biology and receptors have been cloned and characterized in primitive invertebrates, including the social amoeba Dictyostelium and the platyhelminth Schistosoma, as well as the green algae Ostreococcus, which resemble P2X receptors identified in mammals. This suggests that contrary to earlier speculations, P2X ion channel receptors appeared early in evolution, while G protein-coupled P1 and P2Y receptors were introduced either at the same time or perhaps even later. The absence of gene coding for P2X receptors in some animal groups [e.g. in some insects, roundworms (Caenorhabditis elegans) and the plant Arabidopsis] in contrast to the potent pharmacological actions of nucleotides in the same species, suggests that novel receptors are still to be discovered.

Learning and memory play an important role in morphine addiction. Status epilepticus (SE) can impair the spatial and emotional learning and memory. However, little is known about the effects of SE on morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP). The present study was designed to investigate the effects of SE on morphine CPP, with food CPP being used as a control. The effects of SE on spatial memory in the Morris water maze (MWM) and Y-maze were investigated. SE was induced in adult mice using intraperitoneal injection of pentylenetetrazole; control mice received saline. The data indicated that SE had no effects on the formation of morphine CPP; however, the formation of food CPP was blocked by SE. Meanwhile, spatial memory assayed in the MWM and Y-maze was impaired by SE. In addition, the data demonstrated that SE did not cause a lasting disturbance of motor activity nor a change in the mice's appetite. These results suggested that although SE had no effects on morphine CPP, there was impaired food CPP and spatial memory in both the MWM and the Y-maze. The mechanisms underlying memory process of morphine CPP may be different from other types of memory.
Andrew Newberg, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Radiology, Division of Nuclear Medicine, at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, with secondary appointments in the Departments of Psychiatry and Religious Studies. He is actively involved in neuroimaging research projects, including the study of the neurophysiological correlates of meditation and other types of complementary therapies. Dr Newberg's research now largely focuses on how brain function is associated with various mental states, in particular, the relationship between brain function and mystical or religious experiences. He has authored several books, including Why God Won't Go Away: Brain Science and the Biology of Belief (Ballantine/Random House, 2001) and coauthor with Eugene G. d'Aquili, MD, of The Mystical Mind: Probing the Biology of Religious Experience (Fortress Press, 1999). His most recent book is How God Changes Your Brain, with coauthor Mark Waldman (Ballantine Books, 2009).
The Douglas Mental Health University Institute, in collaboration with the McGill Centre for Studies in Aging, organized a 2-day symposium entitled &quot;Biological Changes Associated with Healthy Versus Pathological Aging&quot; that was held in 13 and 14 December 2007 on the Douglas campus. The symposium involved presentations on current trends in aging and dementia research across several sub-disciplines: genetics, neurochemistry, structural and functional neuroimaging and clinical treatment and rehabilitation. The goal of this symposium was to provide a forum for knowledge-transfer between scientists and clinicians with different specializations in order to promote cross-fertilization of research ideas that would lead to future collaborative neuroscience research in aging and dementia. In this review article, we summarize the presentations made by the 13 international scientists at the symposium and highlight: (i) past research, and future research trends in neuroscience of aging and dementia and (ii) links across levels of analysis that can lead to fruitful transdisciplinary research programs that will advance knowledge about the neurobiological changes associated with healthy aging and dementia.
Peripheral nerves from aged animals exhibit features of degeneration, including marked fiber loss, morphological irregularities in myelinated axons and notable reduction in the expression of myelin proteins. To investigate how protein homeostatic mechanisms change with age within the peripheral nervous system, we isolated Schwann cells from the sciatic nerves of young and old rats. The responsiveness of cells from aged nerves to stress stimuli is weakened, which in part may account for the observed age-associated alterations in glial and axonal proteins in vivo. Although calorie restriction is known to slow the aging process in the central nervous system, its influence on peripheral nerves has not been investigated in detail. To determine if dietary restriction is beneficial for peripheral nerve health and glial function, we studied sciatic nerves from rats of four distinct ages (8, 18, 29 and 38 months) kept on an ad libitum (AL) or a 40% calorie restricted diet. Age-associated reduction in the expression of the major myelin proteins and widening of the nodes of Ranvier are attenuated by the dietary intervention, which is paralleled with the maintenance of a differentiated Schwann cell phenotype. The improvements in nerve architecture with diet restriction, in part, are underlined by sustained expression of protein chaperones and markers of the autophagy-lysosomal pathway. Together, the in vitro and in vivo results suggest that there might be an age-limit by which dietary intervention needs to be initiated to elicit a beneficial response on peripheral nerve health.
Mounting evidence points to joint attention as a mediating variable in children's adaptive behavior development. Joint attention in interactions between hearing mothers and congenitally deaf (n = 27) and hearing (n = 29) children, ages 18-36 months, was examined. All deaf children had severe to profound hearing loss. Mother-child interactions were coded for maternally initiated and child-initiated success rates in establishing joint attention; mothers completed ratings of their children's adaptive behavior. Hearing mother-deaf child dyads had significantly lower maternally initiated success rates. No significant between-group differences on child-initiated success rates were shown. Maternal ratings of adaptive behavior were significantly lower for deaf children, and related positively and significantly to both child-initiated and maternally initiated success rates. The findings suggest that mother-child interactions that are low in successful establishment of joint attention might mediate the development of socioemotional problems evident in deaf children with hearing families.



The L-type Ca2+ channel expressed in gastrointestinal smooth muscle is mechanosensitive. Direct membrane stretch and shear stress result in increased Ca2+ entry into the cell. The mechanism for mechanosensitivity is not known, and mechanosensitivity is not dependent on an intact cytoskeleton. The aim of this study was to determine whether L-type Ca2+ channel mechanosensitivity is dependent on tension in the lipid bilayer in human jejunal circular layer myocytes. Whole cell currents were recorded in the amphotericin-perforated-patch configuration, and lysophosphatidyl choline (LPC), lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), and choline were used to alter differentially the tension in the lipid bilayer. Shear stress (perfusion at 10 ml/min) was used to mechanostimulate L-type Ca2+ channels. The increase in L-type Ca2+ current induced by shear stress was greater in the presence of LPC (large head-to-tail proportions), but not LPA or choline, than in the control perfusion. The increased peak Ca2+ current also did not return to baseline levels as in control conditions. Furthermore, steady-state inactivation kinetics were altered in the presence of LPC, leading to a change in window current. These findings suggest that changes in tension in the plasmalemmal membrane can be transmitted to the mechanosensitive L-type Ca2+ channel, leading to altered activity and Ca2+ entry in the human jejunal circular layer myocyte.
EGF receptors (EGFRs) are increased in airway smooth muscle in asthma, which may contribute to both their hyperproliferation and hypercontractility. Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a candidate pathological agent in asthma and other airway diseases, and LPA upregulates EGFRs in human airway smooth muscle (HASM) cells. We tested whether therapeutic glucocorticoids and/or beta(2)-adrenergic receptor (beta(2)AR) agonists also alter EGFR binding in HASM cells. Exposure to glucocorticoids for 24 h induced a twofold increase in EGFR binding similar to that with LPA; fluticasone was markedly more potent than dexamethasone. The increase in EGFR binding by glucocorticoids required 24-h exposure, consistent with transcription-mediated effects. Although the increase in EGFR binding was blocked by the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide for LPA, fluticasone, and dexamethasone, only LPA induced a significant increase in EGFR protein expression detected by immunoblotting. In contrast to the increased binding induced by the glucocorticoids, the beta(2)AR agonists isoproterenol, albuterol, and salmeterol all induced a decrease in EGFR binding. beta(2)AR agonist effects were multiphasic, with an initial decline at 2-4 h that reversed by 6 h and a second, somewhat greater decrease by 18-24 h. In cells pretreated with glucocorticoids, the decreases in EGFR binding by subsequent beta(2)AR treatment were not statistically significant; glucocorticoid upregulation of EGFRs also prevented further increases by LPA. Similar increases by glucocorticoids and decreases by beta(2)AR agonists were found in HFL-1 human lung fibroblasts. These complex and opposing effects of clinically relevant glucocorticoids and beta(2)AR agonists on airway mesenchymal cell EGFRs likely contribute to their overall therapeutic profile in the diseased airway.
The recently proposed threat simulation theory (TST) states that dreaming about threatening events has a biological function. In the past few years, the TST has led to several dream content analysis studies that empirically test the theory. The predictions of the TST have been investigated mainly with a new content analysis system, the Dream Threat Scale (DTS), a method developed for identifying and classifying threatening events in dreams. In this article we review the studies that have tested the TST with the DTS. We summarize and reevaluate the results based on the dreams of Finnish and Swedish university students, traumatized and nontraumatized Kurdish, Palestinian, and Finnish children, and special dream samples, namely recurrent dreams and nightmares collected from Canadian participants. We sum up other recent research that has relevance for the TST and discuss the extent to which empirical evidence supports or conflicts with the TST. New evidence and new direct tests of the predictions of the TST yield strong support for the theory, and the TST's strengths seem to outweigh its weaknesses.

Our objective was to investigate the association between senataxin mutations and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in Chinese patients. DNA from 45 sporadic ALS patients was screened for mutations in senataxin using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and direct sequencing. A novel variation, Thr1118Ile, was identified in a 42-year-old individual with sporadic ALS. This variation was not detected in 200 unrelated control individuals. In conclusion, the presence of this variation in a patient with sporadic ALS, and its absence in 200 controls, supports an association between senataxin and sporadic ALS. This study has broadened the mutation spectrum of senataxin and expanded the clinical phenotypes of senataxin mutations.


During the last 20 years at least 23 cases of motor neuron disease have been reported in HIV-1 seropositive patients. In this report we describe the clinical picture of a young man with HIV-1 clade C infection and flail arm-like syndrome, who we were able to follow-up for a long period. We investigated and prospectively monitored a 34-year-old man with features of flail arm syndrome, who developed the weakness and wasting 1 year after being diagnosed with HIV-1 infection after a routine blood test. He presented in 2003 with progressive, symmetrical wasting and weakness of the proximal muscles of the upper limb of 2 years' duration. He had severe wasting and weakness of the shoulder and arm muscles. There were no pyramidal signs. He has been on HAART for the last 4 years and the weakness or wasting has not worsened. At the last follow-up in July 2007, the patient had the same neurological deficit and no other symptoms or signs of HIV-1 infection. MRI of the spinal cord in 2007 showed characteristic T2 hyperintense signals in the central part of the spinal cord, corresponding to the central gray matter. Thus, our patient had HIV-1 clade C infection associated with a 'flail arm-like syndrome.' The causal relationship between HIV-1 infection and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)-like syndrome is still uncertain. The syndrome usually manifests as a lower motor neuron syndrome, as was seen in our young patient. It is known that treatment with antiretroviral therapy (ART) stabilizes/improves the condition. In our patient the weakness and atrophy remained stable over a period of 3.5 years after commencing HAART regimen.
Lead is a ubiquitous and versatile metal that has been used by mankind for many years. It is a toxic heavy metal that ranks as one of the most important environmental poisons in the world. Research conducted in recent years has increased public health concern about the toxicity of lead at low doses and has supported a reappraisal of the levels of lead exposure that may be safely tolerated in the workplace. Neuropathy is one complication of lead poisoning. The aim of this study is to describe the phenotypic and electrophysiological profile in five male patients working in a battery factory who developed radial nerve neuropathy due to lead exposure. All patients had elevated blood lead levels that were in the toxic range. The concerned regulatory bodies should make it mandatory for workers to undergo regular health checkups to detect signs of lead poisoning and must ensure that workers are aware about the ill effects of exposure to this metal. Chelation therapy removes lead from the blood and soft tissues and chronic lead exposure often requires repeated courses of treatment.


Using immunocytochemistry and morphometry we have supported our hypothesis that magnocellular neurons in the preoptic area of the brain of Xenopus laevis release identical sets of neuropeptides containing not only the previously identified vasotocin, mesotocin, corticotropin-releasing factor, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, urocortin 1, and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide but also mesotocin and met-enkephalin from both neurohemal areas in the pituitary neural lobe and in the median eminence. We also show that the external zone of the median eminence is plastic, depending in size on the state of background illumination.
Gene sequences from several species representing major vertebrate groups were used to create phylogenetic trees for the growth hormone family of peptide hormones as well as the growth hormone receptor family. These analyses show that both the peptide and receptor families were formed through local duplications in early vertebrate evolution and chromosome duplications.
The opioid receptor family in mammals has four members called delta, kappa, mu, and NOP (the nociceptin/orphanin receptor). We show here that they arose from a common ancestral gene through quadruplication of a large chromosomal region, presumably in the two basal vertebrate tetraploidizations. The four opioid peptide precursor genes have a more complicated evolutionary history involving chromosomal rearrangements but nevertheless seem to have arisen in the same time period as the receptors. Thus the system of opioid peptides and receptors was already established approximately 450 Ma at the dawn of gnathostome evolution.
For many years it has been believed that animals cannot make morphine. However, within the last 30 years scientific documents have emerged reporting on endogenous animal opiate synthesis, including morphine biosynthesis in animals and specific tissues. These data are complemented by other reports demonstrating the presence of opiate receptors specifically used for morphinergic signaling in animal tissues, bringing together the lock-and-key concept for an animal morphine chemical messenger hypothesis.
Transgenic animals are commonly employed to explore the function of individual proteins. Transgenic animal models include the mouse, the zebrafish, and the South African clawed toad Xenopus laevis. In contrast to mice and zebrafish, with Xenopus transgenesis DNA integration is mostly achieved in the one-cell stage. Moreover, Xenopus (as well as zebrafish) eggs are relatively large, the embryos are transparent, a large offspring is generated, and maintenance of the offspring is easy. In our transgenic studies in Xenopus, we focus on the well-characterized neuroendocrine melanotrope cells of the pituitary pars intermedia that are regulated during the process of adaptation of Xenopus to a changing environment. When the animal is placed on a black background, the melanotrope cells produce and process large amounts of the prohormone proopiomelanocortin (POMC). We apply stable melanotrope-specific transgenesis that is achieved by mixing a Xenopus POMC-promoter/transgene construct with sperm nuclei and injecting this mixture into unfertilized eggs. Since in the melanotrope cells the POMC promoter is much more active in black-adapted animals, the level of transgene expression can be manipulated by placing the animal on either a black or a white background. In this paper we review the possibilities of the Xenopus melanotrope-specific transgenic approach. Following a brief overview of the functioning of Xenopus melanotrope cells, stable melanotrope-specific transgenesis is discussed and our transgenic studies on brain-derived neurotrophic factor and secretory pathway components are described as examples of the transgenic approach in a physiological context and close to the in vivo situation.
We showed the presence of glucocorticoid (GR) and mineralocorticoid (MR) receptors in different populations of Xenopus laevis melanotrope cells and revealed their downregulation (MR) and upregulation (GR) during dark background adaptation. Corticosterone did not affect short-term intracellular calcium dynamics and alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone secretion, suggesting a role for GR and MR in long-term processes in the melanotropes.
Comparative studies of proteins often face the problem of distinguishing a true orthologue (species homologue) from a paralogue (a gene duplicate). This identification task is particularly challenging for endocrine peptides and neuropeptides because they are short and usually have several invariant positions. For some peptide families, this has led to a terminology with peptide names relating to the first species where a specific peptide sequence was determined, such as chicken or salmon gonadotropin-releasing hormone, or names that highlight amino acid differences, e.g., Lys-vasopressin. With accumulating information from multiple species, such a terminology becomes almost impenetrable for nonexperts and difficult even for aficionados. The sequenced genomes offer a new way to distinguish orthologues and paralogues, namely by location of the genes relative to neighboring genes on the chromosomes. In addition, the genome databases can ideally provide a complete listing of the family members in each species. Many vertebrate gene families have expanded in the two basal tetraploidizations (2R) and the teleost fish third tetraploidization (3R), after which some vertebrate lineages have lost some of the duplicates. We review here some peptide families (neuropeptide Y, oxytocin-vasopressin, and somatostatin) where genomic information helps simplify nomenclature. This approach is useful also for other gene families, such as peptide receptors.
Pituitary melanotroph and corticotroph cells produce and secrete peptides from the multifunctional precursor protein proopiomelanocortin (POMC). Stimulation of the secretory activity of both cell types involves production of cyclic 3'5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and increases in the concentration of intracellular Ca(2+). The increase in secretory activity is accompanied by enhanced expression of the POMC gene. Surprisingly, the POMC promoter lacks both cAMP-responsive elements and Ca(2+)-responsive elements through which the cAMP and Ca(2+) signals could, in a relatively direct way, act on POMC gene expression. It is thus apparent that other, more indirect, mechanisms have evolved to utilize cAMP and Ca(2+) signaling cascades to regulate POMC expression. This review gives an overview of the complex pathways and events that lead to the regulation of POMC gene expression in corticotrophs and melanotrophs. Another major site for POMC production is in hypothalamic neurons of the arcuate nucleus. In these neurons expression of the POMC gene relies on enhancer regions and responsive elements that differ from those utilized in the pituitary gland. In this review some attention will be given to progress made in unraveling the regulatory strategies acting on POMC expression in hypothalamic neurons. It is clear that the complexities of the promoter/enhancer structure of the POMC gene contribute to the versatility of this gene in participating in complex adaptation processes.

As a foundation for regulatory and functional studies of central relaxin family peptide receptor systems, we are mapping the distribution of the different receptors in the brain of rat, mouse, and nonhuman primates, attempting to identify the nature of the receptor-positive neurons in key circuits and establish the complementary distribution of the respective ligands in these species. Here we review progress in mapping RXFP1, RXFP2, and RXFP3 (mRNAs and proteins) and their respective ligands and discuss some of the putative functions for these peptides and receptors that are being explored using receptor-selective agonist and antagonist peptides and receptor and peptide gene deletion mouse strains. Comparative studies reveal an association of RXFP1 and RXFP2 with excitatory neurons but a differential regional or cellular distribution, in contrast to the association of RXFP3 with inhibitory neurons. These studies also reveal differences in the distribution of RXFP1 and RXFP2 in rat and mouse brain, whereas the distribution of RXFP3 is more conserved across these species. Enrichment of RXFP1/2/3 in olfactory, cortical, thalamic, limbic, hypothalamic, midbrain, and pontine circuits suggests a diverse range of modulatory actions for these receptors. For example, experimental evidence in the rat reveals that RXFP1 activation in the amygdala inhibits memory consolidation, RXFP2 activation in striatum produces sniffing behavior, and RXFP3 modulation has effects on feeding and metabolism, the activity of the septohippocampal pathway, and spatial memory. Further studies are now required to reveal additional details of these and other functions linked to relaxin family peptide receptor signaling in mammalian brain and the precise mechanisms involved.
On day 18 of pregnancy, conceptuses were surgically removed in order that rabbits would be left with seven, five, three, or one conceptus. During pregnancy, blood concentrations of relaxin were determined by radioimmunoassay. There was no difference between relaxin concentrations in rabbits carrying one versus seven conceptuses. The results indicate that conceptus number does not influence the blood concentration of relaxin in the rabbit.
This article focuses on the integration of self psychology with findings from infant research and neuroscience. While Kohut's psychology of the self provides a useful theoretical model for psychoanalytic practice, aspects of infant research and neuroscience offer specificity and nuance to basic self-psychological concepts. Kohut proposed that self-psychological psychoanalysis ameliorates derailed development through patient-analyst interaction, while a listening stance of empathic immersion begins the curative process of derailed development and sets the stage for reparative psychoanalytic work. Findings from infant research delineate much more specifically the nature of attunement both in early mother-infant and analyst-patient interactions. Findings from neuroscientific research delineate how early mother-infant experiences are encoded in implicit memory and explicates the emotional substrate of affects and feelings. This emotional substrate exists at birth and provides a means of communication both in infancy and adulthood. Additionally, infant research delineates the mutuality of the interactive process. Thus, both infant research and neuroscience add subtlety and nuance to basic self-psychological concepts. This subtlety opens up new ways of understanding patients and expands the clinical repertoire. Three clinical vignettes demonstrate how this nuance and expansion of self-psychological concepts are applied in the context of an ongoing psychoanalytic treatment.
Psychoanalysis, the science of unconscious processes, has recently undergone a significant transformation. Self psychology, derived from the work of Heinz Kohut, represents perhaps the most important revision of Freud's theory as it has shifted its basic core concepts from an intrapsychic to a relational unconscious and from a cognitive ego to an emotion-processing self. As a result of a common interest in the essential, rapid, bodily based, affective processes that lie beneath conscious awareness, a productive dialogue is now occurring between psychoanalysis and neuroscience. Here I apply this interdisciplinary perspective to a deeper understanding of the nonconscious brain/mind/body mechanisms that lie at the core of self psychology. I offer a neuropsychoanalytic conception of the development and structuralization of the self, focusing on the experience-dependent maturation of the emotion-processing right brain in infancy. I then articulate an interdisciplinary model of attachment trauma and pathological dissociation, an early forming defense against overwhelming affect that is a cardinal feature of self-psychopathologies. I end with some thoughts on the mechanism of the psychotherapeutic change process and suggest that self psychology is, in essence, a psychology of the unique functions of the right brain and that a rapprochement between psychoanalysis and neuroscience is now at hand.
The chapter starts with a historical overview of the subject of narcissism in psychoanalysis. Some sociophilosophical definitions of narcissism are explained and the connection to self psychology is described. It is especially referred to Honneth's Struggle for Recognition, which is related to the need for selfobject experiences. An outline of different concepts concerning narcissism, especially in the European psychoanalytic tradition, follows and leads to a clearer understanding of Kohut's conception of the self and its selfobjects. Because self psychology can often be understood as applied developmental psychology, useful links to attachment research are described and the move to the level of representation by mentalization is clarified. Further development of self psychology in the direction of intersubjectivity helps to supply connections to systems theory. Recently developed theories of empathy with reference to neurobiological findings provide a dynamic perspective of the activation of empathy. Thus, empathy seems to be better understood as a sort of contagion on which cognitive cortical processes are superimposed. Finally, the therapeutic process in psychoanalytic self psychology is portrayed. This process implies a disruption and repair process by which transmuting internalization can take place. More current theories of self psychology view this process in its essence intersubjectively as a co-construction between patient and analyst. The paper concludes with some hints for a paradigm shift in the direction of a more holistic understanding of the self.
Psychoanalysis, as every science and its application, has continued to evolve over the past century, especially accelerating over the last 30 years. Self psychology has played a constitutive role in that evolution and has continued to change itself. These movements have been supported and augmented by a wide range of emergent research and theory, especially that of cognitive psychology, infant and attachment research, rapid eye movement and dream research, psychotherapy research, and neuroscience. I present schematically some of what I consider to be the key features of the evolution of self psychology and their interconnection with that of psychoanalysis at large, including the revolutionary paradigm changes, the new epistemology, listening/experiencing perspectives, from narcissism to the development of the self, the new organization model of transference, the new organization model of dreams, and the implicit and explicit dimensions of analytic work. I conclude with a focus on the radical ongoing extension of the analyst's participation in the analytic relationship, using, as an example, the co-creation of analytic love, and providing several brief clinical illustrations. The leading edge question guiding my discussion is &quot;How does analytic change occur?&quot;

Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) is a synaptic modulator as well as a neuroprotectant. Currently, pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP)-dependent cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) is thought to be the major H(2)S-producing enzyme in the brain. We recently found that brain homogenates of CBS-knockout mice, even in the absence of PLP, produce H(2)S at levels similar to those of wild-type mice, suggesting the presence of another H(2)S-producing enzyme. Here we show that 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST) in combination with cysteine aminotransferase (CAT) produces H(2)S from cysteine. In addition, 3MST is localized to neurons, and the levels of bound sulfane sulfur, the precursor of H(2)S, are greatly increased in the cells expressing 3MST and CAT but not increased in cells expressing functionally defective mutant enzymes. These data present a new perspective on H(2)S production and storage in the brain.
Several chronic neurodegenerative disorders manifest deposits of misfolded or aggregated proteins. Genetic mutations are the root cause for protein misfolding in rare families, but the majority of patients have sporadic forms possibly related to environmental factors. In some cases, the ubiquitin-proteasome system or molecular chaperones can prevent accumulation of aberrantly folded proteins. Recent studies suggest that generation of excessive nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), in part due to overactivity of the NMDA-subtype of glutamate receptor, can mediate protein misfolding in the absence of genetic predisposition. S-Nitrosylation, or covalent reaction of NO with specific protein thiol groups, represents one mechanism contributing to NO-induced protein misfolding and neurotoxicity. Here, we present evidence suggesting that NO contributes to protein misfolding via S-nitrosylating protein-disulfide isomerase or the E3 ubiquitin ligase parkin. We discuss how memantine/NitroMemantine can inhibit excessive NMDA receptor activity to ameliorate NO production, protein misfolding, and neurodegeneration.




In the complex neurovascular control of the orofacial area, the only vasoconstrictor action is mediated by the sympathetic nervous system; however, its functional role is still unclear as little evidence exists of vasoconstrictor responses to physiological stimuli in both animal and human models. Aim of the present study was to investigate, orofacial vascular responses to acute stress in conscious rabbits. Twenty rabbits, implanted with chronic perivascular flow probes on the facial artery and with a telemetric probe for arterial blood pressure, were subjected to different alerting/stress stimuli, i.e., noise, taps on the rabbit's box, air jet, noxious cutaneous stimuli. Smaller groups of animal also underwent electromyographic (EMG) activity recording from the masseter muscle, unilateral section of the cervical sympathetic nerve (n=8), and alpha-adrenergic blockade with phentolamine (n=6). On average, all stressors evoked a pressor response accompanied by variable changes in heart rate and induced a marked, short-latency reduction in facial artery blood flow, corresponding to a decrease of 37-50% in vascular conductance of the facial artery. Local sympathetic denervation abolished the short-latency (&lt;15s) vasoconstrictor response to all stressors and attenuated the late (&gt;15s) phase of the long-lasting response to the air jet. All vasoconstrictor effects were blocked by phentolamine. Increases in blood flow were observed only in concomitance with masseter EMG activity either during masticatory activity or in the form of brief occasional spontaneous contractions. This study provides evidence of an effective vasoconstrictor control by the sympathetic system in the orofacial area under stress conditions.
The McNaughton rules for determining whether a person can be successfully defended on the grounds of mental incompetence were determined by a committee of the House of Lords in 1843. They arose as a consequence of the trial of Daniel McNaughton for the killing of Prime Minister Sir Robert Peel's secretary. In retrospect it is clear that McNaughton suffered from schizophrenia. The successful defence of McNaughton on the grounds of mental incompetence by his advocate Sir Alexander Cockburn involved a profound shift in the criteria for such a defence, and was largely based on the then recently published 'scientific' thesis of the great US psychiatrist Isaac Ray, entitled 'A treatise on the medical jurisprudence of insanity'. Subsequent discussion of this defence in the House of Lords led to the McNaughton rules, still the basis of the defence of mental incompetence in the courts of much of the English-speaking world. This essay argues that the rules need to be reconsidered in the light of the discoveries of cognitive neuroscience made during the 160 years since Ray's treatise. It is shown, for instance, how the conflation of 'the power of self-control' with 'irresistible impulse' by Cockburn is not supported by cognitive neuroscience because these are separate capacities requiring normal activity in distinct brain structures for their expression. In this way cognitive neuroscience assists in distinguishing between different capacities. It is further shown that failure of appropriate restraint in the expression of a capacity can be related to failure of synapses in particular parts of the brain. This raises the question as to what level of synaptic loss will the legislature and the courts rule as sufficient for a subject to be no longer held responsible for their lack of restraint.


The ectopic expression of the prion protein homologue Doppel (Dpl) in brain neurons causes progressive cerebellar Purkinje cell death in prion protein-deficient Ngsk mice (NP0/0). The neurotoxicity caused by Dpl involves Bax-dependent apoptotic pathways as well as other yet to be characterized cell death mechanisms in the NP0/0 Purkinje cells. These neurons display increased amounts of several autophagy-related molecules such as the scrapie-responsive gene one (Scrg1), LC3B-II and p62 without showing any changes in mRNA expression; in addition, autolysosomes accumulate in all neuronal compartments including axon terminals. This suggests that Dpl toxicity provokes impairment in the autophagic flux, which may trigger apoptosis in these neurons, similar to the way neurodegeneration is thought to occur in Alzheimer and prion diseases. Purkinje cells feature early axonal autophagy in both NP0/0 and GluRdelta2Lc mutants, but no signs of autophagic flux impairment are evident in GluRdelta2Lc Lurcher, suggesting that different pathogenic stimuli (i.e., Dpl versus GluRdelta2Lc) trigger different cell death modalities involving autophagy and apoptosis in the same type of neuron. The interplay between these multiple pathways of programmed cell death needs to be further investigated in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases in order to develop new therapeutic approaches.
Better ways to prevent the cold ischemia-warm reperfusion (CI/WR) injury associated with liver transplantation are needed, and many investigations have focused on the molecular mechanisms of this injury. However, the mechanisms reported to date are controversial and no improvement in therapy has resulted. Here, using prolonged CI and orthotopic transplantation of rat liver grafts, we found that the CI/WR injury was closely associated with autophagy. By 15 minutes after the start of WR, small masses of hepatocytes that possessed abundant autophagosomes and autolysosomes frequently dissociated from the hepatic cords and obstructed the sinusoid, causing massive necrosis of hepatocytes within 2 hours. The cell masses included TUNEL-positive nuclei without caspase-3 and -7 activation. Autophagy suppression with the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitors, wortmannin or LY294002, reduced both liver damage and the mortality rate of recipient rats. To elucidate the downstream mechanisms of this autophagic pathway, liver grafts were treated with aspartic and cysteine proteinase inhibitors, pepstatin and leupeptin. This treatment also significantly improved the survival rate of recipient rats. These data suggest that autophagy-associated hepatocyte death triggers liver graft dysfunction. The protective effects of suppressing autophagy may suggest new ways to prevent CI/WR injury of the liver.
We argue that the propositional and link-based approaches to human contingency learning represent different levels of analysis because propositional reasoning requires a basis, which is plausibly provided by a link-based architecture. Moreover, in their attempt to compare two general classes of models (link-based and propositional), Mitchell et al. have referred to only two generic models and ignore the large variety of different models within each class.
Forebrain dopamine (DA) systems are thought to be a critical component of the brain circuitry regulating behavioral activation, work output during instrumental behavior, and effort-related decision making. Tasks that offer animals choices between alternatives that require different degrees of effort can be used to assess effort-related choice behavior. Rats treated with DA antagonists, or with accumbens DA depletions, tend to show reduced selection of instrumental behaviors with high response requirements, and instead they choose to engage in food-seeking behaviors that involve less effort. The accompanying article by Bardgett et al. describes a novel effort-discounting task that involves the modification of a previously developed T-maze choice procedure (Salamone et al., 1994). Each arm of the maze contained different magnitudes of food reinforcement, and in order to obtain the higher magnitude reward, the rats had to climb a barrier in that arm of the maze. With training, rats were able to climb successively higher barriers to obtain the larger amount of food, and the choice between the high barrier arm and the no-barrier arm with the smaller reward served as a template for assessing the effects of dopaminergic drugs. D1 and D2 family antagonists, as well as the DA releasing agent amphetamine, were able to produce a bidirectional modulation of choice behavior, while drugs that act on D3 receptors were ineffective. These studies illustrate features of the neurochemical regulation of effort-related decision making, and may have implications for the understanding of both natural and pathological features of motivation.
The calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type IV (CaMKIV) is highly expressed in cerebellar cortical granule cells and deep nuclear neurons in the cerebellum. It mediates the phosphorylation and activation of the cAMP-dependent response element binding protein (CREB). In several paradigms CREB-dependent transcription is required for cellular events underlying long-term memory processes. Also, CaMKIV deficiency results in impaired long-term depression (LTD) induction in cerebellar cortex. To investigate the function of CaMKIV in the cerebellum, Wild-type (WT) and CaMKIV KO mice were tested with delay eyeblink conditioning. KO and WT mice did not differ in acquisition, but the KO mice showed a significantly lower conditioned response (CR) percentage than the WT mice in the retention testing and retraining period. The CR peak latencies for the two groups did not differ in acquisition but were shorter for the KO mice in the testing period. No significant differences were found between KO and WT mice in spontaneous eyeblink activity, auditory brainstem response (ABR) amplitudes, and tail-flick latency. The results suggest an important role for CaMKIV in long-term memory in the cerebellum.
The creation of seizure-prone (Fast) and seizure-resistant (Slow) rat strains via selective breeding implies genetic control of relative seizure vulnerability, yet ample data also advocates an environmental contribution. To investigate potential environmental underpinnings to the differential seizure sensitivities in these strains, the authors compared amygdala kindling profiles in adult male Fast and Slow rats raised by (a) their own mother, (b) a foster mother from the same strain, or (c) a foster mother from the opposing strain. Ultimately, strain-specific kindling profiles were not normalized by cross-fostering. Instead, both strains became more seizure-prone regardless of maternal affiliation (i.e., cross-fostered groups from both strains kindled faster than uncrossed controls). Interhemispheric seizure spread was also facilitated in cross-fostered Slow rat groups and was associated with increased commissural cross-sectional areas, giving them a Fast-like profile. It is important to note, however, that all Fast groups remained significantly more seizure-prone than Slow groups, suggesting that although the postnatal environment strongly influenced seizure disposition in both strains, it did not wholly account for their relative dispositions. Investigation into mechanisms fundamental to cross-fostering-induced seizure facilitation should help prevent postnatal worsening of pathology in already seizure-prone individuals.
Inhibitory gating (IG) is a basic central nervous system process for filtering repetitive sensory information. Although IG deficits coincide with cognitive and emotional dysfunction in a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders, limited research has been completed on the basic, functional nature of IG. Persistent IG occurs in rat prelimbic medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), a crucial site for modulating emotional learning. To investigate the interaction of affect and IG, we recorded local field potentials (LFP) directly from prelimbic mPFC and examined the influence of tone-shock fear conditioning (FC) on IG. Behavioral reactions during IG were observed before and after FC, and increase of orienting response after FC indicated induction of tone-shock association. After FC, some components of LFP response exhibited short-term weakening of IG. On a subsequent day of recording, IG strengthened for all LFP components, but individual components differed in their particular changes. Affective regulation of IG represents an important factor influencing within-subject IG variability, and these results have implications for understanding the role of rapid, implicit neural coding involved in emotional learning and affective disruption in psychiatric disease.
Lysosomal diseases are inherited metabolic disorders caused by defects in a wide spectrum of lysosomal and a few non-lysosomal proteins. In most cases a single type of primary storage material is identified, which has been used to name and classify the disorders: hence the terms sphingolipidoses, gangliosidoses, mucopolysaccharidoses, glycoproteinoses, and so forth. In addition to this primary storage, however, a host of secondary storage products can also be identified, more often than not having no direct link to the primary protein defect. Lipids - glycosphingolipids and phospholipids, as well as cholesterol - are the most ubiquitous and best studied of these secondary storage materials. While in the past typically considered nonspecific and nonconsequential features of these diseases, newer studies suggest direct links between secondary storage and disease pathogenesis and support the view that understanding all aspects of this sequestration process will provide important insights into the cell biology and treatment of lysosomal disease.
The definition of molecular imaging provided by the Society of Nuclear Medicine is &quot;the visualization, characterization and measurement of biological processes at the molecular and cellular levels in humans and other living systems&quot;. This review gives an overview of the technologies available for and the potential benefits from molecular imaging at the preclinical stage. It focuses on the use of imaging probes based on bioconjugates and for reasons of brevity confines itself to discussion of applications in the field of oncology, although molecular imaging can be equally useful in many fields including cardiovascular medicine, neurosciences, infection, and others.
Previous studies on the effects of the mobile phone electromagnetic field (EMF) on various event-related potential (ERP) components have yielded inconsistent and even contradictory results, and often failed in replication. The mismatch negativity (MMN) is an auditory ERP component elicited by infrequent (deviant) stimuli differing in some physical features from the repetitive frequent (standard) stimuli in a sound sequence. The MMN provides a sensitive measure for cortical auditory stimulus feature discrimination, regardless of attention and other contaminating factors. In this study, MMN responses to duration, intensity, frequency, and gap changes were recorded in healthy young adults (n = 17), using a multifeature paradigm including several types of auditory change in the same stimulus sequence, while a GSM mobile phone was placed on either ear with the EMF (902 MHz pulsed at 217 Hz; SAR(1g) = 1.14 W/kg, SAR(10g) = 0.82 W/kg, peak value = 1.21 W/kg, measured with an SAM phantom) on or off. An MMN was elicited by all deviant types, while its amplitude and latency showed no significant differences due to EMF exposure for any deviant types. In the present study, we found no conclusive evidence that acute exposure to GSM mobile phone EMF affects cortical auditory change detection processing reflected by the MMN.

In this paper, we present a neural network model of the interactions between cortex and the basal ganglia during prehensile movements. Computational neuroscience methods are used to explore the hypothesis that the altered kinematic patterns observed in Parkinson's disease patients performing prehensile movements is mainly due to an altered neuronal activity located in the networks of cholinergic (ACh) interneurons of the striatum. These striatal cells, under a strong influence of the dopaminergic system, significantly contribute to the neural processing within the striatum and in the cortico-basal ganglia loops. In order to test this hypothesis, a large-scale model of neural interactions in the basal ganglia has been integrated with previous models accounting for the cortical organization of goal directed reaching and grasping movements in normal and perturbed conditions. We carry out a discussion of the model hypothesis validation by providing a control engineering analysis and by comparing results of real experiments with our simulation results in conditions resembling these original experiments.



In this theoretical and speculative essay, I propose that insights into certain aspects of neural system functions can be gained from viewing brain function in terms of the branch of Statistical Mechanics currently referred to as &quot;Modern Critical Theory&quot; [Stanley, H.E., 1987. Introduction to Phase Transitions and Critical Phenomena. Oxford University Press; Marro, J., Dickman, R., 1999. Nonequilibrium Phase Transitions in Lattice Models. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK]. The application of this framework is here explored in two stages: in the first place, its principles are applied to state transitions in global brain dynamics, with benchmarks of Cognitive Neuroscience providing the relevant empirical reference points. The second stage generalizes to suggest in more detail how the same principles could also apply to the relation between other levels of the structural-functional hierarchy of the nervous system and between neural assemblies. In this view, state transitions resulting from the processing at one level are the input to the next, in the image of a 'bucket brigade', with the content of each bucket being passed on along the chain, after having undergone a state transition. The unique features of a process of this kind will be discussed and illustrated.

Intracranial tuberculoma represents the most common mass lesion in neurotuberculosis. We report an unusual case of tuberculoma with haemorrhage presenting clinically as a cerebellar haemorrhage. Cranial CT scan revealed a peripherally enhancing cerebellar mass with haemorrhage and obstructive hydrocephalus, requiring urgent surgical evacuation of the haematoma. Histopathological examination revealed tuberculoma with features of phlebitis. In view of the pathological evidence of phlebitis in the lesion, it could represent an immune-mediated acute haemorrhagic leucoencephalitis in response to tubercular antigens.
The authors describe a novel 4-month clinical placement in neurosciences intensive care medicine (NICM) undertaken in the first specialty registrar (ST1) year of neurosurgical training as part of a clinical neurosciences themed training year. Neurosurgery is unique among British surgical specialties in having pioneered themed early years in run-through training to replace basic surgical training in general surgical specialties as part of Modernising Medical Careers. After describing events leading to the new neurosurgical training, the knowledge, skills and attitudes acquired in NICM are highlighted alongside discussion of logistic aspects and future directions from an inaugural experience.
Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) for neuromodulation is now commonplace. However little is known about the incidence of either procedural related seizures or epilepsy following chronic DBS. This study aims to provide estimates of these complications for movement disorders, pain and psychiatric conditions. A literature review was performed. Because searches using the terms seizure, epilepsy, and deep brain stimulation revealed only papers dealing with experimental and clinical application of DBS to treat chronic seizures disorders, a search strategy trawling through papers that described clinical case series of DBS was used. Thirty-two papers were reviewed that described stereotactic placement of DBS electrodes for movement disorders, pain syndromes and psychiatric conditions with cohorts of n &gt; 5. Sixteen of these papers describing at least 1418 DBS electrode placements in 1254 patients did not mention seizures as a complication (i.e., it was not possible to know whether seizures had or had not occurred). In 16 papers, describing at least 2101 electrode placements in 1555 patients, seizures were described in 42 patients (incidence 2.7%). The range of seizure incidence varied from 0% (three series encompassing 317 patients and 576 electrode placements) up to 10% (n = 130) and 13% (n = 15). The reasons for this variance were not obvious. At least 74% of seizures occurred around the time of electrode implantation and many of these patients also suffered intracranial hemorrhage. Follow up times were variable (range 6 mths to 5 years). The analysis was complicated by multiple publications from some centres with duplication of some data. The quality of literature on seizures following DBS insertion for neuromodulation is highly variable. Analysis of the available data, after making corrections for publication of duplicate data, suggests strongly that the risk of seizures associated with DBS placement is probably lower than 2.4% (95% CI 1.7 to 3.3 %). The risk of postprocedural seizures associated with chronic deep brain stimulation is even lower with best estimates around 0.5% (95% CI .02 to 1.0%).

Lipid-lowering drugs have been associated with severe adverse effects on skeletal muscle, including rhabdomyolysis. More common symptoms include cramps and myalgia. In this issue of the BJP, Pierno et al. find that two statins and fenofibrate, often used in combination, decrease function of the chloride channel member 1 of the mammalian CLC protein family of chloride channels and transporters in skeletal muscle by three distinct mechanisms. Other compounds have recently been shown to potently modulate the pharmacologically less well-explored CLC protein family, which comprises chloride channels and chloride/proton antiporters. These findings may well lead to a new era of CLC protein pharmacology.

The original vision of psychiatry was as a medicine - or physic - of the mind. If psychiatry aspires to be a progressive modern medicine of the mind, it should be fully engaged with the science of the brain. We summarise and rebut three countervailing or 'neurophobic' propositions and aim to show that not one provides a compelling argument for neurophobia. We suggest that there are several ways in which psychiatry could organise itself professionally to better advance and communicate the theoretical and therapeutic potential of a brain-based medicine of the mind.
Early after acute ischaemic stroke, elevation of brain temperature might augment tissue metabolic rate and conversion of ischaemic but viable tissue to infarction. This might explain the observed link between pyrexia, severe stroke and poor outcome. We tested this hypothesis by measuring brain temperature and lactate concentration with multi-voxel magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging across the acute ischaemic stroke lesion and normal brain as determined on diffusion imaging. We compared patterns of lactate concentration (reported in 'institutional units') and temperature elevation in diffusion lesion core, potential penumbra, ipsilateral and contralateral normal brain and with stroke severity. Amongst 40 patients with moderate to severe acute stroke imaged up to 26 h after onset, lactate concentration was highest in the ischaemic lesion core (42 versus 26 units in potential penumbra, P &lt; 0.05), whereas temperature was highest in the potential penumbra (37.7 versus 37.3 degrees C in lesion core, P &lt; 0.05). Neither sub-regional temperature nor lactate concentration correlated with stroke severity. With increasing time after stroke, ipsilateral brain temperature did not change, but contralateral hemisphere temperature was higher in patients scanned at later times; lactate remained elevated in the lesion core, but declined in potential penumbral and ipsilateral normal tissue at later times. We conclude that early brain temperature elevation after stroke is not directly related to lactate concentration, therefore augmented metabolism is unlikely to explain the relationship between early pyrexia, severe stroke and poor outcome. Early brain temperature elevation may result from different mechanisms to those which raise body temperature after stroke. Further studies are required to determine why early brain temperature elevation is highest in potential penumbral tissue.
Alzheimer's disease impairs long term memories for related events (e.g. faces with names) more than for single events (e.g. list of faces or names). Whether or not this associative or 'binding' deficit is also found in short-term memory has not yet been explored. In two experiments we investigated binding deficits in verbal short-term memory in Alzheimer's disease. Experiment 1: 23 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 23 age and education matched healthy elderly were recruited. Participants studied visual arrays of objects (six for healthy elderly and four for Alzheimer's disease patients), colours (six for healthy elderly and four for Alzheimer's disease patients), unbound objects and colours (three for healthy elderly and two for Alzheimer's disease patients in each of the two categories), or objects bound with colours (three for healthy elderly and two for Alzheimer's disease patients). They were then asked to recall the items verbally. The memory of patients with Alzheimer's disease for objects bound with colours was significantly worse than for single or unbound features whereas healthy elderly's memory for bound and unbound features did not differ. Experiment 2: 21 Alzheimer's disease patients and 20 matched healthy elderly were recruited. Memory load was increased for the healthy elderly group to eight items in the conditions assessing memory for single or unbound features and to four items in the condition assessing memory for the binding of these features. For Alzheimer's disease patients the task remained the same. This manipulation permitted the performance to be equated across groups in the conditions assessing memory for single or unbound features. The impairment in Alzheimer's disease patients in recalling bound objects reported in Experiment 1 was replicated. The binding cost was greater than that observed in the healthy elderly group, who did not differ in their performance for bound and unbound features. Alzheimer's disease grossly impairs the mechanisms responsible for holding integrated objects in verbal short-term memory.
Multi-voxel pattern analyses have proved successful in 'decoding' mental states from fMRI data, but have not been used to examine brain differences associated with atypical populations. We investigated a group of 16 (14 males) high-functioning participants with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and 16 non-autistic control participants (12 males) performing two tasks (spatial/verbal) previously shown to activate medial rostral prefrontal cortex (mrPFC). Each task manipulated: (i) attention towards perceptual versus self-generated information and (ii) reflection on another person's mental state ('mentalizing'versus 'non-mentalizing') in a 2 x 2 design. Behavioral performance and group-level fMRI results were similar between groups. However, multi-voxel similarity analyses revealed strong differences. In control participants, the spatial distribution of activity generalized significantly between task contexts (spatial/verbal) when examining the same function (attention/mentalizing) but not when comparing different functions. This pattern was disrupted in the ASD group, indicating abnormal functional specialization within mrPFC, and demonstrating the applicability of multi-voxel pattern analysis to investigations of atypical populations.
Fragile X syndrome is the world's most common hereditary cause of developmental delay in males and is now well characterized at the biological, brain and cognitive levels. The disorder is caused by the silencing of a single gene on the X chromosome, the FMR1 gene. The premutation (carrier) status, however, is less well documented but has an emerging literature that highlights a more subtle profile of executive cognitive deficiencies that mirror those reported in fully affected males. Rarely, however, has the issue of age-related declines in cognitive performance in premutation males been addressed. In the present study, we focus specifically on the cognitive domain of working memory and its subcomponents (verbal, spatial and central executive memory) and explore performance across a broad sample of premutation males aged 18-69 years matched on age and IQ to unaffected comparison males. We further tease apart the premutation status into those males with symptoms of the newly identified neurodegenerative disorder, the fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS) and those males currently symptom-free. Our findings indicate a specific vulnerability in premutation males on tasks that require simultaneous manipulation and storage of new information, so-called executive control of memory. Furthermore, this vulnerability appears to exist regardless of the presence of FXTAS symptoms. Males with FXTAS symptoms demonstrated a more general impairment encompassing phonological working memory in addition to central executive working memory. Among asymptomatic premutation males, we observed the novel finding of a relationship between increased CGG repeat size and impairment to central executive working memory.
There is a need to investigate exactly how memory breaks down in the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Examining what aspects of memorial processing remain relatively intact early in the disease process will allow us to develop behavioral interventions and possible drug therapies focused on these intact processes. Several recent studies have worked to understand the processes of recollection and familiarity in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and very mild AD. Although there is general agreement that these patient groups are relatively unable to use recollection to support veridical recognition decisions, there has been some question as to how well these patients can use familiarity. The current study used receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and a depth of processing manipulation to understand the effect of MCI and AD on the estimates of recollection and familiarity. Results showed that patients with MCI and AD were impaired in both recollection and familiarity, regardless of the depth of encoding. These results are discussed in relation to disease pathology and in the context of recent conflicting evidence as to whether familiarity remains intact in patients with MCI. The authors highlight differences in stimuli type and task difficulty as possibly modulating the ability of these patients to successfully use familiarity in support of memorial decisions.
With increasing numbers of preterm infants surviving, the impact of preterm birth on later cognitive development presents a major interest. This study investigates the impact of preterm birth on later dorsal- and ventral-stream functioning. An atypical pattern of performance was found for preterm children relative to full-term controls, but in the dorsal-drawing task only. These findings suggest that the number of gestational weeks does affect dorsal-stream functioning, even after more than 6 years of favorable environmental conditions in healthy preterm children.
Identifying threatening expressions is a significant social perceptual skill. Individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are impaired in social interaction, show deficits in face and emotion processing, show amygdala abnormalities and display a disadvantage in the perception of social threat. According to the anger superiority hypothesis, angry faces capture attention faster than happy faces in individuals with a history of typical development [Hansen, C. H., &amp; Hansen, R. D. (1988). Finding the face in the crowd: An anger superiority effect. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 54(6), 917-924]. We tested threat detection abilities in ASD using a facial visual search paradigm. Participants were asked to detect an angry or happy face image in an array of distracter faces. A threat-detection advantage was apparent in both groups: participants showed faster and more accurate detection of threatening over friendly faces. Participants with ASD showed similar reaction time, but decreased overall accuracy compared to controls. This provides evidence for less robust, but intact or learned implicit processing of basic emotions in ASD.
Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies of the human brain have reported evidence for sexual dimorphism. In addition to sex differences in overall cerebral volume, differences in the proportion of gray matter (GM) to white matter (WM) volume have been observed, particularly in the parietal lobe. To our knowledge there have been no studies examining the relationship between the sex differences in parietal lobe structure and function. The parietal lobe is thought to be involved in spatial ability, and particularly involved in mental rotation. The purpose of this study is to examine whether sex differences in parietal lobe structure are present, and if present to relate these differences to performance on the mental rotations test (MRT). We found that women had proportionately greater gray matter volume in the parietal lobe compared to men, and this morphologic difference was disadvantageous for women in terms of performance on the MRT. In contrast, we found that men compared to women had proportionately greater parietal lobe surface area, and this morphologic difference was associated with a performance advantage for men on mental rotation. These findings support the possibility that the sexual dimorphism in the structure of the parietal lobe is a neurobiological substrate for the sex difference in performance on the mental rotations test.
A handful of patients have been described as being impaired in performing transitive gestures, despite being still able to perform intransitive gestures. This impairment need not be explained by assuming different mechanisms; rather, it can be due to transitive actions being more difficult. In this study we tested whether neurologically healthy participants had greater difficulties in imitating transitive actions with respect to intransitive actions. Consistent with the prediction, subjects imitated intransitive better than transitive gestures. The ease of imitation of intransitive actions supports the complexity account of apraxic impairments.

Recently, computational models of reinforcement learning have been applied for the analysis of neuroimaging data. It has been clarified that the striatum plays a key role in decision making. We review the reinforcement learning theory and the biological structures such as the brain and signals such as neuromodulators associated with reinforcement learning. We also investigated the function of the striatum and the neurotransmitter serotonin in reward prediction. We first studied the brain mechanisms for reward prediction at different time scales. Our experiment on the striatum showed that the ventroanterior regions are involved in predicting immediate rewards and the dorsoposterior regions are involved in predicting future rewards. Further, we investigated whether serotonin regulates both the reward selection and the striatum function are specialized reward prediction at different time scales. To this end, we regulated the dietary intake of tryptophan, a precursor of serotonin. Our experiment showed that the activity of the ventral part of the striatum was correlated with reward prediction at shorter time scales, and this activity was stronger at low serotonin levels. By contrast, the activity of the dorsal part of the striatum was correlated with reward prediction at longer time scales, and this activity was stronger at high serotonin levels. Further, a higher proportion of small reward choices, together with a higher rate of discounting of delayed rewards is observed in the low-serotonin condition than in the control and high-serotonin conditions. Further examinations are required in future to assess the relation between the disturbance of reward prediction caused by low serotonin and mental disorders related to serotonin such as depression.
The basal ganglia consist of the striatum, globus pallidus, substantia nigra, and subthalamic nucleus. Further, the striatum is classified into the caudate nucleus and the putamen; the globus pallidus, into the external (GPe) and internal segments (GPi); and the substantia nigra, into the pars compacta (SNc) and pars reticulata (SNr). With regard to the framework of information flow, the striatum constitutes the input station of the basal ganglia, and both the GPi and SNr constitute the output stations. Dopaminergic input from the SNc modulates the activity of striatal neurons. In the basal ganglia, there is a direct pathway that links the input and output stations and an indirect pathway that connects these stations by way of the GPe and the subthalamic nucleus. These 2 pathways regulate the net activity of the basal ganglia, thus providing the processed information to output targets, such as the thalamus.
Recent studies have revealed extensive neocortical pathology in multiple sclerosis (MS). The hippocampus is a unique archaeocortical structure understudied in MS. It plays a central role in episodic and anterograde memory-the most frequently impaired cognitive modalities in MS. This histopathological study aimed to investigate inflammatory demyelination and neurodegenerative changes in the MS archaeocortex. A detailed quantitative analysis was performed on hippocampal autopsy tissue from 45 progressive MS cases and seven controls. Forty-one lesions were identified in 28 of the 45 hippocampal MS-blocks examined, with percentage area of demyelination averaging 30.4%. The majority of lesions were chronic and subpially or subependymally located. Compared to controls, neuronal numbers were decreased by 27% in CA1 and 29.7% in CA3-2. Furthermore, the size of neurones was decreased by 17.4% in CA1. There was evidence of gross hippocampal atrophy with a 22.3% reduction in the average cross-sectional area, which correlated with neuronal loss. Our study provides evidence of substantial archaeocortical pathology largely resembling patterns seen in the neocortex and suggests that hippocampal involvement could contribute to memory impairments often seen in MS.
The pharmaceutical industry faces tough times. Despite tremendous advances in the science and technology of new lead identification and optimization, attrition rates for novel drug candidates making it into the clinic remain unacceptably high. A seamless boundary between basic preclinical and clinical arms of the discovery process, embodying the concept of 'translational research' is viewed by many as the way forward. The rational application of human experimental pain models in early clinical development is reviewed. Capsaicin, UV-irradiation and electrical stimulation methods have each been used to establish experimental hyperalgesia in Phase-I human volunteers and the application of these approaches is discussed in the context of several pharmacological examples. However, data generated from such studies must be integrated into a well-conceived and executed series of Phase-II efficacy trials in patients in order to derive maximal benefit. The challenges involved in optimal Phase-II/III trial design are reviewed with specific attention to the issues of sample size and placebo response. Finally, the application and potential of cortical EEG studies are discussed as an objective alternative to more conventional pain assessment tools with specific examples of how this technique has been applied to the study of NSAID and opiate-based therapeutics.
The cytokine cascade in pain and inflammatory processes is a tremendously complex system, involving glial, immune, and neuronal cell interactions. IL-1beta is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that has been implicated in pain, inflammation and autoimmune conditions. This review will focus on studies that shed light on the critical role of IL-1beta in various pain states, including the role of the intracellular complex, the inflammasome, which regulates IL-1beta production. Evidence will be presented demonstrating the importance of IL-1beta in both the induction of pain and in the maintenance of pain in chronic states, such as after nerve injury. Additionally, the involvement of IL-1beta as a key mediator in the interaction between glia and neurons in pain states will be discussed. Taken together, the evidence presented in the current review showing the importance of IL-1beta in animal and human pain states, suggests that blockade of IL-1beta be considered as a therapeutic opportunity.
Non-malignant musculoskeletal pain is the most common clinical symptom that causes patients to seek medical attention and is a major cause of disability in the world. Musculoskeletal pain can arise from a variety of common conditions including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, surgery, low back pain and bone fracture. A major problem in designing new therapies to treat musculoskeletal pain is that the underlying mechanisms driving musculoskeletal pain are not well understood. This lack of knowledge is largely due to the scarcity of animal models that closely mirror the human condition which would allow the development of a mechanistic understanding and novel therapies to treat this pain. To begin to develop a mechanism-based understanding of the factors involved in generating musculoskeletal pain, in this review we present recent advances in preclinical models of osteoarthritis, post-surgical pain and bone fracture pain. The models discussed appear to offer an attractive platform for understanding the factors that drive this pain and the preclinical screening of novel therapies to treat musculoskeletal pain. Developing both an understanding of the mechanisms that drive persistent musculoskeletal pain and novel mechanism-based therapies to treat these unique pain states would address a major unmet clinical need and have significant clinical, economic and societal benefits.
Emotional-affective and cognitive dimensions of pain are less well understood than nociceptive and nocifensive components, but the forebrain is believed to play an important role. Recent evidence suggests that subcortical and cortical brain areas outside the traditional pain processing network contribute critically to emotional-affective responses and cognitive deficits related to pain. These brain areas include different nuclei of the amygdala and certain prefrontal cortical areas. Their roles in various aspects of pain will be discussed. Biomarkers of cortical dysfunction are being identified that may evolve into therapeutic targets to modulate pain experience and improve pain-related cognitive impairment. Supporting data from preclinical studies in neuropathic pain models will be presented. Neuroimaging analysis provides evidence for plastic changes in the pain processing brain network. Results of clinical studies in neuropathic pain patients suggest that neuroimaging may help determine mechanisms of altered brain functions in pain as well as monitor the effects of pharmacologic interventions to optimize treatment in individual patients. Recent progress in the analysis of higher brain functions emphasizes the concept of pain as a multidimensional experience and the need for integrative approaches to determine the full spectrum of harmful or protective neurobiological changes in pain.
Not all spinal contusions result in mechanical allodynia, in which non-noxious stimuli become noxious. The studies presented use the NYU impactor at 12.5 mm drop or the Infinite Horizons Impactor (150 kdyn, 1 s dwell) devices to model spinal cord injury (SCI). Both of these devices and injury parameters, if done correctly, will result in animals with above level (forelimb), at level (trunk) and below level (hindlimb) mechanical allodynia that model the changes in evoked somatosensation experienced by the majority of people with SCI. The sections are as follows: 1) Mechanisms of remote microglial activation and pain signaling in &quot;below-level&quot; central pain 2) Intracellular signaling mechanisms in central sensitization in &quot;at-level&quot; pain 3) Peripheral sensitization contributes to &quot;above level&quot; injury pain following spinal cord injury and 4) Role of reactive oxygen species in central sensitization in regional neuropathic pain following SCI. To summarize, differential regional mechanisms contribute to the regional chronic pain states. We propose the importance of understanding the mechanisms in the differential regional pain syndromes after SCI in the chronic condition. Targeting regional mechanisms will be of enormous benefit to the SCI population that suffer chronic pain, and will contribute to better treatment strategies for other chronic pain syndromes.
Pain is a major unmet medical need which has been causally linked to changes in sodium channel expression, modulation, or mutations that alter channel gating properties or current density in nociceptor neurons. Voltage-gated sodium channels activate (open) then rapidly inactivate in response to a depolarization of the plasma membrane of excitable cells allowing the transient flow of sodium ions thus generating an inward current which underlies the generation and conduction of action potentials (AP) in these cells. Activation and inactivation, as well as other gating properties, of sodium channel isoforms have different kinetics and voltage-dependent properties, so that the ensemble of channels that are present determine the electrogenic properties of specific neurons. Biophysical and pharmacological studies have identified the peripheral-specific sodium channels Na(v)1.7, Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.9 as particularly important in the pathophysiology of different pain syndromes, and isoform-specific blockers of these channels or targeting their modulators hold the promise of a future effective therapy for treatment of pain.
The vanilloid receptor TRPV1 is a homotetrameric, non-selective cation channel abundantly expressed in the nociceptors (c-fibers). TRPV1 is considered as a highly validated pain target because, i) its agonists such as capsaicin cause desensitization of TRPV1 channels that relieves pain behaviors in preclinical species, and ii) its antagonists relieve pain behaviors in rodent models of inflammation, osteoarthritis, and cancer. Hence, both agonists and antagonists of TRPV1 are being evaluated as potential analgesics in clinical trials. Clinical trial results of TRPV1 agonists such as resiniferatoxin in interstitial cystitis, NGX 4010 in post-herpetic neuralgia, and 4975 (Adlea) in osteoarthritis, bunionectomy, and Morton's neuroma have been reported. Similarly, clinical trial results of TRPV1 antagonists such as SB-705498 and AMG 517 have also been published recently. Overall, some molecules (e.g., capsaicin) demonstrated potential analgesia in certain conditions (postsurgical pain, postherpetic neuralgia, pain in diabetic neuropathy, osteoarthritis, bunionectomy, and Morton's neuroma), whereas others fell out of the clinic due to on-target liabilities or failed to demonstrate efficacy. This review summarizes recent advances and setbacks of TRPV1 agonists and antagonists in the clinic and predicts future directions.
Voluntary eye movements and covert shifts of visual attention activate the same brain regions. Specifically, the intraparietal sulcus and the frontal eye fields (FEF) appear to be involved both with generating voluntary saccades as well with attending to a peripheral spatial location. Furthermore, these regions appear to be required by both tasks--functional disruption of these regions impairs both tasks. Therefore, it appears that the targeting system that allows us to plan saccades is the same system that allows us to covertly track peripheral visual information. Recent neuroimaging studies suggest that these brain regions are also activated when participants engage in auditory spatial attention tasks. However, it remains unclear whether these regions are required by these tasks. We used repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to disrupt the FEF while participants performed an auditory localization task. On each trial, a visual cue directed attention to the probable laterality of the auditory target, and the participant decided whether the subsequent target sound came from an upper or lower speaker. In the absence of TMS, individuals were faster to respond to targets that occurred on the cued side (valid trials) than when the target appears contralaterally to the cued side (invalid side). TMS interfered with this effect, such that the costs associated with ipsilateral invalidly cued targets were substantially reduced. These results suggest that the eye-movement system is needed for normal auditory attention.
Advances in neuroimaging of neurodegenerative diseases over the past two decades are the product of breakthroughs in imaging technology, more powerful computers, image-processing software, and expanding knowledge in basic and clinical neuroscience. In addition to the insights into normal brain structure and function that such methods provide, and the information that can be gained from disease-related changes in structure and function, functional imaging offers the promise of monitoring brain lesions and quantifying the therapeutic efficacy of innovative treatments for these largely incurable disorders.
In vivo intracellular electrophysiology offers the unique possibility of listening to the &quot;synaptic rumor &quot; of the cortical network, captured by a recording electrode in a single V1 cell. It allows one to reconstruct the distribution of input sources in space and time, i.e. the effective network dynamics. We have used a reverse engineering method to demonstrate the propagation of visually evoked activity through lateral (and feedback) connectivity in the primary cortex of higher mammals. This approach, based on synaptic echography, is compared here with a real-time brain imaging technique based on voltage-sensitive dye imaging. The former method gives access to the microscopic convergence processes of single neurons, whereas the latter describes the macroscopic divergence process on the neuronal map. A combination of the two techniques can be used to elucidate the cortical origin of low-level (non attentive) binding processes participating in the emergence of Gestalt percepts.
We quantified and compared six parameters (resolution, depth, sensitivity, portability, quantification and cost) of four molecular imaging techniques (MRI, optics, ultrasound and TEP), with the three types of electromagnetic radiation used in vivo (Frequencies (10(6) to 10(22) Hz), Photonic Energy (10(-4) to 10(9) eV) and Wavelengths (10(-2) to 10(-15) m). This form of molecular imaging demands the most sensitive technique available (Pl. 26-2 to 26-4). Four examples of experimental in vivo approaches on small animals are shown: molecular passage through the blood-brain barrier (endothelial cells, astrocytes and occludin, pharmacokinetics, studied with PET) (Pl. 2-5. to 2-11); imaging of receptors and ligands, especially peripheral benzodiazepine receptors (PBR) by PET and MRI in the rat (Pl. 2-12 to Pl. 2-15); neuropathology of neurodegenerative and inflammatory diseases and stroke by PET and MRI in the rat (Pl. 2-16 to 2-17); and the study of responses to stimulation explored with in vivo imaging of calcium signals and their variations by photonic analysis, as on the scale of mitochondrial calcium (Pl.2-18 to Pl.2-22).
Brain imaging has progressed over the centuries, from prehistory (surgical and sculptural empiricism), through the Middle Ages (dissection and drawings), the Renaissance (printing) and the 18th century (Spallanzani and ultrasounds), to the 19th century and the discovery of piezoelectricity by the Curie brothers and X-rays by Rntgen in 1895. The head had finally become transparent! The microscope was used by Ramon Y Cajal for histological and neuropathological brain studies. Marie Curie's discovery of radioisotopes paved the way for advances in in vivo neurophysiology. In the 20th century, technical progress accelerated with the advent of computed tomography. Injected contrast products were initially negative (air for ventriculography and pneumo-encephalography), and subsequently positive (intraventricular then intraarterial iodine, cerebral arteriography, increasingly hyperselective). Neurology and neurosurgery were followed by neuroradiology, stereotaxy, and interventional neuroradiology. G.N. Hounsfield's EMI CT scanner replaced silver salts crystals with computed pixels and voxels. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI, 1981), which dispenses with the need for X-rays, is evolving at the same pace as computer science itself (Moore's Law) in the form of nanometric biophotonics for example. Diffusion MRI is providing precious information on neuroanatomy (axonal organization of the white matter and neuro-tractography, vascular anatomy), neurochemistry (MRS) and neurophysiology. Functional MRI of sensory activation and resting connectivity, the substrate of thought, is giving fascinating results. Functional stereotactic neurosurgery (for epilepsy, abnormal movements, etc.), stereotactic radiosurgery and endovascular interventional neuroradiology are among the latest approaches.
Hypoxia-ischemia constitutes a risk in infants by altering cerebral blood flow regulatory mechanisms and causing loss of cerebral vascular auto-regulation. Hypotension, cerebral ischemia, and reperfusion are the main events involved in vascular auto-regulation leading to cell death and tissue damage. Reperfusion could be critical since organ damage, particularly of the brain, may be amplified during this period. An exaggerated activation of vasoactive agents of calcium mediated effects could be responsible for reperfusion injury, which, in turns, leads to cerebral hemorrhage and damage. These dramatic phenomena represent a common repertoire in infants complicated by perinatal acute or chronic hypoxia or cardiovascular disorders treated by risky procedures such as open heart surgery and cardiopulmonary by-pass (CPB). To date, despite accurate perinatal and intra-operative monitoring, the post-insult period is crucial, since clinical symptoms and monitoring parameters may be of no avail and therapeutic window for pharmacological intervention (6-12 hours) may be limited, at a time when brain damage is already occurring. Therefore, the measurement of circulating biochemical markers of brain damage, such as vasoactive agents and nervous tissue peptides is eagerly awaited in clinical practice to detect high risk infants. The present review is aimed at investigating the role as circulating biochemical markers such as adrenomedullin, a vasoactive peptide; S100B, a calcium binding protein, activin A, a glycoprotein; neuronal specific enolase (NSE), a dimeric isoenzyme; glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP), a astroglial protein, in the cascade of events leading to ischemia reperfusion injury in infants complicated by perinatal asphyxia or cardiovascular disorders requiring risky therapeutic strategies such as CPB and/or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.

Acid Sensing Ion Channels (ASICs) are a family of proton-gated cation channels that play a role in the sensation of noxious stimuli. Of these, ASIC1a is the only family member that is reported to be permeable to Ca(2+), although the absolute magnitude of the Ca(2+) current is unclear. Here, we used patch-clamp photometry to determine the contribution of Ca(2+) to total current through native and recombinant ASIC1a receptors. We found that acidification of the extracellular medium evoked amiloride and psalmotoxin 1-sensitive currents in isolated chick dorsal root ganglion neurons and human embryonic kidney cells, but did not alter fura-2 fluorescence when the bath concentration of Ca(2+) was close to that found in normal physiological conditions. Further, activation of recombinant ASIC1a receptors also failed to produce measurable changes in fluorescence despite of the fact that the total cation current through the over-expressed receptor was ten-fold larger than that of the native channels. Finally, we imaged a field of intact DRG neurons loaded with the Ca(2+)-sensing dye Fluo-4, and found that acidification increased [Ca(2+)](i) in a small population of cells. Thus, although our whole-field imaging data agree with previous studies that activation of ASIC1a receptors can potentially cause elevations in intracellular free Ca(2+), our single cell data strongly challenges the view that Ca(2+) entry through the ASIC1a receptor itself contributes to this response.
Acute morphine administration is known to alter the course of herpes simplex virus infection. In this study, the effect of acute morphine administration on the reactivation of latent herpes was investigated in a mouse model. Because of the important role of cytolytic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity in the inhibition of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) reactivation, the effect of acute morphine administration on CTL responses was also evaluated. Furthermore, lymphocyte proliferation and IFN-gamma production were evaluated for their roles in the induction of the CTL response. The findings showed that acute morphine administration significantly reduced CTL responses, lymphocyte proliferation, and IFN-gamma production. Furthermore, acute morphine administration has been shown to reactivate latent HSV-1. Previous studies have shown that cellular immune responses have important roles in the inhibition of HSV reactivation. These findings suggest that suppression of a portion of the cellular immune response after acute morphine administration may constitute one part of the mechanism that induces HSV reactivation.
Collagens are extracellular proteins characterized by a structure in triple helices. There are 28 collagen types which differ in size, structure and function. Their architectural and functional roles in connective tissues have been widely assessed. In the nervous system, collagens are rare in the vicinity of the neuronal soma, occupying mostly a &quot;marginal&quot; position, such as the meninges, the basement membranes and the sensory end organs. In neural development, however, where various ECM molecules are known to be determinant, recent studies indicate that collagens are no exception, participating in axonal guidance, synaptogenesis and Schwann cell differentiation. Insights on collagens function in the brain have also been derived from neural pathophysiological conditions. This review summarizes the significant advances which underscore the function and importance of collagens in the nervous system.

This study was designed to examine whether corticocortical paired associative stimulation (cc-PAS) can modulate interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) in the human brain. Twelve healthy right-handed volunteers received 90 paired transcranial stimuli to the right and left primary motor hand area (M1(HAND)) at an interstimulus interval (ISI) of 8 ms. Left-to-right cc-PAS (first pulse given to left M1(HAND)) attenuated left-to-right IHI for one hour after cc-PAS. Left-to-right cc-PAS also increased corticospinal excitability in the conditioned right M1(HAND). These effects were not seen in an asymptomatic individual with callosal agenesis. Additional experiments showed no changes in left-to-right IHI or corticospinal excitability when left-to-right cc-PAS was given at an ISI of 1 ms or at multiple ISIs in random order. At the behavioral level, left-to-right cc-PAS speeded responses with the left but not right index finger during a simple reaction time task. Right-to-left cc-PAS (first pulse given to right M1(HAND)) reduced right-to-left IHI without increasing corticospinal excitability in left M1(HAND). These results provide a proof of principle that cc-PAS can induce associative plasticity in connections between the targeted cortical areas. The efficacy of cc-PAS to induce lasting changes in excitability depends on the exact timing of the stimulus pairs suggesting an underlying Hebbian mechanism.
In the embryonic telencephalon, the pallial-subpallial boundary (PSB) separates the dorsal Pax6+ pallium from the ventral Gsh2+ subpallium. Previous studies have revealed that this region is a source of cells that will populate both the olfactory bulb and basal telencephalic limbic system. However, the level of progenitor cell heterogeneity and developmental genetic regulation of this progenitor region remains to be fully elucidated. In this study we carried out a comprehensive analysis of gene expression patterns at the PSB, in addition to an examination of the combinatorial function of Pax6 and Gsh2 in the specification of the PSB. First, we reveal that the PSB is comprised of a complex mix of molecularly distinct progenitor pools. In addition, by analysis of single Sey, Gsh2, and Sey/Gsh2 double mutant mice, we demonstrate that both Pax6 and Gsh2 are directly required for major aspects of PSB progenitor specification. Our analysis also reveals that the establishment of the epidermal growth factor receptor positive lateral cortical stream migratory route to the basal telencephalon is Pax6 dependent. Thus, in addition to their well-characterized cross-repressive roles in dorsal/ventral patterning our analyses reveal important novel functions of Gsh2 and Pax6 in the regulation of PSB progenitor pool specification and patterning.
The normal formation and function of the mammalian cerebral cortex depend on the positioning of its neurones, which occurs in a highly organized, layer-specific manner. The correct morphology and movement of neurones rely on synchronized regulation of their actin filaments and microtubules. The p21-activated kinase (Pak1), a key cytoskeletal regulator, controls neuronal polarization, elaboration of axons and dendrites, and the formation of dendritic spines. However, its in vivo role in the developing nervous system is unclear. We have utilized in utero electroporation into mouse embryo cortices to reveal that both loss and gain of Pak1 function affect radial migration of projection neurones. Overexpression of hyperactivated Pak1 predominantly caused neurones to arrest in the intermediate zone (IZ) with apparently misoriented and disorganized leading projections. Loss of Pak1 disrupted the morphology of migrating neurones, which accumulated in the IZ and deep cortical layers. Unexpectedly, a significant number of neurones with reduced Pak1 expression aberrantly entered into the normally cell-sparse marginal zone, suggesting their inability to cease migrating that may be due to their impaired dissociation from radial glia. Our findings reveal the in vivo importance of temporal and spatial regulation of the Pak1 kinase during key stages of cortical development.
Visuospatial attention can either be &quot;narrowly&quot; focused on (zooming in) or &quot;widely&quot; distributed to (zooming out) different locations in space. In the current functional magnetic resonance imaging study, we investigated the shared and differential neural mechanisms underlying the dynamic &quot;zooming in&quot; and &quot;zooming out&quot; processes while potential distance confounds from visual inputs between zooming in and zooming out were controlled for. When compared with zooming out, zooming in differentially implicated left anterior intraparietal sulcus (IPS), which may reflect the functional specificity of left anterior IPS in focusing attention on local object features. By contrast, zooming out differentially activated right inferior frontal gyrus, which may reflect higher demands on cognitive control processes associated with enlarging the attentional focus. A conjunction analysis between zooming in and zooming out revealed significant shared activations in right middle temporal gyrus, right superior occipital gyrus, and right superior parietal cortex. The latter result suggests that the right posterior temporal-occipital-parietal system, which is known to be crucial for the control of spatial attention, is involved in updating the internal representation of the spatial locations that attentional processing is associated with.
An impairment in learning to inhibit prepotent responses to positive stimuli is associated with damage to the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in rats, monkeys, and humans performing discrimination reversal, extinction, and detour reaching tasks. In contrast, a recent study showed that OFC-lesioned rhesus monkeys could learn to select the smaller of 2 quantities of food reward in order to receive the larger reward, at an equivalent rate to controls, despite the requirement to inhibit a prepotent response. Given this result, the aim of the present study was to further specify the contexts under which the OFC regulates responding and to identify additional components of limbic circuitry that contribute to such regulation. Marmosets with lesions of the OFC and medial striatum (MS), but not the amygdala, made more prepotent responses to a clear Perspex box containing high incentive food before learning to choose the box containing low incentive food, to obtain reward. However, having learned the incongruent incentive discrimination OFC- and MS-lesioned monkeys were impaired upon reversal of the reward contingencies, repeatedly selecting the previously rewarded low incentive object. These findings identify the critical contribution of the OFC and MS in the regulation of responding by affective cues.
Numerous studies have identified an anterior temporal lobe (ATL) region that responds preferentially to sentence-level stimuli. It is unclear, however, whether this activity reflects a response to syntactic computations or some form of semantic integration. This distinction is difficult to investigate with the stimulus manipulations and anomaly detection paradigms traditionally implemented. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging study addresses this question via a selective attention paradigm. Subjects monitored for occasional semantic anomalies or occasional syntactic errors, thus directing their attention to semantic integration, or syntactic properties of the sentences. The hemodynamic response in the sentence-selective ATL region (defined with a localizer scan) was examined during anomaly/error-free sentences only, to avoid confounds due to error detection. The majority of the sentence-specific region of interest was equally modulated by attention to syntactic or compositional semantic features, whereas a smaller subregion was only modulated by the semantic task. We suggest that the sentence-specific ATL region is sensitive to both syntactic and integrative semantic functions during sentence processing, with a smaller portion of this area preferentially involved in the later. This study also suggests that selective attention paradigms may be effective tools to investigate the functional diversity of networks involved in sentence processing.
Monitoring changes in cerebral blood flow in association with neuronal activity has widely been used to evaluate various brain functions. However, current techniques do not directly measure blood flow changes in specified blood vessels. The present study identified arterioles within the cerebral cortex by echoencephalography and color Doppler imaging, and then measured blood flow velocity (BFV) changes in pulsed-wave Doppler mode. We applied this &quot;transdural Doppler ultrasonography (TDD)&quot; to examine BFV changes in the cortical motor-related areas of monkeys during the performance of unimanual (right or left) and bimanual key-press tasks. BFV in the primary motor cortex (MI) was increased in response to contralateral movement. In each of the unimanual and bimanual tasks, bimodal BFV increases related to both the instruction signal and the movement were observed in the supplementary motor area (SMA). Such BFV changes in the SMA were prominent during the early stage of task training and gradually decreased with improvements in task performance, leaving those in the MI unchanged. Moreover, BFV changes in the SMA depended on task difficulty. The present results indicate that TDD is useful for evaluating regional brain functions.
Some of the sleep disruption seen in seniors (&gt;65 yrs) may be due to alteration of the circadian pacemaker phase and/or its phase angle with bedtime. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of 2 h changes in the timing of bedtime (both earlier and later) on the sleep of seniors. Ten healthy seniors (9 F, 1 M, age 70-82 yrs) were each studied individually during three 120 h sessions (each separated by &gt;2 weeks) in a time-isolation laboratory. On nights 1 and 2, bedtime and rise-time occurred at the subjects' habitual times; on nights 3-5, bedtime was specified by the experiment, but rise-time was at the subjects' discretion (without knowledge of clock time). Under the control condition, subjects went to bed at their habitual bedtime (HBT), under the earlier bedtime condition at (HBT-2 h), and under the later bedtime condition at (HBT+2 h). Sleep was polysomnnographically recorded and rectal temperature continuously monitored. Although total sleep time increased in the earlier compared to the later condition (p&lt;0.01), sleep efficiency decreased and wake after sleep onset increased (p&lt;0.01). Subjective ratings of sleep were also worse under the earlier (HBT-2 h) than under later (HBT+ 2 h) condition (p&lt;0.05). Performance did not differ between the earlier and later conditions. The larger the phase angle between actual bedtime and circadian temperature minimum (Tmin), the longer the time spent in bed and total sleep time, and the worse the sleep efficiency and subjective sleep ratings. There were no effects related to the phase angle between Tmin and rise-time. The relative benefits of longer vs. more efficient sleep in the elderly require further investigation.

We provide a systematic, evidence-based medicine (EBM) review of the field of electrophysiology in the anxiety disorders. Presently, electrophysiological studies of anxiety focus primarily on etiological aspects of brain dysfunction. The review highlights many functional similarities across studies, but also identifies patterns that clearly differentiate disorder classifications. Such measures offer clinical utility as reliable and objective indicators of brain dysfunction in individuals and indicate potential as biomarkers for the improvement of diagnostic specificity and for informing treatment decisions and prognostic assessments. Common to most of the anxiety disorders is basal instability in cortical arousal, as reflected in measures of quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG). Resting electroencephalographic (EEG) measures tend to correlate with symptom sub-patterns and be exacerbated by condition-specific stimulation. Also common to most of the anxiety disorders are condition-specific difficulties with sensory gating and the allocation and deployment of attention. These are clearly evident from evoked potential (EP) and event-related potential (ERP) electrical measures of information processing in obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), panic disorder (PD), generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) and the phobias. Other'ERP measures clearly differentiate the disorders. However, there is considerable variation across studies, with inclusion and exclusion criteria, medication status and control group selection not standardized within condition or across studies. Study numbers generally preclude analysis for confound removal or for the derivation of diagnostic biomarker patterns at this time. The current trend towards development of databases of brain and cognitive function is likely to obviate these difficulties. In particular, electrophysiological measures of function are likely to play a significant role in the development and subsequent adaptations of DSM-V and assist critically in securing improvements in nosological and treatment specificity.
Approximately 50% of patients with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) respond to the first antidepressant medication prescribed, and fewer than one-third experience remission of symptoms. The most significant challenge in the management of MDD, therefore, is selection of the antidepressant medication that is most likely to lead to response or to remission for an individual patient. There is a growing body of evidence that certain clinical neurophysiologic techniques may be useful for selecting the medication that is most likely benefit each patient. Use of low resolution electromagnetic tomography (LORETA), loudness dependent auditory evoked potentials (LDAEP), and resting state quantitative electroencephalography (QEEG) in the clinical setting is increasingly supported by studies indicating that these techniques may help identify particular medications that are most likely to lead to response or remission. The current state of evidence supporting the use of each technique is reviewed.
Evidence-based medicine (EBM) was introduced to meet the increasing need of clinicians to keep up-to-date with the research evidence. EBM integrates advances in information technology with those in clinical epidemiology (the study of the distribution and determinants of disease) to provide a coherent strategy for the timely acquisition of the best available evidence on which to base clinical practice. A fundamental component of EBM has been the development of the methodology of research synthesis. Although the main driver of the development of EBM has been to get existing research into practice, the same approach can be used to inform the development of treatments.
In pregnant women affected by multiple sclerosis (MS) we observed increased percentages of CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) T regulatory cells at the 1st and the 2nd trimester of gestation that was associated with a decreased T-bet expression in CD4(+) T cells. In women showing clinical relapse and/or new lesions at MRI after delivery we found, a higher expression of T-bet, pSTAT1 and pSTAT3 in CD4(+), CD8(+) T cells and CD14(+) cells, associated with an increase of IFNgamma and IL17 production by PBMC at the 3rd trimester of gestation and after delivery. Our data suggest that the expansion of circulating CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells and the lower expression of T-bet in CD4(+) T cells may account for the decreased MS activity during pregnancy. The expression of T-bet, pSTAT1 and pSTAT3 in peripheral blood CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells and monocytes could be useful to identify MS patients who will develop a relapse after delivery.
Toxic leukoencephalopathy occurs as a result of exposure to wide variety of agents. Inhalation of heroin or its vapours produces a distinct syndrome with characteristic findings on MR imaging. We report a case of heroin vapour abuse (chasing the dragon) who presented with altered sensorium. MRI of the brain showed symmetrical T2 hyperintensities over the cerebellum and hippocampi. The patient gradually improved and made good recovery but developed spasticity of all the limbs due to delayed involvement of bilateral basal ganglia. This is the first report of bilateral hippocampal involvement in a patient abusing heroin vapour.



There has been a growing interest in anosognosia in both clinical and research domains, yet relatively little attention has been paid to methods for evaluating it. Usually, the presence and severity of anosognosia is assessed by means of structured interviews or questionnaires. Both interviews and questionnaires can provide valuable information, but they rely heavily on self-evaluation and language, and are therefore prone to bias and pose more difficulty in the assessment of aphasic patients. The aim of this study was to develop a new tool, the VATA-m (Visual-Analogue Test for Anosognosia for motor impairment), to assess explicit anosognosia for motor impairments. The VATA-m is a questionnaire that compares a patient's self-evaluation with a caregivers' evaluation of the patient's abilities on a series of motor tasks. In addition, the test overcomes some of the limitations of the existing structured interviews and questionnaires, by enhancing reliability, improving data interpretation and diagnosis, and enabling assessment of patients with aphasia.
Prior research suggests that the Iowa Gambling task is performed poorly by individuals with lesions in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC). The current study investigated whether impaired performance in individuals with frontal lobe damage is determined by the existence of VMPFC lesions. A total of 14 participants with VMPFC lesions and 6 participants with frontal lesions not involving the VMPFC region were compared. Both the VMPFC and non-VMPFC groups made significantly more disadvantageous card selections than healthy comparison participants. While these findings suggest that frontal lesions impair Iowa Gambling task performance, they do not support the claim of a specific association between Iowa Gambling task impairment and VMPFC lesions.
Children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) evidence an array of structural brain abnormalities and neurocognitive deficits. Furthermore, previous research suggests that deficits in executive functioning (EF) may be associated with significant difficulties in the formation of positive peer relationships in this population. The purpose of the current study was to examine the role of EF as a predictor of treatment response to a controlled social skills intervention for children with FASDs. A total of 100 children between the ages of 6 and 12 received Children's Friendship Training (CFT). Prior to treatment, parents completed the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Functioning (BRIEF). Treatment outcome was measured using parent report on the Social Skills Rating System (SSRS). The results demonstrated that behavioral regulation as measured on the BRIEF predicted the effectiveness of CFT for children with FASDs, regardless of general intellectual functioning. Specifically, the ability to control impulses, solve problems flexibly, and monitor emotional responses significantly predicted improvement in social skills and reduction in problem behaviors following CFT.





The aim of the present study was to assess the influence of visual distracters, stimulus duration and the presence of contralesional hemianopia on direction of the first saccade in right brain damaged (RBD) patients affected by left unilateral neglect (UN). During a visual search task we recorded eye movements in five RBD patients with UN and hemianopia (N+H+), nine RBD patients with UN but no hemianopia (N+H-), four RBD patients with neither neglect nor hemianopia and four normal controls. Two task variables were orthogonally manipulated: (a) presence or absence of distracters and (b) short or long stimulus duration. A significant interaction was found between groups, presence of distracters, stimulus duration and the direction of the first saccade made in the search. Independently of the temporal duration of targets, in N+H+ patients the presence of distracters enhanced the frequency of saccades directed ipsilesionally (i.e., rightward). In N+H- patients, distracters biased the first saccade toward the right side only at short stimulus duration. These data show that bias of attentional orienting toward stimuli in the right half of space is specific of UN. This pathological mechanism (a) is enhanced and prolonged, over the period of exploration, by concomitant complete contralateral hemianopia and (b) is most evident, even in the absence of concomitant visual field defects, when voluntary planning of attention and eye movements are precluded by the short duration of stimuli to be inspected.











Oligomer Abeta is the term utilized for multimeric but non-fibrillar forms of amyloid beta-protein (Abeta). The most prominent property of oligomer Abeta is considered to be its solubility and structure. Here, we examined the histochemical localization of oligomer Abeta in AD brains. At present, little information is available on the structure and function of cerebral oligomer Abeta. We therefore studied the molecular localization of oligomer Abeta using a newly generated polyclonal mouse antisera against a variant Abeta with a deletion mutation of the 22(nd) glutamate that we found recently in a patient with familial Alzheimer's disease. Intracellular as well as extracellular oligomer Abeta are herein discussed to define their structure and pathological roles in disease.
Clinical trials of cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI) drugs, although generally reporting only minimal improvements in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), indicate that a subgroup of patients may respond substantially to treatment. This study aimed to assess the clinically variable ChEI treatment effects in a group of patients with mild AD using a semantic association and an N-back light working memory activation paradigm. Twenty-six patients with probable mild AD treated with a ChEI for 20 weeks were retrospectively divided into responders and non-responders. Patients were classified as responders if their Clinician's Interview Based Impression of Change (CIBIC - Plus) score was four or less and if they had an increase of at least two points on the MMSE. These criteria resulted in two subgroups comprising nine responders and seventeen non responders. Nine healthy elderly age-matched controls were also recruited as a comparison group. ChEI treatment was accompanied by significant modulation of task induced activation increases in both fMRI tasks in AD responders. The effect of ChEI response was in effect a restoration of regional brain function in the same areas used by elderly controls when performing these tasks. In non-responders decrements in task related activation were observed and over time activation patterns appeared less like the elderly controls. Screening semantic fluency scores correlated negatively with activation increases at retest. In the paper, a tentative explanation is offered of why subgroups of patients with a similar clinical diagnosis and level of clinical severity show a different physiological response to ChE inhibition.

A defining feature of the mammalian nervous system is its complex yet precise circuitry. The mechanisms which underlie the generation of neural connectivity are the topic of intense study in developmental neuroscience. The mammalian visual pathway demonstrates precise retinotopic organization in subcortical and cortical pathways, together with the alignment and matching of eye-specific projections, and sophisticated cortical circuitry that enables the extraction of features underlying vision. New approaches employing molecular-genetic analyses, transgenic mice, novel recombinant probes, and high-resolution imaging are contributing to rapid progress and a new synthesis in the field. These approaches are revealing the ways in which intrinsic patterning mechanisms act in concert with experience-dependent mechanisms to shape visual projections and circuits.
In schizophrenia, a developmental redox dysregulation constitutes one 'hub' on which converge genetic impairments of glutathione synthesis and environmental vulnerability factors generating oxidative stress. Their timing at critical periods of neurodevelopment could play a decisive role in inducing impairment of neural connectivity and synchronization as observed in schizophrenia. In experimental models, such redox dysregulation induces anomalies strikingly similar to those observed in patients. This is mediated by hypoactive NMDA receptors, impairment of fast-spiking parvalbumin GABA interneurons and deficit in myelination. A treatment restoring the redox balance without side effects yields improvements of negative symptoms in chronic patients. Novel interventions based on these mechanisms if applied in early phases of the disease hold great therapeutic promise.


Pavlovian conditioning paradigms have become important model systems for understanding the neuroscience of behavior. In particular, studies of the extinction of Pavlovian fear responses are yielding important information about the neural substrates of anxiety disorders, such as phobias and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in humans. These studies are germane to understanding the neural mechanisms underlying behavioral interventions that suppress fear, including exposure therapy in anxiety disorders. This unit describes detailed behavioral protocols for examining the nature and properties of fear extinction in laboratory rodents.
Microdialysis is an in vivo sampling technique that permits the quantification of various substances (e.g., neurotransmitters, peptides, electrolytes) in blood and tissue. It is also used to infuse substances into the brain and spinal cord. This unit describes methods for the construction and stereotaxic implantation of microdialysis probes into discrete brain regions of the rat and mouse. Procedures for the conduct of conventional and quantitative microdialysis experiments in the awake and anesthetized rodent are also provided.
The technique of microdialysis enables sampling and collecting of small-molecular-weight substances from the interstitial space. It is a widely used method in neuroscience and is one of the few techniques available that permits quantification of neurotransmitters, peptides, and hormones in the behaving animal. More recently, it has been used in tissue preparations for quantification of neurotransmitter release. This unit provides a brief review of the history of microdialysis and its general application in the neurosciences. The authors review the theoretical principles underlying the microdialysis process, methods available for estimating extracellular concentration from dialysis samples (i.e., relative recovery), the various factors that affect the estimate of in vivo relative recovery, and the importance of determining in vivo relative recovery to data interpretation. Several areas of special note, including impact of tissue trauma on the interpretation of microdialysis results, are discussed. Step-by-step instructions for the planning and execution of conventional and quantitative microdialysis experiments are provided.
Proteins are targets of oxidative modification. This unit describes detailed procedures for the analysis of popular indices of protein oxidation including protein carbonyl formation, loss of protein thiols, and nitrotyrosine and dityrosine formation, as well as isoaspartate formation. Procedures are detailed for the analysis of protein carbonyls labeled with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine, tritiated sodium borohydride, and biotin-hydrazide, followed by detection measurements that are based on the distinguishing feature of each labeling chemical. Methods are outlined for the determination of protein cysteine oxidation by quantifying the loss of free protein thiols using radiolabeled [(14)C]-iodoacetamide. Protocols are described for the measurement of protein dityrosine by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, as are the details for the detection of protein nitrotyrosine by a competitive ELISA approach. Finally, methods are described for the quantification of protein-bound isoaspartate using protein-L-isoaspartyl methyltransferase that converts aberrant L-isoaspartyl residues in peptides and proteins to normal aspartyl residues.
The increasing autism incidence estimates are generating strong interest in identifying its salient risk factors. Recognition of the importance of genes in this and other disorders has promulgated the development of valuable research tools. As this review indicates, application of these tools paints a portrait of a disorder that is more complex than anticipated.
Studies of neuronal differentiation in vitro often involve tracing and analysis of neurites. NeuronJ (Meijering et al., Cytometry Part A 2004;58A:167-176; http://www.imagescience.org/meijering/software/neuronj/) is a program that can be used for semiautomated tracing of individual neurons; when tracing is completed, a text file containing neurite length measurements is generated. Using cultured hippocampal neurons, we have found that to reach statistical significance it is generally necessary to trace about 100 neurons in each treatment group. Posttracing data analysis requires importing each text file into a statistics program. Analysis of distinct parameters, such as effects of a treatment on axonal versus dendritic branching, requires a great deal of time consuming posttracing data manipulation. We have developed XL_Calculations, a Java-based program that performs batch analysis on NeuronJ measurement files and automatically makes multiple calculations, including the number, length, and total output (sum length) of primary, secondary, and tertiary neurites on axons and dendrites, and writes the calculations into an Excel worksheet. Batch processing of NeuronJ measurement files dramatically reduces the time required to analyze neuronal morphology. In addition, our program performs more than 45 distinct calculations, enabling detailed determination of treatment effects on neuronal differentiation. Using this program to analyze NeuronJ tracing data, we demonstrate that continuous exposure of differentiating hippocampal neurons to Netrin 1 increases the number of secondary branches on both axons and dendrites, without significantly altering the length of the axon, dendrites, or branches. Similar results were obtained when neurons were grown on poly-D-lysine or laminin.
More than 35 years ago double Nobel laureate Linus Carl Pauling published a powerful model of the molecular mechanism of general anesthesia, generally referred to as the hydrate-microcrystal (aqueous-phase) theory. This hypothesis, based on the molecular behavior of water molecules, did not receive serious attention during Pauling's life time, when scientific tools for examining complex systems such as the brain were still in their infancy. The situation has since drastically changed, and, now, in the twenty first century, many scientific tools are available for examining different types of complex systems. The discovery of aquaporin-4, a subtype of water channel abundantly expressed in glial systems, further highlighted the concept that the dynamics of water molecules in the cerebral cortex play an important role in important physiological brain functions including consciousness and information processing.
Acetylcholine plays an important role in regulation of nervous system development and function. We are developing zebrafish (Danio rerio) as a model system to study the role of specific neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes in development and the effects of nicotine on the developing vertebrate nervous system. We previously characterized the expression of several zebrafish nAChR subunits. To further develop the zebrafish model, here we report a study on the molecular characterization of two additional nAChR subunit genes, designated chrna6 and chrna4. Both zebrafish nAChRs have a high degree of sequence identity to nAChRs expressed in a variety of mammalian species. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was used to show that both nAChR subunit RNAs were expressed early in zebrafish development, with the chrna4 transcript present at 3 hours postfertilization (hpf) and the chrna6 RNA present at 10 hpf. In situ hybridization was used to localize chrna6 and chrna4 RNA expression in 24, 48, 72, and 96 hpf zebrafish. The chrna6 and chrna4 RNAs were each expressed in a unique pattern, which changed during development. At various ages, chrna6 was expressed in Rohon-Beard sensory neurons, trigeminal ganglion, retina, and the pineal gland. Most notably, chrna6 was expressed in catecholaminergic neurons in the midbrain, but was also present in noncatecholaminergic cells in both midbrain and hindbrain. The expression of chrna6 RNA in catecholaminergic cells supports the use of zebrafish as a valid model system to better understand the molecular basis of cholinergic regulation of dopaminergic signaling and the role of alpha6-containing nAChRs in Parkinson's disease. The most notable chrna4 expression was in neural crest cells at 24 hpf and reticulospinal neurons in hindbrain at 48 hpf. chrna4 RNA exhibited a widespread and robust expression pattern in the midbrain in 72 hpf and 96 hpf zebrafish.
The reeler mouse is one of the most famous spontaneously occurring mutants in the research field of neuroscience, and this mutant has been used as a model animal to understand mammalian brain development. The classical observations emphasized that laminar structures of the reeler brain are highly disrupted. Molecular cloning of Reelin, the gene responsible for reeler mutant provided insights into biochemistry of Reelin signal, and some models had been proposed to explain the function of Reelin signal in brain development. However, recent reports of reeler found that non-laminated structures in the central nervous system are also affected by the mutation, making function of Reelin signal more controversial. In this review, we summarized reported morphological and histological abnormalities throughout the central nervous system of the reeler comparing to those of the normal mouse. Based on this overview of the reeler abnormalities, we discuss possible function of Reelin signal in the neuronal migration and other morphological events in mouse development.
The LIM (Lin-1, Isl-1 and Mec-3)-homeodomain transcription factor 1 beta (Lmx1b) is widely expressed in vertebrate embryos, and is implicated in the development of diverse structures such as limbs, kidneys, eyes and brains. LMX1B mutations in humans cause an autosomal dominant inherited disease called nail-patella syndrome (NPS), which is characterized by abnormalities of the arms and legs as well as kidney disease and glaucoma. Expression of Lmx1b in the dorsal compartment of growing limb buds is critical for specification of dorsal limb cell fates and consequently dorsoventral patterning of limbs. In addition, Lmx1b is involved in the differentiation of anterior eye structures, formation of the glomerular basement membrane in kidneys and development of the skeleton, especially calvarial bones. In the central nervous system, Lmx1b controls the inductive activity of isthmic organizer, differentiation and maintenance of central serotonergic neurons, as well as the differentiation and migration of spinal dorsal horn neurons. Although details of the genetic programs involved in these developmental events are largely unknown, it is suggested that Lmx1b plays central roles in fate determination or cell differentiation in these tissues. Sustained expression of Lmx1b in the postnatal and mature mouse brain suggests that it also plays important roles in brain maturation and in the regulation of normal brain functions. This review aims to highlight recent insights into the many activities of Lmx1b in vertebrates.
It is over 100 years since Brodmann proposed the homology of layer and area structure of the cerebral cortex across species. His proposal was based on the extensive comparative analyses of various mammalian brains. Although such homology is now well accepted, the recent data in our laboratory showed striking variations of gene expression patterns across areas and species. Are cortical layers and areas really homologous? If they are, to what extent and how are they similar or different? We are trying to answer these questions by identifying the homologous neuronal types common to various areas and species. Toward this goal, we started to classify the cortical pyramidal neurons by expression of particular sets of genes. By using fluorescent double in situ hybridization combined with retrograde tracers, we are characterizing the gene expression phenotypes and projection specificity of cortical excitatory neuron types. In this review, I discuss the recent findings in our laboratory in light of the past and present knowledge about cortical cell types, which provides insight to the homology (and lack thereof) of the mammalian neocortical organization.
Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are a large family of secreted growth factors that are involved in the development, regeneration and repair of various tissues. In the nervous system, FGFs have been implicated in early developmental processes, such as neural induction, proliferation and patterning. Accumulating data indicate that FGFs are also important for the formation of functional neural networks. The role of FGFs in axon guidance, target recognition and synaptic differentiation as target-derived factors, and how they cooperate with cell adhesion molecules that are also involved in the wiring of the nervous system are the focus of this review.

The question why synaesthesia, an atypical binding within or between modalities, occurs is both enduring and important. Two explanations have been provided: (1) a congenital explanation: we are all born as synaesthetes but most of us subsequently lose the experience due to brain development; (2) a learning explanation: synaesthesia is related to some learning process during childhood. Three recent studies provide conflicting support for these explanations. Two studies supported the idea that synaesthesia is learned by showing that the frequency of everyday language implicitly modulates the synaesthetic experience. Another study argued that synaesthesia reflects basic, innate magnitude representations. In this paper we reassess these points of view, and show that it is possible for both to be valid. These findings are integrated into an interactive specialization account of development in order to explain the neuronal mechanism underlying synaesthesia.
Whether human infants spontaneously represent number remains contentious. Clearfield &amp; Mix (1999) and Feigenson, Carey &amp; Spelke (2002) put forth evidence that when presented with small sets of 1-3 items infants may preferentially attend to continuous properties of stimuli rather than to number, and these results have been interpreted as evidence that infants may not have numerical competence. Here we present three experiments that test the hypothesis that infants prefer to represent continuous variables over number. In Experiment 1, we attempt to replicate the Clearfield &amp; Mix study with a larger sample of infants. Although we replicated their finding that infants attend to changes in contour length, infants in our study attended to number and perimeter/area simultaneously. In Experiments 2 and 3, we pit number against continuous extent for exclusively large sets (Experiment 2) and for small and large sets combined (Experiment 3). In all three experiments, infants noticed the change in number, suggesting that representing discrete quantity is not a last resort for human infants. These results should temper the conclusion that infants find continuous properties more salient than number and instead suggest that number is spontaneously represented by young infants, even when other cues are available.

Some evidence suggests that motivational approaches are less efficacious--or even counter-productive--with persons who are relatively motivated at baseline. The present study was conducted to examine whether disordinal moderation by baseline motivation could partially explain negative findings in a previous study [Winhusen, T., Kropp, F., Babcock, D., Hague, D., Erickson, S.J., Renz, C., Rau, L., Lewis, D., Leimberger, J., Somoza, E., 2008. Motivational enhancement therapy to improve treatment utilization and outcome in pregnant substance users. J. Subst. Abuse Treat. 35, 161-173]. Analyses also focused on the relative utility of the University of Rhode Island Change Assessment (URICA) scale, vs. a single goal question as potential moderators of Motivation Enhancement Therapy (MET). Participants were 200 pregnant women presenting for substance abuse treatment at one of four sites. Women were randomly assigned to either a three-session MET condition or treatment as usual (TAU). Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) revealed no significant moderation effects on drug use at post-treatment. At follow-up, contrary to expectations, participants who had not set a clear quit goal at baseline were less likely to be drug-free if randomized to MET (OR=0.48); participants who did set a clear quit goal were more likely to be drug-free if randomized to MET (OR=2.53). No moderating effects were identified via the URICA. Disordinal moderation of MET efficacy by baseline motivation may have contributed somewhat to the negative results of the [Winhusen, T., Kropp, F., Babcock, D., Hague, D., Erickson, S.J., Renz, C., Rau, L., Lewis, D., Leimberger, J., Somoza, E., 2008. Motivational enhancement therapy to improve treatment utilization and outcome in pregnant substance users. J. Subst. Abuse Treat. 35, 161-173] study, but in the opposite direction expected. A simple question regarding intent to quit may be useful in identifying persons who may differentially respond to motivational interventions. However, moderation effects are unstable, may be best identified with alternate methodologies, and may operate differently among pregnant women.
Schizophrenia is a severe brain disease that affects approximately 1% of the world's population. Extensive study into the indication of and causes of this disease has been ongoing for decades. Historical review of research into associated abnormalities and markers common in schizophrenic patients has demonstrated a correlation with potential microbial origins in the development of the disease. While infectious etiologies could be responsible for some cases of schizophrenia, no consistent use of anti-infective agents has been developed for its prevention or treatment. Elucidation of the mechanisms for infectious roots of schizophrenia may open new avenues for effective treatment.

To test a theoretically driven second-order factor model of eating disorders, with eating-disordered thoughts and eating-disordered behaviors representing the higher order factors, we conducted a confirmatory factor analysis using a female university student sample (N=1816). The 'Thought' latent construct was comprised of indicators representing fear of fat and dissatisfaction with body shape/weight and the latent construct 'Behavior' was comprised of indicators representing binging, purging and restricting. From the thought and behavior latent factors, composite groups were created by varying the level of thoughts and behaviors (high, moderate, and few/or none). We examined the independent contributions of thoughts and behaviors on a measure of psychopathology (depression). A second-order model of &quot;eating disorder thoughts&quot; and &quot;eating disorder behaviors&quot; was supported by the data, based on model fit, factor loadings, and model parsimony. Mean scores on depression were clinically significant for groups engaged in any level of eating disorder behavior whereas thoughts contributed to risk for depression only at the extreme end. Because of the disproportionate representation of eating disorder thoughts (high) and eating disorder behaviors (low) in non-clinical populations, the measurement and detection of eating disorders may be enhanced by measuring thoughts separate from behaviors.


Estrogens have been shown to have positive and negative effects on anxiety and depressive-like behaviors, perhaps explained by the existence of two distinct estrogen receptor (ER) systems, ERalpha and ERbeta. The ERbeta agonist, diarylpropionitrile (DPN) has been shown to have anxiolytic properties in rats. DPN exists as a racemic mixture of two enantiomers, R-DPN and S-DPN. In this study, we compared R-DPN and S-DPN for their in vitro binding affinity, ability to activate transcription in vitro at an estrogen response element, and in vivo endocrine and behavioral responses. In vitro binding studies using recombinant rat ERbeta revealed that S-DPN has a severalfold greater relative binding affinity for ERbeta than does R-DPN. Furthermore, cotransfection of N-38 immortalized hypothalamic cells with an estrogen response element-luc reporter and ERbeta revealed that S-DPN is a potent activator of transcription in vitro, whereas R-DPN is not. Subsequently, we examined anxiety-like behaviors using the open-field test and elevated plus maze or depressive-like behaviors, using the forced swim test. Ovariectomized young adult female Sprague Dawley rats treated with racemic DPN, S-DPN, and the ERbeta agonist, WAY-200070, showed significantly decreased anxiety-like behaviors in both the open-field and elevated plus maze and significantly less depressive-like behaviors in the forced swim test compared with vehicle-, R-DPN-, or propylpyrazoletriol (ERalpha agonist)-treated animals. In concordance with the relative binding affinity and transcriptional potency, these results demonstrate that the S-enantiomer is the biologically active form of DPN. These studies also indicate that estrogen's positive effects on mood, including its anxiolytic and antidepressive actions, are due to its actions at ERbeta.
Of the central nervous system receptors that could mediate the energy balance effects of leptin, those of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus receive the greatest attention. Melanocortin receptors (MC-Rs) contribute to the feeding and energetic effects of hypothalamically delivered leptin. Energy balance effects of leptin are also mediated by extrahypothalamic neurons including the hindbrain nucleus tractus solitarius. Hindbrain leptin receptors play a role in leptin's anorectic effects, but their contribution to its energetic effects and their functional interaction with melanocortin systems within the hindbrain remains unexplored. Here rats implanted with telemetric devices for recording energetic/cardiovascular responses were examined to determine whether: 1) hindbrain (fourth ventricular) leptin receptor stimulation triggers energetic and cardiovascular effects, 2) these effects are altered by a 6-wk high-fat diet maintenance, and 3) hindbrain MC-Rs mediate the thermogenic, cardiovascular, and anorexic effects of hindbrain leptin delivery. Results show that hindbrain leptin receptor stimulation produced long-lasting (&gt;6 h) increases in core temperature and heart rate and also decreased food intake and body weight. These responses were not altered by high-fat maintenance, in contrast to what has been reported for forebrain leptin delivery. Fourth ventricular pretreatment with MC-R antagonist SHU 9119 completely abolished the hyperthermia, anorexia, and body weight loss seen with hindbrain-directed leptin but had no effects of its own. These data highlight a role for hindbrain leptin receptors in the initiation of energetic and anorexic responses and show that MCRs are part of the downstream mediation of hindbrain leptin-induced energy balance effects, paralleling effects observed for hypothalamic leptin receptors.
A gene termed EAP1 (enhanced at puberty 1) was recently identified as a transcriptional regulator of female neuroendocrine reproductive function. We have now used in vivo and in vitro assays, and the female rat as an animal model, to determine whether Eap1 gene expression is regulated by ovarian steroids. Eap1 mRNA abundance decreases in both the hypothalamus and cerebral cortex during the infantile-juvenile phases of development, but it increases selectively in the hypothalamus at puberty, suggesting that in contrast to the general decline in expression observed in immature animals, the region-specific increase in Eap1 mRNA levels that occurs at puberty might be elicited by ovarian steroids. This is, however, not the case, because hypothalamic Eap1 mRNA levels increase at the expected time of puberty in rats ovariectomized at the beginning of the juvenile period. Although a subpopulation of EAP1-containing cells in the medial basal hypothalamus (MBH) and preoptic area express estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha), the 5'-flanking region of the rat Eap1 (rEap1) gene does not contain a complete estrogen-responsive element, and no such estrogen-responsive element is detected within 100 kb of the rEap1 locus. Functional promoter assays showed that neither estradiol (E(2)) alone nor a combination of E(2) plus progesterone increases rEap1 gene transcription. Likewise, E(2) administered to ovariectomized immature rats elicited a robust surge of LH but increased neither preoptic area nor MBH Eap1 mRNA levels. E(2)/progesterone-treated rats showed a massive elevation in plasma LH but only a modest increase in Eap1 mRNA levels, limited to the MBH. These results indicate that hypothalamic Eap1 expression is not directly controlled by ovarian steroids and suggest that Eap1 expression increases at puberty driven by ovary-independent, centrally initiated events.
Amidated peptides are critically involved in many physiological functions. Genetic deletion of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), the only enzyme that can synthesize these peptides, is embryonically lethal. The goal of the present study was the identification of physiological functions impaired by haploinsufficiency of PAM. Regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis and body temperature, functions requiring contributions from multiple amidated peptides, were selected for evaluation. Based on serum T(4) and pituitary TSH-beta mRNA levels, mice heterozygous for PAM (PAM(+/-)) were euthyroid at baseline. Feedback within the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis was impaired in PAM(+/-) mice made hypothyroid using a low iodine/propylthiouracil diet. Despite their normal endocrine response to cold, PAM(+/-) mice were unable to maintain body temperature as well as wild-type littermates when kept in a 4 C environment. When provided with additional dietary copper, PAM(+/-) mice maintained body temperature as well as wild-type mice. Pharmacological activation of vasoconstriction or shivering also allowed PAM(+/-) mice to maintain body temperature. Cold-induced vasoconstriction was deficient in PAM(+/-) mice. This deficit was eliminated in PAM(+/-) mice receiving a diet with supplemental copper. These results suggest that dietary deficiency of copper, coupled with genetic deficits in PAM, could result in physiological deficits in humans.

Voltage-dependent sodium channels consist of a pore-forming alpha-subunit and regulatory beta-subunits. Alterations in these channels have been implicated in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and several genetic epilepsy syndromes. Recently we identified Na(v)beta3 as a TLE-regulated gene. Here we performed a detailed analysis of the hippocampal expression of Na(v)beta3 in TLE patients with hippocampal sclerosis (HS) and without HS (non-HS) and compared expression with autopsy controls (ACs). Immunoblot analysis showed that Na(v)beta3 levels were dramatically reduced in the hippocampus, but not in the cortex of non-HS patients when compared to HS patients. This was confirmed by immunohistochemistry showing reduced Na(v)beta3 expression in all principal neurons of the hippocampus proper. Sequence analysis revealed no Na(v)beta3 mutations. The functional consequences of the reduced Na(v)beta3 expression in non-HS patients are unknown. Altered Na(v)beta3 expression might influence microcircuitry in the hippocampus, affecting excitability and contributing to epileptogenesis in non-HS patients. Further experiments are required to elucidate these functional possibilities.


Familial febrile seizures occur in both generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+) and autosomal dominant febrile seizures (ADFS). The literature largely separates families with GEFS+ from those with ADFS. However, there is clinical overlap, and families with ADFS also include individuals with afebrile seizures. The phenotypic spectrum of GEFS+ is broader now than when first described, resulting in unclear boundaries between these two familial syndromes. The purpose of this report is to highlight the phenotypic similarities of GEFS+ and ADFS. A multigenerational family with febrile and afebrile seizures is described and the clinical features are compared to those of previously reported GEFS+ and ADFS families. This family meets the requirements for both ADFS and the broader definition of GEFS+. Linkage analysis has shown no clear linkage to known febrile seizure or GEFS+ loci. Despite locus heterogeneity, identified mutations in reported GEFS+ have so far all been in sodium channel or gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-receptor genes, with other modifier genes postulated to affect individual phenotypes. The two mutations identified in families with ADFS are in genes implicated in GEFS+, SCN1A, and GABRG2. We conclude that it is inappropriate to separate GEFS+ and ADFS at present given the clinical and genotypic overlap.

Overexpression of GABA(B)R1a receptors in mice (R1a(+)) results in an atypical absence seizure phenotype characterized by 3- to 6-Hz slow spike-and-wave discharges (SSWDs), reduced synaptic plasticity, and cognitive impairment. Here we tested the hypothesis that increased R1 expression causes atypical absence epilepsy and is not subunit specific. GABA(B)R1b receptors were overexpressed in mouse forebrain (R1b(+)) and confirmed by immunoblot and (3)H-CGP54626A autoradiography. The R1b(+) mice showed a reduction in hippocampal long-term potentiation and GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents. R1b(+) mice manifested an electrographic, pharmacological, and behavioral phenotype consistent with atypical absence seizures, though less robust than R1a(+) in terms of SSWD duration and severity of cognitive impairment. These results suggest that abnormal GABA(B)R1b function plays a lesser role in the development of atypical absence epilepsy.
Periods in the electroencephalogram (EEG) that immediately precede the onset of spontaneous spike-wave discharges (SWD) were examined in WAG/Rij rat model of absence epilepsy. Precursors of SWD (preSWD) were classified based on the distribution of EEG power in delta-theta-alpha frequency bands as measured in the frontal cortex. In 95% of preSWD, an elevation of EEG power was detected in delta band (1-4Hz). 73% of preSWD showed high power in theta frequencies (4.5-8Hz); these preSWD might correspond to 5-9Hz oscillations that were found in GAERS before SWD onset [Pinault, D., Vergnes, M., Marescaux, C., 2001. Medium-voltage 5-9Hz oscillations give rise to spike-and-wave discharges in a genetic model of absence epilepsy: in vivo dual extracellular recording of thalamic relay and reticular neurons. Neuroscience 105, 181-201], however, theta component of preSWD in our WAG/Rij rats was not shaped into a single rhythm. It is concluded that a coalescence of delta and theta in the cortex is favorable for the occurrence of SWD. The onset of SWD was associated with strengthening of intracortical and thalamo-cortical coherence in 9.5-14Hz and in double beta frequencies. No features of EEG coherence can be considered as unique for any of preSWD subtype. Reticular and ventroposteromedial thalamic nuclei were strongly coupled even before the onset of SWD. All this suggests that SWD derive from an intermixed delta-theta EEG background; seizure onset associates with reinforcement of intracortical and cortico-thalamic associations.
The mechanisms of paradoxical aggravation of epileptic seizures induced by selected antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) remain unclear. The present study addressed this issue by determining the seizure-threshold doses of carbamazepine (CBZ) and phenytoin (PHT), as well the dose-dependent effects of CBZ, PHT, and carbonic anhydrase-inhibiting AEDs, acetazolamide (AZM), topiramate (TPM), and zonisamide (ZNS), on neurotransmitter release in rat hippocampus. The dose-dependent effects of AEDs on hippocampal extracellular levels of glutamate (Glu), GABA, norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA), and serotonin (5-HT) were determined by microdialysis with high-speed and high-sensitive extreme liquid chromatography. Proconvulsive effects of AEDs were determined by telemetric-electrocorticography. Therapeutically relevant doses of AZM, CBZ, TPM, and ZNS increased hippocampal extracellular levels of GABA, NE, DA, and 5-HT, while PHT had no effect. Supratherapeutic doses of AZM, CBZ, PHT, TPM, and ZNS decreased extracellular levels of GABA, NE, DA, and 5-HT, without affecting Glu levels. Toxic doses of CBZ and PHT produced seizures (paradoxical intoxication), markedly increasing all transmitter levels, but TPM and ZNS even at toxic doses did not produce seizure. Co-administration experiments showed that therapeutically relevant doses of CBZ or PHT reduced the seizure-threshold doses of PHT or CBZ, respectively. In contrast, therapeutically relevant doses of AZM, TPM, and ZNS elevated the seizure-threshold doses of CBZ and PHT. These results suggested that blockade of high percentage of the population of voltage-dependent sodium channels by CBZ and PHT might be important in inducing paradoxical intoxication/reaction, and that inhibition of carbonic anhydrase inhibits this effect. TPM and ZNS are candidate first-choice agents in treatment of epilepsy when first-line AEDs are ineffective.
Microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) are involved in microtubule (MT) bundling and in crossbridges between MTs and other organelles. Previous studies have assigned the MT bundling function of MAPs to their MT-binding domain and its modulation by the projection domain. In the present work, we analyse the viscoelastic properties of MT suspensions in the presence or the absence of cAMP. The experimental data reveal the occurrence of interactions between MT polymers involving MAP2 and modulated by cAMP. Two distinct mechanisms of action of cAMP are identified, which involve on one hand the phosphorylation of MT proteins by the cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) bound to the end of the N-terminal projection of MAP2, and on the other hand the binding of cAMP to the RII subunit of the PKA affecting interactions between MTs in a phosphorylation-independent manner. These findings imply a role for the complex of PKA with the projection domain of MAP2 in MT-MT interactions and suggest that cAMP may influence directly the density and bundling of MT arrays in dendrites of neurons.
Neurofilaments are the intermediate filaments of neurons and are synthesised in neuronal cell bodies and then transported through axons. Neurofilament light chain (NFL) is a principal component of neurofilaments, and phosphorylation of NFL head domain is believed to regulate the assembly of neurofilaments. However, the role that NFL phosphorylation has on transport of neurofilaments is poorly understood. To address this issue, we monitored axonal transport of phosphorylation mutants of NFL. We mutated four known phosphorylation sites in NFL head domain to either preclude phosphorylation, or mimic permanent phosphorylation. Mutation to preclude phosphorylation had no effect on transport but mutation of three sites to mimic permanent phosphorylation inhibited transport. Mutation of all four sites together to mimic permanent phosphorylation proved especially potent at inhibiting transport and also disrupted neurofilament assembly. Our results suggest that NFL head domain phosphorylation is a regulator of neurofilament axonal transport.




Behavioral and physiological evidence indicates that odor processing in the main olfactory bulb is influenced by olfactory experience. At the cellular level, changes in inhibitory influence exerted by granular interneurons may contribute to restructuring odor representations. To assess experience-dependent modulation in the responsiveness of granule cells, we measured the level and spatial distribution of odor-induced expression of the immediate-early gene Zif268 in the granule cell layer of adult mice submitted or not to olfactory discrimination conditioning. We first show that stimulation by the reinforced odorant in conditioned animals did not induce any increase in Zif268 expression in contrast to stimulation with an unfamiliar odorant which induced an odor-specific three-fold increase in Zif268 expression. The same lack of Zif268 induction was observed in animals exposed to odorants without learning, indicating that familiarity to the odorant with or without conditioning similarly reduced responsiveness of granule cells to odorant stimulation. Second, conditioning induced a spatial reorganization of Zif268-positive cells leading to higher contrast and significant enlargement of their distribution pattern. The latter effect was also present in animals exposed to the odorants without conditioning but was significantly weaker. Taken together, these data indicate that distinct populations of granule cells are solicited by odorant processing, depending on its familiarity or behavioral significance. Finally, we report that the expression pattern of Zif268 in the granule cell layer is constrained by anteroposterior and dorsolateral gradients in cell density, pointing to anatomical and possibly functional disparity within the layer.

An abundance of evidence indicates a role for the dorsal hippocampus (DH) in learning and memory. Pavlovian fear conditioning provides a useful model system in which to investigate DH function because conditioning to polymodal contextual cues, but generally not to discrete unimodal cues, depends upon the integrity of the DH. There is some suggestion that the hippocampus may be involved in generalization to discrete auditory stimuli following conditioning, but the available literature offers conflicting results regarding the nature of hippocampus involvement. The present experiments were designed to address a role for the DH in auditory generalization following delay fear conditioning. Rats were trained with two or 16 trials of delay fear conditioning and subsequently given a neurotoxic lesion of the DH or sham surgery. Upon recovery, they were tested for fear conditioned responding to the auditory stimulus they were trained with, as well as generalized responding to a novel auditory stimulus. Sham animals showed substantial generalization to the novel stimulus when trained with two or 16 trials. However, lesion animals showed much less generalization (better discriminative performance) to the novel stimulus following 16 conditioning trials while still showing substantial fear conditioned freezing to the trained stimulus. A second experiment showed that this effect was not the result of a non-associative response to the novel stimulus. We conclude that, with extended training, animals become capable of discriminating between trained and novel stimuli but another hippocampus-dependent process maintains generalized responding.
The BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) strain is an inbred strain of mice that displays prominent social deficits and repetitive behaviors analogous to the defining symptoms of autism, along with complete congenital agenesis of the corpus callosum (CC). The BTBR strain is genetically distant from the widely used C57BL/6J (B6) strain, which exhibits high levels of sociability, a low level of repetitive behaviors, and an intact CC. Emerging evidence implicates compromised interhemispherical connectivity in some cases of autism. We investigated the hypothesis that the disconnection of CC fiber tracts contributes to behavioral traits in mice that are relevant to the behavioral symptoms of autism. Surgical lesion of the CC in B6 mice at postnatal day 7 had no effect on juvenile play and adult social approaches, and did not elevate repetitive self-grooming. In addition, LP/J, the strain that is genetically closest to the BTBR strain but has an intact CC, displayed juvenile play deficits and repetitive self-grooming similar to those seen in BTBR mice. These corroborative results offer evidence against the hypothesis that the CC disconnection is a primary cause of low sociability and a high level of repetitive behaviors in inbred mice. Our findings indicate that genes mediating other aspects of neurodevelopment, including those whose mutations underlie more subtle disruptions in white matter pathways and connectivity, are more likely to contribute to the aberrant behavioral phenotypes in the BTBR mouse model of autism.
Research with dopamine D(1) receptor antagonists or neuronal inactivating agents suggests that there is dissociable regulation of cocaine-seeking behavior by the rostral and caudal basolateral amygdala. In the present study, discrete infusions of the D(1) receptor agonist SKF 81297 (0.0-0.8 microg per side) were compared with those of the D(1) receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.0-2.0 microg per side) to demonstrate directly the importance of D(1) receptor mechanisms within the rostral and caudal basolateral amygdala for their functional heterogeneity in regulating cocaine-seeking behavior. Under a second-order schedule, cocaine-seeking behavior was studied during maintenance (cocaine and cocaine cues present) and reinstatement (only cocaine cues present). Food-maintained responding was used to examine the specificity of maximal behaviorally effective doses of SKF 81297 and SCH 23390. The results demonstrated that the D(1) agonist (0.4 or 0.8 microg) increased and the D(1) antagonist (1.0 microg) decreased cocaine-seeking behavior during maintenance when infused into the caudal but not the rostral basolateral amygdala. Cocaine intake was not affected by the agonist, and was decreased by the antagonist. During reinstatement, the D(1) agonist (0.4 microg) increased and the D(1) antagonist (1.0 microg) decreased cocaine-seeking behavior when infused into the rostral but not the caudal basolateral amygdala. In tests for behavioral specificity, the above effective doses of SKF 81297 and SCH 23390 used in self-administration experiments did not alter food-maintained responding. However, the 2.0-microg dose of SCH 23390 suppressed drug-maintained and food-maintained responding after infusion into both subregions. Collectively, these findings indicate dissociable sensitivity to D(1) receptor ligands within the caudal and rostral basolateral amygdala for altering cocaine-seeking behavior under different conditions that model phases of addiction.
Embryonic spinal neurons maintained in organotypic slice culture are known to mimic certain maturation-dependent signalling changes. With such a model we investigated, in embryonic mouse spinal segments, the age-dependent spatio-temporal control of intracellular Ca(2+) signalling generated by neuronal populations in ventral circuits and its relation with electrical activity. We used Ca(2+) imaging to monitor areas located within the ventral spinal horn at 1 and 2 weeks of in vitro growth. Primitive patterns of spontaneous neuronal Ca(2+) transients (detected at 1 week) were typically synchronous. Remarkably, such transients originated from widespread propagating waves that became organized into large-scale rhythmic bursts. These activities were associated with the generation of synaptically mediated inward currents under whole-cell patch-clamp. Such patterns disappeared during longer culture of spinal segments: at 2 weeks in culture, only a subset of ventral neurons displayed spontaneous, asynchronous and repetitive Ca(2+) oscillations dissociated from background synaptic activity. We observed that the emergence of oscillations was a restricted phenomenon arising together with the transformation of ventral network electrophysiological bursting into asynchronous synaptic discharges. This change was accompanied by the appearance of discrete calbindin immunoreactivity against an unchanged background of calretinin-positive cells. It is attractive to assume that periodic oscillations of Ca(2+) confer a summative ability to these cells to shape the plasticity of local circuits through different changes (phasic or tonic) in intracellular Ca(2+).
Environmental cues that once predicted reward can restore extinguished behavior directed toward that reward. This process may be modeled by the Pavlovian-instrumental transfer (PIT) paradigm where a previously learned Pavlovian conditioned stimulus (CS) elicits a representation of the reward associated with that CS, prompts motivation toward the absent reward, and triggers an instrumental action. We recorded in the medial and orbital prefrontal cortex (mPFC and OFC) and dorsal striatum (DS) of freely moving rats during PIT and found that a Pavlovian CS, as compared with neutral or no stimuli, amplified the phasic neuronal responses to instrumental nosepokes ('transfer' event). In mPFC and OFC, but not the DS, representation of the transfer event correlated with the strength of PIT behavior. Neurons in all three regions showed CS-selective amplification of Pavlovian approaches toward the reward delivery site. Whereas striatal neurons represented transfer and approach behavior through mostly segregated neuronal subsets, overlapping subsets represented these events in the mPFC and OFC. These findings suggest that parallel phasic activation of mPFC and OFC neuronal subsets participates in the transfer from Pavlovian incentives to instrumental actions.
The clozapine metabolite N-desmethylclozapine (NDMC) has been recently shown to act at different neurotransmitter receptors and to display both antagonist and agonist activities. We have previously reported that in cells over-expressing the recombinant delta-opioid receptor NDMC behaved as partial agonist with high intrinsic activity, but its action at the receptors naturally expressed in human brain remained to be investigated. In the present study, we examined whether NDMC was able to bind to and activate delta-opioid receptors in membranes of post-mortem human frontal cortex. In radioligand binding assays, NDMC competition curves displayed high- (K(i)=26 nM) and low-affinity (K(i)=3 microM) components, whose proportion was regulated by guanine nucleotides in an agonist-like fashion. In functional assays, NDMC stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding (EC(50)=905 nM) and inhibited cyclic AMP formation (EC(50)=590 nM) as effectively as delta-opioid agonists, whereas clozapine was much less potent and efficacious and clozapine N-oxide was completely inactive. The NDMC agonist activity was potently antagonized by the delta-opioid antagonist naltrindole, but not by the micro-opioid receptor antagonist CTAP (D-phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2)) or the kappa-opioid antagonist nor-binaltorphimine. Moreover, blockade of either acetylcholine muscarinic, dopamine D(2) or serotonin 5HT(1A) receptors failed to affect NDMC agonist activity. These data demonstrate that at clinically relevant concentrations NDMC behaves as an efficacious agonist at delta-opioid receptors of human frontal cortex.
Despite the tremendous importance of D1 and NMDA receptors to cognition (working memory, executive functions) and synaptic plasticity in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying D1-NMDA receptors interactions in this brain area. Here, we show that D1 receptors and the NMDA receptor co-localize in single pyramidal neurons and interneurons in adult rat PFC. NR1 and NR2A expression are found in different neuronal types. Conversely, D1 receptors are predominantly localized in pyramidal-like cells and parvalbumin positive cells. NR1 co-immunoprecipitates with D1 receptor in adult medial PFC. In prefrontal primary cultures, NMDA does not affect the D1 receptor dependent-cAMP production. In contrast, activation of D1 receptor potentiates the NMDA mediated increase in cytosolic Ca2+, an effect that was blocked by a PKA inhibitor. We conclude that D1 receptor potentiates the NMDA-Ca2+ signal by a PKA-dependent mechanism.


Cerebral microvascular angiopathy (MVA) is associated with clinical vascular risk factors and is characterised by histological changes, including thickening of the walls of arterial vessels and dilatation of the Virchow-Robin spaces (VRS). We have previously described two novel biomarkers of MVA based on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), VRS dilatation and abnormalities in the transfer of systolic arterial pulsation to the ventricular CSF, which occur as a result of decreased cerebral arterial compliance. These are associated with vascular dementia and treatment-resistant late onset depression. We studied a group of normal subjects at risk of cerebrovascular disease to determine if these biomarkers are present in patients who have no evidence of symptomatic vascular disease. We studied 31 subjects, 16 with three or more vascular risk factors and 15 with one or less significant risk factors. We measured arterial blood flow and CSF flow in the cerebral aqueduct, white matter lesion load, and the distribution and number of VRS. There were significant differences in CSF pulsatility and in VRS in the basal ganglia between the two groups, but no differences in white matter lesion load. We conclude that asymptomatic subjects at risk of stroke have MRI evidence of MVA before white matter lesions become apparent.
During rhythmic movement, arm activity contributes to the neural excitation of leg muscles. These observations are consistent with the emergence of human bipedalism and nonhuman primate arboreal quadrupedal walking. These neural and biomechanical linkages could be exploited in rehabilitation after neurotrauma to allow the arms to give the legs a helping hand during gait rehabilitation.
The genotype-phenotype relationship was examined experimentally for the Pax6(Sey-4H) mutant, which carries deletion of its chromosome 2 middle region hemizygously. The genotyping has indicated that this deleted segment is between 102.6 and 109.2 Mb from the centromere. The glucose-6-phosphatase gene followed by the glucagon and carboxyl ester lipase genes were mapped adjacent to the deleted region. Phenotyping indicates that the Pax6(Sey-4H) mutant is more susceptible to diabetes. The glucose tolerance test showed that the mutants were less capable of reducing their level of blood glucose to the standard level than the normal sibs. The insulin-loading test revealed their inability to elevate their blood glucose levels up to normal levels. The time it took for the onset of diabetes induced by streptozotocin was shorter in the mutants than in normal sibs. Both the haploinsufficiency of the genes in the hemizygous segment of chromosome 2 and the quantitative imbalance of the whole genome could contribute the development of this phenotype in the mutant.
The interaction between numbers and action-related process has received increasing attention in the literature of numerical cognition. In the current study, two dual-task experiments were conducted to explore the interaction among numerical, prehension, and perceptual color/size judgments. The results revealed the commonality and distinctness of the magnitude representations that are involved in these tasks. Specifically, a photograph of a graspable object with a superimposed Arabic digit was presented in each trial. Participants were required to first judge the parity of the digit with a manual response while simultaneously planning a subsequent vocal response pertaining to the depicted object. When parity and action judgments were performed close in time, the compatibility effect between the numerical magnitude of the digit and the appropriate action (pinch vs. clutch) for the object was demonstrated in both manual and vocal responses. In contrast, such compatibility effect was absent when parity judgment was coupled with color-related or perceptual size judgment. The findings of the current study support the existence of a common magnitude code underlying numerical and non-numerical dimensions for action-related purposes, as proposed by the ATOM model (Walsh in Trends Cogn Sci 7:483-488, 2003). Furthermore, based on the selective presence of the compatibility effect, we argue that the interaction among different quantity dimensions conforms to the &quot;dorsal-action and ventral-perception&quot; organizational principle of the human brain.
Vestibular sensors provide precise and timely information about head velocity in space. It is well established that this information is used to stabilize eyes, head and body against movements from outside, i.e., passive movements. Here, we investigate whether vestibular information also helps to monitor and guide active head movements during gaze shifts. We measured head movements during large gaze shifts toward briefly flashed targets in humans with complete vestibular loss (vestibular subjects) and in healthy controls before and after increasing their head moment of inertia. Whereas normally head movements oscillate neither in vestibular subjects nor in controls, the increase in head moment of inertia caused marked head oscillations only in vestibular subjects. We conclude that vestibular information plays an important role in the on-line guidance of active head movements and helps to correct for unexpected changes such as additional torque imposed by an increase in moment of inertia.
Prospective control when catching moving toys was studied longitudinally in full-term and preterm infants between the ages of 22 and 48 weeks. The toy's distance and time to the catching place and its velocity were explored as possible timing strategies used by infants to start their hand movement. The aim of the study was to find evidence for a shift in timing strategy and whether there were differences between full-term and preterm infants. In addition, it was investigated how infants continuously guided their hands to the toy and whether this guidance was influenced by their use of timing strategy. The toy approached the infants from the side with different constant velocities and constant accelerations. Results showed that there was little difference between full-term and preterm infants' use of timing strategies. Initially, infants used a distance- or velocity-strategy, possibly causing them to have many unsuccessful catches. After a shift to a time-strategy, infants appeared to increase the number of successful catches and performed longer and more functional tau-couplings between the hand and the toy. One preterm infant did not switch to a time-strategy, and frequently missed the moving toy. The same infant also showed less functional tau-coupling with non-controlled collisions between the hand and the toy. More follow-up research is needed to investigate whether problems with extracting the relevant perceptual information for action could be an early indication of later perceptuo-motor difficulties.
The uveoscleral outflow route was described more than 40 years ago. Part of aqueous leaves the eye through the iris root. The ciliary muscle, and there are large species differences in the fraction of aqueous outflow that leaves the eye through this route. In non-human primates 40-50% of aqueous leaves the eye by the uveoscleral route. In human eyes most data has been collected by indirect calculations, with results suggesting a similar fraction, at least in eyes from younger individuals. An age-dependent reduction in uveoscleral flow in human eyes may explain the initial difference seen between non-human primate and human eyes. Unlike trabecular outflow, intraocular pressures within the normal range have little effect on uveoscleral outflow. This may be explained by the fact that changes in intraocular pressure have little effect on the pressure gradient for flow through the ciliary muscle, which is likely to be the rate-limiting step in uveoscleral outflow. The state of the ciliary muscle is important and contraction reduces while relaxation increases uveoscleral flow. Similar effects are achieved with cholinergic agonists and antagonists. Epinephrine increases uveoscleral flow, most likely through stimulating beta(2)-adrenergic receptors. Prostaglandin F(2alpha) and prostaglandin F(2alpha)-analogues effectively reduce intraocular pressure by increasing uveoscleral flow. This is mediated by structural changes in the extracellular matrix of the ciliary muscle, and is likely to contribute to a valuable excess route for aqueous and proteins during intraocular inflammation. Whether uveoscleral flow plays a significant role in any other eye disease is not clear. Thus, 40 years later we are able to successfully increase aqueous flow through the uveoscleral route, a valuable contribution to glaucoma treatment, but we still have only a limited understanding on its physiological role.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides, the primary component of the amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD), exert profound effects on neurons in vitro and negatively impact on neuronal function in vivo. One of the consequences of increased Abeta in the brain, either as a result of overexpression of the precursor amyloid precursor protein in transgenic mice, or injection into the brain is a decrease in one form of synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. Here we investigated the effect of infusion of Abeta for 28 days on LTP in dentate gyrus of rats and demonstrate that it was profoundly decreased compared with control-treated rats. We show that this effect is accompanied by increased activity of caspase 3, which is an indicator of cell stress. Significantly these changes were attenuated in animals which were pretreated with particles incorporating phosphatidylglycerol (VP025) and the evidence indicated that even when treatment was given 2 weeks after the start of the Abeta infusion, VP025 was capable of attenuating Abeta-induced changes. The evidence suggests that activation of caspase 3 was mediated by an Abeta-induced increase in sphingomyelinase, with the subsequent production of ceramide which is known to have a detrimental effect on neuronal function.
Reconnection of interrupted peripheral nerve by microsurgical suture is a common clinical practice. However, the extent to which peripheral neurorrhaphy improves nerve regeneration and functional recovery remains unsatisfactory. Here, we used anatomical and electrophysiological techniques to investigate the temporal correlation between the expressions of oxidative stress-related biomarkers such as neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and the facial axonal regeneration after an immediate facial nerve repair in adult rats since peripheral nerve lesion is well known to induce a dramatic increase of NOS expression in the affected neuronal cell bodies. We found that compared to nerve cut without suture, facial nerve repair not only caused the facial axonal regeneration but also consistently prevented the fluctuations of expressions of oxidative stress-related biomarkers in 10 weeks postlesion. To further elucidate the role of nitric oxide (NO) in the axonal degeneration/regeneration, four different NOS inhibitors were applied to additional rats after facial nerve cut or repair. Both of facial nerve cut+NOS inhibition and facial nerve repair+NOS inhibition were seen to prevent the alterations of expressions of the biomarkers, no matter which NOS inhibitor was used. Moreover, we found that facial nerve repair+NOS inhibition promoted earlier and better axonal regeneration than facial nerve repair, demonstrated by labeling of neuromuscular junctions, retrograde tracing, and electromyography. These results provide direct evidence that peripheral nerve suture and/or treatment of NOS inhibitors can maintain the homeostasis of oxidative stress-related biomarkers, especially nNOS in neuronal cell bodies. These actions may thus facilitate the axonal regeneration.
Chronic inflammation is known to occur in the brains of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) patients, including the presence of activated microglia close to amyloid plaques. We utilised real time autoradiography and immunohistochemistry to investigate microglial activation and the potential anti-inflammatory effects of PPARgamma agonists in the Thy-1 APP695swe/Thy-1 PS-1.M146V (TASTPM) overexpressing transgenic mouse model of AD. An age dependent increase in specific [3H](R)-PK11195 binding to peripheral benzodiazepine receptors (PBR)/translocator protein (18 kDa) (TSPO) was observed in the cortex of TASTPM mice compared to wild type mice, indicative of microglial activation. This was consistent with immunohistochemical data showing age-dependent increases in CD68 immunoreactivity co-localised with amyloid beta (Abeta) deposits. In 10 month old TASTPM mice, pioglitazone (20 mg/kg) and ciglitazone (50 mg/kg) significantly reduced [3H](R)-PK11195 and [3H]DPA-713 binding in cortex and hippocampus, indicative of reduced microglial activation. In AD brain, significant [3H](R)-PK11195 and [3H]DPA-713 binding was observed across all stages of the disease. These results support the use of PBR/TSPO autoradiography in TASTPM mice as a functional readout of microglial activation to assess anti-inflammatory drugs prior to evaluation in AD patients.
Exploitation of the ability of stem cells to protect damaged neuronal tissue may be a more viable strategy than cell replacement for repair of the central nervous system (CNS). In this study we assessed the capacity of human umbilical cord blood (hUCB)-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) to protect and promote regeneration of axotomised neurons within the rat optic system. The optic tract of neonatal rats was transected at the level of the lateral geniculate nucleus, and MSCs were introduced into the lesion site. MSCs survived well up to 2 weeks after grafting, and did not migrate significantly or differentiate. In the presence of MSC grafts, host axonal processes were found to be present in the lesion site, and there was stimulation of an endogenous neural precursor population. Four weeks after grafting, retrograde tracer experiments demonstrated that grafted MSCs, as well as cells of a human fibroblast line, exerted a neuroprotective effect, rescuing a significant percentage of axotomised retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Further experiments with retrograde and anterograde tracers strongly indicated that MSCs could also promote re-growth of axotomised RGCs to their target, the superior colliculus (SC). Further analysis showed that hUCB-derived MSCs secreted several immunomodulatory and neurotrophic factors in vitro, including TGFbeta1, CNTF, NT-3 and BDNF, which are likely to play a role in neuroprotection. Our data indicate that hUCB-derived MSCs may be an easily accessible, widely available source of cells that can contribute towards neural repair through rescue and regeneration of injured neurons.
To date, a variety of pharmacological treatments exists for patients suffering epilepsy, but systemically administered drugs offer only symptomatic relief and often cause unwanted side effects. Moreover, available drugs are not effective in one third of the patients. Thus, more local and more effective treatment strategies need to be developed. Gene therapy-based expression of endogenous anti-epileptic agents represents a novel approach that could interfere with the disease process and result in stable and long-term suppression of seizures in epilepsy patients. We have reported earlier that direct in vivo viral vector-mediated overexpression of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in the rat hippocampus suppressed seizures in different animal models of epilepsy. Here we explored whether transplantation of encapsulated cells that release GDNF in the hippocampus could also exert a seizure-suppressant effect. Such ex vivo gene therapy approach represents a novel, more clinically safe approach, since the treatment could be terminated by retrieving the transplants from the brain. We demonstrate here that encapsulated cells, which are genetically modified to produce and release GDNF, can suppress recurrent generalized seizures when implanted into the hippocampus of kindled rats.
One of the sexual dimorphic differences in adult rodents is neural proliferation. Here we demonstrate that physiological hormone stages can modulate this proliferation in the adult forebrain. Female mice, both pregnant and synchronized in oestrus, exhibited higher proliferating cell percentages than males in both the rostral migratory stream (RMS) and the olfactory bulb (OB). Moreover, although the hormonal component also influenced the subventricular zone (SVZ), no differences in proliferation were observed in this region. In addition, both groups of females had higher numbers of serotonergic fibres in these regions. Serotonin may therefore be related to the mechanism of action by which hormones can affect cell proliferation of this brain region. We also evaluated cell death in the SVZ in males and females, finding that this was higher in the former. Taken together, our results support the idea that in female rodents more neuroblasts are able to reach the RMS and then proliferate, apoptosis being an additional mechanism affecting the low proliferation of cells in the RMS and OB in males. Thus, proliferation in the RMS is influenced by sexual dimorphism.
Down syndrome (DS) individuals develop several neuropathological hallmarks seen in Alzheimer's disease, including cognitive decline and the early loss of cholinergic markers in the basal forebrain. These deficits are replicated in the Ts65Dn mouse, which contains a partial trisomy of murine chromosome 16, the orthologous genetic segment to human chromosome 21. Oxidative stress levels are elevated early in DS, and may contribute to the neurodegeneration seen in these individuals. We evaluated oxidative stress in Ts65Dn mice, and assessed the efficacy of long-term antioxidant supplementation on memory and basal forebrain pathology. We report that oxidative stress was elevated in the adult Ts65Dn brain, and that supplementation with the antioxidant vitamin E effectively reduced these markers. Also, Ts65Dn mice receiving vitamin E exhibited improved performance on a spatial working memory task and showed an attenuation of cholinergic neuron pathology in the basal forebrain. This study provides evidence that vitamin E delays onset of cognitive and morphological abnormalities in a mouse model of DS, and may represent a safe and effective treatment early in the progression of DS neuropathology.

Background: Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are ligand-gated ion channels that participate in many physiological functions. Receptors result from the assembly of five homologous or heterologous subunits that form the ligand-binding site and an ionic pore. In vertebrates, 17 subunits have been identified, alpha (1 - 10), beta (1 - 4), gamma, delta and epsilon. Assembly of different subunit combinations allows a diversity of physiological and pharmacological properties. Objective: To review the putative involvement of nAChRs in several diseases. Methods: We discuss the expression pattern of the subunits, the pharmacological tools for distinguishing them and their role in pathogenesis. Results/conclusion: Long-standing efforts in this field should soon result in the finding of new molecules that might be applicable to situations ranging from neurological diseases to immune treatments.


cAMP is the original second messenger that is synthesized in response to a number of extracellular stimuli. Recent advances in cAMP reporter technology have given an insight into how cAMP signals retain their specificity. Spatial and temporal cAMP dynamics are regulated by discretely positioned phosphodiesterases that act as sinks to create simultaneous, multiple cAMP gradients in many cellular locations. Such gradients are sampled within microdomains that contain anchored cAMP effector proteins. Compartmentalization of proteins that produce, degrade and are activated by cAMP is crucial for the specificity of action required for normal cell function.
The present study aims at clarifying the impact of oxidative stress on type B trichothecene production. The responses to hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) of an array of Fusarium graminearum and Fusarium culmorum strains were compared, both species carrying either the chemotype deoxynivalenol (DON) or nivalenol (NIV). In both cases, levels of in vitro toxin production are greatly influenced by the oxidative parameters of the medium. A 0.5 mM H(2)O(2) stress induces a two- to 50-fold enhancement of DON and acetyldeoxynivalenol production, whereas the same treatment results in a 2.4- to sevenfold decrease in NIV and fusarenone X accumulation. Different effects of oxidative stress on toxin production are the result of a variation in Fusarium's antioxidant defence responses according to the chemotype of the isolate. Compared with DON strains, NIV isolates have a higher H(2)O(2)-destroying capacity, which partially results from a significant enhancement of catalase activity induced by peroxide stress. A 0.5 mM H(2)O(2) treatment leads to a 1.3- to 1.7-fold increase in the catalase activity of NIV isolates. Our data, which show the higher adaptation to oxidative stress developed by NIV isolates, are consistent with the higher virulence of these Fusarium strains on maize compared with DON isolates.
Predictors of weight at resumption of menses were studied in 118 subjects with lifetime anorexia nervosa who recovered their ovarian function without hormonal therapies. About 64% of subjects had menses resumption during spring/summer season. The body mass index (BMI) at resumption of menses was significantly predicted by BMI at amenorrhea, highest lifetime BMI, levels of hostility, and spring/summer season at the time of recovery.
Patients affected by epilepsy show a considerably higher incidence of depression compared with the general population. Since women are twice as likely as men to suffer from depression, female gender could be considered a major risk factor for developing this condition. Converging lines of evidence suggest that sex hormones, which are known to contribute to remodelling the hippocampus, play a pivotal role in both epilepsy and depression. In women, the role of sex hormone levels may be more important because of their physiological cyclic fluctuations. Oestrogens, more than other ovarian hormones, show an effect similar to antidepressant drugs by stimulating hippocampal synaptogenesis, thus exerting a protective role against seizures as well. This paper reviews the current knowledge on the neurobiological basis of depression in women with epilepsy. The emerging picture informs therapeutic strategies to improve the clinical management of this common comorbidity.
This paper highlights gender peculiarities in the neuroscience of alcohol effects and draws attention to emerging problems due to simultaneous exposure to alcohol and environmental factors. All the available gender studies on alcohol show greater severity of alcohol-related damage, including brain damage, in females compared with males. The differences are due to physiological peculiarities that make women more vulnerable to the effects of alcohol. Today the trend to start consuming alcohol at a younger age, together with the growing number of women drinking excessively, is increasing the alcohol-related risks to women's health and justifying the need for better, gender-based studies of alcohol use and abuse. A further aspect to consider in this context is the risk of the occurrence of foetal alcohol spectrum disorders and foetal alcohol syndrome in the offspring of women who drink during pregnancy. Several lines of evidence indicate that prenatal ethanol exposure can influence cell proliferation and differentiation in the central nervous system, causing severe neurotoxicity and permanent birth defects.

The vertebrate hypothalamic-pituitary axis (HP) is the main link between the central nervous system and endocrine system. Although several signal pathways and regulatory genes have been implicated in adenohypophysis ontogenesis, little is known about hypothalamic-neurohypophysial development or when the HP matures and becomes functional. To identify markers of the HP, we constructed subtractive cDNA libraries between adult zebrafish hypothalamus and pituitary. We identified previously published genes, ESTs and novel zebrafish genes, some of which were predicted by genomic database analysis. We also analyzed expression patterns of these genes and found that several are expressed in the embryonic and larval hypothalamus, neurohypophysis, and/or adenohypophysis. Expression at these stages makes these genes useful markers to study HP maturation and function.
Traditional approaches to treating chronic neuropathic pain largely focus on manipulations directly altering neuronal activity or neuron-to-neuron communication. Recently, however, it has become clear that glial cells (including microglia and astroglia) play a significant role in pain expression in a variety of neuropathic pain models. Multiple aspects of the inflammatory response of glial cells, commonly observed in neuropathic pain conditions, have been implicated in pain expression. Thus, glial cell inflammation has emerged as a potential therapeutic target in neuropathic pain. Our laboratory has been exploring the use of an anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-10 (IL-10), to control glial inflammatory activation thereby controlling neuropathic pain. IL-10 protein delivery is limited by a short half-life and an inability to cross into the central nervous system from the periphery, making a centrally delivered gene therapy approach attractive. We have recently characterized a non-viral gene therapy approach using two injections of naked DNA to achieve long-term (&gt;3 months) control of neuropathic pain in a peripheral nerve injury model. Timing and dose requirements leading to long-term pain control are discussed in this review, as is recent work using microparticle-encapsulated DNA to achieve long-term therapeutic efficacy with a single injection.
Glutamine synthetase (GS) is a pivotal glial enzyme in the glutamate-glutamine cycle. GS is important in maintaining low extracellular glutamate concentrations and is downregulated in the hippocampus of temporal lobe epilepsy patients with mesial-temporal sclerosis, an epilepsy syndrome that is frequently associated with early life febrile seizures (FS). Human congenital loss of GS activity has been shown to result in brain malformations, seizures and death within days after birth. Recently, we showed that GS knockout mice die during embryonic development and that haploinsufficient GS mice have no obvious abnormalities or behavioral seizures. In the present study, we investigated whether reduced expression/activity of GS in haploinsufficient GS mice increased the susceptibility to experimentally induced FS. FS were elicited by warm-air-induced hyperthermia in 14-day-old mice and resulted in seizures in most animals. FS susceptibility was measured as latencies to four behavioral FS characteristics. Our phenotypic data show that haploinsufficient mice are more susceptible to experimentally induced FS (P &lt; 0.005) than littermate controls. Haploinsufficient animals did not differ from controls in hippocampal amino acid content, structure (Nissl and calbindin), glial properties (glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin) or expression of other components of the glutamate-glutamine cycle (excitatory amino acid transporter-2 and vesicular glutamate transporter-1). Thus, we identified GS as a FS susceptibility gene. GS activity-disrupting mutations have been described in the human population, but heterozygote mutations were not clearly associated with seizures or epilepsy. Our results indicate that individuals with reduced GS activity may have reduced FS seizure thresholds. Genetic association studies will be required to test this hypothesis.
Local and regulated expression of exogenous genes in the central nervous system is one of the major challenges of modern neuroscience. We have approached this issue by applying the inducible tetracycline system to regulate the expression of EGFP reporter gene in double transgenic rats. We have obtained a strong induction of EGFP only in male testes, which correlated with a high level of rtTA expression only in this organ. To overcome the problem of lack of rtTA protein in the transgenic rat brain, we have delivered this Tet system activator with lentiviral vectors into the dentate gyrus of hippocampus of transgenic EGFP rats. As a result, after systemic application of doxycycline we have obtained inducible, stable and restricted to the desired brain region expression of EGFP. An advantage of this strategy is that the transgene is located in the same genetic milieu in every cell of the transgenic organism. This is crucial to obtain uniform expression of the regulated gene within the target brain structure. Combination of rat transgenesis and lentiviral vectors is a novel approach enabling precise spatiotemporal regulation of genes of interest strictly in the brain structure of choice or in other tissues.
Biological processes are highly dynamic but the current representation of molecular networks is static and largely qualitative. To investigate the dynamic property of genetic networks, a novel quantitative high-throughput method based on RNA interference and capable of calculating the relevance of each interaction, was developed. With this approach, it will be possible to identify not only the components of a network, but also to investigate quantitatively how network and biological processes react to perturbations. As a first application of this method, the genetic interactions of a weak loss-of-function mutation in the gene efl-1/E2F with all the genes of chromosome III were investigated during embryonic development of Caenorhabditis elegans. Fifteen synthetic genetic interactions of efl-1/E2F with the genes of chromosome III were detected, measured and ranked by statistical relevance.
The Group I metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) can modulate addiction, pain, and neuronal cell death. Expression of some mGluRs, such as Group II and III mGluRs, has been reported in microglia and may affect their activation. However, the expression and role of mGluR5 in microglia is unclear. Using immunocytochemistry and Western blot, we demonstrate that mGluR5 protein is expressed in primary microglial cultures. Activation of mGluR5 using the selective agonist (RS)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) significantly reduces microglial activation in response to lipopolysaccharide, as indicated by a reduction in nitric oxide, reactive oxygen species, and TNFalpha production. Microglial induced neurotoxicity is also markedly reduced by CHPG treatment. The anti-inflammatory effects of CHPG are not observed in microglial cultures from mGluR5 knockout mice and are blocked by selective mGluR5 antagonists, suggesting that these actions are mediated by the mGluR5 receptor. Anti-inflammatory actions of mGluR5 activation are attenuated by phospholipase C and protein kinase C inhibitors, as well as by calcium chelators, suggesting that the mGluR5 activation in microglia involves the G(alphaq)-protein signal transduction pathway. These data indicate that microglial mGluR5 may represent a novel target for modulating neuroinflammation, an important component of both acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders.
Limited knowledge about human oligodendrogenesis prompted us to explore the lineage relationship between cortical radial glia (RG) cells and oligodendrocytes (OLs) in the human fetal forebrain. RG cells were isolated from cortical ventricular/subventricular zone and their progeny was followed in vitro. One portion of RG cells differentiated into cells of OL lineage identified by cell-type specific antibodies, including platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGFRalpha), NG2, O4, myelin basic protein, and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein. Moreover, using Cre Lox fate mapping (brain lipid binding protein-Cre/Floxed-yellow fluorescent protein) we established a direct link between RG cells and OL progenitors. In vitro generation of RG-derived O4(+) OL progenitors was enhanced by addition of sonic hedgehog (SHH) and reduced by the SHH inhibitor, cyclopamine, suggesting the role of SHH signaling in this process. In summary, our in vitro experiments revealed that a portion of cortical RG cells isolated from human forebrain at the second trimester of gestation generates OL progenitors and this suggests a role of SHH in this process.
In cochlear implants (CIs), increasing the stimulation rate typically increases the electric dynamic range (DR), mostly by reducing audibility thresholds. While CI users' intensity resolution has been shown to be fairly constant across stimulation rates, high rates have been shown to weaken modulation sensitivity, especially at low listening levels. In this study, modulation detection thresholds (MDTs) were measured in five CI users for a range of stimulation rates (250-2000 pulses per second) and modulation frequencies (5-100 Hz) at 8 stimulation levels that spanned the DR (loudness-balanced across stimulation rates). Intensity difference limens (IDLs) were measured for the same stimulation rates and levels used for modulation detection. For all modulation frequencies, modulation sensitivity was generally poorer at low levels and at higher stimulation rates. CI users were sensitive to modulation frequency only at relatively high levels. Similarly, IDLs were poorer at low levels and at high stimulation rates. When compared directly in terms of relative amplitude, IDLs were generally better than MDTs at low levels. Differences in loudness growth between dynamic and steady stimuli might explain level-dependent differences between MDTs and IDLs. The slower loudness growth associated with high stimulation rates might explain the poorer MDTs and IDLs with high rates. In general, high stimulation rates provided no advantage in intensity resolution and a disadvantage in modulation sensitivity.
Recent studies indicated that the human medial temporal lobe (MTL) may not only be important for long-term memory consolidation but also for certain forms of short-term memory. In this study, we explored the interplay between short- and long-term memory using high-density event-related potentials. We found that pictures immediately repeated after an unfilled interval were better recognized than pictures repeated after intervening items. After 30 min, however, the immediately repeated pictures were significantly less well recognized than pictures repeated after intervening items. This processing advantage at immediate repetition but disadvantage for long-term storage had an electrophysiological correlate: spatiotemporal analysis showed that immediate repetition induced a strikingly different electrocortical response after 200-300 ms, with inversed polarity, than new stimuli and delayed repetitions. Inverse solutions indicated that this difference reflected transient activity in the MTL. The findings demonstrate behavioral and electrophysiological dissociation between recognition during active maintenance and recognition after intervening items. Processing of novel information seems to immediately initiate a consolidation process, which remains vulnerable during active maintenance and increases its effectiveness during off-line processing.
Di-(2-ethylhexyl)-phthalate (DEHP), the plasticizer employed in the fabrication of polyvinyl chloride, is known to be released by many medical devices, namely endotracheal tubes currently utilised for pulmonary ventilation of pre-term newborns. When experimentally administered, especially to rodents, the phthalate reportedly causes alterations to several tissues, immature animals being even more responsive targets than adult ones. In the present research, female rats were fed with DEHP in the last week of pregnancy and after delivery, and lung of their pups was morphologically and immunohistochemically analysed. We detected significant alveolar simplification (larger but fewer alveoli with decreased septation), with consequent sensible reduction of gas-exchange surface, at several stages of postnatal development, in distal lung parenchyma of DEHP-treated rats. Moreover, the quantification of PCNA-expressing cells demonstrates that in treated pups the proliferation rates of epithelial and mesenchymal cells progressively increased during the first two postnatal weeks, at difference with controls animals, where the highest proliferation levels were reached at postnatal day 7. The obtained results strongly support the hypothesis that DEHP profoundly affects the alveolarization process in mammalian lung.
The putative human pheromone Delta4,16-androstadien-3-one (androstadienone), a non-androgenic steroid found in sweat and saliva, modulates psychological, physiological and hormonal responses without detection as an odor. To determine the specific psychological processes altered by androstadienone, four studies were completed by 50 men and women after solutions of 250 microM androstadienone or clove-odor control carrier, on separate days, were applied to their upper lip: (1) face pairs were subliminally presented, with one face neutral and the other happy or angry. Androstadienone accelerated speed to locate a subsequent dot probe appearing on the same side as emotional faces, without affecting overall reaction times, indicating that androstadienone specifically enhanced automatic attention to emotional information. (2) In two Stroop paradigms, emotional or mismatched color words interfered with ink color identification. Androstadienone slowed ink color identification of emotional words, demonstrating greater allocation of attentional resources towards emotional information, with no effect on the cognitive Stroop. (3) To test effects on social cognition, participants performed two working memory tasks with distinct stimuli, neutral faces or shapes. Androstadienone did not alter attention to either the social or nonsocial images. (4) The ameliorative effects of androstadienone on self-reported attentiveness were replicated, consistent with increased attention to emotional visual stimuli. Moreover, androstadienone did not alter positive or negative mood, as participants were alone during testing, which removed emotional stimuli from social interactions with a tester. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that subliminal androstadienone guides psychological resources to specifically engage stimuli with emotional significance and does not alter attention to social or general cognitive information.
Humans as social beings often have to perform complex social cognitive tasks while under stress (e.g., during a social conflict). Previous research has established that the brain regions responsible for social cognitive tasks are target regions for stress hormones. However, little experimental research has been done testing the acute effects of stress on social cognition. Here, we investigated whether stress exposure and the ensuing glucocorticoid (i.e., cortisol) elevations affect social cognition. Thirty-two men and 32 women were exposed to either a psychosocial stress or a non-stressful control test before assessing their social cognition using the Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test (RMET) and the Movie for the Assessment of Social Cognition (MASC). Results showed differential effects of stress-induced cortisol responses among men and women for the MASC, but not the RMET. Among men, high cortisol responders displayed elevated MASC scores compared with low cortisol responders. Moreover, for stressed men a positive association between the magnitude of the cortisol responses to the stressor and MASC scores emerged. Among women, enhanced MASC scores were found for low cortisol responders relative to high cortisol responders and non-stressed controls. A strong negative association between cortisol reactivity and MASC scores was found among women. These results imply sex specific effects of glucocorticoids on social cognition and partially support the idea of sex differences in biobehavioral stress responses, with men engaging in fight-or-flight responses while women may react to stress with tending and befriending behavior.

Hormonal influences on the organization of behavior are apparent to neuroendocrinologists but under-examined in relation to childhood and adolescent mental disorders. A central mystery in the field of developmental psychopathology is the preferential male vulnerability to behavior disorders in childhood and female vulnerability to emotional disorders in adolescence. Relative neglect of a hormonal explanation may be due to lack of simple or unifying conceptual paradigms to guide studies. This paper seeks to stimulate research in this area by drawing upon clinical psychology and neuroscience literatures to offer a heuristic paradigm for clinical research. Two syndromes are selected here for illustration: Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), because they have opposite gender risk profiles. Two guiding theories are evaluated. First, prenatal organizational effects of testosterone may modulate striatally-based dopaminergic circuits in such a way as to place boys at greater risk for early developing inattention and disruptive behavioral disorders. Second, activational effects of estradiol at puberty may modulate amygdalar and other circuitry, with particular effects on serotonergic pathways, in such a way as to place girls at greater risk for internalizing and mood disorders. Hypotheses from these theories are evaluated based on the current available literature, and limitations of, and future directions for, this literature are discussed.
Calibrated functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) provides a noninvasive technique to assess functional metabolic changes associated with normal aging. We simultaneously measured both the magnitude of the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) responses in the visual cortex for separate conditions of mild hypercapnia (5% CO(2)) and a simple checkerboard stimulus in healthy younger (n = 10, mean: 28-years-old) and older (n = 10, mean: 53-years-old) adults. From these data we derived baseline CBF, the BOLD scaling parameter M, the fractional change in the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen consumption (CMRO(2)) with activation, and the coupling ratio n of the fractional changes in CBF and CMRO(2). For the functional activation paradigm, the magnitude of the BOLD response was significantly lower for the older group (0.57 +/- 0.07%) compared to the younger group (0.95 +/- 0.14%), despite the finding that the fractional CBF and CMRO(2) changes were similar for both groups. The weaker BOLD response for the older group was due to a reduction in the parameter M, which was significantly lower for older (4.6 +/- 0.4%) than younger subjects (6.5 +/- 0.8%), most likely reflecting a reduction in baseline CBF for older (41.7 +/- 4.8 mL/100 mL/min) compared to younger (59.6 +/- 9.1 mL/100 mL/min) subjects. In addition to these primary responses, for both groups the BOLD response exhibited a post-stimulus undershoot with no significant difference in this magnitude. However, the post-undershoot period of the CBF response was significantly greater for older compared to younger subjects. We conclude that when comparing two populations, the BOLD response can provide misleading reflections of underlying physiological changes. A calibrated approach provides a more quantitative reflection of underlying metabolic changes than the BOLD response alone.
The application of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in neuroscience studies has increased enormously in the last decade. Although primarily used to map brain regions activated by specific stimuli, many studies have shown that fMRI can also be useful in identifying interactions between brain regions (functional and effective connectivity). Despite the widespread use of fMRI as a research tool, clinical applications of brain connectivity as studied by fMRI are not well established. One possible explanation is the lack of normal patterns and intersubject variability-two variables that are still largely uncharacterized in most patient populations of interest. In the current study, we combine the identification of functional connectivity networks extracted by using Spearman partial correlation with the use of a one-class support vector machine in order construct a normative database. An application of this approach is illustrated using an fMRI dataset of 43 healthy subjects performing a visual working memory task. In addition, the relationships between the results obtained and behavioral data are explored.
Many patients suffer from the loss of motor skills, resulting from traumatic brain and spinal cord injuries, stroke, and many other disabling conditions. Thanks to technological advances in measuring and decoding the electrical activity of cortical neurons, brain-machine interfaces (BMI) have become a promising technology that can aid paralyzed individuals. In recent studies on BMI, robotic manipulators have demonstrated their potential as neuroprostheses. Restoring motor skills through robot manipulators controlled by brain signals may improve the quality of life of people with disability. This article reviews current robotic technologies that are relevant to BMI and suggests strategies that could improve the effectiveness of a brain-operated neuroprosthesis through robotics.

Hypoxia is one of the major causes of damage to the fetal and neonatal brain and cardiac functions. In earlier studies, we have reported the brain damage caused by hypoxia and resuscitation with oxygen and epinephrine and have found that glucose treatment to hypoxic rats and hypoxic rats treated with oxygen shows a reversal of brain damage. The neonatal rats are shown to be deficient in free radical scavenging system, which offers a high risk of oxidative stress. In the present study, we induced hypoxia in neonatal Wistar rats and resuscitated with glucose, oxygen and epinephrine. Heart tissue and cerebral cortex were used to study the kinetics of superoxide dismutase activity in experimental groups of rats to assess the free radical status. Results showed that glucose supplementation in hypoxia (Hx + G) and hypoxic + oxygen (Hx + O) had an efficient free radical scavenging capability, compared to all other experimental groups. The observation was ascertained by studying the activity of catalase, another antioxidant enzyme in the body. Our results suggested that in neonatal rats during hypoxic condition, damage to heart and brain was more prominent in all groups, except when supplemented with glucose. These findings may have clinical significance in the proper management of heart and brain function.



Severe mental illness tends to occur and recur among women in the reproductive period. Both the disorders and the treatments may have effects on the mother and the foetus. The clinician hence is often in a dilemma when treating pregnant women with severe mental illness and is challenged with ethical issues related to decision making in this regard. Both treatment and non treatment are not without risks and this is particularly challenging if the mother has active symptoms and cannot make decisions because of impaired capacity. This paper highlights some of these ethical and clinical dilemmas through case vignettes based on data from a specialised perinatal psychiatry service.
Chickenpox (Varicella) representing the primary infection by Varicella zoster virus is a common benign and self-limited infectious disease of childhood. Although the disease can be associated with complications, they are generally mild and tend to occur in adults and immunocompromised children. Severe and life-threatening complications are extremely rare, particularly those involving the cardiovascular system. We report a malnourished 5-year-old girl with chicken pox complicated by hemorrhagic pericarditis and deep vein thrombosis leading to fatal pulmonary thromboembolism. Though varicella infection runs a benign self-limiting course, it continues to cause significant morbidity and mortality when associated with complications, particularly in malnourished children. Hence, the importance of vaccination and early recognition of complications is emphasized.


To explicitly outline a therapeutic technique for symptom removal in conversion disorder. We describe one patient with conversion dumbness and another with conversion paraplegia. The first patient was successfully treated in a single session, and the second was successfully treated across two weeks, both using systematic enhancement of functioning as a technique for symptom removal. This technique encourages the patient to express the desired behavior to whatever extent possible; subsequently, the patient is encouraged to gradually amplify the response until normal levels of functioning are achieved. The technique outlined is simple and practical but nevertheless receives no mention in conversion disorder literature. The technique can be applied to any situation in which behavioral amplification is desired.



In brain regions that have been implicated in the reinstatement of drug-seeking, the prelimbic cortex has emerged as a critical regulator of relapse behaviours. Here, the effects of prelimbic cortex dopamine (DA) D(1) receptor antagonism on drug-seeking produced by heroin-paired cues, or by a single priming dose of heroin are examined. Rats lever-pressed daily for i.v. heroin discretely paired with a conditioned stimulus during 3-h sessions for a period of 2 wk, followed by extinction and reinstatement of drug-seeking by previously heroin-paired cues (tone+light) or heroin-priming injections (0.25 mg/kg) in the absence of heroin reinforcement. Intracranial infusion of the DA D(1) receptor antagonist, SCH 23390 (0.02-2.0 microg/side), into the prelimbic cortex potently and dose dependently attenuated heroin-seeking in response to either cue presentations or a priming dose of heroin. These results suggest that DA D1 receptors regulate prefrontal cortex pathways necessary for the reinstatement of heroin-seeking.
In this double-blind, placebo-controlled study, we examined the effects of subanaesthetic doses of ketamine (an NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist) and thiopental (a GABA-A receptor agonist) on the event-related potential (ERP) correlates of deviant stimulus processing in 24 healthy adults. Participants completed three separate pharmacological challenge sessions (ketamine, thiopental, saline) in a counterbalanced order. EEG data were recorded both before and during each challenge while participants performed a visual 'oddball' task consisting of infrequent 'target' and 'novel' stimuli intermixed with frequent 'standard' stimuli. We examined drug effects on the amplitude and latency of the P300 (P3) component of the ERP elicited by target (P3b) and novel stimuli (P3a), as well as the N200 (N2) component elicited by both target and novel stimuli, and the N100 (N1) elicited by standard stimuli. Relative to placebo, both drugs reduced the amplitude of parietal P3b. While both drugs reduced parietal P3a and Novelty N2, ketamine also shortened P3a latency, reduced Novelty N2 amplitude more than thiopental, and increased frontal P3a amplitude relative to placebo. Overall, the data suggest that both the GABA-A and NMDA receptor systems modulate P3b and P3a. NMDA antagonism appears to lead to more varied effects on the neural correlates of novelty processing.
For humans and animal models alike there is general agreement that the central nervous system processing of gastrointestinal (GI) signals arising from ingested food provides the principal determinant of the size of meals and their frequency. Despite this, relatively few studies are aimed at delineating the brain circuits, neurochemical pathways and intracellular signals that mediate GI-stimulation-induced intake inhibition. Two additional motivations to pursue these circuits and signals have recently arisen. First, the success of gastric-bypass surgery in obesity treatment is highlighting roles for GI signals such as glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) in intake and energy balance control. Second, accumulating data suggest that the intake-reducing effects of leptin may be mediated through an amplification of the intake-inhibitory effects of GI signals. Experiments reviewed show that: (1) the intake-suppressive effects of a peripherally administered GLP-1 receptor agonist is mediated by caudal brainstem neurons and that forebrain-hypothalamic neural processing is not necessary for this effect; (2) a population of medial nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) neurons that are responsive to gastric distention is also driven by leptin; (3) caudal brainstem-targeted leptin amplifies the food-intake-inhibitory effects of gastric distention and intestinal nutrient stimulation; (4) adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activity in NTS-enriched brain lysates is elevated by food deprivation and reduced by refeeding and (5) the intake-suppressive effect of hindbrain-directed leptin is reversed by elevating hindbrain AMPK activity. Overall, data support the view that the NTS and circuits within the hindbrain mediate the intake inhibition of GI signals, and that the effects of leptin on food intake result from the amplification of GI signal processing.
In a MEG experiment, we imaged the early dynamics of the human cerebral cortex during the induction of emotion by visual stimuli. We tested the hypothesis that early cortical responses would correlate with the emotional competence of visual stimuli and subsequent subjective ratings of feeling in a set of specific target regions important for somatosensory, attentional, and motivational functions, just after initial visual and appraisal related cortical responses to picture presentation. Relative to the neutral condition, cortical responses, during the 350-500 ms phase of the MEG evoked response, were stronger for both pleasant and unpleasant stimuli in the orbitofrontal cortex, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate and somatosensory cortices. These responses, which correlated with subjective ratings of arousal, emerged after an initial spreading of cortical activity from early visual cortex (70-200 ms) to the ventral visual stream, temporopolar and orbitofrontal regions (200-350 ms), higher for emotionally competent stimuli than for neutral in the 200-350 ms window, in a manner compatible with an appraisal function. Heart beats occurring during the first 500 ms post stimulus showed longer intervals for unpleasant than for neutral stimuli relative to the preceding beat. The results support the hypothesis of a sequence of processing regarding the emergence of feelings and suggest that, even in the early phase of feeling induction, actual body responses to the inducing stimuli could be represented in the brain.
Interoception, defined as the perception of internal body states, plays a central role in classic and contemporary theories of emotion. In particular, deviations from baseline body states have been hypothesized to be integral to the experience of emotion and feeling. Consequently, reliable measurement of interoception is critical to the testing of emotion theories. Heartbeat perception tasks have been considered the standard method for assessing interoceptive awareness, primarily due to their non-invasive nature and technical feasibility. However, these tasks are limited by the fact that above chance group performance rates on heartbeat detection (or the frequency of 'good detectors') are rarely higher than 40%, meaning that such tasks (as they are typically utilized) do not obtain a measure of interoceptive awareness in the majority of individuals. Here we describe a novel protocol for inducing and assessing a range of deviations in body states via bolus infusions of isoproterenol, a non-selective beta adrenergic agonist. Using a randomized, double-blinded, and placebo-controlled experimental design, we found that bolus isoproterenol infusions elicited rapid and transient increases in heart rate and concomitant ratings of heartbeat and breathing sensations, in a dose-dependent manner. Our protocol revealed changes in interoceptive awareness in all 15 participants tested, thus overcoming a major limitation of heartbeat detection tasks. These findings indicate that bolus isoproterenol infusions provide a reliable method for assessing interoceptive awareness, which sets a foundation for further investigation of the role of interoceptive sensations in the experience of emotion.
Does feeling an emotion require changes in autonomic responses, as William James proposed? Can feelings and autonomic responses be dissociated? Findings from cognitive neuroscience have identified brain structures that subserve feelings and autonomic response, including those induced by emotional music. In the study reported here, we explored whether feelings and autonomic responses can be dissociated by using music, a stimulus that has a strong capacity to induce emotional experiences. We tested two brain regions predicted to be differentially involved in autonomic responsivity (the ventromedial prefrontal cortex) and feeling (the right somatosensory cortex). Patients with damage to the ventromedial prefrontal cortex were impaired in their ability to generate skin-conductance responses to music, but generated normal judgments of their subjective feelings in response to music. Conversely, patients with damage to the right somatosensory cortex were impaired in their self-rated feelings in response to music, but generated normal skin-conductance responses to music. Control tasks suggested that neither impairment was due to basic defects in hearing the music or in cognitively recognizing the intended emotion of the music. The findings provide evidence for a double dissociation between feeling emotions and autonomic responses to emotions, in response to music stimuli.
We report a psychophysiological study of &quot;recognition without awareness&quot; in patient 2354, who had severe but circumscribed atrophy in the occipitoparietal region bilaterally (caused by visual-variant Alzheimer's disease, documented by structural and functional neuroimaging) and an accompanying Balint syndrome that prevented her from recognizing the emotional valence of many highly charged negative visual scenes (e.g., a burned body). Despite this lack of overt recognition, patient 2354 nonetheless generated large amplitude skin conductance responses to highly charged negative pictures, demonstrating the same kind of recognition without awareness that has been reported previously in patients with bilateral occipitotemporal dysfunction and prosopagnosia [e.g., Tranel, D., &amp; Damasio, A. R. (1985). Knowledge without awareness: an autonomic index of facial recognition by prosopagnosics. Science, 228, 1453-1454.]. Our case complements both previous evidence of covert, nonconscious recognition in patients with prosopagnosia, and previous behavioral studies of patients with Balint syndrome that have shown evidence of &quot;preattentive&quot; visual processing. The findings add to the small but important set of empirical observations regarding nonconscious visual processing in neurological patients, and indicate that recognition without awareness can occur in the setting of dorsal visual stream dysfunction and Balint syndrome. The findings in our patient suggest that she has patent pathways from higher-order visual cortices to autonomic effectors in the amygdala or hypothalamus, even though the results of such information processing are not made available to conscious awareness.

The potential application for stem cell therapy is vast, and development for use in ischaemic stroke is still in its infancy. Access to stem cells for research is contentious; however, stem cells are obtainable from both animal and human. Despite a limited understanding of their mechanisms of action, clinical trials assessing stem cells in human stroke have been performed. Trials are also underway evaluating haematopoietic precursors mobilised with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor, an approach offering an autologous means of administrating stem cells for therapeutic purposes. This review summarises current knowledge in regard to stem cells and their potential for helping improve recovery after stroke.
One of the main characteristics of multiple sclerosis (MS) is the existence of a &quot;clinico-radiological paradox&quot;. The discrepancies observed between the clinical and radiological findings might be partly attributable to lack of specificity of the imaging measures, but also to functional reorganization mechanisms occurring at both the brain and spinal cord levels. These neuroplastic processes might provide a means of delaying the clinical expression of some functional symptoms. Functional MRI (fMRI) methods provide a useful means of determining whether functional reorganization mechanisms of this kind are at work. It has been established, for example, that these neuroplastic mechanisms occur right from the start of the disease and may contribute to reducing the expression of the symptoms resulting from pathological tissue damage. This functional reorganization may therefore constitute an important adaptive mechanism during the early stages of the disease. One potential practical application of the findings made on these neuroplastic processes is likely to be the development of specific rehabilitation methods, which can be used to enhance these reactive mechanisms in order to maintain MS patients functional abilities, and other specifically targeted approaches will also predictably be developed.
Diagnosing multiple sclerosis (MS) is not always straightforward. The very nature of this disease means that it can manifest in multiple varied clinical presentations. Diagnosis is further confounded by the lack of a single diagnostic test and a gargantuan list of differential diagnoses. Traditionally the diagnosis of MS is a clinical one: with the history and/or examination revealing the separation in time and space of neurological episodes. In some cases, however, a diagnosis of &quot;possible MS&quot; might have to be made, for example, when the patient presents after a single event. Paraclinical investigations and diagnostic criteria may be of help in these situations. It is recommended that any diagnostic uncertainty is discussed openly with patients.



This paper investigates the theoretical basis for estimating vocal-tract length (VTL) from the formant frequencies of vowel sounds. A statistical inference model was developed to characterize the relationship between vowel type and VTL, on the one hand, and formant frequency and vocal cavity size, on the other. The model was applied to two well known developmental studies of formant frequency. The results show that VTL is the major source of variability after vowel type and that the contribution due to other factors like developmental changes in oral-pharyngeal ratio is small relative to the residual measurement noise. The results suggest that speakers adjust the shape of the vocal tract as they grow to maintain a specific pattern of formant frequencies for individual vowels. This formant-pattern hypothesis motivates development of a statistical-inference model for estimating VTL from formant-frequency data. The technique is illustrated using a third developmental study of formant frequencies. The VTLs of the speakers are estimated and used to provide a more accurate description of the complicated relationship between VTL and glottal pulse rate as children mature into adults.


As advances in neuroscience have furthered our understanding of the role of brain circuitry, genetics, stress, and neuromodulators in the regulation of normal behavior and in the pathogenesis of psychopathology, an increasing appreciation of the role of neurobiology in individual differences in personality and their pathology in personality disorders has emerged. Individual differences in the regulation and organization of cognitive processes, affective reactivity, impulse/action patterns, and anxiety may in the extreme provide susceptibilities to personality disorders such as borderline and schizotypal personality disorder. A low threshold for impulsive aggression, as observed in borderline and antisocial personality disorders, may be related to excessive amygdala reactivity, reduced prefrontal inhibition, and diminished serotonergic facilitation of prefrontal controls. Affective instability may be mediated by excessive limbic reactivity in gabaminergic/glutamatergic/cholinergic circuits, resulting in an increased sensitivity or reactivity to environmental emotional stimuli as in borderline personality disorder and other cluster B personality disorders. Disturbances in cognitive organization and information processing may contribute to the detachment, desynchrony with the environment, and cognitive/perceptional distortions of cluster A or schizophrenia spectrum personality disorders. A low threshold for anxiety may contribute to the avoidant, dependent, and compulsive behaviors observed in cluster C personality disorders. These alterations in critical regulatory domains will influence how representations of self and others are internalized. Aspects of neurobiological functioning themselves become cognized through the medium of figurative language into an ongoing narrative of the self, one that can be transformed through the analytic process, allowing for the modulation of genetic/biological thresholds.
The present study was undertaken to assess the effects of exercise training (ExT) initiated after the onset of diabetes on cardiac ryanodine receptor expression and function. Type 1 diabetes was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats using streptozotocin (STZ). Three weeks after STZ injection, diabetic rats were divided into two groups. One group underwent ExT for 4 wk while the other group remained sedentary. After 7 wk of sedentary diabetes, cardiac fractional shortening, rate of rise of left ventricular pressure, and myocyte contractile velocity were reduced by 14, 36, 44%, respectively. Spontaneous Ca(2+) spark frequency increased threefold, and evoked Ca(2+) release was dyssynchronous with diastolic Ca(2+) releases. Steady-state type 2 ryanodine receptor (RyR2) protein did not change, but its response to Ca(2+) was altered. RyR2 also exhibited 1.8- and 1.5-fold increases in phosphorylation at Ser(2808) and Ser(2814). PKA activity was reduced by 75%, but CaMKII activity was increased by 50%. Four weeks of ExT initiated 3 wk after the onset of diabetes blunted decreases in cardiac fractional shortening and rate of left ventricular pressure development, increased the responsiveness of the myocardium to isoproterenol stimulation, attenuated the increase in Ca(2+) spark frequency, and minimized dyssynchronous and diastolic Ca(2+) releases. ExT also normalized the responsiveness of RyR2 to Ca(2+) activation, attenuated increases in RyR2 phosphorylation at Ser(2808) and Ser(2814), and normalized CaMKII and PKA activities. These data are the first to show that ExT during diabetes normalizes RyR2 function and Ca(2+) release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum, providing insights into mechanisms by which ExT during diabetes improves cardiac function.
Research on theory of mind (TOM) has provided a major contribution to the understanding of developmental disorders characterized by atypical social behaviour. Yet, there is still little consensus relative to TOM abilities in Williams syndrome (WS). This study used visual and verbal tasks to investigate attribution of intentions in individuals with WS relative to mental age-matched typically developing individuals. Results showed that individuals with WS perform as accurately as controls on the verbal but not on the visual task. Such modality differences did not affect WS group's performance on a control condition not requiring TOM neither were found for the control group. These results suggest the existence of a verbal peak and a visual valley in TOM ability in WS.
Previous studies by our group suggest that the neuropathology of autism is characterized by a disturbance of cortical modularity. In this model a decrease in the peripheral neuropil space of affected minicolumns provides for an inhibitory deficit and a readjustment in their signal to noise bias during information processing. In this study we proposed using low frequency transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) as a way increasing the surround inhibition of minicolumns in autism. Thirteen patients (ADOS and ADI-R diagnosed) and equal number of controls participated in the study. Repetitive TMS was delivered at 0.5 Hz, 2 times per week for 3 weeks. Outcome measures based on event-related potentials (ERP), induced gamma activity, and behavioral measures showed significant post-TMS improvement. The results suggest that rTMS offers a potential therapeutic intervention for autism.
This study examines the efficacy of a manualized parent-assisted social skills intervention in comparison with a matched Delayed Treatment Control group to improve friendship quality and social skills among teens 13-17 years of age with autism spectrum disorders. Targeted skills included conversational skills, peer entry and exiting skills, developing friendship networks, good sportsmanship, good host behavior during get-togethers, changing bad reputations, and handling teasing, bullying, and arguments. Results revealed, in comparison with the control group, that the treatment group significantly improved their knowledge of social skills, increased frequency of hosted get-togethers, and improved overall social skills as reported by parents. Possibly due to poor return rate of questionnaires, social skills improvement reported by teachers was not significant. Future research should provide follow-up data to test the durability of treatment.
This is an Introduction to a special issue in memory of Douglas Longshore, a prominent researcher in the field of addiction health services. The findings from the ten papers in this issue are summarized and discussed within the context of Doug's development as a researcher and the core themes from his work. Three core areas are addressed: (1) internal processes related to change among substance abusers, (2) processes related to ethnicity and gender, and (3) treatment effectiveness, particularly regarding interventions to reduce risk of HIV/AIDS among substance abusers. The implications for addiction health services are discussed with regard to the application of these themes to practice.
Religiosity and spirituality (R/S) have been shown to be related to better outcomes in many health service areas, including drug abuse treatment. The latter area, however, lacks a fully emergent empirical framework to guide further study. Moreover, although scientists have tested isolated hypotheses, no comprehensive process model has been designed and validated, limiting conceptual development as well. This paper reviews the relevant R/S and health research literature with a primary focus on drug treatment processes. Then a conceptual model is suggested to guide future incremental study of R/S assessment and intervention development. Implications for addiction health services include increased efforts to empirically validate R/S interventions, to increase practitioner competencies in this area, and to disseminate relevant research findings.
Levo-alpha-acetylmethadol maintenance (LAAM) was compared to methadone maintenance (MM) on the behavioral performance of 315 heroin addicts before, during, and after 12 months of fully subsidized treatment. Assessments of drug use, criminal behavior, HIV risk behaviors, and employment and residential status were obtained at treatment intake and at 6, 12, and 18 months after admission. Treatment retention and in-treatment suppression of heroin use were significantly better for the LAAM group than for the MM group. Improvements were also noted during treatment in criminal behavior, criminal justice involvement, and employment status, and there were reductions in injection HIV risk and number of sexual partners. Most significant effects were primarily related to active participation in maintenance treatment. Under subsidized treatment, retention rates were two to four times that of similar clients in local community programs during the same period. LAAM was a useful and a potentially important addition to treatment options for opiate addiction, conferring greater retention and opiate suppression benefits. Its removal from application provides a historical lesson concerning the introduction of new medications into addiction health services.
This special issue is dedicated to the memory of Douglas Longshore, who was affiliated with the UCLA Integrated Substance Abuse Programs and RAND. The special issue reflects Longshore's research legacy in the areas of addiction and health services research and his many productive collaborations with other investigators.
This study empirically tested one component of a comprehensive model of the role of religiosity and spirituality (R/S) in drug treatment that is presented as a companion article in this special issue. Data collected from individuals dependent on heroin receiving narcotic replacement therapy were used to assess the effects of R/S on drug treatment outcomes. Based on their R and S scores, participants were assigned to one of four groups: those whose scores remained consistently high across the 12-month study period were compared to those whose scores were consistently low, increased, or decreased across the same period. Results indicated that at both study completion (12 months after admission) and 6 months after that participants in the consistently high and increasing spirituality groups self-reported significantly fewer days of heroin and cocaine/crack use than those in the consistently low group (p &lt; 0.05). There were no significant differences among the religiosity groups on self-reported heroin or cocaine/crack use. Results from chi(2) analyses indicated that at 12 months the results of urinalysis for the presence of opiates, but not cocaine/crack, were dependent on spirituality group membership (p &lt; 0.01) but not religiosity group membership. Results also indicated that at the 6-month follow-up, there were significantly more participants in the decreasing group who were not in maintenance treatment who had a positive urinalysis and fewer in the increasing group than would be expected if the two variables were independent (p &lt; 0.05). Implications for addictions health services are discussed.
Motivation for change has historically been viewed as the crucial element affecting responsiveness to drug treatment. Various external pressures, such as legal coercion, may engender motivation in an individual previously resistant to change. Dramatic relief may be the change process that is most salient as individuals internalize such external pressures. Results of structural equation modeling on data from 465 drug users (58.9% male; 21.3% Black, 34.2% Hispanic/Latino, and 35.1% White) entering drug treatment indicated that internal motivation and external pressure significantly and positively predicted dramatic relief and that dramatic relief significantly predicted attitudes towards drug treatment: chi (2) = 142.20, df = 100, p &lt; 0.01; Robust Comparative Fit Index = 0.97, Root Mean Squared Error of Approximation = 0.03. These results indicate that when external pressure and internal motivation are high, dramatic relief is also likely to be high. When dramatic relief is high, attitudes towards drug treatment are likely to be positive. The findings indicate that interventions to get individuals into drug treatment should include processes that promote Dramatic Relief. Implications for addictions health services are discussed.
The effects of perceived coercion and motivation on treatment completion and subsequent re-arrest were examined in a sample of substance-abusing offenders assessed for California's Substance Abuse and Crime Prevention Act (SACPA) program. Perceived coercion was measured with the McArthur Perceived Coercion Scale; motivation was measured with the subscales of the Stages of Change Readiness and Treatment Eagerness Scale (SOCRATES). At treatment entry, clients were more likely to believe that they had exercised their choice in entering treatment than that they had been coerced into treatment. SACPA clients scored relatively low on Recognition and Ambivalence regarding their drug use but relatively high on Taking Steps to address their drug problem. Correlations between perceived coercion and motivation measures at treatment entry indicated that these are separate constructs. In logistic regression models, the Recognition subscale of the SOCRATES significantly predicted &quot;any re-arrest,&quot; and Ambivalence and Taking Steps predicted &quot;any drug arrest.&quot;
This study tested components of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) Risk Reduction Model (ARRM) for a sample of methamphetamine-using offenders in drug treatment. Analyses included the first two stages of the ARRM, problem recognition and intention to reduce risk (potential precursors to later possible behavior change), assessing predictors of intentions to increase condom use, reduce other sexual risk, and disinfect needles. Path analysis results showed potential applicability of the ARRM as a basis for intervention development for this population. There was a consistent effect of self-efficacy for risk reduction strategies, as well as direct or indirect effects of problem recognition factors (AIDS knowledge, peer norms), on the three intention indicators. Prior sex risk behavior (condom use) was directly negatively related to intention to use condoms; prior needle use was indirectly negatively related to intention to disinfect. Intention to use condoms was lower for women. Results can help identify areas for intervention development.
Scheduled bright light and darkness can phase shift the circadian clocks of night workers for complete adaptation to a night work, day sleep schedule, but few night workers would want this because it would leave them out of phase with the diurnal world on days off. This is the final study in a series designed to produce a compromise circadian phase position for permanent night shift work in which the sleepiest circadian time is delayed out of the night work period and into the first half of the day sleep episode. The target compromise phase position was a dim light melatonin onset (DLMO) of 3:00, which puts the sleepiest circadian time at approximately 10:00. This was predicted to improve night shift alertness and performance while permitting sufficient daytime sleep after work as well as late-night sleep on days off. In a between-subjects design, 19 healthy subjects underwent 3 simulated night shifts (23:00-7:00), 2 days off, 4 more night shifts, and 2 more days off. Subjects &quot;worked&quot; in the lab and slept at home. Experimental subjects received four 15-min bright light pulses during each night shift, wore dark sunglasses when outside, slept in dark bedrooms at scheduled times, and received outdoor afternoon light exposure (&quot;light brake&quot;) to keep their rhythms from delaying too far. Control subjects remained in normal room light during night shifts, wore lighter sunglasses, and had unrestricted sleep and outdoor light exposure. The final DLMO of the experimental group was 3:22 +/- 2.0 h, close to the target of 3:00, and later than the control group at 23:24 +/- 3.8 h. Experimental subjects slept for nearly all the permitted time in bed. Some control subjects who slept late on weekends also reached the compromise phase position and obtained more daytime sleep. Subjects who phase delayed (whether in the experimental or control group) close to the target phase performed better during night shifts. A compromise circadian phase position improved performance during night shifts, allowed sufficient sleep during the daytime after night shifts and during the late nighttime on days off, and can be produced by inexpensive and feasible interventions.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short, non-protein-encoding RNAs that effect post-transcriptional gene regulation by targeting messenger RNAs. miRNAs are associated with specific human diseases and help regulate development. Here we review recent advances in understanding the roles of miRNAs in skeletal malformations, including cleft palate, and in the evolution of skeletal morphologies. We propose the hypothesis that evolutionary variation in miRNA expression patterns or structural variation in miRNA binding sites in messenger RNAs can help explain the evolution of craniofacial variation among species, the development of human craniofacial disease and physiological changes leading to osteopenia that increases with ageing.
Acute ischemic stroke is a leading cause of mortality and disability in the elderly. Age is the most important nonmodifiable risk factor for stroke, yet many preclinical models continue to examine only young male animals. It remains unclear how experimental stroke outcomes change with aging and with biologic sex. If sex differences are present, it is not known whether these reflect an intrinsic differing sensitivity to stroke or are secondary to the loss of estrogen with aging. We subjected both young and aging mice of both sexes to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Young female mice had smaller strokes compared with age-matched males, an effect that was reversed by ovariectomy. Stroke damage increased with aging in female mice, whereas male mice had decreased damage after MCAO. Blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability changes are correlated with infarct size. However, aging mice had significantly less edema formation, an effect that was independent of sex and histologic damage. Differences in the cellular response to stroke occur across the life span in both male and female mice. These differences need to be considered when developing relevant therapies for stroke patients, the majority of whom are elderly.


During the last 20 years of neuroscience research, we have witnessed a fundamental shift in the conceptualization of psychiatric disorders, with the dominant psychological and neurochemical theories of the past now complemented by a growing emphasis on developmental, genetic, molecular, and brain circuit models. Facilitating this evolving paradigm shift has been the growing contribution of functional neuroimaging, which provides a versatile platform to characterize brain circuit dysfunction underlying specific syndromes as well as changes associated with their successful treatment. Discussed here are converging imaging findings that established a rationale for testing a targeted neuromodulation strategy, deep brain stimulation, for treatment-resistant major depression.
Selective dorsal rootlet rhizotomy (SDR) is a neurosurgical procedure designed to reduce spasticity in the legs, although preserving motor and sensory function, of appropriately selected children with spastic quadraparesis. This is accomplished by neurophysiologicially guided (e.g., selective) severing of specific dorsal rootlets in the cauda equina. This decreases facilitatory input to spinal anterior motor neurons, thereby reducing spasticity in the legs. This first portion of this article discusses the neurophysiologic intraoperative monitoring techniques during SDR, with the understanding that there are no universally agreed upon protocols nor standards of care. The second portion of the article reviews supporting data for the utility of SDR and long-term outcomes. With major benefits attributed to the selective nature of the procedure, SDR was increasingly used in the 1980-1990's after its introduction by Fasano et al. (Neurochirurgie. 1976;22:23-34; Acta Neurochir. 1977;suppl 24:53-57; Child's Brain. 1978;4:289-305) and revision by Peacock and colleagues (S Afr Med J. 1981;60:849-850;S Afr Med J. 1982;62:119-124). More extensive SDR discussions of its history, theoretical and physiological bases, patient selection criteria, neurosurgical techniques, and postoperative and long-term management, may be found elsewhere.
We systematically reviewed the literature to explore gender issues in acute stroke thrombolysis. The literature is inconsistent regarding the influence of gender on the timing of presentation to hospital, decision-making and utilization of acute thrombolysis among ischemic stroke patients, and hence any reported gender bias may be site-specific. Without treatment with thrombolysis, female stroke patients have a poorer clinical outcome compared to their male counterparts. Although some studies show that women have better clinical outcomes than men following intravenous thrombolysis, no gender difference is seen in others. Post-hoc analyses of relatively small studies show higher recanalisation rates in women than men following intravenous thrombolysis, and no gender difference in recanalisation rates following intra-arterial thrombolysis. Future thrombolytic trials should consider the effects of gender on both surrogate and clinical outcomes.


Action understanding and learning are suggested to be mediated, at least in part, by the human mirror neuron system (hMNS). Static images as well as videos of actions with the outcome occluded have been shown to activate the hMNS. However, whether the hMNS preferentially responds to end or means of an action remains to be investigated. We, therefore, presented subjects with videos of intentional actions that were shown from two perspectives (factor 1, perspective: first vs. third person) while subjects directed their attention to the means or the end thereof (factor 2, task: means vs. end). End- or means-related changes in BOLD signal and corticospinal excitability (CSE) were assessed using fMRI and TMS, respectively. Judging the means of an action compared with its end differentially activated bilateral ventral premotor (vPMC) and inferior parietal cortex (IPL), that is, the core regions of the hMNS. The reverse contrast revealed left precuneus and bilateral superior frontal, angular, and middle temporal gyrus activity. In accordance, the two tasks, although identically in stimulus properties, modulated CSE differentially. Although recent studies suggest that the hMNS may prefer the presence of a goal or context, our data show that within the same context, it responds preferentially when attention is directed to the action means. Consequently, in addition to inferring action goals, a key function of the hMNS may be to anticipate the trajectories and dynamics of observed actions, which is a prerequisite for any timely interaction.
Agonists acting at alpha(2)-adrenergic and opioid receptors (alpha(2)ARs and ORs, respectively) inhibit pain transmission in the spinal cord. When coadministered, agonists activating these receptors interact in a synergistic manner. Although the existence of alpha(2)AR/OR synergy has been well characterized, its mechanism remains poorly understood. The formation of heterooligomers has been proposed as a molecular basis for interactions between neuronal G-protein-coupled receptors. The relevance of heterooligomer formation to spinal analgesic synergy requires demonstration of the expression of both receptors within the same neuron as well as the localization of both receptors in the same neuronal compartment. We used immunohistochemistry to investigate the spatial relationship between alpha(2)ARs and ORs in the rat spinal cord to determine whether coexpression could be demonstrated between these receptors. We observed extensive colocalization between alpha(2A)-adrenergic and delta-opioid receptors (DOP) on substance P (SP)-immunoreactive (-ir) varicosities in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord and in peripheral nerve terminals in the skin. alpha(2A)AR- and DOP-ir elements were colocalized in subcellular structures of 0.5 mum or less in diameter in isolated nerve terminals. Furthermore, coincubation of isolated synaptosomes with alpha(2)AR and DOP agonists resulted in a greater-than-additive increase in the inhibition of K(+)-stimulated neuropeptide release. These findings suggest that coexpression of the synergistic receptor pair alpha(2A)AR-DOP on primary afferent nociceptive fibers may represent an anatomical substrate for analgesic synergy, perhaps as a result of protein-protein interactions such as heterooligomerization.
Female behavioral responses to sensory stimuli can be highly variable across the reproductive cycle. Female green treefrogs (Hyla cinerea) use the male vocal signal to locate and choose a mate. Gravid females approach a vocalizing male to mate but do not approach if they have recently mated. Such differences in behavioral response may be due in part to shifts in the neural representation of auditory information in the brain. In this study, we investigated the influence of female reproductive state on neural responses in the auditory midbrain to both communication signals (advertisement calls) and non-communication sounds (band limited noise bursts). Recently mated females exhibited significantly reduced response strengths compared to females not recently mated. Reduced response strengths in post-mated females were in response to both noise bursts and male advertisement calls but were limited to the lower frequency range corresponding to the amphibian papilla of the peripheral auditory system. Our results therefore show that the ability of social signals to stimulate the auditory system differs in females depending on their reproductive state, and that the differential effect on low versus high spectral sensitivities may influence the way the two spectral peaks of male advertisement calls are represented.
This paper extends a previously formulated deterministic metabolic/hemodynamic model for the generation of blood oxygenated level dependent (BOLD) responses to include both physiological and observation stochastic components (sMHM). This adds a degree of flexibility when fitting the model to actual data by accounting for un-modelled activity. We then show how the innovation method can be used to estimate unobserved metabolic/hemodynamic as well as vascular variables of the sMHM, from simulated and actual BOLD data. The proposed estimation method allowed for doing model comparison by calculating the model's AIC and BIC. This methodology was then used to select between different neurovascular coupling assumptions underlying sMHM. The proposed framework was first validated on simulations and then applied to BOLD data from a motor task experiment. The models under comparison in the analysis of the actual data considered that vascular response was coupled to: (I) inhibition, (II) excitation, (III) both excitation and inhibition. Data was best described by model II, although model III was also supported.
An eye-tracking experiment investigated where deaf native signers (N = 9) and hearing beginning signers (N = 10) look while comprehending a short narrative and a spatial description in American Sign Language produced live by a fluent signer. Both groups fixated primarily on the signer's face (more than 80% of the time) but differed with respect to fixation location. Beginning signers fixated on or near the signer's mouth, perhaps to better perceive English mouthing, whereas native signers tended to fixate on or near the eyes. Beginning signers shifted gaze away from the signer's face more frequently than native signers, but the pattern of gaze shifts was similar for both groups. When a shift in gaze occurred, the sign narrator was almost always looking at his or her hands and was most often producing a classifier construction. We conclude that joint visual attention and attention to mouthing (for beginning signers), rather than linguistic complexity or processing load, affect gaze fixation patterns during sign language comprehension.


Nicotine addiction is the leading cause of premature illness and death in the general population. Up to half of all cigarettes are consumed by a minority of the population: persons with schizophrenia and other forms of mental illness. Ironically, despite nicotine dependence being considered a serious and deadly form of addiction in the general population, research on smoking in mental illness is predominantly guided by the idea that smoking has beneficial medication-like treatment effects. This article considers pitfalls of adherence to the self-medication hypothesis as an exclusively held dogma. New evidence from animal modeling work suggests the need to broaden hypothesis-driven research on smoking in mental illness. Adolescent smoking could predispose to mental illness and/or increased nicotine dependence in schizophrenia may represent an involuntary, general addiction vulnerability that has little to do with the 'helpful' psychoactive effects of nicotine or other drugs.
Early postnatal events can predispose to metabolic and endocrine disease in adulthood. In this study, we evaluated the programming effects of a single early postnatal oestradiol injection on insulin sensitivity in adult female rats. We also assessed the expression of genes involved in inflammation and glucose metabolism in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue and analysed circulating inflammation markers as possible mediators of insulin resistance. Neonatal oestradiol exposure reduced insulin sensitivity and increased plasma levels of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1. In skeletal muscle, oestradiol increased the expression of genes encoding complement component 3 (C3), Mcp-1, retinol binding protein-4 (Rbp4) and transforming growth factor beta1 (Tgfbeta1). C3 and MCP-1 are both related to insulin resistance, and C3, MCP-1 and TGFbeta1 are also involved in inflammation. Expression of genes encoding glucose transporter-4 (Glut 4), carnitine-palmitoyl transferase 1b (Cpt1b), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (Ppard) and uncoupling protein 3 (Ucp3), which are connected to glucose uptake, lipid oxidation, and energy uncoupling, was down regulated. Expression of several inflammatory genes in skeletal muscle correlated negatively with whole-body insulin sensitivity. In s.c. inguinal adipose tissue, expression of Tgfbeta1, Ppard and C3 was decreased, while expression of Rbp4 and Cpt1b was increased. Inguinal adipose tissue weight was increased but adipocyte size was unaltered, suggesting an increased number of adipocytes. We suggest that early neonatal oestrogen exposure may reduce insulin sensitivity by inducing chronic, low-grade systemic and skeletal muscle inflammation and disturbances of glucose and lipid metabolism in skeletal muscle in adulthood.
IGF-I treatment has been shown to enhance cell genesis in the brains of adult GH- and IGF-I-deficient rodents; however, the influence of GH therapy remains poorly understood. The present study investigated the effects of peripheral recombinant bovine GH (bGH) on cellular proliferation and survival in the neurogenic regions (subventricular zone (SVZ), and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus), as well as the corpus callosum, striatum, parietal cortex, and piriform cortex. Hypopituitarism was induced in female rats by hypophysectomy, and the rats were supplemented with thyroxine and cortisone acetate. Subsequently, the rats received daily s.c. injections of bGH for either 6 or 28 days respectively. Following 5 days of peripheral bGH administration, the number of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells was increased in the hippocampus, striatum, parietal cortex, and piriform cortex after 6 and 28 days. In the SVZ, however, BrdU-positive cells increased only after 28 days of bGH treatment. No significant change was observed in the corpus callosum. In the hippocampus, after 28 days of bGH treatment, the number of BrdU/NeuN-positive cells was increased proportionally to increase the number of BrdU-positive cells. (3)H-thymidine incorporation in vitro revealed that 24 h of bGH exposure was sufficient to increase cell proliferation in adult hippocampal progenitor cells. This study shows for the first time that 1) peripheral bGH treatment increased the number of newborn cells in the adult brain and 2) bGH exerted a direct proliferative effect on neuronal progenitor cells in vitro.
The neuropeptide GnRH-I is critical for the regulation of reproduction in all vertebrates. Study of the regulation of GnRH-I in passerine songbirds has been the focus of studies on subjects as diverse as photoperiodism, puberty, stress, nutrition, processing of auditory information, migration, global climate change, and evolutionary biology. Until now, analysis of GnRH-I in songbirds has been limited to measurement of immunoreactive peptide. Measurement of mRNA regulation has been impossible because of lack of knowledge of the GnRH gene sequence, despite many attempts in the last 20 years to identify it. Thus, the relative roles of environmental, social, physiological, and evolutionary influences upon passerine GnRH regulation have remained enigmatic. Here, we report the first cloning of GnRH-I cDNA from a songbird, Taeniopygia guttata, its localization and regulation. Although the homology of its translated precursor polypeptide between chicken GnRH-I precursor polypeptide was only 54%, zebra finch GnRH-I precursor contained an amino acid sequence that can be processed into chicken GnRH-I peptide (pEHWSYGLQPG-amide). In situ hybridization combined with immunocytochemistry showed co-localization of GnRH-I mRNA and immunoreactive peptide in the preoptic area of sexually mature birds. GnRH-I mRNA signal was greatly reduced in sexually immature birds. Ovary mass of female birds was positively correlated with GnRH-I mRNA level in the brain. These data will now permit molecular analysis of the regulation of songbird reproduction by physical, social, and physiological cues, along with fine scale analysis of selection pressures acting upon the reproductive system of songbirds. (244/250).
In the present study we report the simple synthesis and antitumour activity of novel stilbene derivatives 13-22. The key synthetic strategies involved Wadsworth-Horner-Emmons condensation and coupling reactions in high yields. All compounds showed significant growth inhibition on human tumour cell lines, with the most potent compound (19) exhibiting an IC(50) of 5.7 microM-11.4 microM in vitro.
Most previous studies investigating children's ability to recognize facial expressions used only intense exemplars. Here we compared the sensitivity of 5-, 7-, and 10-year-olds with that of adults (n=24 per age group) for less intense expressions of happiness, sadness, and fear. The developmental patterns differed across expressions. For happiness, by 5 years of age, children were as sensitive as adults even to low intensities. For sadness, by 5 years of age, children were as accurate as adults in judging that the face was expressive (i.e., not neutral), but even at 10 years of age, children were more likely to misjudge it as fearful. For fear, children's thresholds were not adult-like until 10 years of age, and children often confused it with sadness at 5 years of age. For all expressions, including even happy expressions, 5- and 7-year-olds were less accurate than adults in judging which of two expressions was more intense. Together, the results indicate that there is slow development of accurate decoding of subtle facial expressions.
Among placental mammals, only primates have trichromatic color vision, however this is not a uniform condition. Under different genetic status, Old World monkeys have routine trichromacy, while New World monkeys show a visual polymorphism, characterized by obligatory male dichromacy. The ecological role of this genetic difference still remains unclear, but some studies show that dichromats and trichromats appear to have different abilities in detecting colored targets against a background of leaves. The Cerrado's marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) is known to forage in brightly illuminated (savanna-like vegetation) and dimly illuminated (forests) environments, exploiting a high amount of dark fruits. Hence, it seems to be a good model for studying the differential advantages enjoyed by each color vision phenotype under natural conditions. Our aim was to verify how the different phenotypes of Cerrado's marmoset detect components of their diet, evaluating the existence of differential phenotype advantages. Under two different light conditions, visual signals of naturally consumed fruits were modeled against different backgrounds scenarios. Even though dichromats and trichromats appear to be equally suited for tasks involving fruit detection, phenotype differential advantages are observed in this marmoset. In many conditions trichromats are predicted to perform better than dichromats, but under low ambient light dichromats manage to outperform trichromats in some scenarios. Phenotypes that carry widely spaced and longer M/L pigments enjoy the most advantage. These differential performances of trichromatic phenotypes, together with overdominance selection, seem to explain the maintenance of the tri-allelic system found in callitrichids.
Arachidonic acid (AA) inhibits the activity of several different voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels by an unknown mechanism at an unknown site. The Ca(2+) channel pore-forming subunit (Ca(V)alpha(1)) is a candidate for the site of AA inhibition because T-type Ca(2+) channels, which do not require accessory subunits for expression, are inhibited by AA. Here, we report the unanticipated role of accessory Ca(V)beta subunits on the inhibition of Ca(V)1.3b L-type (L-) current by AA. Whole cell Ba(2+) currents were measured from recombinant channels expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells at a test potential of -10 mV from a holding potential of -90 mV. A one-minute exposure to 10 microM AA inhibited currents with beta(1b), beta(3), or beta(4) 58, 51, or 44%, respectively, but with beta(2a) only 31%. At a more depolarized holding potential of -60 mV, currents were inhibited to a lesser degree. These data are best explained by a simple model where AA stabilizes Ca(V)1.3b in a deep closed-channel conformation, resulting in current inhibition. Consistent with this hypothesis, inhibition by AA occurred in the absence of test pulses, indicating that channels do not need to open to become inhibited. AA had no effect on the voltage dependence of holding potential-dependent inactivation or on recovery from inactivation regardless of Ca(V)beta subunit. Unexpectedly, kinetic analysis revealed evidence for two populations of L-channels that exhibit willing and reluctant gating previously described for Ca(V)2 channels. AA preferentially inhibited reluctant gating channels, revealing the accelerated kinetics of willing channels. Additionally, we discovered that the palmitoyl groups of beta(2a) interfere with inhibition by AA. Our novel findings that the Ca(V)beta subunit alters kinetic changes and magnitude of inhibition by AA suggest that Ca(V)beta expression may regulate how AA modulates Ca(2+)-dependent processes that rely on L-channels, such as gene expression, enzyme activation, secretion, and membrane excitability.

Aquaporin4 (AQP4) has an important role in water homeostasis of human brain and a dysfunction of AQP4 could induce pathological conditions in neuronal activity. The purpose of our work was to evaluate the association of polymorphisms in the AQP4 gene with the risk and the clinical features of migraine. A total of 293 migraineurs and 249 controls were involved in the study. They were genotyped for four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of AQP4 gene. No significant difference in the distribution of AQP4 genotypic and allelic frequencies between cases and controls was found. In addition, haplotype analysis did not show any significant difference. Comparison of the clinical features of the disease according to different AQP4 genotypes showed no significant difference. Our data do not support the hypothesis that the AQP4 gene could represent a genetic susceptibility factor for migraine.
Microglial inflammatory neuroregulatory activities affect the tempo of nigrostriatal degeneration during Parkinson's disease (PD). Such activities are induced, in part, by misfolded, nitrated alpha-synuclein (N-alpha-syn) within Lewy bodies released from dying or dead dopaminergic neurons. Such pathobiological events initiate innate and adaptive immune responses affecting neurodegeneration. We posit that the neurobiological activities of activated microglia are affected by cell-protein and cell-cell contacts, in that microglial interactions with N-alpha-syn and CD4(+) T cells substantively alter the microglial proteome. This leads to alterations in cell homeostatic functions and disease. CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells suppress N-alpha-syn microglial-induced reactive oxygen species and NF-kappaB activation by modulating redox-active enzymes, cell migration, phagocytosis, and bioenergetic protein expression and cell function. In contrast, CD4(+)CD25(-) effector T cells exacerbate microglial inflammation and induce putative neurotoxic responses. These data support the importance of adaptive immunity in the regulation of Parkinson's disease-associated microglial inflammation.
Several animal autoimmune disorders are suppressed by treatment with the GM1 cross-linking units of certain toxins such as B subunit of cholera toxin (CtxB). Due to the recent observation of GM1 being a binding partner for the endogenous lectin galectin-1 (Gal-1), which is known to ameliorate symptoms in certain animal models of autoimmune disorders, we tested the hypothesis that an operative Gal-1/GM1 interplay induces immunosuppression in a manner evidenced by both in vivo and in vitro systems. Our study of murine experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) indicated suppressive effects by both CtxB and Gal-1 and further highlighted the role of GM1 in demonstrating enhanced susceptibility to EAE in mice lacking this ganglioside. At the in vitro level, polyclonal activation of murine regulatory T (Treg) cells caused up-regulation of Gal-1 that was both cell bound and released to the medium. Similar activation of murine CD4(+) and CD8(+) effector T (Teff) cells resulted in significant elevation of GM1 and GD1a, the neuraminidase-reactive precursor to GM1. Activation of Teff cells also up-regulated TRPC5 channels which mediated Ca(2+) influx upon GM1 cross-linking by Gal-1 or CtxB. This involved co-cross-linking of heterodimeric integrin due to close association of these alpha(4)beta(1) and alpha(5)beta(1) glycoproteins with GM1. Short hairpin RNA (shRNA) knockdown of TRPC5 in Teff cells blocked contact-dependent proliferation inhibition by Treg cells as well as Gal-1/CtxB-triggered Ca(2+) influx. Our results thus indicate GM1 in Teff cells to be the primary target of Gal-1 expressed by Treg cells, the resulting co-cross-linking and TRPC5 channel activation contributing importantly to the mechanism of autoimmune suppression.
Neonatal seizures represent a major challenge among the epilepsies vis--vis seizure classification, electroclinical correlation, inherent excitability of neocortex, ontogenic characteristics of neurotransmitter receptors, and responsiveness to standard antiepileptic drugs. Each of these factors renders neonatal seizures more difficult to treat, and therapy has been a vexing area for recent advances in this seizure category. Conversely, specific metabolic disorders have very special therapeutic considerations in the clinical setting of neonatal seizures which require a high index of clinical suspicion and rapid intervention for a successful outcome. The prototype is pyridoxine dependency, although pyridoxal 5'-phosphate dependency is a recently recognized but treatable neonatal epilepsy that deserves earmarked distinction. Clinicians must remain vigilant for these possibilities, including atypical cases where apparent seizure-free intervals may occur. Folinic acid-dependent seizures are allelic with pyridoxine dependency. Serine-dependent seizures and glucose transporter deficiency may present with neonatal seizures and have specific therapy. A vital potassium channel regulated by serum ATP/ADP ratios in the pancreas and brain may be mutated with a resultant neuroendocrinopathy characterized by development delay, epilepsy, and neonatal diabetes (DEND). This requires oral hypoglycaemic therapy, and not insulin, for neurological responsiveness. The startle syndrome of hyperekplexia, which mimics neonatal epilepsy, has been associated with laryngospasm and sudden death but is treated with benzodiazepines.
Lysosomal disease represents a large group of more than 50 clinically recognized conditions resulting from inborn errors of metabolism affecting the organelle known as the lysosome. The lysosome is an integral part of the larger endosomal/lysosomal system, and is closely allied with the ubiquitin-proteosomal and autophagosomal systems, which together comprise essential cell machinery for substrate degradation and recycling, homeostatic control, and signalling. More than two-thirds of lysosomal diseases affect the brain, with neurons appearing particularly vulnerable to lysosomal compromise and showing diverse consequences ranging from specific axonal and dendritic abnormalities to neuron death. While failure of lysosomal function characteristically leads to lysosomal storage, new studies argue that lysosomal diseases may also be appropriately viewed as 'states of deficiency' rather than simply overabundance (storage). Interference with signalling events and salvage processing normally controlled by the endosomal/lysosomal system may represent key mechanisms accounting for the inherent complexity of lysosomal disorders. Analysis of lysosomal disease pathogenesis provides a unique window through which to observe the importance of the greater lysosomal system for normal cell health.

Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), the main omega-3 fatty acid, is concentrated and avidly retained in membrane phospholipids of the nervous system. DHA is involved in brain and retina function, aging, and neurological and psychiatric/behavioral illnesses. Neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1), the first-identified stereoselective bioactive product of DHA, exerts neuroprotection in models of experimental stroke by down-regulating brain ischemia reperfusion (BIR)-induced leukocyte infiltration, proinflammatory signaling, and infarct size. Moreover, NPD1 inhibits cytokine-mediated cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression. Photoreceptor membranes display the highest content of DHA of any cell. Retinal pigment epithelial cells participate in the phagocytosis of the tips of photoreceptor cells (photoreceptor outer segment renewal). There is a DHA retrieval-intercellular mechanism between both types of cells that conserves this fatty acid during this process. NPD1 promotes homeostatic regulation of the integrity of these two cells, particularly during oxidative stress, and this protective signaling may be relevant in retinal degenerative diseases. Moreover, neurotrophins are NPD1-synthesis agonists, and NPD1 content is decreased in the CA1 region of the hippocampus of Alzheimer's patients. Overall, NPD1 promotes brain cell survival via the induction of antiapoptotic and neuroprotective gene-expression programs that suppress Abeta42 production and its neurotoxicity. Thus, NPD1 elicits potent cell-protective, anti-inflammatory, prosurvival repair signaling.

In the adrenal medulla, binding of the immediate early gene (IEG) proteins, EGR-1 (ZIF-268/KROX-24/NGFI-A) and AP-1, to the tyrosine hydroxylase (Th) proximal promoter mediate inducible Th expression. The current study investigated the potential role of EGR-1 in inducible Th expression in the olfactory bulb (OB) since IEGs bound to the AP-1 site in the Th proximal promoter are also necessary for activity-dependent OB TH expression. Immunohistochemical analysis of a naris-occluded mouse model of odor deprivation revealed weak EGR-1 expression levels in the OB glomerular layer that were activity-dependent. Immunofluorescence analysis indicated that a majority of glomerular cells expressing EGR-1 also co-expressed TH, but only small subset of TH-expressing cells contained EGR-1. By contrast, granule cells, which lack TH, exhibited EGR-1 expression levels that were unchanged by naris closure. Together, these finding suggest that EGR-1 mediates activity-dependent TH expression in a subset of OB dopaminergic neurons, and that there is differential regulation of EGR-1 in periglomerular and granule cells.
Electrical activity is the ultimate functional measure of neuronal tissue and recording that activity remains a key technical challenge in neuroscience. The mechanical mismatch between rigid electrodes and compliant brain tissue is a critical limitation in applications where movement is an inherent component. An electrode that permits recording of neural activity, while minimizing tissue disruption, is beneficial for applications that encompass both normal physiological movements and those which require consistent recording during large tissue displacements. In order to test the extreme of this range of movement, flexible electrodes were developed to record activity during and immediately following cortical impact in the rat. Photolithography techniques were used to fabricate flexible electrodes that were readily insertable into the brain using a parylene C base and gold conduction lines and contact pads, permitting custom geometry. We found that this electrode configuration retained mechanical and electrical integrity following both durability studies and large movements within the cortex. This novel flexible electrode configuration provides a novel platform for experimentally examining neuronal activity during a range of brain movements.
Motor imagery is thought to involve the same processes of movement preparation as actual movement. Imagination of a simple repetitive movement significantly decreased the firing rate of extracellular micro recording at sensorimotor neurons of globus pallidus internus in three patients with Parkinson's disease, who underwent microelectrode-guided posteroventral pallidotomy. These findings suggest, in agreement with previous clinical and functional neuroimaging studies that the motor corticostriatal circuit could be engaged in mental simulation.
Alpha-adrenoceptors in the nucleus accumbens are known to inhibit accumbal dopamine release from reserpine-sensitive pools. The aim of this study was to test our previously reported hypothesis that accumbal noradrenaline that controls the dopamine release from these storage vesicles is derived from alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine-sensitive pools. The sensitivity of accumbal alpha-adrenoceptors to noradrenergic agents depends on the amount of noradrenaline that is available in the synapse. In case the synaptic noradrenaline levels decrease, the conformation of alpha-adrenoceptors changes into a state that makes these receptors more sensitive to its agonists. The effects of alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine, respectively reserpine, on the alpha-adrenoceptor-agonist-induced changes of accumbal dopamine release were investigated. Alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine, but not reserpine, made accumbal postsynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors more sensitive to phenylephrine. These results indicate that noradrenaline that inhibits the release of dopamine from reserpine-sensitive storage vesicles, via stimulation of accumbal postsynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors, is derived from alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine-sensitive pools. The clinical impact of these data is discussed.
In order to determine the sequence of cellular processes in glutamate toxicity, we simultaneously recorded O(2) consumption, cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), and mitochondrial membrane potential (mDeltapsi) in single cortical neurons. Oxygen consumption was measured using an amperometric self-referencing platinum electrode adjacent to neurons in which [Ca(2+)](i) and mDeltapsi were monitored with Fluo-4 and TMRE(+), respectively, using a spinning disk laser confocal microscope. Excitotoxic doses of glutamate caused an elevation of [Ca(2+)](i) followed seconds afterwards by an increase in O(2) consumption which reached a maximum level within 1-5 min. A modest increase in mDeltapsi occurred during this time period, and then, shortly before maximal O(2) consumption was reached, the mDeltapsi, as indicated by TMRE(+) fluorescence, dissipated. Maximal O(2) consumption lasted up to 5 min and then declined together with mDeltapsi and ATP levels, while [Ca(2+)](i) further increased. mDeltapsi and [Ca(2+)](i) returned to baseline levels when neurons were treated with an NMDA receptor antagonist shortly after the [Ca(2+)](i) increased. Our unprecedented spatial and time resolution revealed that this sequence of events is identical in all neurons, albeit with considerable variability in magnitude and kinetics of changes in O(2) consumption, [Ca(2+)](i), and mDeltapsi. The data obtained using this new method are consistent with a model where Ca(2+) influx causes ATP depletion, despite maximal mitochondrial respiration, minutes after glutamate receptor activation.
Amyloid-beta plaques are a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. Several proteases are known to cleave/remove amyloid-beta, including plasmin, the product of tissue plasminogen activator cleavage of the pro-enzyme plasminogen. Although plasmin levels are lower in Alzheimer brain, there has been little analysis of the plasminogen activator/plasmin system in the brains of Alzheimer patients. In this study, zymography, immunocapture, and ELISAs were utilized to show that tissue plasminogen activator activity in frontal cortex tissue of Alzheimer patients is dramatically reduced compared with age-matched controls, while tissue plasminogen activator and plasminogen protein levels are unchanged; suggesting that plasminogen activator activity is inhibited in the Alzheimer brain. Analysis of endogenous plasminogen activator inhibitors shows that while plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 and protease nexin-1 levels are unchanged, the neuroserpin levels are significantly elevated in brains of Alzheimer patients. Furthermore, elevated amounts of tissue plasminogen activator-neuroserpin complexes are seen in the Alzheimer brain, and immunohistochemical studies demonstrate that both tissue plasminogen activator and neuroserpin are associated with amyloid-beta plaques in Alzheimer brain tissue. Thus, neuroserpin inhibition of tissue plasminogen activator activity leads to reduced plasmin and may be responsible for reduced clearance of amyloid-beta in the Alzheimer disease brain. Furthermore, decreased tissue plasminogen activator activity in the Alzheimer brain may directly influence synaptic activity and impair cognitive function.
Serotonin (or 5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) are involved in several physiological functions and pathological conditions. We show that the serotonergic system and its development in zebrafish are similar to those of other vertebrates rendering zebrafish a good model to study them. Development of MAO expression followed a similar time course as the 5-HT system. MAO expression and activity were located in or adjacent to serotonergic nuclei and their targets, especially in the ventral hypothalamus. MAO mRNA was detected in the brain from 24 h post-fertilization and histochemical enzyme activity from 42 h post-fertilization. Deprenyl (100 microM) decreased MAO activity 34-74% depending on the age. Inhibition of MAO by deprenyl strongly increased 5-HT but not dopamine and noradrenaline levels. Deprenyl decreased 5-HT-immunoreactivity in serotonergic neurons and induced novel ectopic 5-HT-immunoreactivity neurons in the diencephalon in a manner dependent on 5-HT uptake. Deprenyl administration decreased locomotion, altered vertical positioning and increased heart rate. Treatment with p-chlorophenylalanine normalized 5-HT levels and rescued the behavioral alteration, indicating that the symptoms were 5-HT dependent. These findings suggest that zebrafish MAO resembles mammalian MAO A more than MAO B, metabolizing mainly 5-HT. Applications of this model of hyperserotonergism include pharmacological and genetic screenings.
PKC, Ras, and ERK1/2 signaling is pivotal to differentiation along the neuronal cell lineage. One crucial protein that may play a central role in this signaling pathway is the Ras GTPase-activating protein, neurofibromin, a PKC substrate that may exert a positive role in neuronal differentiation. In this report, we studied the dynamics of PKC/Ras/ERK pathway signaling, during differentiation of SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells upon treatment with the PKC agonist, phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Surprisingly, we observed that, among other PKC-dependent signaling events, TPA induced a rapid and sustained decrease of neurofibromin immunoreactivity which was not due to proteolysis. Instead, we identified a specific phosphorylation event at the C-tail of neurofibromin. This phosphorylation was acute and correlated perfectly with the signaling dynamics of the Ras/ERK pathway. Moreover, it persisted throughout prolonged treatment and TPA-induced differentiation of SH-SY5Y cells, concurrently with sustained activation of ERK1/2. Most importantly, C-tail phosphorylation of neurofibromin correlated with a shift of neurofibromin localization from the nucleus to the cytosol. We propose that PKC-dependent, sustained C-tail phosphorylation is a requirement for prolonged recruitment of neurofibromin from the nucleus to the cytosol in order for a fine regulation of Ras/ERK pathway activity to be achieved during differentiation.
Recent studies have indicated that the serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] 1E receptor, originally discovered in human brain tissue, is not expressed in rat or mouse brain. Thus, there have been few reports on 5-HT(1E) receptor drug development. However, expression of 5-HT(1E) receptor mRNA has been shown in guinea pig brain. To establish this species as an animal model for 5-HT(1E) drug development, we identified brain regions that exhibit 5-carboxyamidotryptamine, ritanserin, and LY344864 - insensitive [(3)H]5-HT binding (characteristic of the 5-HT(1E) receptor). In hippocampal homogenates, where 5-HT(1E) receptor density was sufficiently high for radioligand binding analysis, 100 nM 5-carboxyamidotryptamine, 30 nM ritanserin, and 100 nM LY344864 were used to mask [(3)H]5-HT binding at non-5-HT(1E) receptors. The K(d) of [(3)H]5-HT was 5.7 +/- 0.7 nM and is indistinguishable from the cloned receptor K(d) of 6.5 +/- 0.6 nM. The affinities of 16 drugs for the cloned and hippocampal-expressed guinea pig 5-HT(1E) receptors are essentially identical (R(2) = 0.97). These findings indicate that using these conditions autoradiographical distribution and signal transduction studies of the 5-HT(1E) receptor in guinea pig brain are feasible. Using the guinea pig as an animal model should provide important insights into possible functions of this receptor and the therapeutic potential of selective human 5-HT(1E) drugs.
Oxidative stress is one of the earliest events in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and can markedly exacerbate amyloid pathology. Modulation of antioxidant and anti-inflammatory pathways represents an important approach for AD therapy. Synthetic triterpenoids have been found to facilitate antioxidant response and reduce inflammation in several models. We investigated the effect of the triterpenoid, 2-Cyano-3,12-Dioxooleana-1,9-Dien-28-Oic acid-MethylAmide (CDDO-MA) in Tg19959 mice, which carry the human amyloid precursor protein with two mutations. These mice develop memory impairments and amyloid plaques as early as 2-3 months of age. CDDO-MA was provided with chow (800 mg/kg) from 1 to 4 months of age. CDDO-MA significantly improved spatial memory retention and reduced plaque burden, Abeta42 levels, microgliosis, and oxidative stress in Tg19959 mice.
Neurotransmitter transporters are regulated by phosphorylation but little is known about endogenous substances and receptors that regulate this process. Adenosine is an ubiquitous neuromodulator operating G-protein coupled receptors, which affect the activity of several kinases. We therefore evaluated the influence of adenosine upon the GABA transporter 1 (GAT-1) mediated GABA uptake into hippocampal synaptosomes. Removal of endogenous adenosine (adenosine deaminase, 1 U/mL) decreased GABA uptake, an effect mimicked by blockade of A2A receptors (2-(2-furanyl)-7-(2-phenylethyl)-7H-pyrazolo[4,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5-amine, 50 nM) but not A1 or A2B receptors. A2A receptor activation (4-[2-[[6-amino-9-(N-ethyl-beta-d-ribofuranuronamidosyl)-9H-purin-yl]amino]ethyl]benzenepropanoic acid hydrochloride, 3-100 nM) enhanced GABA uptake by increasing the transporter Vmax without change of K(M). This was mimicked by adenylate cyclase activation (forskolin, 10 microM) and prevented by protein kinase A (PKA) inhibition (N-[2-(p-bromocinnamylamino) ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide dihydrochloride, 1 microM), which per se did not influence GABA transport. Blockade of protein kinase C (PKC) (2-[1-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)indol-3-yl]-3-(indol-3-yl) maleimide, 1 microM) facilitated GABA transport whereas PKC activation (4-beta-phorbol-didecanoate, 250 nM) inhibited it. PKA blockade did not affect the facilitatory action of the PKC inhibitor or the inhibitory action of the PKC activator. However, when adenylate cyclase was activated neither activation nor inhibition of PKC affected GABA uptake. It is concluded that A2A receptors, through activation of the adenylate cyclase/cAMP/PKA transducing pathway facilitate GAT-1 mediated GABA transport into nerve endings by restraining tonic PKC-mediated inhibition.
In this study, the functional consequences of the pharmacological modulation of the M-current (I(KM)) on cytoplasmic Ca(2+) intracellular Ca(2+)concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) changes and excitatory neurotransmitter release triggered by various stimuli from isolated rat cortical synaptosomes have been investigated. K(v)7.2 immunoreactivity was identified in pre-synaptic elements in cortical slices and isolated glutamatergic cortical synaptosomes. In cerebrocortical synaptosomes exposed to 20 mM [K(+)](e), the I(KM) activator retigabine (RT, 10 microM) inhibited [(3)H]D-aspartate ([(3)H]D-Asp) release and caused membrane hyperpolarization; both these effects were prevented by the I(KM) blocker XE-991 (20 microM). The I(KM) activators RT (0.1-30 microM), flupirtine (10 microM) and BMS-204352 (10 microM) inhibited 20 mM [K(+)](e)-induced synaptosomal [Ca(2+)](i) increases; XE-991 (20 microM) abolished RT-induced inhibition of depolarization-triggered [Ca(2+)](i) transients. The P/Q-type voltage-sensitive Ca(2+)channel (VSCC) blocker omega-agatoxin IVA prevented RT-induced inhibition of depolarization-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increase and [(3)H]D-Asp release, whereas the N-type blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA failed to do so. Finally, 10 microM RT did not modify the increase of [Ca(2+)](i) and the resulting enhancement of [(3)H]D-Asp release induced by [Ca(2+)](i) mobilization from intracellular stores, or by store-operated Ca(2+)channel activation. Collectively, the present data reveal that the pharmacological activation of I(KM) regulates depolarization-induced [(3)H]D-Asp release from cerebrocortical synaptosomes by selectively controlling the changes of [Ca(2+)](i) occurring through P/Q-type VSCCs.
Among mental disorders, mental retardation has been shown to be caused by various factors including a large array of genetic mutations. On the basis of remarkable progress, the emerging view is that defects in the regulation of synaptic activity and morphogenesis of dendritic spines are apparently common features associated with mutations in several genes implicated in mental retardation. In this review, we will discuss X-linked MR-related gene products that are potentially involved in the normal structure and function of the synapses, with a particular focus on pre- and/or post-synaptic plasticity mechanisms. Progress in understanding the underlying conditions leading to mental retardation will undoubtedly be gained from a closer collaboration of geneticists, physiologists and cognitive neuroscientists, which should enable the establishment of standardized approaches.
We examined whether behavioral sensitization to amphetamine is associated with redistribution of glutamate receptors (GluR) in the rat nucleus accumbens (NAc) or dorsolateral striatum (DLSTR). Following repeated amphetamine treatment and 21 days of withdrawal, surface and intracellular levels of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) or NMDA receptor subunits were determined using a protein cross-linking assay. In contrast to our previous results in cocaine-sensitized rats, we did not observe redistribution of GluR1 or GluR2 to the cell surface in the NAc after amphetamine withdrawal, although a small increase in total GluR1 was found in the shell subregion. Nor did we observe activation of signaling pathways associated with cocaine-induced AMPA receptor trafficking or changes in NMDA receptor subunits. No significant changes were observed in the DLSTR. We also investigated the effect of administering a challenge injection of amphetamine to amphetamine-sensitized rats 24 h prior to biochemical analysis based on prior studies showing that cocaine challenge decreases AMPA receptor surface expression in the NAc of cocaine-sensitized rats. GluR1 and GluR2 were not significantly altered in either NAc or DLSTR, although a modest effect on GluR3 cannot be ruled out. Our results suggest that glutamate transmission in the NAc is dramatically different in rats sensitized to amphetamine versus cocaine.
Neurons have a high demand for cholesterol to develop and maintain membrane-rich structures like axons, dendrites and synapses, but it remains unclear, whether they can satisfy their need by costly de novo synthesis. To address this, we compared cholesterol synthesis in serum-free cultures of highly purified CNS neurons and glial cells from postnatal rats. We observed marked cell-specific differences: Compared with glial cells, neurons showed different profiles of biosynthetic enzymes, post-squalene precursors and cholesterol metabolites, and they produced cholesterol less efficiently, possibly because of very low levels of lanosterol-converting enzymes. Astrocytes responded to inhibition of cholesterol synthesis with a much stronger up-regulation of biosynthetic enzymes than neurons. Our results support the idea that neurons cannot produce cholesterol efficiently and that they depend on an external source of this lipid.
A wide range of intracellular proteins have been demonstrated to interact with individual G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and, in certain cases, to modulate their function or trafficking. However, in only a few cases have the GPCR selectivity of such interactions been investigated. Interactions between the intracellular C-terminal tails of 44 GPCRs and both neurochondrin and periplakin were assessed in pull-down studies. 23 of these interacted with neurochondrin and periplakin, 10 interacted with neither whilst nine interacted with only neurochondrin and two with only periplakin. When appropriate GIP-interacting G(q)/G(11)-coupled GPCRs were expressed in cells inducibly expressing neurochondrin or periplakin this resulted in a reduction in the increase in intracellular [Ca(2+)] in response to agonist. However, induction of neurochondrin or periplakin was without functional consequences for GPCRs with which they did not interact. Unlike intracellular [Ca(2+)] signals, induction of expression of either interacting protein did not inhibit agonist-mediated ERK1/2 MAPK phosphorylation. These data indicate that both periplakin and neurochondrin can interact with a wide range of GPCRs and modulate function selectively. Details of the structure of the intracellular C-terminal tail of individual receptors will be required to fully understand the basis of such selectivity.
Oxidative stress as well as expression and activity of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) are rapidly enhanced after cerebral ischemia. The magnitude of these effects is related to stroke outcome. In human stroke, the extent of oxidative stress correlates well with increased MMP-9 expression. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether treatment with the antioxidant molecule uric acid (UA) decreased the levels of MMP-9 in stroke patients treated with rtPA. The patients were part of a pilot, double-blind, randomized, vehicle-controlled study of patients with acute stroke treated with rtPA (&lt; 3 h) and randomized to receive an intravenous infusion of UA (n = 16) or vehicle (n = 8). Total matrix metalloproteinase (tMMP)-9 and active (aMMP-9) levels were measured in serum at baseline (&lt; 3 h), at the end of study treatment infusion (&lt; 5.5 h), and at 48 hours. Total MMP-9 and aMMP-9 increased very early after stroke onset in patients allocated vehicle after rtPA therapy. Lower increments of aMMP-9 were associated with better outcome at 3 months. UA treatment was associated with reduced levels of aMMP-9 at T1 (p &lt; 0.02) in multivariate models adjusted for age, NIHSS score, and baseline aMMP-9 levels. The decline of aMMP-9 attained after UA administration supports further clinical assessment of UA therapy in patients with acute stroke.
A considerable proportion of patients discontinue dipyridamole therapy because of headache. Risk indicators for the development of dipyridamole induced headache were identified by means of an exploratory analysis of data from the European/Australasian Stroke Prevention in Reversible Ischaemia Trial (ESPRIT) and the Second European Stroke Prevention Study (ESPS 2). In ESPRIT, dipyridamole induced headache was significantly associated with female sex, absence of hypertension and non-smoking (area under the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve 0.63 (95% CI 0.58 to 0.68)) and in ESPS 2 with female sex and absence of ischaemic lesions on imaging (area under the ROC curve 0.64 (95% CI 0.59 to 0.69)).

Reduction of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) has been associated with the pathogenesis and clinical expression of inherited myopathies. To determine whether a defect in nNOS might be an adverse modulating factor in the course of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, we investigated cytosolic and sarcolemmal nNOS expression in muscle biopsies from 32 patients with 7 forms of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy. Primary calpainopathy, dysferlinopathy, and caveolinopathy biopsies showed normal levels of cytosolic nNOS and preserved sarcolemmal nNOS immunoreactivity. By contrast, the cytosolic nNOS levels in sarcoglycanopathy muscles were variably reduced. Sarcolemmal nNOS immunoreactivity varied from absent to reduced, depending on the integrity of the sarcoglycan complex. In muscles with loss of the entire sarcoglycan complex, sarcolemmal nNOS was absent; it otherwise depended on the specific sarcoglycan gene and type of mutation. The integrity of the entire sarcoglycan complex is, therefore, essential for the stabilization of nNOS to the sarcolemma. Absence of sarcolemmal nNOS in sarcoglycanopathy muscle was always associated with severe muscular dystrophy and sometimes with dilated cardiomyopathy, supporting the hypothesis that nNOS defect might contribute to skeletal and cardiac muscle disease progression. These results emphasize the value of nNOS immunohistochemical analysis in limb-girdle muscular dystrophy and provide additional insights for future therapeutic interventions in these disorders.
Inflammation is an important determinant of the severity and outcome of central nervous system injury. The endogenous anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 (IL-10) is upregulated in the injured adult central nervous system where it controls and terminates inflammatory processes. The developing brain, however, displays differences in susceptibility to insults and in associated inflammatory responses from the adult brain; the anatomic and temporal patterns of injury-induced IL-10 expression in the immature brain after excitotoxic injury are unknown. We analyzed the spaciotemporal gene and protein expression of IL-10 and its receptor (IL-10RI) in N-methyl-d-aspartate-induced excitotoxic injury in 9-day-old and control rats using quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and immunohistochemistry. In noninjected control brains, both molecules were expressed mainly in white matter on glial cells and blood vessels; IL-10 was also observed on blood vessels in gray matter and in glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive processes in the hippocampus and near leptomeningeal and ventricle surfaces. In N-methyl-d-aspartate-injected brains, IL-10 gene and protein expression were maximal at 72 hours postinjection; IL-10RI gene and protein expression peaked at 48 hours postinjection. Interleukin-10 and IL-10RI expression in injured areas was mainly found in reactive astrocytes and in microglia/macrophages. The expression patterns of IL-10 and IL-10R suggest possible developmental roles, and their upregulation after injury suggests that this expression may have anti-inflammatory effects in distinct anatomic sites in the immature brain.
Olfactory nerve axons terminate in olfactory bulb glomeruli forming excitatory synapses onto the dendrites of mitral/tufted (M/T) and juxtaglomerular cells, including external tufted (ET) and periglomerular (PG) cells. PG cells are heterogeneous in neurochemical expression and synaptic organization. We used a line of mice expressing green fluorescent protein under the control of the glutamic acid decarboxylase 65-kDa gene (GAD65+) promoter to characterize a neurochemically identified subpopulation of PG cells by whole cell recording and subsequent morphological reconstruction. GAD65+ GABAergic PG cells form two functionally distinct populations: 33% are driven by monosynaptic olfactory nerve (ON) input (ON-driven PG cells), the remaining 67% receive their strongest drive from an ON--&gt;ET--&gt;PG circuit with no or weak monosynaptic ON input (ET-driven PG cells). In response to ON stimulation, ON-driven PG cells exhibit paired-pulse depression (PPD), which is partially reversed by GABA(B) receptor antagonists. The ON--&gt;ET--&gt;PG circuit exhibits phasic GABA(B)-R-independent PPD. ON input to both circuits is under tonic GABA(B)-R-dependent inhibition. We hypothesize that this tonic GABA(B)R-dependent presynaptic inhibition of olfactory nerve terminals is due to autonomous bursting of ET cells in the ON--&gt;ET--&gt;PG circuit, which drives tonic spontaneous GABA release from ET-driven PG cells. Both circuits likely produce tonic and phasic postsynaptic inhibition of other intraglomerular targets. Thus olfactory bulb glomeruli contain at least two functionally distinct GABAergic circuits that may play different roles in olfactory coding.
Restoring normal function to damaged or diseased nervous tissue remains a major goal of both basic and clinical neuroscience research. Advances in genetic technologies now allow targeted control of neuronal activity in the mammalian nervous system, providing novel therapeutic avenues to repair or bypass faulty circuits. Here we review recent work published in the Journal of Neuroscience by Alilain et al., demonstrating the use of Channelrhodopsin-2 to restore breathing in rodent models of spinal cord injury.
Although it is clear that sensory responses in the cortex can be strongly modulated by stimuli outside of classical receptive fields as well as by extraretinal signals such as attention and anticipation, the exact rules governing the neuronal integration of sensory and behavioral signals remain unclear. For example, most experiments studying sensory interactions have not explored attention, while most studies of attention have relied on the responses to relatively limited sets of stimuli. However, a recent study of V4 responses, in which location, orientation, and spatial attention were systematically varied, suggests that attention can both facilitate and suppress specific sensory inputs to a neuron according to behavioral relevance. To explore the implications of such input gain, we modeled the effects of a center-surround organization of attentional modulation using existing receptive field models of sensory integration. The model is consistent with behavioral measurements of a suppressive effect that surrounds the facilitatory locus of spatial attention. When this center-surround modulation is incorporated into realistic models of sensory integration, it is able to explain seemingly disparate observations of attentional effects in the neurophysiological literature, including spatial shifts in receptive field position and the preferential modulation of low contrast stimuli. The model is also consistent with recent formulations of attention to features in which gain is variably applied among cells with different receptive field properties. Consistent with functional imaging results, the model predicts that spatial attention effects will vary between different visual areas and suggests that attention may act through a common mechanism of selective and flexible gain throughout the visual system.
Changes in the temporal envelope are important defining features of natural acoustic signals. Many cells in the inferior colliculus (IC) respond preferentially to certain modulation frequencies, but how they accomplish this is not yet clear. We therefore made whole cell patch-clamp recordings in the IC of anesthetized mice while presenting sinusoidal amplitude-modulated (SAM) tones. The relation between the number of evoked spikes and modulation frequency was used to construct rate modulation transfer functions (rMTFs). We observed different types of rate tuning, including band-pass (16%), band-reject (13%), high-pass (6%), and low-pass (6%) tuning. In the high-pass rMTF neurons and some of the low-pass rMTF neurons, the tuning characteristics appeared to be already present in the inputs. In both band-pass and band-reject rMTF neurons, the nonlinear relation between membrane potential and spike probability ensured preferential spiking during only a small part of the modulation period. Band-pass rMTF neurons had rapidly rising excitatory postsynaptic potentials, allowing good phase-locking to brief tones and intermediate modulation frequencies. At low modulation frequencies, adaptation of their spike threshold contributed to the onset response. In contrast, band-reject rMTF neurons responded with small excitatory or inhibitory postsynaptic potentials to brief tones. In these cells, a power law could describe the supralinear relation between average membrane potential and spike rate. Differences in timing of synaptic input and presence or absence of spike adaptation therefore define band-pass and band-reject rate tuning to SAM tones in the mouse IC.
Single nucleus accumbens (NAcc) neurons receive excitatory synaptic input from cortical and limbic structures, and the integration of converging goal- and motivation-related signals in these neurons influences reward-directed actions. While limbic/cortical synaptic input summation has been characterized at subthreshold intensities, the manner in which multiple inputs govern NAcc neuron spike discharge has not been measured and is poorly understood. Single NAcc neurons were recorded in urethane-anesthetized rats, and spiking was evoked by coincident stimulation of two major NAcc afferent regions: the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). BLA input increased NAcc spiking elicited by mPFC stimulation depending on the timing of the stimulation pulses, consistent with the summation of monosynaptically evoked excitatory activity. When mPFC input intensity was below threshold for evoked spiking, the addition of BLA input produced the largest facilitation of evoked spiking, and the latency of the evoked spikes reflected the latency of the individual inputs. When mPFC inputs were stimulated at higher intensities, BLA-mediated facilitation was weaker, and the spike latency reflected only the mPFC input. Thus NAcc neurons integrate both the magnitude and timing of afferent synaptic activity, suggesting that NAcc neuron output is strongly dependent on the comparative magnitude of synaptic activity in its afferent structures. These interactions may be crucial integrative mechanisms that allow motivational and cognitive information to produce appropriate reward-directed actions.
Our previous studies on rabbits demonstrated that the ventral spinal pathways are of primary importance for postural control in the hindquarters. After ventral hemisection, postural control did not recover, whereas after dorsal or lateral hemisection it did. The aim of this study was to examine postural capacity of rabbits after more extensive lesion (3/4 section of the spinal cord at T(12) level), that is, with only one ventral quadrant spared (VQ animals). They were tested before (control) and after lesion on the platform periodically tilted in the frontal plane. In control animals, tilts of the platform regularly elicited coordinated electromyographic (EMG) responses in the hindlimbs, which resulted in generation of postural corrections and in maintenance of balance. In VQ rabbits, the EMG responses appeared only in a part of tilt cycles, and they could be either correctly or incorrectly phased in relation to tilts. Because of a reduced value and incorrect phasing of EMG responses on both sides, this muscle activity did not cause postural corrective movements in the majority of rabbits, and the body swayed together with the platform. In these rabbits, the ability to perform postural corrections did not recover during the whole period of observation (&lt; or =30 days). Low probability of correct EMG responses to tilts in most rabbits as well as an appearance of incorrect responses to tilts suggest that the spinal reflex chains, necessary for postural control, have not been specifically selected by a reduced supraspinal drive transmitted via a single ventral quadrant.
Electroencephalogram spectral power was estimated at 30 scalp locations in 28 neuroleptic-naive, recent-onset schizophrenia (NRS) patients and 25 healthy comparison subjects in the resting eyes closed condition. Weighted relative power values in the various bandwidths were initially compared between NRS subjects and comparison subjects and subsequently between the positive symptom subgroup, negative symptom subgroup, and comparison subjects, to look for characteristic spectral power profiles of the homogeneous symptom subgroups. Significant differences were noted especially in alpha2, delta, and theta bands between NRS patients and healthy comparison subjects, while the positive symptom and negative symptom subgroups showed characteristic spectral power profiles in alpha1, alpha2, delta, and theta bands.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized by the progressive deposition of beta-amyloid (Abeta) within the brain parenchyma and its subsequent accumulation into senile plaques. Pathogenesis of the disease is associated with perturbations in Abeta homeostasis and the inefficient clearance of these soluble and insoluble peptides from the brain. Microglia have been reported to mediate the clearance of fibrillar Abeta (fAbeta) through receptor-mediated phagocytosis; however, their participation in clearance of soluble Abeta peptides (sAbeta) is largely unknown. We report that microglia internalize sAbeta from the extracellular milieu through a nonsaturable, fluid phase macropinocytic mechanism that is distinct from phagocytosis and receptor-mediated endocytosis both in vitro and in vivo. The uptake of sAbeta is dependent on both actin and tubulin dynamics and does not involve clathrin assembly, coated vesicles or membrane cholesterol. Upon internalization, fluorescently labeled sAbeta colocalizes to pinocytic vesicles. Microglia rapidly traffic these soluble peptides into late endolysosomal compartments where they are subject to degradation. Additionally, we demonstrate that the uptake of sAbeta and fAbeta occurs largely through distinct mechanisms and upon internalization are segregated into separate subcellular vesicular compartments. Significantly, we found that upon proteolytic degradation of fluorescently labeled sAbeta, the fluorescent chromophore is retained by the microglial cell. These studies identify an important mechanism through which microglial cells participate in the maintenance of Abeta homeostasis, through their capacity to constitutively clear sAbeta peptides from the brain.
17-beta-Estradiol (E2) is a steroid hormone involved in numerous bodily functions, including several brain functions. In particular, E2 is neuroprotective against excitotoxicity and other forms of brain injuries, a property that requires the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway and possibly that of other signaling molecules. The mechanism and identity of the receptor(s) involved remain unclear, although it has been suggested that E2 receptor alpha (ERalpha) and G proteins are involved. We, therefore, investigated whether E2-mediated neuroprotection and ERK activation were linked to pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive G-protein-coupled effector systems. Biochemical and image analysis of organotypic hippocampal slices and cortical neuronal cultures showed that E2-mediated neuroprotection as well as E2-induced ERK activation were sensitive to PTX. The sensitivity to PTX suggested a possible role of G-protein- and beta-arrestin-mediated mechanisms. Western immunoblots from E2-treated cortical neuronal cultures revealed an increase in phosphorylation of both G-protein-coupled receptor-kinase 2 and beta-arrestin-1, a G-protein-coupled receptor adaptor protein. Transfection of neurons with beta-arrestin-1 small interfering RNA prevented E2-induced ERK activation. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments indicated that E2 increased the recruitment of beta-arrestin-1 and c-Src to ERalpha. These findings suggested that ERalpha is regulated by a mechanism associated with receptor desensitization and downregulation. In support of this idea, we found that E2 treatment of cortical synaptoneurosomes resulted in internalization of ERalpha, whereas treatment of cortical neurons with the ER agonists E-6-BSA-FITC [beta-estradiol-6-(O-carboxymethyl)oxime-bovine serum albumin conjugated with fluorescein isothiocyanate] and E-6-biotin [1,3,5(10)-estratrien-3,17beta-diol-6-one-6-carboxymethloxime-NH-propyl-biotin] resulted in agonist internalization. These results demonstrate that E2-mediated neuroprotection and ERK activation involve ERalpha activation of G-protein- and beta-arrestin-mediated mechanisms.
Neuropsychological studies suggest that the human brain is endowed with two body representations: the body schema (BS), coding the orientation of one's body parts in space, and the body structural description (BSD), coding the location of body parts relative to a standard body. We used fMRI to disentangle the neural mechanisms underlying these putatively distinct body representations. Participants saw an arm or a pot's handle (stimulus: arm, handle) rotated at different angles (angle: 30-150 degrees). If the stimulus was an arm, subjects were instructed to imagine (1) rotating their own arm until it matched the stimulus orientation (comparing the seen arm to their own) or (2) seeing the stimulus moving toward its appropriate position on a simultaneously presented human body [comparing the arm to the one of a standard body (strategy: motor, visual imagery)]. If the stimulus was a handle, subjects were instructed to imagine (1) placing the handle on its appropriate position on a simultaneously presented pot or (2) seeing it moving toward its pot's position. The analysis of the interaction stimulus x strategy revealed activation of left secondary somatosensory cortex (SII), specifically when comparing the stimulus arm to one's own. The analysis of the parameters describing the linear effect of angle revealed that neural activity of left posterior intraparietal sulcus was modulated by the stimulus's rotation, but only when relating the arm to a standard body. The results associate BS and BSD with differential neural substrates, thereby suggesting that these are independent body representations, and furthermore extend current concepts of SII function.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) is a recently discovered neuropeptide that increases arousal and wakefulness while decreasing anxiety-like behavior. Here, we used a self-administration paradigm to demonstrate that intracerebroventricular infusion of NPS reinstates extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior in a dose-dependent manner in mice. The highest dose of NPS (0.45 nM) increased active lever pressing in the absence of cocaine to levels that were equivalent to those observed during self-administration. In addition, we examined the role of the corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1 (CRF(1)) in this behavior as well as locomotor stimulation and anxiolysis. CRF(1) knock-out mice did not respond to either the locomotor stimulant or cocaine reinstatement effects of NPS, but still responded to its anxiolytic effect. The CRF(1) antagonist antalarmin also blocked the increase in active lever responding in the reinstatement model and the locomotor activating properties of NPS without affecting its anxiolytic actions. Our results suggest that NPS receptors may be an important target for drug abuse research and treatment and that CRF(1) mediates the cocaine-seeking and locomotor stimulant effects of NPS, but not its effects on anxiety-like behavior.
Cholescystokinin (CCK)- or parvalbumin (PV)-containing interneurons are the major perisomatic-targeting interneurons in the cerebral cortex, including hippocampus, and are thought to form mutually exclusive networks. We used several techniques to test the alternative hypothesis that CCK and PV cells are coupled by chemical synapses. Triple immunofluorescence confocal microscopy revealed numerous axosomatic, axodendritic, and axoaxonic contacts stained for CCK, PV, and the presynaptic marker synaptophysin. The existence of mutual CCK and PV synapses was supported by dual EM immunolabeling. Paired whole-cell recordings detected unitary GABA(A)ergic synaptic transmission between identified CCK and PV cells, and single CCK cells could transiently inhibit action potential firing of synaptically coupled PV cells. We conclude that the major hippocampal perisomatic-targeting interneurons communicate synaptically. This communication should affect neuronal network activity, including neuronal oscillations, in which the CCK and PV cells have well established roles. The prevalence of CCK and PV networks in other brain regions suggests that internetwork interactions could be generally important.
Here, we examined long-term synaptic plasticity in the avian auditory midbrain, a region involved in experience-dependent learning. We found that coactivation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDAR) and type 1 cannabinoid receptors (CB1R) induces long-term depression (LTD) at the synapse between the central shell and the external portion of the inferior colliculus of the chicken. Although endocannabinoids are commonly thought of as presynaptic modulators, recent reports have suggested that they can also modulate the postsynaptic site. In the avian midbrain, we found that LTD is mediated by both presynaptic and postsynaptic changes. The presynaptic mechanism consists of a decrease in neurotransmitter release, whereas a depression of NMDAR-mediated current takes place on the postsynaptic side. Both the presynaptic and the postsynaptic effects depend on CB1R activation. The reduction of postsynaptic NMDAR currents represents a novel role of endocannabinoids in synaptic modulation.
Neuropathic pain results from damage to the peripheral sensory nervous system, which may have a number of causes. The calcium channel subunit alpha(2)delta-1 is upregulated in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in several animal models of neuropathic pain, and this is causally related to the onset of allodynia, in which a non-noxious stimulus becomes painful. The therapeutic drugs gabapentin and pregabalin (PGB), which are both alpha(2)delta ligands, have antiallodynic effects, but their mechanism of action has remained elusive. To investigate this, we used an in vivo rat model of neuropathy, unilateral lumbar spinal nerve ligation (SNL), to characterize the distribution of alpha(2)delta-1 in DRG neurons, both at the light- and electron-microscopic level. We found that, on the side of the ligation, alpha(2)delta-1 was increased in the endoplasmic reticulum of DRG somata, in intracellular vesicular structures within their axons, and in the plasma membrane of their presynaptic terminals in superficial layers of the dorsal horn. Chronic PGB treatment of SNL animals, at a dose that alleviated allodynia, markedly reduced the elevation of alpha(2)delta-1 in the spinal cord and ascending axon tracts. In contrast, it had no effect on the upregulation of alpha(2)delta-1 mRNA and protein in DRGs. In vitro, PGB reduced plasma membrane expression of alpha(2)delta-1 without affecting endocytosis. We conclude that the antiallodynic effect of PGB in vivo is associated with impaired anterograde trafficking of alpha(2)delta-1, resulting in its decrease in presynaptic terminals, which would reduce neurotransmitter release and spinal sensitization, an important factor in the maintenance of neuropathic pain.
Accumulating evidence indicates that signaling centers controlling the dorsoventral (DV) polarization of the neural tube, the roof plate and the floor plate, play crucial roles in axon guidance along the DV axis. However, the role of signaling centers regulating the rostrocaudal (RC) polarization of the neural tube in axon guidance along the RC axis remains unknown. Here, we show that a signaling center located at the midbrain-hindbrain boundary (MHB) regulates the rostrally directed growth of axons from midbrain dopaminergic neurons (mDANs). We found that beads soaked with fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8), a signaling molecule that mediates patterning activities of the MHB, repelled mDAN axons that extended through the diencephalon. This repulsion may be mediated by semaphorin 3F (sema3F) because (1) FGF8-soaked beads induced an increase in expression of sema3F, (2) sema3F expression in the midbrain was essentially abolished by the application of an FGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, and (3) mDAN axonal growth was also inhibited by sema3F. Furthermore, mDAN axons expressed a sema3F receptor, neuropilin-2 (nrp2), and the removal of nrp-2 by gene targeting caused caudal growth of mDAN axons. These results indicate that the MHB signaling center regulates the growth polarity of mDAN axons along the RC axis by inducing sema3F.
The dorsal striatum and the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell of the ventral striatum have similar cellular components and are both richly innervated by dopamine neurons. Despite similarities that extend throughout the striatum, only the NAc shell has a conspicuous increase in basal dopamine upon the initial administration of psychostimulant drugs such as nicotine. As measured by microdialysis, the elevated dopamine in the NAc shell is considered an identifying functional characteristic of addictive drugs. To examine this general functional difference between nicotine's action on the dorsolateral striatum and NAc shell, we directly monitored dopamine release in rat striatal slices using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry. In addition, we separately monitored the in vivo unit firing activity of putative midbrain dopamine neurons from freely moving rats using chronic multiple tetrodes. Nicotine administration increased the firing frequency of dopamine neurons and specifically increased the number and the length of phasic burst firing. The frequency dependence for dopamine release in the dorsolateral striatum and NAc shell is fundamentally different, enabling mainly the NAc shell to capitalize on the nicotine-induced phasic burst firing by dopamine neurons. Although nicotine decreased low-frequency (tonic) dopamine release in both areas, the increased ratio of phasic bursts relative to tonic firing caused by nicotine boosted the basal dopamine concentration predominantly in the NAc shell. By favoring release from bursts while depressing release from tonic signals, nicotine spreads the range of dopamine signaling and effectively increases the signal-to-noise relationship along dopamine afferents.
Although brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been shown to promote peripheral myelination during development and remyelination after injury, the precise mechanisms mediating this effect remain unknown. Here, we determine that BDNF promotes myelination of nerve growth factor-dependent neurons, an effect dependent on neuronal expression of the p75 neurotrophin receptor, whereas BDNF inhibits myelination of BDNF-dependent neurons via the full-length TrkB receptor. Thus, BDNF exerts contrasting effects on Schwann cell myelination, depending on the complement of BDNF receptors that are expressed by different subpopulations of dorsal root ganglion neurons. These results demonstrate that BDNF exerts contrasting modulatory roles in peripheral nervous system myelination, and that its mechanism of action is acutely regulated and specifically targeted to neurons.
Recent initiatives encourage a family presence during cardiopulmonary resuscitation and invasive procedures and more open visitation policies in intensive care units (ICUs). This study investigated perceptions of needs of those visiting and working in six ICUs. The needs of family members visiting patients with critical illness and nurses working in ICUs were measured using the Critical Care Family Needs Inventory. Data were collected prospectively using a convenience sample of 101 patients, family members, and nurses. Hierarchical cluster analysis identified the themes of (a) emotional resources and support, (b) trust and facilitation of needs, (c) treatment information, and (d) feelings. Family members and nurses differed significantly on three of the four themes (p = .000). This is important information for neuroscience nurses and other healthcare professionals to consider in providing care, setting visiting policies in ICUs, and developing approaches such as family-centered care.
Auditory function can be affected by many factors, including environment and experience. In this study, we investigated whether early auditory experience mediates the regulation of the composition/ratio changes of the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor subunits during development of the rat auditory cortex. We found that early sound exposure can increase expression of the NMDA receptor subunits and increase the composition/ratios of NMDA receptor subunits during the postnatal critical period. D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D-APV) could block and reverse the auditory experience-mediated changes, and there were marked reductions in expression levels and the composition/ratios of NMDA receptor subunits. These results indicate that the experience-dependent plasticity of the auditory cortex in the critical period during postnatal development has a marked influence on NMDA receptor expression in the rat and that changes in NMDA receptor subunit composition/ratios might mediate the early auditory experience-dependent plasticity crucial to auditory function.
The patterns of hippocampal neuronal loss and rewiring of the dentate gyrus (DG) were studied in the mouse model of temporal lobe epilepsy at 2 months after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (PISE). NeuN immunocytochemistry showed two patterns of neuronal damage, i.e., type 1 with partial loss of pyramidal neurons in CA3 area and type 2 with almost compete loss of CA3 pyramidal neurons. Anterograde tracing with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) demonstrated that, at different rostrocaudal segments of the hippocampus, associational and commissural connections in the DG changed differently between mice with type 1 vs. type 2 neuronal loss. Calretinin (CR)-immunopositive mossy cells in ventral hilus and its fibers in inner molecular layer of bilateral DG remained in mice with type 1 but almost disappeared in mice with type 2 neuronal loss, which was further supported by retrograde labeling with cholera toxin subunit B (CTB) showing colocalization of CTB with CR in the ventral hilus of bilateral DG in mice with type 1 neuronal loss, which was lost in those with type 2 neuronal loss. Furthermore, the sprouted PHA-L-immunopositive en passant and terminal boutons from the DG were found in CA1 area to contact with surviving calbindin-, CR-, and parvalbumin-immunopositive neurons. The present study therefore suggests that different patterns of neuronal loss in CA3 area may be linked to different axon reorganizations in the DG.
CD8+ macrophages appear in the central nervous system (CNS) under various pathological conditions such as trauma and ischemia. Furthermore, macrophages expressing CD8 were found in CNS lesions of chronic, but not acute, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). To further characterize cells with this phenotype, we examined CD8+ macrophages/monocytes in the CNS and peripheral organs during the course of acute and chronic EAE that had been induced by immunization of rats with myelin basic protein and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, respectively. Counting CD8+ macrophages in CNS lesions revealed that their numbers increased reaching about 60% of total infiltrating macrophages in chronic EAE, while CD8+ macrophages remained less than 5% throughout the course of acute EAE. Unexpectedly, however, higher abundance of CD8+ monocytes/macrophages in the peripheral blood was found in both acute and chronic EAE. Real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed no significant difference in the levels of chemokines and chemokine receptors of blood CD8+ monocytes between acute and chronic EAE. mRNA expression of perforin, a cytotoxic substance, was up-regulated in CD8+ monocytes compared with that of CD8- monocytes in both acute and chronic EAE. These findings suggest that activated CD8+ macrophages may play a cytotoxic role in chronic EAE lesions and that cells other than CD8+ monocytes/macrophages determined the difference in CNS pathology between acute and chronic EAE. Analysis of CD8+ monocytes/macrophages may provide useful information to permit further dissect the pathomechanisms of multiple sclerosis and to develop effective immunotherapies against autoimmune diseases in the CNS.
The current state of surgery for vestibular schwannomas (VSs) is the result of a century of step-by-step technical progress by groundbreaking surgeons who transformed the procedure from its hazardous infancy and high mortality rate to its current state of safety and low morbidity rate. Harvey Cushing advocated bilateral suboccipital decompression and developed the method of intracapsular tumor enucleation. Walter Dandy supported the unilateral suboccipital approach and developed the technique of gross-total tumor resection. Microsurgical techniques revolutionized VS surgery to its current status. In this article, the authors review the early history of surgery for VSs with an emphasis on contributions from pioneering surgeons. The authors examined the Cushing Brain Tumor Registry for clues regarding the bona fide intention of Cushing for the resection of these tumors.
We hypothesized that like bispectral index, entropy may be anesthetic agent specific. We carried out a study to assess the entropy values of different anesthetics at equi-minimal alveolar concentrations (MACs) with air and nitrous oxide as carrier gases. Thirty adult patients undergoing spine surgery were randomized to receive halothane, isoflurane, or sevoflurane, in 2 stages, (a) with air/oxygen mixture (2:1) and (b) in nitrous oxide/oxygen (2:1). Heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure, response entropy (RE), and state entropy (SE) were noted at 1.0 and 1.5 MACs for each agent. Statistical analysis was done using the 2-way analysis of variance followed by Bonferroni correction and Student t test for paired data. P value of less than 0.05 were considered significant. The demographics and baseline values of heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure, RE, and SE were comparable. Changing from air/oxygen as carrier gas to 66% nitrous oxide in oxygen resulted in significant increase in both RE and SE at 1.0 MAC for all the agents (P&lt;0.05). Among the agents, it was found that both RE and SE values were significantly higher during halothane anesthesia as compared with sevoflurane and isoflurane (P&lt;0.05). At 1.5 MAC for all agents, after addition of nitrous oxide, there was an insignificant reduction in both RE and SE (P&gt;0.05). Again the values of RE and SE remained high for halothane as compared with isoflurane and sevoflurane. In conclusion, our data suggest a possibility of misinterpretation of anesthetic hypnosis when entropy values increase with addition of nitrous oxide to 1 MAC isoflurane and sevoflurane.

While axonal regeneration continues to be the major focus of research into spinal injury, there is growing evidence for changes in functional properties below lesion sites. In this study we have used the lamprey, a model system for studying axonal regeneration after spinal injury, to examine whether functional and ultrastructural changes below lesion sites might also contribute to the recovery of locomotor function in this system. In the current study, the majority of the animals showed good functional recovery 10 weeks after lesioning, even when there was no physiological evidence for regeneration across the lesion site (although animals that recovered poorly always lacked regeneration). Excitability was increased below, but not above, the lesion site, as shown by the significantly greater ventral root responses following electrical stimulation of the spinal cord, a depolarization of the resting membrane potential, and an increase in input resistance and excitability in spinal cord neurons. Synaptic properties were also affected: a slow postsynaptic depolarization developed during presynaptic spike trains, and there was an increase in the frequency and amplitude of tetrodotoxin (TTX)-resistant miniature excitatory postsynaptic potentials (mEPSPs). There were also changes in synaptic ultrastructure, including a reduction of the synaptic gap and an increase in synaptic vesicle pools at asymmetric (putative excitatory) synapses. These results provide the first evidence for functional changes below lesion sites in the lamprey, and suggest that locomotor recovery reflects an interaction between regenerated axons and altered networks below lesion sites. The lamprey offers a tractable model system in which to investigate how interactions between altered locomotor networks and regenerated axons are organized to promote locomotor recovery.
The selected strain of rodent used in experimental models of traumatic brain injury is typically dependent upon the experimental questions asked and the familiarity of the investigator with a specific rodent strain. This archival study compares the injury responsiveness and recovery profiles of two popular outbred strains, the Long-Evans (LE) and the Sprague-Dawley (SD), after brain injury induced by lateral fluid percussion injury (LFPI). General findings include a significantly longer duration of unconsciousness in LE rats, but similar durations of apnea. Both strains displayed the same level of initial FPI-induced behavioral deficits, followed by a more rapid rate of functional recovery in SD rats. Cortical volume loss was not significantly different, but close inspection of the data suggests the possibility that LE rats may be more susceptible to damage in the hemisphere contralateral to the injury site than are SD rats. It is hoped that the information provided here encourages greater attention to the subtle differences and similarities between strains in future pre-clinical efficacy studies of traumatic brain injury.
Cerebral microdialysis is a monitoring technique with expanding clinical and research utility following traumatic brain injury. This study's aim was to determine the relative recovery for 12 cytokines using both crystalloid (CNS perfusion fluid) and colloid (CNS perfusion fluid supplemented with 3.5% human serum albumin) perfusate. Six CMA71 microdialysis catheters (nominal molecular weight cut-off 100 kDa) were perfused in vitro with either crystalloid or colloid and the relative recovery (%) determined for the cytokines as follows (crystalloid/colloid perfusate): IL-1alpha (50.6/48), IL-1beta (34.6/38.4), IL-1ra (21.9/38.4), IL-2 (17.1/52.8), IL-4 (26/56.7), IL-6 (9.8/25.5), IL-8 (47.7/73.4), IL-10 (2.9/8.7), IL-17 (14.4/43.7), TNF-alpha (4.4/31.2), MIP-1alpha (31.8/55.6), and MIP-1beta (31.9/50.1). The colloid perfusate significantly improved relative recovery for nine of these cytokines ( p &lt; 0.05), but not for IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-8. Relative recovery was related to apparent molecular weight of cytokine and to isoelectric point (pI), a surrogate marker of hydrophilicity. The mean fluid recovery for crystalloid and colloid perfusate was 92% and 145%, respectively. Scanning electron microscopy was utilized to investigate the ultrastructure of microdialysis membranes: (1) 20-kDa membrane, (2) 100-kDa membrane, and (3) ex vivo 100-kDa membrane. The 100-kDa membranes possessed multiple large cavities and the catheter examined after use in human brain clearly demonstrated cellular debris within the pores of the membrane. While colloid perfusate improves relative recovery, it causes a net influx of fluid into the microdialysis catheter, potentially dehydrating the extracellular space. This study is the first to systematically determine relative recovery in vitro for a wide range of cytokines. The two forms of perfusion fluid require direct comparison in vivo.



Recent in-depth studies of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) that assessed multiple physiological endpoints in large patient cohorts confirm evidence of abnormal motility, sensation, and psychosocial disturbances. However, the proportion with hypersensitivity has dropped from the time of the original claim that it is a &quot;biological marker&quot; of IBS. Discomfort thresholds in male and female IBS patients normalize over time, whereas IBS symptoms persist, and increased colonic sensitivity in IBS is strongly influenced by a psychological tendency to report pain and urge rather than increased neurosensory sensitivity. The objectives of this article are to review the classical pathophysiology of IBS, the putative roles of infection, inflammation, and bacterial flora; consider mimics of IBS; assess the evidence that IBS is a serotonergic disease; evaluate recent advances in membrane biology and neuroscience related to IBS; consider genetic association with IBS and its endophenotype; and discuss whether to treat the gut or the brain.
We tested the structure and magnitude of genetic and environmental influences on the overlap among self-esteem, negative emotionality, and major depression symptoms in adolescent girls (N=706) from the Minnesota Twin Family Study. Genetic and environmental influences on all three operated via a general, heritable factor. Genetic influences explained the majority of overlap among the three constructs, as well as most of the variance in self-esteem and negative emotionality. Genetic influences on depression were more modest and largely due to genetic factors specific to depression. These findings support the theory that self-esteem, depression, and neuroticism represent aspects of a common temperamental core. The interrelations among the three constructs in mid-adolescence is consistent with their interrelations in adulthood.
Varenicline was recently approved as an aid for smoking cessation. Patients treated with varenicline have reported a concomitant reduction in their alcohol consumption. This compound has also been demonstrated to reduce alcohol seeking and consumption in alcohol high-preferring rats. Based on the extensive coabuse of nicotine and alcohol, the aim of the present study was to explore whether interactions among varenicline, nicotine, and ethanol in the brain reward system could indicate the use of varenicline also for alcohol dependence. Using the in vivo microdialysis method, we investigated the effects of systemic injections of varenicline on the extracellular accumbal dopamine levels in response to a systemic challenge of ethanol, nicotine, or the combination of nicotine and ethanol in the experimental rat. Acute systemic coadministration of varenicline and ethanol counteracted each others' respective enhancing effect on dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens. However, after 5 days of varenicline pretreatment, acute combined varenicline and ethanol administration raised dopamine levels to the same extent as either drug alone. Furthermore, after varenicline pretreatment an acute injection of varenicline antagonized the dopamine stimulatory effect of acute nicotine as well as that of systemic coadministration of ethanol and nicotine. In contrast, a pronounced additive dopamine increase was observed when nicotine and ethanol were coadministered in vehicle-pretreated rats. The antismoking agent varenicline exhibits properties with respect to its interaction with ethanol and nicotine in the brain reward system that may be beneficial for treating patients with alcohol dependence with (and possibly also without) concomitant nicotine dependence.
Elevated sensitivity to the euphoric or stimulant effects of ethanol is associated with higher levels of alcohol use in some human populations. Midbrain dopamine neurons are thought to be important mediators of both ethanol reward and locomotor stimulation. Patch-clamp recordings were used to examine the electrical properties of dopamine neurons in a genetic model of heightened (FAST) and reduced (SLOW) sensitivity to the locomotor-activating effects of ethanol. Pacemaker firing of dopamine neurons was faster in FAST than SLOW mice, as was the current density through I(H) channels. Acute administration of ethanol accelerated the firing of dopamine neurons to a greater extent in recordings from FAST than SLOW mice. Dopamine neurons from FAST mice also exhibited reduced GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic input, compared with SLOW mice. The results suggest that dopamine neuron I(H) channels, firing rate, and GABAergic input may play a role in sensitivity to the locomotor activation observed at early time points after ethanol administration and could underlie differences in sensitivity to alcohol relevant to risk for alcohol abuse.


The effect of mothers' participation in substance abuse treatment on reunification with their children who are in out-of-home care is an important policy issue. This article examines the predictors of child reunification among mothers who participated in a statewide treatment outcome study. Data were integrated from multiple sources to determine the contributions of characteristics of mothers (n = 1,115), their children (n = 2,299), and treatment programs (n = 43) on reunification outcomes. Hierarchical linear modeling was used to determine the fixed and random effects of mother, child, and program characteristics. Mothers with more employment and psychiatric problems were less likely to be reunified with their children; completion of 90 or more days in treatment approximately doubled their likelihood of reunification. Mothers who were treated in programs providing a &quot;high&quot; level of family-related or education/employment services were approximately twice as likely to reunify with their children as those who were treated in programs with &quot;low&quot; levels of these services.


Acquiring a faculty position in academia is extremely competitive and now typically requires more than just solid research skills and knowledge of one's field. Recruiting institutions currently desire new faculty that can teach effectively, but few postdoctoral positions provide any training in teaching methods. Fellowships in Research and Science Teaching (FIRST) is a successful postdoctoral training program funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) providing training in both research and teaching methodology. The FIRST program provides fellows with outstanding interdisciplinary biomedical research training in fields such as neuroscience. The postdoctoral research experience is integrated with a teaching program which includes a How to Teach course, instruction in classroom technology and course development and mentored teaching. During their mentored teaching experiences, fellows are encouraged to explore innovative teaching methodologies and to perform science teaching research to improve classroom learning. FIRST fellows teaching neuroscience to undergraduates have observed that many of these students have difficulty with the topic of neuroscience. Therefore, we investigated the effects of interactive teaching methods for this topic. We tested two interactive teaching methodologies to determine if they would improve learning and retention of this information when compared with standard lectures. The interactive methods for teaching action potentials increased understanding and retention. Therefore, FIRST provides excellent teaching training, partly by enhancing the ability of fellows to integrate innovative teaching methods into their instruction. This training in turn provides fellows that matriculate from this program more of the characteristics that hiring institutions desire in their new faculty.
The Northeast Under/Graduate Research Organization for Neuroscience (NEURON) was established 12 years ago in order to foster the training, education, and research of both undergraduate and graduate neuroscience students. NEURON hosts two annual conferences (Boston in the fall; New York City in the spring) to promote and support neuroscience training, education, and research. For 12 years, the organization has promoted neuroscience by exposing neuroscience trainees to research and educational perspectives (Edinger et al., 2004, 2005; Frye and Edinger, 2004; Goyette et al., 2008; Rhodes et al., 2006, 2007, 2008). Conferences are supported by an NIH R13 grant, and serve as a valuable experience for both students and mentors with a passion for neuroscience. This paper describes the proceedings of the fall 2007 meeting at Northeastern University.
Laboratory core courses in neuroscience at small liberal arts colleges are few in number and thus under great pressure to offer active laboratory explorations of a wide range of topics. Furthermore, traditional lab activities require substantial resources in terms of space, time, equipment and organization, further limiting the extent to which a school can provide students with important interactive neuroscience experiences in the classroom. Previous work has shown that interactive computer simulations can successfully replace more traditional lab activities in an introductory neuroscience laboratory (Bish and Schleidt, 2008). The present work shows that similar activities can also enhance the learning experience in a midsize, non-laboratory Sensation &amp; Perception (S&amp;P) course. While this course is considered a supporting or elective, rather than a core course in most neuroscience programs, its subject matter lends itself to the in-depth exploration of several key topics in cognitive neuroscience. The success of using computer-based neuroscience activities in a class like S&amp;P might thus point to effective ways in which to distribute the interactive exploration of some neuroscience topics to supporting courses in the curriculum, thereby easing the pressure on the few core laboratory courses to cover all aspects of the field.
A science-based curriculum that encourages hands-on experiences, skill development, and promotes student engagement are critical components in both successful undergraduate psychology and neuroscience programs. This lab explored an inquiry-based research project focused on microscopy skills, critical thinking, and independent research design. This lesson used a novel research question (How many serotonergic cells are located in the dorsal raphe nucleus?) to engage students in research and methodology design. The resulting lab received positive feedback from students and provided data about the serotonergic system in a previously unreported species.
This systematic review of population-based studies of the incidence and early (21 days to 1 month) case fatality of stroke is based on studies published from 1970 to 2008. Stroke incidence (incident strokes only) and case fatality from 21 days to 1 month post-stroke were analysed by four decades of study, two country income groups (high-income countries and low to middle income countries, in accordance with the World Bank's country classification) and, when possible, by stroke pathological type: ischaemic stroke, primary intracerebral haemorrhage, and subarachnoid haemorrhage. This Review shows a divergent, statistically significant trend in stroke incidence rates over the past four decades, with a 42% decrease in stroke incidence in high-income countries and a greater than 100% increase in stroke incidence in low to middle income countries. In 2000-08, the overall stroke incidence rates in low to middle income countries have, for the first time, exceeded the level of stroke incidence seen in high-income countries, by 20%. The time to decide whether or not stroke is an issue that should be on the governmental agenda in low to middle income countries has now passed. Now is the time for action.
Benign parotid neoplasm and inflammatory processes of the parotid resulting in facial paralysis are extremely rare. We report a 72-year-old Malay female with poorly-controlled diabetes mellitus who presented with a painful right parotid swelling associated with right facial nerve palsy. The paralysis (Grade VI, House and Brackmann classification) remained after six months.
Wallerian degeneration is a complicated process whereby axons and myelin sheaths undergo degeneration, and eventually are phagocytosed by macrophages and Schwann cells following nerve damage. Schwann cells proliferate and the endoneural tubes persist. In addition, neurotrophins, neural cell adhesion molecules, cytokines and other soluble factors are upregulated to facilitate regeneration. The important role of cellular components, neurotrophins, and extracellular matrix components, including cell surface molecules involved in this regenerative process, is highlighted and discussed in this review.


Two novel mitochondrial DNA base changes were identified at both sides of the 3243A&gt;G mutation, the most common mutation associated with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). One was a 3244G&gt;A transition in a girl with MELAS. The other was a 3242G&gt;A transition in a girl with a mitochondrial disorder without a MELAS phenotype. Although the two base changes were adjacent to the 3243A&gt;G mutation, they had different effects on the clinical phenotype, muscle pathology, and respiratory chain enzyme activity. Investigations of the different effects of the 3244G&gt;A and 3242G&gt;A base changes may provide a better understanding of tRNA dysfunction in mitochondrial disorders.
Syndapins belong to the F-BAR domain protein family whose predicted functions in membrane tubulation remain poorly studied in vivo. At Drosophila neuromuscular junctions, syndapin is associated predominantly with a tubulolamellar postsynaptic membrane system known as the subsynaptic reticulum (SSR). We show that syndapin overexpression greatly expands this postsynaptic membrane system. Syndapin can expand the SSR in the absence of dPAK and Dlg, two known regulators of SSR development. Syndapin's N-terminal F-BAR domain, required for membrane tubulation in cultured cells, is required for SSR expansion. Consistent with a model in which syndapin acts directly on postsynaptic membrane, SSR expansion requires conserved residues essential for membrane binding in vitro. However, syndapin's Src homology (SH) 3 domain, which negatively regulates membrane tubulation in cultured cells, is required for synaptic targeting and strong SSR induction. Our observations advance knowledge of syndapin protein function by 1) demonstrating the in vivo relevance of membrane remodeling mechanisms suggested by previous in vitro and structural analyses, 2) showing that SH3 domains are necessary for membrane expansion observed in vivo, and 3) confirming that F-BAR proteins control complex membrane structures.
In investigating the consequences of gene silencing in axon growth disinhibition strategies in cultured retinal ganglion cells (RGC), we conducted experiments designed to silence RhoA signalling in PC12 and primary adult rat retinal cell cultures (containing RGC) by siRNA-mediated RhoA mRNA knockdown. We demonstrate wide differences in the levels of RhoA mRNA knockdown, dose-dependent cell toxicity, and induction of endogenous inflammatory cytokine and interferon responses to siRNA therapy. Toxicity effects observed with RhoA-siRNA was significantly reduced with &quot;Stealth&quot; chemical modification of the sequence, promoting approximately 50% and 70% knockdown of RhoA mRNA and protein in retinal cells, respectively, while promoting significant disinhibited RGC neurite outgrowth in the presence of inhibitory CNS myelin. Our results highlight differential responsiveness of cell lines compared to primary cultured cells, and demonstrate the efficacy of the &quot;Stealth&quot; modification to reduce siRNA-induced interferon responses, thereby increasing target cell viability and reducing off-target effects of the delivered nucleic acids.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) control neuronal synaptic function; however, little is known about the synaptic substrates regulated by MAPKs. A phosphopeptide library incorporating the MAPK consensus motif (PX(pS/pT)P where pS is phosphoserine and pT is phosphothreonine) was used to raise a phosphospecific antibody that detected MAPK-mediated phosphorylation. The antibody (termed &quot;5557&quot;) recognized a variety of phosphoproteins in the brain, many of which were enriched in postsynaptic density fractions. The immunoblot pattern changed rapidly in response to altered synaptic activity and with the inhibition of specific MAPKs and protein phosphatases. By immunoaffinity purification with 5557 antibody followed by mass spectrometry, we identified 449 putative MAPK substrates of which many appeared dynamically regulated in neuron cultures. Several of the novel candidate MAPK substrates were validated by in vitro phosphorylation assays. Additionally 82 specific phosphorylation sites were identified in 34 proteins, including Ser-447 in delta-catenin, a component of the cadherin adhesion complex. We further raised another phosphospecific antibody to confirm that delta-catenin Ser-447 is modified in neurons by the MAPK JNK in a synaptic activity-dependent manner. Ser-447 phosphorylation by JNK appears to be correlated with delta-catenin degradation, and a delta-catenin mutant defective in Ser-447 phosphorylation showed enhanced ability to promote dendrite branching in cultured neurons. Thus, phosphomotif-based affinity purification is a powerful approach to identify novel substrates of MAPKs in vivo and to reveal functionally significant phosphorylation events.

Amphetamine (AMPH) and its derivatives are regularly used in the treatment of a wide array of disorders such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), obesity, traumatic brain injury, and narcolepsy (Prog Neurobiol 75:406-433, 2005; J Am Med Assoc 105:2051-2054, 1935; J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry 41:514-521, 2002; Neuron 43:261-269, 2004; Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol 47:681-698, 2007; Drugs Aging 21:67-79, 2004). Despite the important medicinal role for AMPH, it is more widely known for its psychostimulant and addictive properties as a drug of abuse. The primary molecular targets of AMPH are both the vesicular monoamine transporters (VMATs) and plasma membrane monoamine-dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), and serotonin (5-HT)-transporters. The rewarding and addicting properties of AMPH rely on its ability to act as a substrate for these transporters and ultimately increase extracellular levels of monoamines. AMPH achieves this elevation in extracellular levels of neurotransmitter by inducing synaptic vesicle depletion, which increases intracellular monoamine levels, and also by promoting reverse transport (efflux) through plasma membrane monoamine transporters (J Biol Chem 237:2311-2317, 1962; Med Exp Int J Exp Med 6:47-53, 1962; Neuron 19:1271-1283, 1997; J Physiol 144:314-336, 1958; J Neurosci 18:1979-1986, 1998; Science 237:1219-1223, 1987; J Neurosc 15:4102-4108, 1995). This review will focus on two important aspects of AMPH-induced regulation of the plasma membrane monoamine transporters-transporter mediated monoamine efflux and transporter trafficking.
Several theories on the pathomechanism of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have been proposed: misfolded protein aggregates, mitochondrial dysfunction, increased glutamate toxicity, increased oxidative stress, disturbance of intracellular trafficking, and so on. In parallel, a number of drugs that have been developed to alleviate the putative key pathomechanism of ALS have been under clinical trials. Unfortunately, however, almost all studies have finished unsuccessfully. This fact indicates that the key ALS pathomechanism still remains a tough enigma. Recent studies with autopsied ALS patients and studies using mutant SOD1 (mSOD1) transgenic mice have suggested that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-related toxicity may be a relevant ALS pathomechanism. Levels of ER stress-related proteins were upregulated in motor neurons in the spinal cords of ALS patients. It was also shown that mSOD1, translocated to the ER, caused ER stress in neurons in the spinal cord of mSOD1 transgenic mice. We recently reported that the newly identified ALS-causative gene, vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein B (VAPB), plays a pivotal role in unfolded protein response (UPR), a physiological reaction against ER stress. The ALS-linked P56S mutation in VAPB nullifies the function of VAPB, resulting in motoneuronal vulnerability to ER stress. In this review, we summarize recent advances in research on the ALS pathomechanism especially addressing the putative involvement of ER stress and UPR dysfunction.
An overall burden of rare structural genomic variants has not been reported in bipolar disorder (BD), although there have been reports of cases with microduplication and microdeletion. Here, we present a genome-wide copy number variant (CNV) survey of 1001 cases and 1034 controls using the Affymetrix single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) 6.0 SNP and CNV platform. Singleton deletions (deletions that appear only once in the dataset) more than 100 kb in length are present in 16.2% of BD cases in contrast to 12.3% of controls (permutation P=0.007). This effect was more pronounced for age at onset of mania &lt;or=18 years old. Our results strongly suggest that BD can result from the effects of multiple rare structural variants.
Since the discovery of neuropathological lesions made of TDP-43 and ubiquitin proteins in cases of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), there is a burst of effort on finding related familial mutations and developing animal models. We used an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector for human TDP-43 expression targeted to the substantia nigra (SN) of rats. Though TDP-43 was expressed mainly in neuronal nuclei as expected, it was also expressed in the cytoplasm, and dotted along the plasma membrane of neurons. Cytoplasmic staining was both diffuse and granular, indicative of preinclusion lesions, over 4 weeks. Ubiquitin deposited in the cytoplasm, specifically in the TDP-43 group, and staining for microglia was increased dose-dependently by 1-2 logs in the TDP-43 group, while neurons were selectively obliterated. Neuronal death induced by TDP-43 was pyknotic and apoptotic. TDP-43 gene transfer caused loss of dopaminergic neurons in the SN and their axons in the striatum. Behavioral motor dysfunction resulted after TDP-43 gene transfer that was vector dose-dependent and progressive over time. The cytoplasmic expression, ubiquitination, and neurodegeneration mimicked features of the TDP-43 diseases, and the gliosis, apoptosis, and motor impairment may also be relevant to TDP-43 disease forms involving nigrostriatal degeneration.
The herpes simplex virus (HSV) amplicon vector produces an initial host response that limits transgene expression. In this study, we hypothesized that restoration of the HSV gene infected cell protein (ICP0) into the amplicon could circumvent this host response and thus overcome silencing of encoded transgenes. To test this, we constructed an amplicon vector that encodes the ICP0 under control of its native promoter (ICP0+ amplicon). Expression of ICP0 was transient and, at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 1, did not significantly alter interferon (IFN)-based responses against the vector or cell kinetics/apoptosis of infected cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) PCR analysis revealed that conventional amplicon DNA became associated with histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) immediately after infection, whereas ICP0+ amplicon DNA remained relatively unbound by HDAC1 for at least 72 hours after infection. Mice administered systemic ICP0+ amplicon exhibited significantly greater and more sustained transgene expression in their livers than did those receiving conventional amplicon, likely due to increased transcriptional or post-transcriptional activity rather than increased copy numbers of vector DNA. These findings indicate that restoration of ICP0 expression may be employed within HSV amplicon constructs to decrease transgene silencing in vitro and in vivo.



Development of a multicellular organism from a fertilized egg depends on a precise balance between symmetric cell divisions to expand the pool of similar cells, and asymmetric cell divisions to create cell-type diversity. Spindle orientation can influence the generation of symmetric or asymmetric cell fates depending on how it is coupled to cell-intrinsic polarity cues, or how it is positioned relative to cell-extrinsic cues such as niche-derived signals. In this review, we describe the mechanism of spindle orientation in budding yeast, Drosophila melanogaster, Caenorhabditis elegans and mammalian neural progenitors, with the goal of highlighting conserved mechanisms and indicating open questions for the future.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides, found in Alzheimer's disease brain, accumulate rapidly after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in both humans and animals. Here we show that blocking either beta- or gamma-secretase, enzymes required for production of Abeta from amyloid precursor protein (APP), can ameliorate motor and cognitive deficits and reduce cell loss after experimental TBI in mice. Thus, APP secretases are promising targets for treatment of TBI.
Hypothalamic brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a key element in the regulation of energy balance. Here we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of BDNF by gene transfer in mouse models of obesity and diabetes. Gene transfer of BDNF led to marked weight loss and alleviation of obesity-associated insulin resistance. To facilitate clinical translation and ensure that BDNF protein expression was appropriately decreased as weight loss progressed, thus preventing cachexia, we developed a molecular autoregulatory system involving a single recombinant adeno-associated virus vector harboring two expression cassettes, one constitutively driving BDNF and the other driving a specific microRNA targeting BDNF. The microRNA element was controlled by a promoter (that controlling the Agrp gene encoding agouti-related peptide) responsive to BDNF-induced physiological changes. Hence, as body weight decreased and agouti-related protein is induced, microRNA expression was activated, inhibiting transgene expression. In contrast to the progressive weight loss associated with a nonregulated approach, this microRNA-approach led to a sustainable plateau of body weight after notable weight loss was achieved. This strategy mimics the body's endogenous physiological feedback mechanisms, thereby resetting the hypothalamic set point to reverse obesity and metabolic syndrome.
The small size and high resistance of C. elegans neurons makes them sensitive to the random opening of single ion channels, probably rendering codes that are based on classical, all-or-none action potentials unworkable. The recent discovery in C. elegans of a special class of regenerative events known as plateau potentials introduces the possibility of digital neural codes. Such codes would solve the problem of representing information in nervous systems in which action potentials are unreliable.
Myelinating cells, oligodendrocytes in the CNS and Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system produce an enormous amount of plasma membrane during the myelination process, making them particularly susceptible to disruptions of the secretory pathway. Endoplasmic reticulum stress, initiated by the accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins, activates the unfolded protein response, which adapts cells to the stress. If this adaptive response is insufficient, the unfolded protein response activates an apoptotic program to eliminate the affected cells. Recent observations suggest that endoplasmic reticulum stress in myelinating cells is important in the pathogenesis of various disorders of myelin, including Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease and Vanishing White Matter Disease, as well as in the most common myelin disorder, multiple sclerosis. A better understanding of endoplasmic reticulum stress in myelinating cells has laid the groundwork for the design of new therapeutic strategies for promoting myelinating cell survival in these disorders.
Correlated network activity is important in the development of many neural circuits. Purkinje cells are among the first neurons to populate the cerebellar cortex, where they sprout exuberant axon collaterals. We used multiple patch-clamp recordings targeted with two-photon microscopy to characterize monosynaptic connections between the Purkinje cells of juvenile mice. We found that Purkinje cell axon collaterals projected asymmetrically in the sagittal plane, directed away from the lobule apex. On the basis of our anatomical and physiological characterization of this connection, we constructed a network model that robustly generated waves of activity that traveled along chains of connected Purkinje cells. Consistent with the model, we observed traveling waves of activity in Purkinje cells in sagittal slices from young mice that require GABA(A) receptor-mediated transmission and intact Purkinje cell axon collaterals. These traveling waves are absent in adult mice, suggesting they have a developmental role in wiring the cerebellar cortical microcircuit.
Effects of thyroid hormones in individual tissues are determined by many factors beyond their serum levels, including local deiodination and expression and activity of thyroid hormone transporters. These effects are difficult to examine by traditional techniques, but a novel approach that exploits the existence of common genetic variants has yielded new and surprising insights. Convincing evidence indicates a role of type 1 iodothyronine deiodinase (D1) in determining the serum T(4):T(3) ratio and a role of phosphodiesterase 8B in determining TSH levels. In addition, studies of type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (D2) variants have shown that thyroid hormones contribute to osteoarthritis and these variants influence Intelligence quotient alterations associated with iodine deficiency. Preliminary evidence suggests associations between TSH-receptor variants and fasting glucose level, D1 variants and insulin-like growth factor I production, and D2 variants and hypertension, psychological well-being and response to T(3) or T(4) treatment. Intriguingly, most of these associations are independent of serum thyroid hormone levels, which highlights the importance of local regulation of thyroid hormones in tissues. Future research might reveal novel roles for thyroid hormones in obesity, cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis and depression and could have implications for interpretation of thyroid function tests and individualization of thyroid hormone replacement therapy.
Friedreich ataxia is the most frequent hereditary ataxia, with an estimated prevalence of 3-4 cases per 100,000 individuals. This autosomal-recessive neurodegenerative disease is characterized by progressive gait and limb ataxia, dysarthria, lower-limb areflexia, decreased vibration sense, muscular weakness in the legs, and a positive extensor plantar response. Non-neurological signs include hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and diabetes mellitus. Symptom onset typically occurs around puberty, and life expectancy is 40-50 years. Friedreich ataxia is usually caused by a large GAA-triplet-repeat expansion within the first intron of the frataxin (FXN) gene. FXN mutations cause deficiencies of the iron-sulfur cluster-containing subunits of the mitochondrial electron transport complexes I, II, and III, and of the iron-sulfur protein aconitase. Mitochondrial dysfunction has been addressed in several open-label, non-placebo-controlled trials, which indicated that treatment with idebenone might ameliorate hypertrophic cardiomyopathy; a well-designed phase II trial suggested concentration-dependent functional improvements in non-wheelchair-bound children and adolescents. Other current experimental approaches address iron-mediated toxicity, or aim to increase FXN expression through the use of erythropoietin and histone deacetylase inhibitors. This Review provides guidelines, from a European perspective, for the diagnosis of Friedreich ataxia, differential diagnosis of ataxias and genetic counseling, and treatment of neurological and non-neurological symptoms.
One of the most exciting developments in modern neuroscience has been the application of imaging techniques to provide new insights into the organization of the human brain in vivo. Functional imaging methods, such as PET and functional MRI, have become the preferred techniques for detection of the structure-function relationships within the brain that are characteristic of headache. This Review focuses on neuroimaging as a diagnostic tool for headache and highlights the advances made with functional and structural neuroimaging techniques in the study of primary headache syndromes such as migraine and trigeminal autonomic headaches. Several independent functional studies have reinforced the crucial role of the brainstem in acute and chronic migraine and of the hypothalamic area in trigeminal autonomic headaches. Structural abnormalities that have been identified in the visual network of motion-processing areas could account for, or result from, the cortical hyperexcitability observed in patients with migraine. Several morphometric studies suggest that gray matter volume and/or concentration is decreased in pain-transmitting areas in patients with migraine or tension-type headache. Given the rapid advances in functional neuroimaging, this technique will continue to be of paramount importance in patients with headache and might ultimately serve as the bridge between molecular and clinical domains in headache research.
Converging evidence suggests that each parahippocampal and hippocampal subregion contributes uniquely to the encoding, consolidation and retrieval of declarative memories, but their precise roles remain elusive. Current functional thinking does not fully incorporate the intricately connected networks that link these subregions, owing to their organizational complexity; however, such detailed anatomical knowledge is of pivotal importance for comprehending the unique functional contribution of each subregion. We have therefore developed an interactive diagram with the aim to display all of the currently known anatomical connections of the rat parahippocampal-hippocampal network. In this Review, we integrate the existing anatomical knowledge into a concise description of this network and discuss the functional implications of some relatively underexposed connections.
The wiring of the nervous system requires a complex orchestration of developmental events. Emerging evidence suggests that transient cell-cell interactions often serve as positional cues for axon guidance and synaptogenesis during the assembly of neural circuits. In contrast to the relatively stable cellular interactions between synaptic partners in mature circuits, these transient interactions involve cells that are not destined to be pre- or postsynaptic cells. Here we review the roles of these transient cell-cell interactions in a variety of developmental contexts and describe the mechanisms through which they organize neural connections.
The motor theory of speech perception assumes that activation of the motor system is essential in the perception of speech. However, deficits in speech perception and comprehension do not arise from damage that is restricted to the motor cortex, few functional imaging studies reveal activity in the motor cortex during speech perception, and the motor cortex is strongly activated by many different sound categories. Here, we evaluate alternative roles for the motor cortex in spoken communication and suggest a specific role in sensorimotor processing in conversation. We argue that motor cortex activation is essential in joint speech, particularly for the timing of turn taking.
MicroRNAs have been implicated as having important roles in stem cell biology. MicroRNA-9 (miR-9) is expressed specifically in neurogenic areas of the brain and may be involved in neural stem cell self-renewal and differentiation. We showed previously that the nuclear receptor TLX is an essential regulator of neural stem cell self-renewal. Here we show that miR-9 suppresses TLX expression to negatively regulate neural stem cell proliferation and accelerate neural differentiation. Introducing a TLX expression vector that is not prone to miR-9 regulation rescued miR-9-induced proliferation deficiency and inhibited precocious differentiation. In utero electroporation of miR-9 in embryonic brains led to premature differentiation and outward migration of the transfected neural stem cells. Moreover, TLX represses expression of the miR-9 pri-miRNA. By forming a negative regulatory loop with TLX, miR-9 provides a model for controlling the balance between neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation.
G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) comprise the largest family of cell surface receptors and are the major drug targets for the treatment of various human diseases. The lack of sensitive and selective antibodies capable of recognizing endogenous GPCRs, however, hampers the progress of research on this class of receptors. GalR1 through GalR3, GPCRs for the neuropeptide galanin, are potential drug targets for seizure, Alzheimer's disease, depression and anxiety, as well as pain and metabolic syndrome; therefore, determining the cellular and subcellular localization of galanin receptors is of high interest. Several Antibodies raised against galanin receptors are currently available from commercial or academic sources. We have tested several antibodies to GalR1 and GalR2 on tissues from respective knockout mice. Unexpectedly, the immunoreactivity patterns are the same in wild-type and in knockout mice, suggesting that current GalR1 and GalR2 antibodies, under standard immunodetection conditions, might not be suitable for mapping the receptors. These findings argue for taking precaution when using antibodies to galanin receptors.
In this theoretical contribution, we provide mathematical proof that two of the most important classes of network learning-correlation-based differential Hebbian learning and reward-based temporal difference learning-are asymptotically equivalent when timing the learning with a modulatory signal. This opens the opportunity to consistently reformulate most of the abstract reinforcement learning framework from a correlation-based perspective more closely related to the biophysics of neurons.
What is the role of language in cognition? Do we think with words, or do we use words to communicate made-up decisions? The paper briefly reviews ideas in this area since 1950s. Then we discuss mechanisms of cognition, recent neuroscience experiments, and corresponding mathematical models. These models are interpreted in terms of a biological drive for cognition. Based on the Grossberg-Levine theory of drives and emotions, we identify specific emotions associated with the need for cognition. We demonstrate an engineering application of the developed technique, which significantly improves detection of patterns in noise over the previous state-of-the-art. The developed mathematical models are extended toward language. Then we consider possible brain-mind mechanisms of interaction between language and cognition. A mathematical analysis imposes restrictions on possible mechanisms. The proposed model resolves some long-standing language-cognition issues: how the mind learns correct associations between words and objects among an astronomical number of possible associations; why kids can talk about almost everything, but cannot act like adults, what exactly are the brain-mind differences; why animals do not talk and think like people. Recent brain imaging experiments indicate support for the proposed model. We discuss future theoretical and experimental research.
The success of brain-machine interfaces (BMI) is enabled by the remarkable ability of the brain to incorporate the artificial neuroprosthetic 'tool' into its own cognitive space and use it as an extension of the user's body. Unlike other tools, neuroprosthetics create a shared space that seamlessly spans the user's internal goal representation of the world and the external physical environment enabling a much deeper human-tool symbiosis. A key factor in the transformation of 'simple tools' into 'intelligent tools' is the concept of co-adaptation where the tool becomes functionally involved in the extraction and definition of the user's goals. Recent advancements in the neuroscience and engineering of neuroprosthetics are providing a blueprint for how new co-adaptive designs based on reinforcement learning change the nature of a user's ability to accomplish tasks that were not possible using conventional methodologies. By designing adaptive controls and artificial intelligence into the neural interface, tools can become active assistants in goal-directed behavior and further enhance human performance in particular for the disabled population. This paper presents recent advances in computational and neural systems supporting the development of symbiotic neuroprosthetic assistants.
According to the selection-by-consequence characterization of operant learning, individual animals/species increase or decrease their future probability of action choices based on the consequence (i.e., reward or punishment) of the currently selected action (the so-called &quot;Law of Effect&quot;). Under Bayesianism, on the other hand, evidence is evaluated based on likelihood functions so that action probability is modified from a priori to a posteriori according to the Bayes formula. Viewed as hypothesis testing, a selectionist framework attributes evidence exclusively to the selected, focal hypothesis, whereas a Bayesian framework distributes across all hypotheses the support from a piece of evidence. Here, an intimate connection between the two theoretical frameworks is revealed. Specifically, it is proven that when individuals modify their action choices based on the selectionist's Law of Effect, the learning population, on the ensemble level, evolves according to a Bayesian-like dynamics. The learning equation of the linear operator model [Bush, R. R., &amp; Mosteller, F. (1955). Stochastic models for learning, New York: John Wiley and Sons], under ensemble averaging, yields the class of predictive reinforcement learning models (e.g., [Busemeyer, J. R., &amp; Myung, I. J. (1992). An adaptive approach to human decision making: Learning theory, decision theory, and human performance. Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 121, 177-194; Montague, P. R., Dayan, P., &amp; Sejnowski, T. J. (1996). A framework for mesencephalic dopamine systems based on predictive Hebbian learning. Journal of Neuroscience, 16, 1936-1947]).
This paper presents a theory of how general-purpose learning-based intelligence is achieved in the mammal brain, and how we can replicate it. It reviews four generations of ever more powerful general-purpose learning designs in Adaptive, Approximate Dynamic Programming (ADP), which includes reinforcement learning as a special case. It reviews empirical results which fit the theory, and suggests important new directions for research, within the scope of NSF's recent initiative on Cognitive Optimization and Prediction. The appendices suggest possible connections to the realms of human subjective experience, comparative cognitive neuroscience, and new challenges in electric power. The major challenge before us today in mathematical neural networks is to replicate the &quot;mouse level&quot;, but the paper does contain a few thoughts about building, understanding and nourishing levels of general intelligence beyond the mouse.

Salthouse claims that cognitive aging starts around 20 years of age. The basis for this claim is cross-sectional data. He dismisses longitudinal data, which typically show the cognitive decline to start much later, around 60 years of age. He states that longitudinal data cannot be trusted because they are flawed. There is a confounding between the effects of maturation and retest effects. We challenge Salthouse's strong claim on four accounts.

Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is now recognised as a common form of early onset dementia. Up to 40% of patients have a family history of disease demonstrating a large genetic component to its etiology. Linkage to chromosome 9p21 has recently been reported in families with this disorder. We undertook a large scale two-stage linkage disequilibrium mapping approach of this region in the Manchester FTLD cohort. We identified association of ubiquitin associated protein 1 (UBAP1; OR 1.42 95% CI 1.08-1.88, P=0.013) with FTLD in this cohort and we replicated this finding in an additional two independent cohorts from the Netherlands (OR 1.33 95% CI 1.04-1.69, P=0.022), the USA (OR 1.4 95% CI 1.02-1.92, P=0.032) and a forth Spanish cohort approached significant association (OR 1.45 95% CI 0.97-2.17, P=0.064). However, we failed to replicate in a fifth cohort from London (OR 0.99 95% CI 0.72-1.37, P=0.989). Quantitative analysis of UBAP1 mRNA extracted from tissue from the Manchester cases demonstrated a significant reduction of expression from the disease-associated haplotype. In addition, we identified a case of familial FTLD that demonstrated colocalisation of UBAP1 and TDP-43 in the neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions in the brain of this individual. Our data for the first time identifies UBAP1 as a genetic risk factor for FTLD and suggests a mechanistic relationship between this protein and TDP-43.
Neuropsychological studies provide evidence for an ageing-related decline of memory for contextual information related to remembered items. Using event-related fMRI we investigated the neural correlates of ageing-related changes during encoding and retrieval of spatial contextual memory. Eighteen young and 17 older subjects were included in the analysis (mean age 24 and 60 years, respectively). Although young and older subjects recognised the same amount of items during retrieval, spatial context memory for remembered items was superior in younger subjects. In both groups, left parahippocampal activity during encoding predicted contextual memory performance during retrieval. During encoding, an interaction between age and success of spatial context encoding was found in the left fusiform gyrus. During retrieval, the left hippocampal formation showed higher activity for successful than for unsuccessful spatial context retrieval as well as an interaction between age and spatial context judgement. Both findings are likely to underlie the contextual memory deficit observed in older subjects.
The APOE epsilon 4 allele is a strong risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the molecular basis for this effect remains unclear. We examined expression of approximately 12,000 genes and expressed sequence tags in the hippocampus and cortex of PDAPP (APP(V717)) mice modeling AD that show extensive amyloid beta (A beta) deposition, and in PDAPP mice lacking murine APOE expression, which show marked attenuation of A beta deposition in the brain. Wild type and APOE knockout animals were also examined. Expression levels were determined at the initial stage of A beta deposition, as well as in older animals showing extensive neuropathological changes. Fifty-four transcripts were identified using our statistical analysis as differentially regulated between the PDAPP and PDAPP/APOE ko mice, whereas 31 transcripts were classified as differentially regulated among PDAPP mice and WT animals, and seven transcripts were identified as regulated between the PDAPP/APOE ko animals and the APOE ko animals. Interestingly, many of the differentially regulated genes we detected can be related to biological processes previously shown to be important in AD pathophysiology, including inflammation, calcium homeostasis, cholesterol transport and uptake, kinases and phosphatases involved in tau phosphorylation and dephosphorylation, mitochondrial energy metabolism, protein degradation, neuronal growth, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress related proteins, antioxidant activity, cytoskeletal organization, and presenilin binding proteins. Regulated genes also included some not directly associated with AD in the past but likely to be involved in known AD pathophysiologic mechanisms, and others that may represent completely novel factors in the pathogenesis of AD. These results provide a global molecular profile of hippocampal and cortical gene expression during the initial and intermediate stages Abeta deposition, and the effects of APOE deletion on this process.
The epsilon 4 allele of ApoE is associated with an earlier onset and faster progression of Alzheimer's disease in patients with the familial form of this neurodegenerative condition. Although ApoE4 has been repeatedly associated with altered sphingomyelin and cholesterol levels in tissue culture and rodent models, there has not been a direct quantification of sphingomyelin or sterol levels in the brains of patients with different forms of ApoE. We measured the sphingolipid and sterol content of human brain tissues and found no evidence of perturbed sterol or sphingolipid biochemistry in the brains of individuals expressing ApoE4 who did not have a preexisting neurodegenerative condition. Nevertheless, ApoE4 was associated with gross abnormalities in the sterol and sphingolipid content of numerous brain regions in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The findings suggest that ApoE4 may not by itself alter sterol or sphingolipid metabolism in the brain under normal conditions, but that other neuropathologic changes of Alzheimer's are required to unmask the effect of ApoE4, and to perturb sterol and sphingolipid biochemistry.
Recently, a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP, rs1800206) in the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR-alpha) gene has been proposed to be associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). To verify this finding, we analyzed the PPAR-alpha SNP in 461 patients with AD and 1395 controls. In subgroups, PPAR-alpha gene data could be investigated in relation to biochemical and neuropathological markers for AD. We found no significant differences in genotype or allele distributions between AD patients and controls. None of the PPAR-alpha gene variants influenced markers for AD.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1A (CMT1A) neuropathies linked to the misexpression of peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) are progressive demyelinating disorders of the peripheral nervous system. In this study we asked whether dietary restriction by intermittent fasting (IF) could alleviate the neuropathic phenotype in the Trembler J (TrJ) mouse model of CMT1A. Our results show that neuropathic mice kept on a five month long IF regimen had improved locomotor performance compared to ad libitum (AL) fed littermates. The functional benefits of this dietary intervention are associated with an increased expression of myelin proteins combined with a thicker myelin sheath, less redundant basal lamina, and a reduction in aberrant Schwann cell proliferation. These morphological improvements are accompanied by a decrease in PMP22 protein aggregates, and enhanced expression of cytosolic chaperones and constituents of the autophagy-lysosomal pathway. These results indicate that dietary restriction is beneficial for peripheral nerve function in TrJ neuropathic mice, as it promotes the maintenance of locomotor performance.
Brain inflammation, angiogenesis and increased blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability occur in adult rodent and human epileptogenic brain tissue. We addressed the role of these events in epileptogenesis using a developmental approach since the propensity to develop spontaneous seizures, therefore the induction of epileptogenesis, is age-dependent and increases with brain maturation. Inflammation, angiogenesis and BBB permeability were studied in postnatal day (PN)9 and PN21 rats, 1 week and 4 months after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Brain inflammation was evaluated by interleukin(IL)-1beta immunohistochemistry; angiogenesis was quantified by measuring the density of microvessels identified by an anti-laminin antibody or by the intraluminal signal of FITC-albumin; BBB integrity was assessed by extravascular IgG immunostaining or detection of parenchymal extravasation of FITC-albumin. Neither inflammation nor angiogenesis or changes in BBB permeability were detected in PN9 rats after status epilepticus, and these rats did not develop spontaneous seizures in adulthood as assessed by video-EEG monitoring. Differently, status epilepticus in PN21 rats induced chronic inflammation, angiogenesis and BBB leakage in the hippocampus in 62% of rats, while in the remaining rats only transient inflammation in forebrain was observed. Epilepsy developed in about 62% of PN21 rats exposed to SE and these epileptic rats showed the three phenomena concomitantly in the hippocampus. PN21 rats that did not develop epilepsy 4 months after status epilepticus, as assessed by video-EEG monitoring, they did not show inflammation, angiogenesis or BBB damage in forebrain at this time. Our data show that age-dependent vascular changes and brain inflammation induced by status epilepticus are associated with epileptogenesis, suggesting that these phenomena are implicated in the mechanisms underlying the occurrence of spontaneous seizures.
With this paper, we deliberately challenge the prevailing neurocentric theory of the etiology of spinal bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA). We offer data supporting an alternative view that androgen receptor (AR) acts in skeletal muscles to cause the symptoms of SBMA. While SBMA has been linked to a CAG repeat expansion in the AR gene and mutant AR is presumed to act in motoneurons to cause SBMA, we find that over-expression of wild type AR solely in skeletal muscle fibers results in the same androgen-dependent disease phenotype as when mutant AR is broadly expressed. Like other recent SBMA mouse models, transgenic (tg) females in our model exhibit a motor phenotype only when exposed to androgens, and this motor dysfunction is independent of motoneuronal or muscle fiber cell death. Muscles from symptomatic females also show denervation-like changes in gene expression comparable to a knock-in model of SBMA. Furthermore, once androgen treatment ends, tg females rapidly recover motor function and muscle gene expression, demonstrating the strict androgen-dependence of the disease phenotype in our model. Our results argue that SBMA may be caused by AR acting in muscle.
DYT1 dystonia is caused by a deletion in a glutamic acid residue in the C-terminus of the protein torsinA, whose function is still largely unknown. Alterations in GABAergic signaling have been involved in the pathogenesis of dystonia. We recorded GABA- and glutamate-mediated synaptic currents from a striatal slice preparation obtained from a mouse model of DYT1 dystonia. In medium spiny neurons (MSNs) from mice expressing human mutant torsinA (hMT), we observed a significantly higher frequency, but not amplitude, of GABAergic spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) and miniature currents (mIPSCs), whereas glutamate-dependent spontaneous excitatory synaptic currents (sEPSCs) were normal. No alterations were found in mice overexpressing normal human torsinA (hWT). To identify the possible sources of the increased GABAergic tone, we recorded GABAergic Fast-Spiking (FS) interneurons that exert a feed-forward inhibition on MSNs. However, both sEPSC and sIPSC recorded from hMT FS interneurons were comparable to hWT and non-transgenic (NT) mice. In physiological conditions, dopamine (DA) D2 receptor act presynaptically to reduce striatal GABA release. Of note, application of the D2-like receptor agonist quinpirole failed to reduce the frequency of sIPSCs in MSNs from hMT as compared to hWT and NT mice. Likewise, the inhibitory effect of quinpirole was lost on evoked IPSCs both in MSNs and FS interneurons from hMT mice. Our findings demonstrate a disinhibition of striatal GABAergic synaptic activity, that can be at least partially attributed to a D2 DA receptor dysfunction.
We identify an essential role for the RGD (Arg-Gly-Asp tripeptide) moiety in vivo during adult peripheral neuron regenerative growth. Beyond a peripheral nerve transection there were rises in the fibronectin extracellular matrix, and striking rises in the mRNA and protein expression of integrin subunits sensitive to RGD/fibronectin signalling. Neuron perikarya, axons and Schwann cells all expressed RGD/fibronectin sensitive integrins after injury. To evaluate the significance of RGD/fibronectin-integrin interactions, we infused solutions of a pentapeptide including the RGD motif (sRGD) serially and directly within the milieu of early axon growth across rat sciatic transection injuries. While low dose infusions of sRGD facilitated early axon ingrowth, we encountered inhibition of ingrowth and bridge formation with higher doses of sRGD indicating competitive disruption of RGD/fibronectin-integrin signalling. Fibronectin RGD moieties serve a critical and important role during peripheral axon outgrowth.


Oxidative damage in the brain may lead to cognitive impairments in aged humans. Further, in age-associated neurodegenerative disease, oxidative damage may be exacerbated and associated with additional neuropathology. Epidemiological studies in humans show both positive and negative effects of the use of antioxidant supplements on healthy cognitive aging and on the risk of developing Alzheimer disease (AD). This contrasts with consistent behavioral improvements in aged rodent models. In a higher mammalian model system that naturally accumulates human-type pathology and cognitive decline (aged dogs), an antioxidant enriched diet leads to rapid learning improvements, memory improvements after prolonged treatment and cognitive maintenance. Cognitive benefits can be further enhanced by the addition of behavioral enrichment. In the brains of aged treated dogs, oxidative damage is reduced and there is some evidence of reduced AD-like neuropathology. In combination, antioxidants may be beneficial for promoting healthy brain aging and reducing the risk of neurodegenerative disease.
Adrenergic and serotonergic (ADR-SER) mechanisms alter gut (gastrointestinal, GI) sensorimotor functions. We aimed to determine whether candidate ADR-SER genes affect GI responses to low dose clonidine (CLO) in humans. Forty healthy and 120 irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) participants received CLO, 0.1 mg or 0.15 mg b.i.d., for 6 days. At baseline and post-CLO, we measured: gastric volume (GV); satiation volume; rectal compliance, sensation thresholds and ratings with distensions. Genetic variations tested were: alpha2A (C-1291G), alpha2C (Del 322-325), GNbeta3 (C825T) and solute carrier family 6 (neurotransmitter transporter, serotonin), member 4 (SLC6A4) (serotonin transporter linked polymorphic region). CLO reduced volume to satiation (P = 0.002), postprandial GV (P &lt; 0.001), sensation threshold for pain (&lt;0.001); CLO increased rectal compliance (P = 0.024). There were significant associations between post-CLO responses and gene variations for DeltaGV (alpha2A and SLC6A4), rectal sensation of gas (alpha2A, GNbeta3), urgency (alpha2A); and pain (GNbeta3 and SLC6A4); and rectal compliance (SLC6A4). alpha2A, GNbeta3 and SLC6A4 genotypes significantly modify responses to CLO on sensory and motor GI functions in health and IBS.
The hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSP) are a heterogeneous group of conditions in which the main feature is a progressive spastic paraparesis. Mutations in the receptor expression enhancing protein 1 (REEP1) gene have recently been reported to be associated with an autosomal dominant HSP phenotype (SPG31). The objective of this study was to identify the frequency of REEP1 mutations in both autosomal dominant HSP (ADHSP) and sporadic spastic paraparesis (SSP) cases and to analyse the genotype/phenotype correlation of mutations so far described in REEP1. One hundred thirty-three index cases from large ADHSP pedigrees and 80 SSP cases were screened for mutation in REEP1 by direct sequencing. Three mutations were identified in REEP1 in the ADHSP group. A novel nonsense mutation in exon 5, c.[337C&gt;T] (p.[Arg113X]), was associated with spastic paraparesis, amyotrophy and mitochondrial dysfunction. A second previously reported mutation, c.[606+43G&gt;T], was identified in two pedigrees. The index case of one of these pedigrees had a peripheral neuropathy in association with spastic paraparesis, and the proband of the second pedigree had a severe spastic tetraparesis and bulbar dysfunction. No mutations were detected in the SSP cases. We report a mutation frequency of 2.3% in REEP1 in ADHSP, suggesting REEP1 mutation is a relatively uncommon cause of ADHSP in a population of patients drawn from the UK. The phenotype of ADHSP associated with REEP1 mutation is broader than initially reported. The spastic paraparesis in SPG31 may be complicated by the presence of amyotrophy, bulbar palsy and/or peripheral neuropathy.
In this study we illustrate how the functional networks involved in a single task (e.g. the sensory, cognitive and motor components) can be segregated without cognitive subtractions at the second-level. The method used is based on meaningful variability in the patterns of activation between subjects with the assumption that regions belonging to the same network will have comparable variations from subject to subject. fMRI data were collected from thirty nine healthy volunteers who were asked to indicate with a button press if visually presented words were semantically related or not. Voxels were classified according to the similarity in their patterns of between-subject variance using a second-level unsupervised fuzzy clustering algorithm. The results were compared to those identified by cognitive subtractions of multiple conditions tested in the same set of subjects. This illustrated that the second-level clustering approach (on activation for a single task) was able to identify the functional networks observed using cognitive subtractions (e.g. those associated with vision, semantic associations or motor processing). In addition the fuzzy clustering approach revealed other networks that were not dissociated by the cognitive subtraction approach (e.g. those associated with high- and low-level visual processing and oculomotor movements). We discuss the potential applications of our method which include the identification of &quot;hidden&quot; or unpredicted networks as well as the identification of systems level signatures for different subgroupings of clinical and healthy populations.
Most of our knowledge about the functional organization of the nonhuman primate brain has come from single neuron recordings, whereas functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has rapidly become the method of choice for the study of the human brain. In some cases these two methods have resulted in conflicting models of frontal lobe function. Based on the finding that the frontal eye fields (FEF) exhibit a higher blood-oxygenation-level dependent (BOLD) activation for anti-saccades compared with pro-saccades, it has been proposed that this area is more involved in voluntary than automatic saccade generation. This model has been questioned by the finding of decreased single neuron activity in FEF for anti-compared with pro-saccades in monkeys. To reconcile these findings, we employed fMRI to compare BOLD activation between anti-saccades and pro-saccades in monkeys. FEF and a number of other cortical and subcortical areas showed an increased activation for anti-saccades. The results indicate that previous contrary findings between single neuron recordings and fMRI were due to differences between these techniques and were not related to differences between the two primate species.
The amygdala is composed of structurally and functionally distinct nuclei that contribute to the processing of emotion through interactions with other subcortical and cortical structures. While these circuits have been studied extensively in animals, human neuroimaging investigations of amygdala-based networks have typically considered the amygdala as a single structure, which likely masks contributions of individual amygdala subdivisions. The present study uses resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to test whether distinct functional connectivity patterns, like those observed in animal studies, can be detected across three amygdala subdivisions: laterobasal, centromedial, and superficial. In a sample of 65 healthy adults, voxelwise regression analyses demonstrated positively-predicted ventral and negatively-predicted dorsal networks associated with the total amygdala, consistent with previous animal and human studies. Investigation of individual amygdala subdivisions revealed distinct differences in connectivity patterns within the amygdala and throughout the brain. Spontaneous activity in the laterobasal subdivision predicted activity in temporal and frontal regions, while activity in the centromedial nuclei predicted activity primarily in striatum. Activity in the superficial subdivision positively predicted activity throughout the limbic lobe. These findings suggest that resting state fMRI can be used to investigate human amygdala networks at a greater level of detail than previously appreciated, allowing for the further advancement of translational models.
Normalization of regional measurements by the global mean is commonly employed to minimize inter-subject variability in functional imaging studies. This practice is based on the assumption that global values do not substantially differ between patient and control groups. In this issue of NeuroImage, Borghammer and colleagues challenge the validity of this assumption. They focus on Parkinson's disease (PD) and use computer simulations to show that lower global values can produce spurious increases in subcortical brain regions. The authors speculate that the increased signal observed in these areas in PD is artefactual and unrelated to localized changes in brain function. In this commentary, we summarize what is currently known of the relationship between regional and global metabolic activity in PD and experimental parkinsonism. We found that early stage PD patients exhibit global values that are virtually identical to those of age-matched healthy subjects. SPM analysis revealed increased normalized metabolic activity in a discrete set of biologically relevant subcortical brain regions. Because of their higher variability, the corresponding absolute regional measures did not differ across the two groups. Longitudinal imaging studies in this population showed that the subcortical elevations in normalized metabolism appeared earlier and progressed faster than did focal cortical or global metabolic reductions. The observed increases in subcortical activity, but not the global changes, correlated with independent clinical measures of disease progression. Multivariate analysis with SSM/PCA further confirmed that the abnormal spatial covariance structure of early PD is dominated by these subcortical increases as opposed to network-related reductions in cortical metabolic activity or global changes. Thus, increased subcortical activity in PD cannot be regarded as a simple artefact of global normalization. Moreover, stability of the normalized measurements, particularly at the network level, makes these metabolic indices suitable as imaging biomarkers of PD progression and the treatment response.
Brain atlases are widely used in experimental neuroscience as tools for locating and targeting specific brain structures. Delineated structures in a given atlas, however, are often difficult to interpret and to interface with database systems that supply additional information using hierarchically organized vocabularies (ontologies). Here we discuss the concept of volume-to-ontology mapping in the context of macroscopical brain structures. We present Java tools with which we have implemented this concept for retrieval of mapping and connectivity data on the macaque brain from the CoCoMac database in connection with an electronic version of &quot;The Rhesus Monkey Brain in Stereotaxic Coordinates&quot; authored by George Paxinos and colleagues. The software, including our manually drawn monkey brain template, can be downloaded freely under the GNU General Public License. It adds value to the printed atlas and has a wider (neuro-)informatics application since it can read appropriately annotated data from delineated sections of other species and organs, and turn them into 3D registered stacks. The tools provide additional features, including visualization and analysis of connectivity data, volume and centre-of-mass estimates, and graphical manipulation of entire structures, which are potentially useful for a range of research and teaching applications.
We have carried out a case-control survey of the prevalence of restless legs syndrome (RLS) in 118 Parkinson's disease out-patients with different stage of disease severity by using the International restless legs syndrome Study Group clinical criteria. This study failed to demonstrate a significantly augmented prevalence of either primary and secondary restless legs syndrome pooled together or primary restless legs syndrome alone among Parkinson's disease patients as compared to age and gender matched controls. The results of our survey do not confirm a significant co-morbid occurrence of the two disorders. However, an unavoidable limitation of this and all previous studies is that most of the patients examined were already treated with dopaminomimetic drugs, which could have abolished a mild unrecognized RLS anteceding the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease or possibly masked the subsequent emergence of the sensory-motor disorder following the onset of Parkinson's disease.
The aim of this study was to validate the Italian version of the Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI) in patients with neuropathic pain due to peripheral nerve diseases, and also to evaluate the validity of a new NPSI score: a frequency weighted NPSI score (NPSI-FW). First, the original version of the NPSI was translated into Italian. Then the validity and reliability of the Italian NPSI (I-NPSI) were tested in 392 Italian patients consecutively referred to 16 Italian outpatient services for peripheral nerve diseases, by correlating the I-NPSI scores with other pain scales. The repeatability and responsiveness were assessed. A significant correlation between the I-NPSI scores and all the other pain measures was seen. Reproducibility and responsiveness were good. Our study shows the validity of the I-NPSI and demonstrates its reliability for assessing neuropathic pain in patients with peripheral nerve diseases. The I-NPSI scores represent reliable measurements to assess neuropathic symptoms and effectiveness of treatment on them.
The case of a 64-year-old woman affected by slowly progressive visual agnosia is reported aiming to describe specific cognitive-brain relationships. Longitudinal clinical and neuropsychological assessment, combined with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), spectroscopy, and positron emission tomography (PET) were used. Sequential neuropsychological evaluations performed during a period of 9 years since disease onset showed the appearance of apperceptive and associative visual agnosia, alexia without agraphia, agraphia, finger agnosia, and prosopoagnosia, but excluded dementia. MRI showed moderate diffuse cortical atrophy, with predominant atrophy in the left posterior cortical areas (temporal, parietal, and lateral occipital cortical gyri). 18FDG-PET showed marked bilateral posterior cortical hypometabolism; proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging disclosed severe focal N-acetyl-aspartate depletion in the left temporoparietal and lateral occipital cortical areas. In conclusion, selective metabolic alterations and neuronal loss in the left temporoparietooccipital cortex may determine progressive visual agnosia in the absence of dementia.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease is a heterogeneous group of inherited peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies. The locus responsible for CMT4C was previously assigned to the chromosome 5q23 region by homozygosity mapping and mutations in the SH3TC2 (KIAA1985) gene have been subsequently identified mainly in families around the Mediterranean basin but also frequently in European Gypsies. No English families have been reported to date. To determine the frequency, phenotype and neuropathology of CMT due to SH3TC2 mutations we screened 23 English autosomal recessive (AR) demyelinating CMT families. Five families with AR demyelinating CMT and SH3TC2 mutations were identified, four families were homozygous for the R954X mutation and the fifth family was compound heterozygous for the R954X and E657K mutations. There was significant clinical variation between these families with some cases presenting with a severe childhood onset neuropathy with respiratory and cranial nerve involvement, compared to other families with mild scoliosis and foot deformity. Characteristic sural nerve neuropathology was seen in three families with frequent demyelinating fibres surrounded by excess Schwann cell lamellae forming basal lamina onion bulbs and abnormally long and attenuated Schwann cell processes. One patient homozygous for the R954X mutation had a 20-year history of an inflammatory neuropathy that was superimposed onto the hereditary form, indicating that structural alterations to the SH3TC2 gene could possibly predispose to peripheral nerve inflammation.
Giant axonal neuropathy (GAN), a severe childhood disorder affecting both the peripheral nerves and the central nervous system, is due to mutations in the GAN gene encoding gigaxonin, a protein implicated in the cytoskeletal functions and dynamics. In the majority of the GAN series reported to date, patients had the classical clinical phenotype characterized by a severe axonal neuropathy with kinky hair and early onset CNS involvement including cerebellar and pyramidal signs. We present 12 patients (6 families) with GAN mutations and different clinical phenotypes. Four families were harbouring an identical homozygous nonsense mutation but with different severe clinical phenotypes, one patient had a novel missense homozygous mutation with a peculiar moderate phenotype and prominent skeletal deformations. The last family (4 patients) harbouring a homozygous missense mutation had the mildest form of the disease. In contrast with recent reported series of patients with typical GAN clinical features, the present series demonstrate obvious clinical heterogeneity.

Exercise seems a simple and widely practised behaviour that activates molecular and cellular signalling cascades involved in various central nervous system processes. Despite impressive results obtained in animal studies, fitness interventions have produced less reliable effects in humans, particularly in young adults. In the present study we tested the hypothesis that an individually adapted exercise training consisting of three running sessions of 30 minutes per week for 6 weeks, has the potential to improve visuospatial and verbal memory, concentration performance, and affect in young and healthy adults. Twenty-eight students participated and underwent a graded fitness test to assess individual fitness. The experimental group took part in an aerobic running programme, whereas the control group were asked not to vary their everyday activities. We found a significant increase in visuospatial memory performance and a significant increase in positive affect on a .05 alpha level of significance. However, we observed no effects of running training on concentration performance and verbal memory. We conclude that physical activity can possibly serve as a means to improve positively valenced aspects of affect and benefit visuospatial but not verbal memory in young adults.
Evidence from studies in both animals and humans suggests that pharmacological stimulation of the noradrenergic system may modulate cortical excitability. However, the influence of such a modulation on the motor system remains unclear. We here explored the effects of noradrenergic stimulation on different motor tasks with increasing complexity and sensorimotor demands. Healthy human subjects received either reboxetine--a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor--or placebo in a double-blind within-subject design. The analysis of movement kinematics revealed differential effects of RBX on subjects' motor performance. While isolated stereotypic finger movements and simple reach-to-grasp movements did not change under RBX stimulation (compared to placebo), subjects showed a significant gain in movement speed in visuomotor tasks requiring online-control of precision movements. The results suggest that stimulating the noradrenergic system via RBX does not influence motor performance in general, but rather supports neural circuits involved in visuomotor control of movements.
Autism is thought to be associated with a bias towards detail-focussed processing. While the cognitive basis remains controversial, one strong hypothesis is that there are high processing costs associated with changing from local into global processing. A possible neural mechanism underlying this processing style is abnormal neural connectivity; specifically reduced structural or functional connectivity between brain regions might lead to good exemplar-based processing but poor generalisation. Abnormal neural connectivity has also been suggested to account for the increased incidence of macrocephaly in autism (increased head/brain size). The present study therefore investigated the effect of head size on the ability to switch between global and local processing in autism. 49 high-functioning 7-12 year olds with autism (12 with macrocephaly) were compared to 25 normally developing children in their performance on a Local-Global Switching task. Those children with autism who also had macrocephaly showed a greater processing cost when switching into global processing, or 'zooming out', than both the remaining children with autism and the control children. A second experiment revealed that macrocephaly in the context of normal development is not associated with difficulty switching into global processing but rather occurs in children who are physically large. Macrocephaly in the context of autism may therefore be a biological marker of abnormal neural connectivity, and of a local processing bias.
Implicit contextual learning refers to the ability to memorize contextual information from our environment. This contextual information can then be used to guide our attention to a specific location. Although the medial temporal lobe is important for this type of learning, the basal ganglia might also be involved considering its role in many implicit learning processes. In order to understand the role of the basal ganglia in this top-down process, a group of non-demented early-stage Parkinson's patients were tested with a contextual cueing task. In this visual search task, subjects have to quickly locate a target among a number of distractors. To test implicit contextual learning, some of the configurations are repeated during the experiment, resulting in faster responses. A significant interaction effect was found between Group and Configuration, indicating that the control subjects responded faster when the spatial context was repeated, whereas Parkinson's patients failed to do so. These results, showing that the contextual cueing effect was significantly different for the patients than for the controls, suggest an important role for the basal ganglia in implicit contextual learning, thus extending previous findings of medial temporal lobe involvement. The basal ganglia are therefore not only involved in implicit motor learning, but may also have a role in purely visual implicit learning.
Human observers readily identify objects with moving parts, and recognize their underlying structure even when the component parts undergo complex movement. This suggests the existence of neural representations that are invariant to motion and state of articulation, which together allow our visual system to maintain 'object constancy'. Ventral temporal cortex has previously been implicated in object perception and in coding object identity, but it is unclear where this is achieved when objects undergo motion-driven shape changes. In the present study, we use fMRI adaptation to probe the neural response properties when subjects view dynamic novel objects. Our results reveal neural selectivity for novel objects in the LOC region of the occipito-temporal lobe, even when those objects are viewed as moving and articulating. We also identify a bilateral area of posterior fusiform outside of the LOC with neural populations invariant to changes in the articulatory state of an object, a critical feature of object constancy. These results demonstrate the functional importance of ventral temporal cortex in the perception of moving objects, and the existence of neural populations coding for object constancy across movement and articulation.
We report a patient with severe anosognosia for hemiplegia, who recovered instantly and permanently when viewing herself in a video replay. We believe the observed dramatic reinstatement of the patient's awareness related to her self-observation 'from the outside' (3rd person perspective) and 'off-line' (at a time later than the actual attempt to execute a movement); her anosognosia had been unaltered when she observed her plegic arm in her ipsilateral visual field (self-observation from a 1st-person perspective and 'on-line'). To our knowledge, the role of self-observation in videos or mirrors has not being assessed in AHP to date. Our study provides preliminary evidence that, when right hemisphere damage impairs the ability to update one's body representation, judgements relying on 3rd-person and off-line self-observation may be spared in some patients and may facilitate 1st person awareness.
Studies of English have shown that temporal-lobe patients, including those with Alzheimer's disease, are spared at processing real and novel regular inflected forms (e.g., walk--&gt;walked; blick--&gt;blicked), but impaired at real and novel irregular forms (e.g., dig--&gt;dug; spling--&gt;splang). Here we extend the investigation cross-linguistically to the more complex system of Italian verbal morphology, allowing us to probe the generality of the previous findings in English, as well as to test different explanatory accounts of inflectional morphology. We examined the production of real and novel regular and irregular past-participle and present-tense forms by native Italian-speaking healthy control subjects and patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. Compared to the controls, the patients were impaired at inflecting real irregular verbs but not real regular verbs both for past-participle and present-tense forms, but were not impaired at real regular verbs either for past-participle or present-tense forms. For novel past participles, the patients exhibited this same pattern of impaired production of class II (irregular) forms but spared class I (regular) production. In the present-tense, patients were impaired at the production of class II forms (which are regular in the present-tense), but spared at production of class I (regular) forms. Contrary to the pattern observed in English, the errors made by the patients on irregulars did not reveal a predominance of regularization errors (e.g., dig--&gt;digged). The findings thus partly replicate prior findings from English, but also reveal new patterns from a language with a more complex morphological system that includes verb classes (which are not possible to test in English). The demonstration of an irregular deficit following temporal-lobe damage in a language other than English reveals the cross-linguistic generality of the basic effect, while also elucidating important language-specific differences in the neurocognitive basis of regular and irregular morphological forms.

Central serotonin (5-HT) function is thought to be a critical component of behavioral inhibition and impulse control. However, in recent clinical studies, 5-HT manipulations failed to affect stop-signal reaction time (SSRT), which is a fundamental process in behavioral inhibition. We investigated the effect of central 5-HT depletion (intracerebroventricular 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine) in rats on two aspects of behavioral inhibition, SSRT and 'waiting', using the stop-signal task. 5-HT depletion had no effects on SSRT or any other primary measure on the stop-signal task. However, within the same task, there was a deficit in 'waiting' in 5-HT-depleted rats when they were required to withhold from responding in the terminal element of the stop-signal task for an extended period. D-Amphetamine had dose-dependent, but not 5-HT-dependent effects on SSRT. Conversely, the dose that tended to improve, or decrease, SSRT (0.3 mg/kg) impaired the ability to wait, again independently of 5-HT manipulation. These findings suggest that SSRT and 'waiting' are distinct measures of behavioral inhibition, and show that 5-HT is critical for some forms of behavioral inhibition but not others. This has significant implications for the treatment of conditions such as attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder, substance abuse, and affective disorders, in which inhibitory and impulse-control deficits are common.
Methylphenidate (MPH) is commonly prescribed in childhood and adolescence for the treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorders. In rodents, MPH exposure during preadolescence (postnatal days (PD) 20-35) causes decreased sensitivity to drug and natural rewards, while enhancing a negative emotional state characterized by increased sensitivity to aversive situations later in adulthood. It has been proposed that this behavioral profile may be mediated, at least in part, by changes in the expression of dynorphin, the endogenous ligand for kappa-opioid receptors (KORs). Because increases in dynorphin activity and activation of KOR induce aversive states, we examined the possibility that these behavioral deficits may be mediated by changes in KOR function, and that MPH-exposed rats would demonstrate increased sensitivity to the kappa-agonist U-50488. Sprague-Dawley male rats were treated with MPH (2 mg/kg) or its saline vehicle (VEH) during PD20-35. When adults (PD90+), these rats were divided into groups receiving saline, U-50488 (5 mg/kg), or nor-binaltorphimine (20 mg/kg), a kappa-antagonist, and their behavioral reactivity to various emotion-eliciting stimuli was assessed. Results show that MPH exposure decreases cocaine place conditioning and sucrose preference, while increasing vulnerability to anxiety (elevated plus maze)- and stress (forced swimming)-eliciting situations, and that these behavioral deficits can be intensified by U-50488, while being normalized by nor-binaltorphimine treatment. These results are consistent with the notion that dysregulated dynorphin/kappa-opioid systems may mediate deficits in behavioral responding after developmental MPH exposure. Moreover, these findings further support the idea of kappa-antagonists as potential pharmacotherapy for the treatment of anxiety- and depression-related disorders.
We previously showed that betaxolol, a selective beta(1)-adrenergic receptor antagonist, administered during early phases of cocaine abstinence, ameliorated withdrawal-induced anxiety and blocked increases in amygdalar beta(1)-adrenergic receptor expression in rats. Here, we report the efficacy of betaxolol in reducing increases in gene expression of amygdalar corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), a peptide known to be involved in mediating 'anxiety-like' behaviors during initial phases of cocaine abstinence. We also demonstrate attenuation of an amygdalar beta(1)-adrenergic receptor-mediated cell-signaling pathway following this treatment. Male rats were administered betaxolol at 24 and 44 h following chronic cocaine administration. Animals were euthanized at the 48-h time point and the amygdala was microdissected and processed for quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and/or western blot analysis. Results showed that betaxolol treatment during early cocaine withdrawal attenuated increases in amygdalar CRF gene expression and cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase regulatory and catalytic subunit (nuclear fraction) protein expression. Our data also reveal that beta(1)-adrenergic receptors are on amygdalar neurons, which are immunoreactive for CRF. The present findings suggest that the efficacy of betaxolol treatment on cocaine withdrawal-induced anxiety may be related, in part, to its effect on amygdalar beta(1)-adrenergic receptor, modulation of its downstream cell-signaling elements and CRF gene expression.
This study was designed to (1) assess the effects of cocaine on Fas-associated protein with death domain (FADD) system and its role in the activation of apoptotic vs nonapoptotic events and (2) ascertain whether animals selectively bred for their differential propensity to drug-seeking show differences in FADD levels or response to cocaine. Acute cocaine, through D(2) dopamine receptors, induced a dose-response increase in FADD protein in the cortex, with opposite effects over pFADD (Ser191/194), and no induction of apoptotic cell death (poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage). FADD was increased by cocaine in cytosol (approximately 142%), membranes (approximately 23%) and nucleus (approximately 54%). The modulation of the FADD system showed tolerance of the acute effect over time, as well as a compensatory response on withdrawal that mirrored the acute effect--ie a transient FADD decrease on day 3 of withdrawal, both at mRNA and protein levels. In a second experiment, possible FADD differences were investigated in rats selectively bred for differential responsiveness to novelty, propensity for drug-seeking and cocaine sensitization. High-responders (HR), who were more prone to drug abuse, exhibited higher FADD and lower pFADD levels than low-responder (LR) rats. However, HR and LR rats showed similar rates of cocaine-induced apoptosis, and exhibited a parallel impact of cocaine over FADD within each phenotype. Thus, FADD is a signaling protein modulated by cocaine, regulating apoptosis/proliferative mechanisms in relation to its FADD/pFADD content. Interestingly, animals selectively bred for differential propensity to substance abuse show basal differences in the expression of this protein, suggesting FADD may also be a molecular correlate for the HR/LR phenotype.
The selective breeding of Roman high- (RHA) and low-avoidance (RLA) rats for, respectively, rapid vs extremely poor acquisition of avoidant behavior in a shuttlebox has produced two phenotypes that differ in temperament traits, in mesocortical/mesolimbic dopamine system function, and in the behavioral and neurochemical responses to the acute and repeated administration of psychostimulants and opiates. The phenotypic traits of the RHA line predict higher susceptibility, compared with RLA rats, to the reinforcing properties of addictive substances like cocaine. The present study was designed to compare the acquisition, maintenance, reinstatement of drug-seeking after long-term extinction, and reacquisition of intravenous cocaine self-administration (SA) behavior in the Roman lines. Compared with RLA rats, the rates of responding during cocaine SA acquisition were higher, extinction from cocaine SA was prolonged, and drug-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior was more robust in RHA rats. Moreover, only RHA rats reacquired extinguished lever-pressing activity when a low reinforcing dose of cocaine was available. These findings are consistent with the view that subjects with genetically determined high responsiveness to the acute and chronic (ie, sensitizing) effects of psychostimulants, such as RHA rats, also display a higher propensity to self -administer cocaine. Further comparative studies in the Roman lines, using SA paradigms that distinguish mere drug-taking from the compulsive and uncontrolled drug use that characterizes addiction in humans, may eventually help to characterize the relationships among genotype, temperament traits, and neurobiological mechanisms involved in the individual vulnerability to cocaine addiction.


Autism and schizophrenia are multifactorial disorders with increasing prevalence in the young population. Among candidate molecules, reelin (RELN) is a protein of the extracellular matrix playing a key role in brain development and synaptic plasticity. The heterozygous (HZ) reeler mouse provides a model for studying the role of reelin deficiency for the onset of these syndromes. We investigated whether early indices of neurobehavioral disorders can be identified in the infant reeler, and whether the consequences of ontogenetic adverse experiences may question or support the suitability of this model. A first study focused on the link between early exposure to Chlorpyryfos and its enduring neurobehavioral consequences. Our data are interesting in view of recently discovered cholinergic abnormalities in autism and schizophrenia, and may suggest new avenues for early pharmacological intervention. In a second study, we analyzed the consequences of repeated maternal separation early in ontogeny. The results provide evidence of how unusual stress early in development are converted into altered behavior in some, but not all, individuals depending on gender and genetic background. A third study aimed to verify the reliability of the model at critical age windows. Data suggest reduced anxiety, increased impulsivity and disinhibition, and altered pain threshold in response to morphine for HZ, supporting a differential organization of brain dopaminergic, serotonergic and opioid systems in this genotype. In conclusion, HZ exhibited a complex behavioral and psycho-pharmacological phenotype, and differential responsivity to ontogenetic adverse conditions. HZ may be used to disentangle interactions between genetic vulnerability and environmental factors. Such an approach could help to model the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental psychiatric diseases.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are well-studied neurotrophins involved in the neurogenesis, differentiation, growth and maintenance of selected peripheral and central populations of neuronal cells during development and at adulthood. Neurotrophins, in concert to hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, play a key role in modulating brain plasticity and behavioral coping, especially during ontogenetic critical periods, when developing brain is particularly sensitive to external stimulations. Indeed, early life events, such psychophysical stress, affect NGF and BDNF levels, and induce dysregulation of the HPA axis. Thus, early life experiences can affect brain development, contributing to shape interindividual differences in vulnerability to stress or psychiatric disorders. At adulthood, intermale aggressive interactions in mice, representing a psychosocial stressful condition, has been shown to markedly alter NGF and BDNF levels both in plasma as well as in selected brain areas, including the hypothalamus and hippocampus. These results have been extended to humans, showing that blood NGF levels are enhanced in psychological contexts mainly associated to anxiety and fear, such as first skydiving experience. Recent studies indicate a role for neurotrophins also in vulnerability and resilience to stress-related neuropsychiatric disorders. Overall, these findings suggest a role of neurotrophins as factors mediating both short- and long-term experience effects on brain structure and function.
Early adverse events can enhance stress responsiveness and lead to greater susceptibility for psychopathology at adulthood. The epigenetic factors involved in transducing specific features of the rearing environment into stable changes in brain and behavioural plasticity have only begun to be elucidated. Neurotrophic factors, such as nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), are affected by stress and play a major role in brain development and in the trophism of specific neuronal networks involved in cognitive function and in mood disorders. In addition to the central nervous system, these effectors are produced by peripheral tissues, thus being in a position to integrate the response to external challenges. In this paper we will review data, obtained from animal models, indicating that early maternal deprivation stress can affect neurotrophin levels. Maladaptive or repeated activation of NGF and BDNF, early during postnatal life, may influence stress sensitivity at adulthood and increase vulnerability for stress-related psychopathology.
Obesity is a current health pandemia. Determinants of this pathology are rather complex and include genetic, developmental and environmental factors only partially disclosed. Stress related neuroendocrine dysregulation and overconsumption of high palatable high caloric food and are likely to contribute to this modern health threats. Despite the evidence that psychosocial stress is one of the main sources of stress in humans and may play an important role in the development of the stress disorders, including obesity and metabolic syndrome, animal models focusing on the relationship between chronic stress and energy homeostasis are scattered and most of them encompasses physical rather than psychosocial stress. Aim of the present paper is to review rodent studies on the effect of psychosocial stress throughout life on body weight and food intake regulation. In the second part of the review special focus will be given on the mechanisms linking stress and the reward system.
Among the epigenetic factors shaping brain and behavior during early postnatal life, social experiences have a major impact. Early social experiences are mainly of two kinds: mother-offspring and peer interaction. In rodents, the latter has so far been rarely studied. The communal nest (CN) is an innovative experimental strategy that favors an exhaustive investigation of the long-term effects not only of mother-offspring but also of peer interaction. CN is a rearing condition employed by up to 90% of mouse females in naturalistic settings and consists of a single nest where two or more mothers keep their pups together and share care-giving. Mice reared in a communal nest display relevant changes in brain function and behavior, including high levels of neural plasticity markers, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and elaborate adult social competencies. Overall, CN appears as an experimental strategy different and complementary to the ones currently used for studying how the early environment determines developmental trajectories.
RNA editing provides a post-transcriptional mechanism to increase structural heterogeneity of gene products. Recently, the alpha3 subunit of the GABAA receptors has been shown to undergo RNA editing. As a result, a highly conserved isoleucine residue in the third transmembrane domain is replaced with a methionine. To determine the effect of this structural change on receptor function, we compared the GABA sensitivity, pharmacological properties and macroscopic kinetics of recombinant receptors containing either the edited or unedited forms of the alpha3 subunit along with beta3 and gamma2L. Editing substantially altered the GABA sensitivity and deactivation rate of the receptors, with the unedited form showing a lower GABA EC50 and slower decay. Comparable effects were observed with a mutation at the homologous location in the alpha1 subunit, suggesting a common role for this site in regulation of channel gating. Except for the response to GABA, the pharmacological properties of the receptor were unaffected by editing, with similar enhancement by a variety of modulators. Since RNA editing of the alpha3 subunit increases through development, our findings suggest that GABAergic neurotransmission may be more effective early in development, with greater GABA sensitivity and slower decay rates conferred by the unedited alpha3 subunit.
The number of microglia surrounding senile plaques is correlated with the size of plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is unclear whether more microglia are passively recruited toward larger senile plaques or, conversely, microglia recruited to senile plaques directly contribute to the growth of plaques. In this study, BV-2 microglia were used to delineate the role of microglia in the growth of plaques using time-lapse recording. Aggregated beta amyloid peptide (Abeta)-induced BV-2 microglia to form clusters. The recruitment of BV-2 microglia bearing membrane-adhered Abeta enlarged preexisting Abeta aggregates. The receptors involved in the microglial uptake of Abeta, including integrin, formyl peptide like receptor 1, and scavenger receptors, also mediated the microglial clustering. Neutralization antibodies against chemokines significantly attenuated Abeta-induced microglial clustering and the enlargement of Abeta aggregates. Our results reveal a novel role of microglia in directly increasing the size of Abeta aggregates and suggest the targeting of Abeta-mediated microglial chemotactic migration in developing therapeutic interventions for AD.
Memantine, which is used clinically for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is classified as an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist. Since previous studies have shown that NMDA receptor antagonists promote neurogenesis in the adult brain, we examined the effect of memantine on neurogenesis in the adult mouse hippocampus. We intraperitoneally injected 3-month-old mice with memantine (at 10 or 50 mg/kg body weight) followed by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) injections (3x) after 3 days. We then examined the number of BrdU+ cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus at different time points. The number of BrdU+ cells in the 50 mg/kg memantine-injected group increased by 2.1-fold (1 day after BrdU-injection), 3.4-fold (after 7 days), and 6.8-fold (after 28 days), whereas the 10 mg/kg dose of memantine had little effect on labeling compared to the control group. Immunohistochemical staining at 28 days after BrdU-injection revealed that the newly generated cells in the 50 mg/kg memantine-group had differentiated into mature granule neurons. Moreover, when 12-month-old mice were injected with memantine, cell proliferation was promoted in the DG (3.7-fold). These findings demonstrate that memantine promotes the proliferation of neural progenitor cells and the production of mature granule neurons in the adult hippocampus.










Complete genital self-mutilation (GSM), mostly a non-suicidal behavior, is a rare occurrence among patients with psychotic and non-psychotic disorders. This case report is on a patient who, in the shadow of severe psychotic manifestations with overwhelming socio-cultural contents, completely self-mutilated his external genitals. Emergency surgical and psychiatric management improved his condition over 4 weeks. In the light of this case, the psychodynamic and socio-cultural meanings of GSM are discussed.
Myasthenia gravis is a rare autoimmune disorder in which antibodies form against acetylcholine nicotinic postsynaptic receptors at the myoneural junction. Psoriasis vulgaris is a chronic, recurring, and an inflammatory skin disease. Myasthenia gravis and psoriasis are both autoimmune diseases and correlated with specific human histocompatibility antigens. In this report, a 53-year-old woman who has myasthenia gravis accompanied with psoriasis vulgaris is presented. To conclude, this association is extremely rare and the pathogenetic etiology was thought to depend on a generalized immunological disturbance.
This case report highlights causes of failure of the ventriculo-sagittal sinus (V-S) shunt and precautions to avoid them. We present, a 14-year-old girl, a case of post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus with multiple revisions of ventriculo-peritoneal (V-P) and ventriculo-atrial (V-A) shunts. She developed malfunctioned V-S shunt, and ventriculitis that was complicated with massive cerebellar and brain stem infarction and the patient died. To avoid malfunction, a cardiac catheter with side slits should be used, magnetic resonance angiography is recommended before shunt placement to check the patency of the sinus, and the pressure in the superior sagittal sinus should be measured at the time of surgery. In patients with problematic distal catheters, direct placement of the catheter into the right atrium using thoracoscope could be an alternative to gall bladder or ureter shunts.










The International Subarachnoid Aneurysm Trial (ISAT) was designed as the first multi-central international prospective randomized trial aiming to compare the safety and efficacy of the 2 available treatments for ruptured intracranial aneurysms; endovascular coiling and surgical clipping. The initial results were published in the Lancet (2002), and it showed clearly a superiority of coiling over clipping in the treatment of ruptured intracranial aneurysms; 22.7% of coiled patients were dependent or dead compared with 30.6% in the surgical group with absolute risk reduction of 6.9%. The results of the ISAT drew huge attention from both scientific authorities and lay media. Despite criticisms, the study has made a significant impact on the treatment of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage, especially in the United Kingdom and Europe. Since their initial results, the ISAT group has published further papers and updates covering more interesting results regarding the risks of rebleeding, repeat procedures, epilepsy, and the cost effectiveness of both treatments.

Neuroscientists have long sought to understand how circuits in the nervous system are organized to generate the precise neural outputs that underlie particular behaviors. Recent studies deepened our understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the generation of the rhythmic output for breathing. Here, the author focuses on issues that are pertinent for the respiratory network and considers its organization and how it derives the functional output. The author discusses pacemaker and network mechanisms of rhythm generation, which are now combined into a novel concept of emergent network activity due to coherent excitation of pacemaker groups. He discusses subcellular basis of this hypothesis and possible mechanisms of synchronization within respiratory network. These new findings in respiratory neuroscience are further applied to explain modifications in breathing during hypoxia and possible origins of respiratory disorders that may be acquired during neural development and aging.
BEFORE THE 1960s, adult mammalian neurogenesis was conceptually unimaginable. Despite 45 years of observations supporting this revolutionary phenomenon, many scientists rejected this notion until irrefutable evidence provided at the end of the 20th century established that lifelong neuronal generation occurs in the adult mammalian brain. Today, in place of being viewed as a nonregenerative dormant organ, a defining characteristic of the brain is its plasticity, or capacity to undergo environment- and activity-related cytophysiological remodeling. In this second article in a 5-part series on stem cells, we trace the milestones that gave birth to a new era in neuroscience: the realization of adult mammalian neurogenesis.
Perimenstrual catamenial epilepsy, the cyclical occurrence of seizure exacerbations near the time of menstruation, affects a high proportion of women of reproductive age with drug-refractory epilepsy. Enhanced seizure susceptibility in perimenstrual catamenial epilepsy is believed to be due to the withdrawal of the progesterone-derived GABA(A) receptor modulating neurosteroid allopregnanolone as a result of the fall in progesterone at the time of menstruation. Studies in a rat pseudopregnancy model of catamenial epilepsy indicate that after neurosteroid withdrawal there is enhanced susceptibility to chemoconvulsant seizures. There is also a transitory increase in the frequency of spontaneous seizures in epileptic rats that had experienced pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. In the catamenial epilepsy model, there is a marked reduction in the antiseizure potency of anticonvulsant drugs, including benzodiazepines and valproate, but an increase in the anticonvulsant potency and protective index of neurosteroids such as allopregnanolone and the neurosteroid analog ganaxolone. The enhanced seizure susceptibility and benzodiazepine-resistance subsequent to neurosteroid withdrawal may be related to reduced expression and altered kinetics of synaptic GABA(A) receptors and increased expression of GABA(A) receptor subunits (such as alpha4) that confer benzodiazepine insensitivity. The enhanced potency of neurosteroids may be due to a relative increase after neurosteroid withdrawal in the expression of neurosteroid-sensitive delta-subunit-containing perisynaptic or extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors. Positive allosteric modulatory neurosteroids and synthetic analogs such as ganaxolone may be administered to prevent catamenial seizure exacerbations, in what we call neurosteroid replacement therapy.
Gene therapy may represent a promising alternative treatment of epileptic patients who are resistant to conventional anti-epileptic drugs. Among the various approaches for the application of gene therapy in the treatment of CNS disorders, recombinant adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors have been most widely used. Preclinical studies using a selection of &quot;therapeutic&quot; genes injected into the rodent brain to correct the compromised balance between inhibitory and excitatory transmission in epilepsy, showed significant reduction of seizures and inhibition of epileptogenesis. In particular, transduction of neuropeptide genes, such as galanin and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in specific brain areas in experimental models of seizures resulted in significant anticonvulsant effects. Recent findings showed a long-lasting NPY over-expression in the rat hippocampus by local application of recombinant AAV vectors associated with reduced generalization of seizures, delayed kindling epileptogenesis, and strong reduction of chronic spontaneous seizures. These results establish a proof-of-principle evidence of the efficacy of gene therapy as anticonvulsant treatment. Additional investigations are required to address safety concerns and possible side effects in more detail.
Complex partial seizures arising from mesial temporal lobe structures are a defining feature of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). For many TLE patients, there is an initial traumatic head injury that is the precipitating cause of epilepsy. Severe TLE can be associated with neuropathological changes, including hippocampal sclerosis, neurodegeneration in the dentate gyrus, and extensive reorganization of hippocampal circuits. Learning disabilities and psychiatric conditions may also occur in patients with severe TLE for whom conventional anti-epileptic drugs are ineffective. Novel treatments are needed to limit or repair neuronal damage, particularly to hippocampus and related limbic regions in severe TLE and to suppress temporal lobe seizures. A promising therapeutic strategy may be to restore inhibition of dentate gyrus granule neurons by means of cell grafts of embryonic stem cell-derived GABAergic neuron precursors. &quot;Proof-of-concept&quot; studies show that human and mouse embryonic stem cell-derived neural precursors can survive, migrate, and integrate into the brains of rodents in different experimental models of TLE. In addition, studies have shown that hippocampal grafts of cell lines engineered to release GABA or other anticonvulsant molecules can suppress seizures. Furthermore, transplants of fetal GABAergic progenitors from the mouse or human brain have also been shown to suppress the development of seizures. Here, we review these relevant studies and highlight areas of future research directed toward producing embryonic stem cell-derived GABAergic interneurons for cell-based therapies for treating TLE.
The therapy of the focal cortical epilepsies remains unsatisfactory. Close to a third of patients fail to gain adequate control with antiepileptic drugs and a portion of those who do, experience unacceptable side effects. Morever, the favorable response rate after surgical resection, approximately 60%, is not nearly as high as the response rate of complex partial seizures caused by mesial temporal sclerosis. The suppressive effect of cooling on neuronal activity has been recognized for over a century. Therefore, we have begun to explore the possible application of cooling as a therapy for focal cortical seizures. In initial brain slice experiments, we found that cooling to 20 degrees C could rapidly terminate paroxysmal activity. Then we developed an in vivo model of focal seizures using a local injection of the convulsant 4-aminopyridine and found that cooling the injected area to less than 24 degrees C with a thermoelectric Peltier device aborted seizures within a few seconds. Other laboratories have independently confirmed our initial observations. More recent experiments from our laboratory have shown that cooling, per se, is not associated with significant cortical damage, even at surface temperatures as low as 5 degrees C. Advances in the fabrication of extremely thin thermoelectric devices, less than a few hundred microns thick, has raised the possibility of incorporating an implantable cooling unit into a closed loop seizure detection and treatment system.
Methylene blue (MB) is a diaminophenothiazine with potent antioxidant and unique redox properties that prevent morphologic degenerative changes in the mouse retina induced by rotenone, a specific mitochondrial complex I inhibitor. This study evaluated pigmented rats to determine whether MB's neuroprotective effects against rotenone-mediated retinal neurotoxicity have functional relevance and whether these effects are mediated by an improvement in neuronal energy metabolism in vivo. Visual function was behaviorally assessed by determining differences in the illuminance sensitivity threshold pre- and post-bilateral intravitreal injection of rotenone (200 microg/kg) or rotenone plus MB (70 microg/kg). Retinal degeneration was morphologically studied using unbiased stereological tools. Changes in histochemically determined cytochrome oxidase activity in the visual pathway were used to evaluate the impact of treatments on neuronal energy metabolism. Rotenone induced a 1.4 log unit increase in the illumination threshold compared to baseline, as well as a 32% decrease in ganglion cell layer cell (GCL) density, and a 56% decrease in GCL layer + nerve fiber layer thickness. Co-administration of MB prevented the changes in visual function and the retinal histopathology. Furthermore, rotenone induced a functional deafferentation of the visual system, as revealed by decreases in the metabolic activity of the retina, superior colliculus, and visual cortex. These metabolic changes were also prevented by MB. The results provided the first demonstration of MB's behavioral and metabolic neuroprotection against optic neuropathy, and implicate MB as a candidate neuroprotective agent with metabolic-enhancing properties that may be used in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases associated with mitochondrial dysfunction.
The utility and possibility of PET in the drug development of the neuropsychiatry field is discussed in this review. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a nuclear medicine imaging technique which visualizes and quantifies the distributions of various molecular targets in vivo. This technique has been expected to help the process to be more efficient in the drug development of the neuropsychiatry field. Three approaches have been raised as promising ways: microdosing, occupancy measurement at the target region, and biomarkers. In microdosing, it could be detected whether the drugs enter the living human brain or not using very small amount of radiolabelled candidate drugs. With occupancy measurement, the relationship between the dose of the drug and the occupancy could be established, and the optimal clinical doses could be obtained. As biomarkers, the change in the distribution in beta amyloid and microglia after the drug treatment could be detected.
Metabolic pathway mapping using (13)C NMR spectroscopy has been used extensively to study interactions between neurons and glia in the brain. Established extraction procedures of brain tissue are time consuming and may result in degradation of labile substances. We examined the potential of mapping (13)C-enriched compounds in intact brain tissue using high-resolution magic angle spinning (HR-MAS) NMR spectroscopy. Sprague-Dawley rats received an intraperitoneal injection of [1,6-(13)C]glucose, and 15 min later the animals were subjected to microwave fixation of the brain. Quantification of concentration and (13)C labelling of metabolites in intact rat thalamus were carried out based on exogenous ethylene glycol concentrations measured from (1)H NMR spectra using an ERETIC (Electronic REference To access In vivo Concentrations) signal. The results from intact tissue were compared with those from perchloric acid-extracted brain tissue. Amounts of (13)C labelling at different positions (C2, C3 and C4) in glutamate, glutamine, gamma-aminobutyric acid and aspartate measured in either intact tissue or perchloric acid extracts were not significantly different. Proton NMR spectra were used for quantification of six different amino acids plus lactate, inositol, N-acetylaspartate, creatine and phosphocreatine. Again, results were very similar when comparing the methods. To our knowledge, this is the first time quantitative (13)C NMR spectroscopy measurements have been carried out on intact brain tissue ex vivo using the HR-MAS technique. The results show that HR-MAS (13)C NMR spectroscopy in combination with (1)H NMR spectroscopy and the ERETIC method is useful for metabolic studies of intact brain tissue ex vivo.

mRNA decapping is a critical step in the control of mRNA stability and gene expression and is carried out by the Dcp2 protein. Dcp2 is an RNA-binding protein that must bind the RNA in order to recognize the cap for hydrolysis. We previously demonstrated that a 60 nucleotide (nt) element at the 5' end of the mRNA encoding Rrp41 is preferentially bound and decapped by Dcp2. Here, we demonstrate that enhanced decapping of this element is dependent on the structural integrity of its first 33 nt and not its primary sequence. The structure consists of a stem-loop positioned &lt;10 nt from the 5' end of the mRNA. The generality of a stem-loop structure in enhanced Dcp2-mediated decapping was underscored by the identification of additional potential Dcp2 substrate mRNAs by a global analysis of human mRNAs containing a similar predicted stem-loop structure at their respective 5' end. These studies suggest a general role for 5' stem-loops in enhancing decapping activity and the utilization of this structure as a predictive tool for Dcp2 target substrates. These studies also demonstrate that Dcp2 alone in the absence of additional proteins can preferentially associate with and modulate mRNA decapping.
Several metabolic abnormalities are associated with relative excess or deficiency of adipose tissue. Identifying the regulators of adipogenic differentiation is critical for its successful manipulation. Ad36, a human adenovirus, is a novel factor that promotes adipogenesis. We exploited the adipogenic potential of Ad36 to reveal exogenous modifiers of adipogenesis in rodent preadipocyte cell line in the presence or absence of differentiation inducers methyl-isobutyl-xanthine, dexamethasone, and insulin (M, D, and I; MDI). A nonadipogenic human adenovirus Ad2 was used as a negative control for viral infection. First, we confirmed that, Ad36, but not Ad2, increases lipid accumulation in the presence or absence of MDI. Time-course studies for expression of key genes of adipogenic cascade showed that it is Ad36, but not Ad2, which downregulated preadipocyte marker gene Wnt10b, and upregulated expression of early (C/EBPDelta and C/EBPbeta), intermediate (PPARgamma2), and late genes (aP2 and G3PDH) of adipogenic cascade even in the absence of MDI. In the presence of MDI, onset of expression of adipogenic genes coincided for Ad36 and control groups, but the expressions were significantly greater for the Ad36 group. Next, we observed that attenuation of Ad36 mRNA expression by an antiadenoviral agent reduced 3T3-L1 differentiation, indicating that viral mRNA expression is required for the process. Furthermore, with or without MDI or its components, Ad36 significantly increased lipid accumulation in 3T3-L1 cells. Cell confluency at the time of Ad36 infection positively influenced lipid accumulation. The results reveal that Ad36 is an MDI-independent exogenous regulator of the adipogenic process. Elucidating the molecular pathways involved may reveal novel regulatory controls of adipogenesis.
The cost effectiveness of work-oriented rehabilitation for persons on long-term sick leave needs to be assessed. This prospective observational study presents a follow-up seven years after rehabilitation using two different evidence-based work-oriented regimens. Individuals on sick leave for neck and back pain were referred to two rehabilitation programmes in Sweden. The first programme was a relatively low-intensity programme based on orthopaedic manual therapy and exercise programme (OMTP). The second programme was a full-time multidisciplinary programme (MDP). The primary outcome was sickness absence seven years after intervention. Cost effectiveness was calculated on the basis of loss of production due to sickness absence. The results show that participants referred to MDP and with less than 60 sick days before rehabilitation have reduced sickness absence after intervention as compared to matched controls. This corresponds to a cost reduction of about 94,494 EUR per referred individual. Further, the results indicate that participants of the OMTP who have more than 60 sick days before rehabilitation have a statistically significant increased risk of disability pension. This means increased cost in terms of loss of production of 44,593 EUR per referred individual. The results of this study show that MPD but not OMTP achieves the goal of working life-oriented rehabilitation. A direct comparison between the rehabilitation programmes strengthened the assumption that long-term sickness absence prior to rehabilitation is associated with more days on sick leave after rehabilitation. This analysis also indicated the importance of participants' pain self-efficacy beliefs and recovery beliefs on rehabilitation outcome.
We report on a young girl with Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome, as confirmed by mitochondrial polymerase gamma sequencing, who was treated with the classic (4 parts fat:1 part each of carbohydrate and protein) ketogenic diet after she presented with epilepsia partialis continua. She improved clinically, and her electroencephalogram improved dramatically. This is the first detailed report on the efficacy of the ketogenic diet in treating the epileptic encephalopathy of Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome. We present a literature review of the utility of a ketogenic diet in mitochondrial disorders, and speculations as to why the diet may be helpful in Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome.
Most rating scales to assess movement disorders in children were mainly designed for adult patients, and are limited to a single type of disorder. A new scale for developmental age, the Movement Disorder-Childhood Rating Scale, was recently designed and validated for children and adolescents aged 4-18 years. We introduce a new version of this scale, the Movement Disorder-Childhood Rating Scale 0-3, suitable for application in children aged &lt;4 years. The scale was tested for reliability and consistency in 40 children (aged 0.3-3.6 years) with different types of movement disorders. The results indicate high interrater agreement on each item, and a high degree of internal consistency on several proposed items. The scale can be used to assess and monitor young children with movement disorders during specific treatments.
In response to sustained depolarization or prolonged bursts of activity in spiking cells, sodium channels enter long-lived non-conducting states from which recovery at hyperpolarized potentials occurs over hundreds of milliseconds to seconds. The molecular basis for this slow inactivation remains unknown, although many functional domains of the channel have been implicated. Expression studies in Xenopus oocytes and mammalian cell lines have suggested a role for the accessory beta1 subunit in slow inactivation, but the effects have been variable. We examined the effects of the beta1 subunit on slow inactivation of skeletal muscle (NaV1.4) sodium channels expressed in HEK cells. Co-expression of the beta1 subunit impeded slow inactivation elicited by a 30-s depolarization, such that the voltage dependence was right shifted (depolarized) and recovery was hastened. Mutational studies showed this effect was dependent upon the extracellular Ig-like domain, but was independent of the intracellular C-terminal tail. Furthermore, the beta1 effect on slow inactivation was shown to be independent of the negative coupling between fast and slow inactivation.
Potassium-current inactivation and recovery kinetics are pivotal in sustaining dynamic processing of time-varying sensory signals in hair cells. We report a detailed analysis of K(+)-currents in isolated hair cells from the frog crista ampullaris. The single components were dissected using a novel procedure based on their differential kinetic properties: The fast IA component exhibited two processes of inactivation removal; the persistent I (KD) component (I (KV) + I (KCa)), unexpectedly displayed partial inactivation, removed by negative potentials with particularly slow, delayed kinetics. The physiological relevance of these observations was investigated by imposing sinusoidal membrane potential changes to mimic receptor response to hair bundle deflection. The excitatory phase elicited extra-currents (hysteresis) only if the off phase went sufficiently negative to remove IA inactivation. Native, resting hair cells are depolarised by receptor current; thus, voltage continuously modulates I(KD), whereas IA only transiently ensues when the receptor current vanishes (zero-current potential approximately -70 mV) and polarisation removes IA inactivation.

Neuroinflammation plays a role in the progression of several neurodegenerative disorders. We used a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) model of neuroinflammation to characterize the gene expression changes underlying the inflammatory and behavioral effects of neuroinflammation. A single intracerebroventricular injection of LPS (5 microg) was administered into the lateral ventricle of mice and, 24 h later, we examined gene expression in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus using microarray technology. Gene Ontology (GO) terms for inflammation and the ribosome were significantly enriched by LPS, whereas GO terms associated with learning and memory had decreased expression. We detected 224 changed transcripts in the cerebral cortex and 170 in the hippocampus. Expression of Egr1 (also known as Zif268) and Arc, two genes associated with learning and memory, was significantly lower in the cortex, but not in the hippocampus, of LPS-treated animals. Overall, altered expression of these genes may underlie some of the inflammatory and behavioral effects of neuroinflammation.
The central extended amygdala (cExtA) is a limbic region proposed to play a key role in drug and alcohol addiction and to contain the medial nucleus accumbens shell (MNAc shell). The aim of this study was to examine the involvement of the MNAc shell in ethanol and sucrose consumption in a limited and free access procedure in the C57BL/6J (B6) mouse. Separate groups of mice received bilateral electrolytic lesions of the MNAc shell or sham surgery, and following recovery from surgery, were allowed to voluntarily consume ethanol (15% v/v) in a 2 h limited access 2-bottle-choice procedure. Following 1 week of limited access ethanol consumption, mice were given 1 week of limited access sucrose consumption. A separate group of lesioned and sham mice were given free access (24 h) to ethanol in a 2-bottle choice procedure and were run in parallel to the mice receiving limited access consumption. Electrolytic lesions of the MNAc shell decreased ethanol (but not sucrose) consumption in a limited access procedure, but did not alter free access ethanol consumption. These results suggest that the MNAc shell is a component of the underlying neural circuitry contributing to limited access alcohol consumption in the B6 mouse.
We explored how stimulation of GABA(A) receptors at different times during conditioned taste aversion (CTA) acquisition or extinction influenced extinction. In Experiment 1, rats acquired a CTA to 0.3% saccharin-flavored water (SAC) when it followed an injection of lithium chloride (LiCl; 81.0 mg/kg, i.p.). Following conditioning, rats received extinction training in which the GABA(A) agonist muscimol (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.), or control (saline) injections, were administered either before or after each extinction trial. Muscimol hindered extinction when administered after extinction trials. Muscimol's inhibitory effects may have impeded extinction learning by disrupting synaptic mechanisms required to consolidate information experienced during extinction training. In Experiment 2, we studied the effects of muscimol on CTA acquisition and subsequent extinction. Rats received muscimol (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) either before or after CTA conditioning trials. Following CTA acquisition, all rats were given CTA extinction training without muscimol administration. All groups developed CTA, but the group that received muscimol before CTA conditioning trials extinguished rapidly in comparison to other treatment groups. Differences between muscimol's effects on CTA conditioning and CTA extinction indicate that fear conditioning and extinction involve, to some degree, different neuronal mechanisms.
Calcium channel blockers can modulate the nociceptive threshold. However, the underlying mechanism(s), especially the role of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, on this effect has not yet been clarified. In the present study we investigated the analgesic effect of verapamil, diltiazem and nimodipine in intact and adrenalectomized (ADX) male rats and also measured the effect of these drugs on HPA function. The tail-flick and hot-plate tests were used to assess the nociceptive threshold before and 15, 30, 60 and 120 min after drug administration. Corticosterone level was measured by radioimmunoassay as a marker of HPA function. Our results showed that these drugs could elicit antinociceptive effects which were more prominent in the hot-plate than in the tail-flick tests. Following the exclusion of adrenal glands these drugs showed stronger analgesic effects. Acute administration of verapamil, diltiazem and nimodipine produced significant decrease in plasma corticosterone level that was more prominent by nimodipine. In conclusion, the results of our study show that the HPA function has an important role in the antinociceptive effect of calcium channel blockers.
Modern neuroimaging provides a common platform for neuroscience and related disciplines to explore the human brain, mind, and behavior. We base our review on the social shaping of the human mind and discuss various aspects of brain function related to social interaction. Despite private mental contents, people can share their understanding of the world using, beyond verbal communication, nonverbal cues such as gestures, facial expressions, and postures. The understanding of nonverbal messages is supported by the brain's mirroring systems that are shaped by individual experience. Within the organism-environment system, tight links exist between action and perception, both within an individual and between several individuals. Therefore, any comprehensive brain imaging study of the neuronal basis of social cognition requires appreciation of the situated and embodied nature of human cognition, motivating simultaneous monitoring of brain and bodily functions within a socially relevant environment. Because single-person studies alone cannot unravel the dynamic aspects of interpersonal interactions, it seems both necessary and beneficial to move towards &quot;two-person neuroscience&quot;; technological shortcomings and a limited conceptual framework have so far hampered such a leap. We conclude by discussing some major disorders of social interaction.
When coordinating movements, the nervous system often has to decide how to distribute work across a number of redundant effectors. Here, we show that humans solve this problem by trying to minimize both the variability of motor output and the effort involved. In previous studies that investigated the temporal shape of movements, these two selective pressures, despite having very different theoretical implications, could not be distinguished; because noise in the motor system increases with the motor commands, minimization of effort or variability leads to very similar predictions. When multiple effectors with different noise and effort characteristics have to be combined, however, these two cost terms can be dissociated. Here, we measure the importance of variability and effort in coordination by studying how humans share force production between two fingers. To capture variability, we identified the coefficient of variation of the index and little fingers. For effort, we used the sum of squared forces and the sum of squared forces normalized by the maximum strength of each effector. These terms were then used to predict the optimal force distribution for a task in which participants had to produce a target total force of 4-16 N, by pressing onto two isometric transducers using different combinations of fingers. By comparing the predicted distribution across fingers to the actual distribution chosen by participants, we were able to estimate the relative importance of variability and effort of 1:7, with the unnormalized effort being most important. Our results indicate that the nervous system uses multi-effector redundancy to minimize both the variability of the produced output and effort, although effort costs clearly outweighed variability costs.
Metazoan development requires complex mechanisms to generate cells with diverse function. Alternative splicing of pre-mRNA not only expands proteomic diversity but also provides a means to regulate tissue-specific molecular expression. The N-Cadherin gene in Drosophila contains three pairs of mutually-exclusive alternatively-spliced exons (MEs). However, no significant differences among the resulting protein isoforms have been successfully demonstrated in vivo. Furthermore, while the N-Cadherin gene products exhibit a complex spatiotemporal expression pattern within embryos, its underlying mechanisms and significance remain unknown. Here, we present results that suggest a critical role for alternative splicing in producing a crucial and reproducible complexity in the expression pattern of arthropod N-Cadherin. We demonstrate that the arthropod N-Cadherin gene has maintained the three sets of MEs for over 400 million years using in silico and in vivo approaches. Expression of isoforms derived from these MEs receives precise spatiotemporal control critical during development. Both Drosophila and Tribolium use ME-13a and ME-13b in &quot;neural&quot; and &quot;mesodermal&quot; splice variants, respectively. As proteins, either ME-13a- or ME-13b-containing isoform can cell-autonomously rescue the embryonic lethality caused by genetic loss of N-Cadherin. Ectopic muscle expression of either isoform beyond the time it normally ceases leads to paralysis and lethality. Together, our results offer an example of well-conserved alternative splicing increasing cellular diversity in metazoans.

Many neurodegenerative disorders share common features including the accumulation of aggregated misfolded proteins, neuroinflammation and the induction of apoptosis. While the contributions of each of these individual elements to neuronal death remain unclear, a commonly used antibiotic, minocycline, has been shown to reduce the progression and severity of disease in several models of neurodegeneration by variously downregulating these molecular pathways. Here we discuss the evidence for the potential of minocycline as a broad-specificity therapeutic agent for those neurodegenerative diseases that are characterized by the presence of misfolded proteins.
Peptide and protein (P/P) drugs have been identified as showing great promises for the treatment of various neurodegenerative diseases. A major challenge in this regard, however, is the delivery of P/P drugs over the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Intense research over the last 25 years has enabled a better understanding of the cellular and molecular transport mechanisms at the BBB, and several strategies for enhanced P/P drug delivery over the BBB have been developed and tested in preclinical and clinical-experimental research. Among them, technology-based approaches (comprising functionalized nanocarriers and liposomes) and pharmacological strategies (such as the use of carrier systems and chimeric peptide technology) appear to be the most promising ones. This review combines a comprehensive overview on the current understanding of the transport mechanisms at the BBB with promising selected strategies published so far that can be applied to facilitate enhanced P/P drug delivery over the BBB.
O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) is a widespread modification of serine/threonine residues of nucleocytoplasmic proteins. Recently, several key contractile proteins in rat skeletal muscle (i.e., myosin heavy and light chains and actin) were identified as O-GlcNAc modified. Moreover, it was demonstrated that O-GlcNAc moieties involved in contractile protein interactions could modulate Ca(2+) activation parameters of contraction. In order to better understand how O-GlcNAc can modulate the contractile activity of muscle fibers, we decided to identify the sites of O-GlcNAc modification in purified contractile protein homogenates. Using an MS-based method that relies on mild beta-elimination followed by Michael addition of DTT (BEMAD), we determined the localization of one O-GlcNAc site in the subdomain four of actin and four O-GlcNAc sites in the light meromyosin region of myosin heavy chains (MHC). According to previous reports concerning the role of these regions, our data suggest that O-GlcNAc sites might modulate the actin-tropomyosin interaction, and be involved in MHC polymerization or interactions between MHC and other contractile proteins. Thus, the results suggest that this PTM might be involved in protein-protein interactions but could also modulate the contractile properties of skeletal muscle.

Psychopathy is a developmental disorder marked by emotional hypo-responsiveness and an increased risk for antisocial behavior. Influential attention-based accounts of psychopathy have long been made; however, these accounts have made relatively little reference to general models of attention in healthy individuals. This review has three aims: (1) to summarize current cognitive neuroscience data on differing attentional systems; (2) to examine the functional integrity of these attentional systems in individuals with psychopathy; and (3) to consider the implications of these data for attention and emotion dysfunction accounts of psychopathy.
There have been numerous exhortations for more 'translational research'. A selective review of historical examples of research leading to health benefits is used to consider the various forms of successful interplay between basic science and clinical applications. This is followed by a consideration of key neuroscience findings that might be relevant for translation, and then by a discussion of the challenges and opportunities in relation to mental disorders. The time-frame for the pathway from science findings to health benefits is usually long, and generally requires an interactive interplay among different scientific strategies. There is a false dichotomy between so-called basic and applied research and translation needs to proceed from the bedside to the laboratory as well as in the opposite direction. There is a key need for bridging research of the hypothesis-testing experimental medicine variety. Health benefits may involve either public health considerations or the treatment of individual patients, or both. There are now some opportunities for direct translational research but there is a much greater need for hypothesis-based bridging studies that occupy a crucial mid-phase in the pathway from science findings to health benefits.
The purposes of this study were to translate the English version of the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire into Persian and to examine its psychometric properties. Reliability was examined using Cronbach coefficient alpha and corrected item-total correlation. A confirmatory factor analysis, based on a five-factor model, was performed using AMOS. Consecutive samples of 194 drug addicts, 197 psychiatric patients, and 599 college students were selected for the study. The mean age of participants (N = 1,000) was 24.8 yr. (SD = 7.1), and 49% were female. The test-retest reliability coefficient and the internal consistency reliability coefficient for the whole scale were suitable. The Childhood Trauma Questionnaire exhibited acceptable convergent validity with the General Health Questionnaire. A four-factor solution was selected as the most appropriate model using exploratory principal component analysis with oblique rotation. In conclusion, the Persian version of the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire showed acceptable psychometric properties.
This article describes a new model that provides a framework for understanding people's reactions to threats to social acceptance and belonging as they occur in the context of diverse phenomena such as rejection, discrimination, ostracism, betrayal, and stigmatization. People's immediate reactions are quite similar across different forms of rejection in terms of negative affect and lowered self-esteem. However, following these immediate responses, people's reactions are influenced by construals of the rejection experience that predict 3 distinct motives for prosocial, antisocial, and socially avoidant behavioral responses. The authors describe the relational, contextual, and dispositional factors that affect which motives determine people's reactions to a rejection experience and the ways in which these 3 motives may work at cross-purposes. The multimotive model accounts for the myriad ways in which responses to rejection unfold over time and offers a basis for the next generation of research on interpersonal rejection.
Young children tend to claim that moving artifacts and nonliving natural kinds are alive, but neglect to ascribe life to plants. This research tested whether adults exhibit similar confusions when verifying life status in a speeded classification task. Experiment 1 showed that undergraduates encounter greater difficulty (reduced accuracy and increased response times) in determining life status for plants, relative to animals, and for natural and moving nonliving things, relative to artifacts and non-moving things. Experiment 2 replicated these effects in university biology professors. The professors showed a significantly reduced effect size for living things, as compared with the students, but still showed greater difficulty for plants than animals, even as no differences from the students were apparent in their responses to nonliving things. These results suggest that mature biological knowledge relies on a developmental foundation that is not radically overwritten or erased with the profound conceptual changes that accompany mastery of the domain.
Sex steroids exert important organizational effects on brain structure. Early in life, they are involved in brain sexual differentiation. During puberty, sex steroid levels increase considerably. However, to which extent sex steroid production is involved in structural brain development during human puberty remains unknown. The relationship between pubertal rises in testosterone and estradiol levels and brain structure was assessed in 37 boys and 41 girls (10-15 years). Global brain volumes were measured using volumetric-MRI. Regional gray and white matter were quantified with voxel-based morphometry (VBM), a technique which measures relative concentrations ('density') of gray and white matter after individual global differences in size and shape of brains have been removed. Results showed that, corrected for age, global gray matter volume was negatively associated with estradiol levels in girls, and positively with testosterone levels in boys. Regionally, a higher estradiol level in girls was associated with decreases within prefrontal, parietal and middle temporal areas (corrected for age), and with increases in middle frontal-, inferior temporal- and middle occipital gyri. In boys, estradiol and testosterone levels were not related to regional brain structures, nor were testosterone levels in girls. Pubertal sex steroid levels could not explain regional sex differences in regional gray matter density. Boys were significantly younger than girls, which may explain part of the results. In conclusion, in girls, with the progression of puberty, gray matter development is at least in part directly associated with increased levels of estradiol, whereas in boys, who are in a less advanced pubertal stage, such steroid-related development could not (yet) be found. We suggest that in pubertal girls, estradiol may be implicated in neuronal changes in the cerebral cortex during this important period of brain development.
Clinical research suggests that gender differences exist in cocaine dependence. Similarly, preclinical studies have shown that female rats exhibit higher response rates during cocaine self-administration, early extinction, and cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking. These effects are also estrous cycle dependent and inversely related to plasma progesterone, in that proestrus females (high progesterone) exhibit less cocaine-seeking, while estrous females (low progesterone) show the greatest cocaine-seeking. Based on these findings, we hypothesized that progesterone would attenuate cocaine-seeking behavior in intact, freely cycling animals. The role of the estrous cycle on cocaine-seeking behavior during early (first acquisition day) versus late (last maintenance day) cocaine self-administration was also examined. Female, Sprague-Dawley rats self-administered cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/infusion, IV) along a FR1 schedule, followed by daily extinction sessions in the absence of cocaine reinforcement. Once responding was extinguished, rats received an injection of cocaine (10 mg/kg, IP) immediately prior to reinstatement testing. Progesterone (2 mg/kg, SC) or vehicle was administered 20 and 2h prior to the first day of extinction (early cocaine withdrawal) and the reinstatement trials. To determine estrous cycle phase, we assessed vaginal cytology prior to the first acquisition and last maintenance days of cocaine self-administration, the first day of extinction training, and each reinstatement test. During early and late cocaine self-administration, proestrus and estrous females exhibited the greatest levels of active lever responding, respectively. A significant increase in responding also occurred during cocaine-primed reinstatement for estrous versus nonestrous females, an effect that was selectively attenuated by progesterone. However, progesterone was not effective at reducing cocaine-primed reinstatement for females in other phases of the estrous cycle, nor was it effective at reducing cocaine-seeking during early withdrawal. Taken together, these results suggest that progesterone may be a useful therapeutic for preventing relapse in abstinent female cocaine users, especially when the likelihood of relapse is greatest.
Antidepressant drugs have been suggested to regulate synaptic transmission and structure. We hypothesised that antidepressant-induced changes in synapses and their associated proteins might become more apparent if they were measured under conditions of reduced synapse density. Therefore, in the present study, we examined whether chronic treatment with the antidepressant, fluoxetine alters expression of synaptic proteins in the hippocampus of rodents that underwent ovariectomy, a procedure which reportedly decreases synapse density in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus. Using Western blotting, we measured changes in hippocampal expression of proteins associated with synapse structure, strength and activity namely, postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95), the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPA-R) subunit GluR1 and phosphosynapsin (Ser9), respectively. We found that fluoxetine treatment increased expression of phosphosynapsin, PSD-95 and synaptic GluR1 (but not total GluR1) in the hippocampus of ovariectomized but not sham rats. Since BDNF and signalling at its receptor, TrkB, can mediate behavioural responses to antidepressants and induce neuronal plasticity, we investigated the contribution of TrkB signalling to fluoxetine-induced changes in synaptic protein expression by using a transgenic mouse model overexpressing a truncated form of the TrkB receptor (TrkB.T1). Fluoxetine produced a small but significant increase in hippocampal PSD-95 in ovariectomized wildtype mice but not in ovariectomized TrkB.T1 mice or sham mice. In contrast to rats, fluoxetine did not alter expression of synaptic GluR1 and did not reverse ovariectomy-induced decreases in hippocampal phosphosynapsin in either genotype. Taken together, these results suggest that chronic fluoxetine treatment can increase synaptic protein expression in the hippocampus and at least some of these effects require TrkB signalling. Moreover, these effects were only observed in ovariectomized animals, thus suggesting that fluoxetine-induced increases in synaptic protein levels might only occur or become detectable when hippocampal synaptic connectivity is perturbed.





The decomposition of three-dimensional (3-D) objects into shape primitives consisting of geometric volumes is a key proposal of some theories of object recognition. It implicitly assumes that recognition involves volumetric completion--the derivation of a three-dimensional structure that comprises inferred shape properties, such as surfaces, that are not directly visible due to self-occlusion. The goal of this study was to test this claim. In Experiment 1 participants memorized novel objects and then discriminated these from previously unseen objects. Targets were preceded by primes containing a subset of object surfaces that either matched those visible in the whole objects or that could only be inferred through volumetric completion. The results showed performance benefits through priming from visible surfaces but not from inferred surfaces. In Experiment 2, we found equivalent priming for part-primes containing two visible surfaces from the same volumetric part and for primes containing one surface from each of two volumes. These results challenge the view that 3-D object recognition is mediated by shape primitives comprising geometric volumes. Instead, the results support an alternative model that proposes that 3-D shapes are represented as a non-volumetric surface-based structural description.
Recent findings have shown that wastewater from bulk drug production can be a source of very high environmental concentrations of drugs in certain locations. The release of active ingredients is often not specifically regulated, and thus rapid initiatives from the industries themselves are warranted. Possible ways to stimulate action include changes in local and international regulations, including the implementation of appropriate environmental standards within existing industry guidelines as well as demands from prescribers and consumers of medicines. The lack of readily available information regarding the origin of drugs and the environmental impact of the production, however, prevents consumers from making informed decisions. Here, we investigated the origin of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) in 242 selected products on the Swedish market. By comparing registers from Sweden and India we found that the APIs in 71 products (31%) originated from Indian manufacturers sending their waste to a treatment plant where unprecedented amount of environmental pollution with broad-spectrum antibiotics and other drugs recently has been documented. We propose that increased transparency throughout the production chain would be one of several important steps to reducing pollution from the manufacturing of drugs.
Efficient spermatogenesis relies on the balance between energy production and expenditure, and thus depends on mitochondrial function. Our goal was to characterize testis mitochondria isolated from the domestic cat for their future use as a model for endangered felids. Respiration parameters were monitored with a Clark-type oxygen electrode, and the mitochondrial transmembrane potential (DeltaPsi) was estimated with a TPP(+) electrode. Testis mitochondria are shown to require low oxygen consumption to generate approximately the same maximum DeltaPsi as other tissues. We also found differences between young and adult cats suggesting a less efficient phosphorylation system in the first group. Furthermore, an interpolation equation of the relation between maximum DeltaPsi and age allowed the prediction of the expected DeltaPsi at each age, as well as possible deviations. The results generate a novel model from a carnivore to further test drugs or environmental contaminants (such as pesticides and herbicides), many of which act on mitochondria and may interfere with the reproduction of wild animals.

The aim was to develop and evaluate a seven-point category scale, called the Environmental Annoyance Scale (EAS), with semantic descriptors and ratio-scale properties. Six studies were conducted that involved ratings of perceived magnitude of descriptors, selection of seven descriptors with semantic coherency, and ratings of various environmental issues. Seven semantically coherent descriptors with subjective equidistance and small interindividual variability were selected for the EAS. Environmental ratings on the EAS were linearly related to magnitude estimations, and the two rating procedures generated very similar exponents of the psychophysical power function. The used selection procedure was found to be reliable and not likely affected by the respondent's educational level, and the reliability of the EAS per se was found to be satisfying. The EAS appears to have properties that approach those of a ratio scale, and to be reliable and valid for assessment of environmental annoyance.
How much a person conforms to another person's memory report can depend on the power and credibility of this person, even if these factors are manipulated by the experimenter. The aim of the current study was to establish whether memory conformity is also affected by power in pairs involving natural power differentials, in this case siblings. Pairs of adult siblings were shown 50 photographs of faces and then given a recognition test where one partner had to answer before the other. The findings showed that what one sibling reported affected what the other one reported. Contrary to our expectations, however, there was no significant difference in conformity between the younger and the older sibling. The implications of these findings are discussed.
Brodmann's area (BA) 10, which occupies the frontal pole (FP) of the human brain, has been proven to play a central role in the executive control of cognitive operations. Previous in vivo morphometric studies of the FP have been limited by the lack of an accepted boundary of its posterior limit. We studied the FP gray matter volume in 23 healthy subjects who were age-, sex-, and education-matched to 23 neuroleptic-nave recent-onset schizophrenia subjects in the age span 20-40 years, using a cytoarchitectonically and functionally valid landmark-based definition of its posterior boundary that we proposed recently (John, J.P., Yashavantha, B.S., Gado, M., Veena, R., Jain, S., Ravishankar, S., Csernansky, J.G., 2007. A proposal for MRI-based parcellation of the frontal pole. Brain Struct. Funct. 212, 245-253. 2007). Additionally, we examined the relationship between FP volume and age in both healthy and schizophrenia subjects to examine evidence for a possible differential relationship between these variables across the samples. A major finding of the study was the absence of a group-level difference in frontal pole gray volumes between the healthy and schizophrenia participants. However, a more complex finding emerged in relation to age effects. The healthy participants showed an inverse relationship of FP gray volume with age, even after taking total brain volume differences into account. But this age effect was completely absent in the schizophrenia group. Moreover, all the volumetric measures in schizophrenia subjects showed substantially higher range, variance, skewness and kurtosis when compared to those of healthy subjects. These findings have implications in understanding the possible role of FP in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.

The formation of blood vessels in embryos and tumors are different processes but under the control of common molecular mechanisms. Chemokine CXCL12 involved in both embryonic and tumor angiogenesis. In this review, we summarize recent advances in understanding the roles of CXCL12 in brain tumor angiogenesis/vasculogenesis. CXCL12 and its cognate receptors are abnormally induced in brain tumors, in particular in tumor cells and endothelium. Pathologically enhanced CXCL12 signaling may promote the formation of new vessels through recruiting circulating endothelial progenitor cells or directly enhancing the migration/growth of endothelial cells. Therefore, CXCL12 signaling represents an important mechanism that regulates brain tumor angiogenesis/vasculogenesis and may provide potential targets for anti-angiogenic therapy in malignant gliomas.
Five genes encode the five human signal peptide peptidases (SPPs), which are intramembrane-cleaving aspartyl proteases (aspartyl I-CLiPs). SPPs have been conserved through evolution with family members found in higher eukaryotes, fungi, protozoa, arachea, and plants. SPPs are related to the presenilin family of aspartyl I-CLiPs but differ in several key aspects. Presenilins (PSENs) and SPPs both cleave the transmembrane region of membrane proteins; however, PSENs cleave type 1 membrane proteins whereas SPPs cleave type 2 membrane proteins. Though the overall homology between SPPs and PSENs is minimal, they are multipass membrane proteins that contain two conserved active site motifs YD and GxGD in adjacent membrane-spanning domains and a conserved PAL motif of unknown function near their COOH-termini. They differ in that the active site YD and GxGD containing transmembrane domains of SPPs are inverted relative to PSENs, thus, orienting the active site in a consistent topology relative to the substrate. At least two of the human SPPs (SPP and SPPL3) appear to function without additional cofactors, but PSENs function as a protease, called gamma-secretase, only when complexed with Nicastrin, APH-1 and Pen-2. The biological roles of SPP are largely unknown, and only a few endogenous substrates for SPPs have been identified. Nevertheless there is emerging evidence that SPP family members are highly druggable and may regulate both essential physiologic and pathophysiologic processes. Further study of the SPP family is needed in order to understand their biological roles and their potential as therapeutic targets.



This study investigated the ability of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) derived from full-term human umbilical cord blood to survive, integrate and differentiate after intravitreal grafting to the degenerating neonatal rat retina following intracranial optic tract lesion. MSCs survived for 1 week in the absence of immunosuppression. When host animals were treated with cyclosporin A and dexamethasone to suppress inflammatory and immune responses, donor cells survived for at least 3 weeks, and were able to spread and cover the entire vitreal surface of the host retina. However, MSCs did not significantly integrate into or migrate through the retina. They also maintained their human antigenicity, and no indication of neural differentiation was observed in retinas where retinal ganglion cells either underwent severe degeneration or were lost. These results have provided the first in vivo evidence that MSCs derived from human umbilical cord blood can survive for a significant period of time when the host rat response is suppressed even for a short period. These results, together with the observation of a lack of neuronal differentiation and integration of MSCs after intravitreal grafting, has raised an important question as to the potential use of MSCs for neural repair through the replacement of lost neurons in the mammalian retina and central nervous system.






A number of studies suggest that stressful conditions can induce structural alterations in the hippocampus and that antidepressant drugs may prevent such deficits. In particular, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine was more effective in modulating different neuronal plasticity phenomena and related molecules in rat hippocampus. Cytoskeletal microtubule dynamics are fundamental to dendrites and axons remodeling, leading to the hypothesis that fluoxetine may affect the microtubular system. However, despite reports of stress-induced alterations in microtubule dynamics by different stressors, only few studies investigated the in vivo effects of antidepressants on microtubules in specific rat brain regions. The present study investigated the dose-related (1, 5, or 10 mg/kg i.p.) effects of acute and chronic (21 days) treatments with fluoxetine on the ratio of hippocampal alpha-tubulin isoforms which is thought to reflect microtubule dynamics. Western Blot analysis was used to quantify alpha-tubulin isoforms, high-performance liquid chromatography and fluorescence detection was used to measure ex vivo monoamine metabolism. The results showed that acute fluoxetine increased the stable forms acetylated and detyrosinated alpha-tubulin. Conversely, chronic fluoxetine decreased acetylated alpha-tubulin, indicative of increased microtubule dynamics. The neuron-specific Delta2-Tubulin was increased by chronic fluoxetine indicating neuronal involvement in the observed cytoskeletal changes. Although acute and chronic fluoxetine similarly altered serotonin metabolism by inhibition of serotonin reuptake, this showed no apparent correlation to the cytoskeletal perturbations. Our findings demonstrate that fluoxetine administration modulates microtubule dynamics in rat hippocampus. The cytoskeletal effect exerted by fluoxetine may eventually culminate in promoting events of structural neuronal remodeling.
Outcome for patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is improved with aggressive surgical resection followed by standard chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Intraoperative MRI (iMRI) is a recent surgical advancement that gives neurosurgeons direct radiographic feedback throughout a surgical procedure and thus enables maximal surgical resection of such lesions. We reviewed our series of 35 cases in 29 patients who underwent surgical resections of their GBM's using iMRI. The average extent of resection was 94% with only three patients having resections of less than 90%. However, even with such technology complete resection may not always be possible because of tumor location near critical brain structure or involvement of surrounding vascular structures. The addition of iMRI to the surgical armamentarium for treatment of patients with GBM improves the degree of tumor resection while minimizing complications and thus may positively impact survival in this patient population.
Substantial work on the peripheral and central nervous system complications of HIV was presented at the 16th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections. Six studies of more than 4500 volunteers identified that distal sensory polyneuropathy remains common, ranging from 19% to 66%, with variation based on disease stage, type of antiretroviral therapy, age, and height. Eight studies of more than 2500 volunteers identified that neurocognitive disorders are also common, ranging from 25% to 69%, with variation based on stage of disease, antiretroviral use, diabetes mellitus, and coinfection with hepatitis viruses. Therapy-focused studies identified that resistance testing of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-derived HIV may improve management of people with HIV-associated neurologic complications, that poorly penetrating antiretroviral therapy is associated with persistent low-level HIV RNA in CSF, and that efavirenz concentrations in CSF are low but in the therapeutic range in most individuals. Neuroimaging reports identified that people living with HIV had abnormal findings on magnetic resonance imaging (gray matter atrophy, abnormal white matter), magnetic resonance spectroscopy (lower neuronal metabolites), and blood-oxygen-level dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (lower cerebral blood flow). Other important findings on the basic neuroscience of HIV and diagnosis and management of neurologic opportunistic infections are discussed.
Selenium (Se) has been reported to reduce the severity of MeHg-induced neurological deficits. Therefore, we investigated whether 24h. preincubation or 50min. coincubation with selenomethionine (SeMet) was effective in reducing methylmercury (MeHg)-induced cytotoxicity in C6-glioma and B35-neuronal cell lines. As indicators of cytotoxicity, reduced glutathione (GSH), reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitochondrial activity (MTT) was assessed. Measurement of GSH with the fluorescent indicator MCB-monochlorobimane indicated that in SeMet preincubated C6 cells, MeHg treatment resulted in a significant (p&lt;0.001) decrease in GSH levels as compared to coincubation group. Treatment with SeMet did not induce any significant changes in MTT activity in either of the cell lines as compared to the MeHg group. However, the amount of MeHg-induced ROS was significantly reduced (p&lt;0.001) after SeMet preincubation in both the cell lines. The intracellular Se content was measured with high resolution-inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (HR-ICPMS). In both the cell lines the intracellular Se levels increased after pre- and coincubation with 20 and 50microM SeMet. However, the preincubation group exhibited increased Se content in both the cell lines and varied (p&lt;0.001) from coincubation group. These differences in the Se content were maintained after 10microM MeHg treatment for 50min. In C6-gliomas, the cell associated-MeHg measurements using (14)C-labeled MeHg indicated a significant increase (p&lt;0.001) in MeHg content in preincubated cells as compared to coincubated cells. These findings provide experimental evidence that preincubation with SeMet increases Se content in cells and prevents against increased MeHg-induced ROS generation.
Organophosphorus insecticides, as Chlorpyrifos (CPF), are widely used in agriculture and against household pests; these compounds receive an increasing consideration as potential endocrine disrupters. The aim of the present study was to examine the potential short- and long-term effects of CPF on thyroid and adrenal glands in CD1 mice following exposure at dose levels not inducing brain acetyl cholinesterase (AchE) inhibition, during gestational and/or postnatal vulnerable phases. Pregnant dams were treated with 0, 3, 6 mg/kg bw/day of CPF on gestational days 15-18. After delivery, pups were treated subcutaneously on postnatal days (PND) 11-14 with: 0, 1, 3 mg/kg bw/day of CPF. Serum thyroxin (T4), thyroid and adrenals histology and histomorphometry were evaluated in dams and in F1 mice. In dams at 6 mg/kg, decreased T4 levels and increased cell height in thyroid were observed, and adrenal histology showed a slightly increased vacuolization in the X-zone. In the F1, short-term morphological modifications (reduced follicular size at PND 2) and long-term morphological (increased necrotic follicular cells) and biochemical alterations (reduced serum T4 levels) were found at PND 150 with an apparent higher vulnerability of males. For the first time these results indicate that CPF exposure at dose levels not inducing brain AchE inhibition causes thyroid alterations in dams and in F1 CD1 mice. Thyroid may be a sensitive target to CPF developmental exposure possibly leading to long-term effects on thyroid function. Because thyroid plays a pivotal role in mammalian development, these findings can be relevant to humans.
Kisspeptin binding to its G-protein-coupled receptor KISS1R (also known as GPR54), which is expressed by gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons, stimulates GnRH release and activation of the mammalian reproductive axis. Kisspeptin neurons make close contact with GnRH neurons acting at both the cell body and the nerve terminals. Kisspeptin can act directly on GnRH neurons and/or indirectly via synaptic input from other neurons to inhibit inwardly rectifying potassium channels and activate non-specific cation channels, with the effect of long-lasting depolarization and increased action potential firing rate. This review covers the recent advances in the molecular consequences of kisspeptin action on GnRH neurons and how these neuronal circuits are integrated in different species. These studies provide insight into the mechanism by which kisspeptin regulates the reproductive axis.
Few cell types are more adapted for cell-cell signaling than neurons. Their responsiveness lies in the formation of highly specialized compartments composed of unique repertoires of selectively distributed protein complexes generated, in part, by the local translation of mRNAs and regulated by their RNA-binding proteins. Utilizing the selective distribution of these neuronal proteins and the underlying mechanisms that generate the differential patterns of expression as central facets of drug design promises to enhance the therapeutic ratio of a drug. It is in this context that we discuss the unique arrangement of mRNAs, RNA-binding proteins and the protein macromolecular complexes at the dendrite, which is the postsynaptic site of synaptic transmission. Recent advances in identifying the function of dendritic components of the mechanisms of protein and RNA transport, non-nuclear RNA splicing and localized translation underscore their importance as targets of neuropharmacology.
Cyclooxygenases (COX-1 and COX-2) are key enzymes in the conversion of arachidonic acid to prostaglandins and other lipid mediators. Because it can be induced by inflammatory stimuli, COX-2 has been classically considered as the most appropriate target for anti-inflammatory drugs. However, recent data indicate that COX-2 can mediate neuroprotection and that COX-1 is a major player in the neuroinflammatory process. We discuss the specific contributions of COX-1 and COX-2 in various neurodegenerative diseases and in models of neuroinflammation. We suggest that, owing to its predominant localization in microglia, COX-1 might be the major player in neuroinflammation, whereas COX-2, which is localized in neurons, might have a major role in models in which the neurons are directly challenged. Overall, the benefit of using COX-2 inhibitors should be carefully evaluated and COX-1 preferential inhibitors should be further investigated as a potential therapeutic approach in neurodegenerative diseases with an inflammatory component.

Diffuse brain injury is a leading cause of mortality in infants and children under 4 years of age and results in cognitive deficits in survivors. The anatomic basis for these behavioral deficits may be traumatic axonal injury (TAI), which manifests as impaired axonal transport (IAT) and neurofilament compaction (NFC), and may occur as a result of glutamate receptor activation. The extent of IAT and NFC was evaluated at 6, 24 and 72 h following non-contusive brain trauma in the 17 day-old rat to examine the causal relationship between these two pathologic entities; in addition, the effect of antagonists to the ionotropic glutamate receptors on TAI was evaluated. At 6 h post-injury, NFC was observed primarily in the cingulum, and appeared as swollen axons and terminal bulbs. By 24 h, swollen axons were additionally present in the corpus callosum and lateral white matter tracts, and appeared to increase in diameter. At 72 h, the extent of axonal swellings exhibiting compacted neurofilaments appeared to decrease, and was accompanied by punctate immunoreactivity within axon tracts suggestive of axonal degeneration. Although NFC was present in the same anatomical locations where axonal accumulation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been observed, double-label immunohistochemistry revealed no evidence of colocalization of compacted neurofilament and APP. Pre-injury treatment with either the NMDA receptor antagonist, ifenprodil, or the AMPA receptor antagonist, NBQX, had no significant effect on the extent of TAI, suggesting that excitotoxicity may not be a primary mechanism underlying TAI. Importantly, these data are indicative of the heterogeneity of mechanisms underlying TAI in the traumatically-injured immature brain.
The current ERP study examined the neural substrates for pitch processing in music and in tonal language with phrases ending in either congruous or incongruous pitches. In a tonal language, like Chinese, pitch is lexically relevant as it can change the meaning of words, and it could therefore be hypothesized that pitch information under this condition is processed differently from musical pitch. Female Chinese musicians were chosen as listeners for their ample exposure to music and a tonal language. Pitch violations in both domains were associated with a frontally distributed late positive component (LPC). In addition to evoking an N400 for language condition, pitch processing as revealed by the LPCs is left lateralized for tonal language and right lateralized for music. We propose that our data may imply different brain resources engaging in pitch processing depending on whether its function is lexical, as in a tonal language like Chinese, or musical in nature.
Many species employ chemical signals to convey messages between members of the same species (conspecific), but chemosignals may also provide information to another species (heterospecific). Here, we found that conspecific chemosignals (male, female mouse urine) increased immediate early gene-protein (IEG) expression in both anterior and posterior medial amygdala of male mice, whereas most heterospecific chemosignals (e.g.: hamster vaginal fluid, steer urine) increased expression only in anterior medial amygdala. This categorization of responses in medial amygdala conforms to our previously reported findings in male hamsters. The same characteristic pattern of IEG expression appears in the medial amygdala of each species in response to conspecific stimuli for that species. These results suggest that the amygdala categorizes stimuli according to the biological relevance for the tested species. Thus, a heterospecific predator (cat collar) stimulus, which elicited behavioral avoidance in mice, increased IEG expression in mouse posterior medial amygdala (like conspecific stimuli). Further analysis suggests reproduction related and potentially threatening stimuli produce increased IEG expression in different sub-regions of posterior medial amygdala (dorsal and ventral, respectively). These patterns of IEG expression in medial amygdala may provide glimpses of a tertiary sorting of chemosensory signals beyond the primary-level selectivity of chemosensory neurons and the secondary sorting in main and accessory olfactory bulbs.
Inflammatory response occurs, in general, at the peripheral site of injury or irritation and in the corresponding spinal dorsal horn segments. In this study, we show transient increases in the protein concentrations of interleukins 1beta, 6, 8 and NGF in lumbar DRGs within hours after sciatic mononeuropathy in the rat. Comparable increases, with variation in temporal patterns, were observed after skin inflammation induced by intraplantar injection of endotoxin or complete Freund's adjuvant. The non-matching temporal profiles of cytokines and NGF increases and those of behavioral hypersensitivity, particularly peak values, suggest that the roles of these proteins are not necessarily pro-nociceptive in the DRGs at the chronic phase of neuropathy.
A possible role of allelic variation on chromosome 19q13 in multiple sclerosis (MS) susceptibility has been suggested. We tested association of sixteen 19q13 markers with MS in 459 families. Nominally significant associations were tested in an independent set of 323 families as well as in the pooled set of 782 families. We were not able to confirm previously suggested associations with APOE, GIPR, ZNF45, ILT6 and D19S585. In the screening dataset nominally significant associations were found with D19S867 and with APOE haplotype (p=0.007 in both), but these were not replicated in the independent dataset nor in the pooled analysis of 757 families. Thus, we were not able to detect any statistically significant allelic associations. Re-sequencing based approaches may be required for elucidating the role chromosome 19q13 with MS.

The aim of this study was to determine whether 5-HT2A receptors mediate cardiovascular and thermogenic responses to acute psychological stresses. For this purpose, adult male Wistar hooded rats instrumented for telemetric recordings of either electrocardiogram (ECG) (n=12) or arterial pressure (n=12) were subjected, on different days, to four 15-min episodes of social defeat. Prior to stress, animals received s.c. injection of the selective 5-HT2A receptor antagonist SR-46349B (trans-4-((3Z)3-[(2-dimethylaminoethyl)oxyimino]-3-(2-fluorophenyl)propen-1-yl)-phenol, hemifumarate) (at doses of 0.3, 1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg) or vehicle. The drug had no effect on basal heart rate or heart rate variability indexes, arterial pressure, and core body temperature. Social defeat elicited significant and substantial tachycardic (347+/-7 to 500+/-7 bpm), pressor (77+/-4 to 97+/-4 mm Hg) and hyperthermic (37.0+/-0.3 to 38.5+/-0.1 degrees C) responses. Blockade of 5-HT2A receptors, at all doses of the antagonist, completely prevented stress-induced hyperthermia. In contrast, stress-induced cardiovascular responses were not affected by the blockade (except small reduction of tachycardia by the highest dose of the drug). We conclude that in rats, 5-HT2A receptors mediate stress-induced hyperthermic responses, but are not involved in the genesis of stress-induced rises in heart rate or arterial pressure, and do not participate in cardiovascular control at rest.
Cell adhesion molecules, such as N-cadherin (cdh2), are essential for normal neuronal development, and as such have been implicated in an array of processes including neuronal differentiation and migration, and axon growth and fasciculation. cdh2 is expressed in neurons of the peripheral nervous system during development, but its role in these cells during this time is poorly understood. Using the transgenic zebrafish line, tg(p2xr3.2:eGFP(sl1)), we have examined the involvement of cdh2 in the formation of sensory circuits by the peripheral nervous system. The tg(p2xr3.2:eGFP(sl1)) fish allows visualization of neurons comprising the trigeminal, facial, glossopharyngeal and vagal ganglia and their axons throughout development. Reduction of cdh2 in this line was achieved by either crosses to the cdh2-mutant strain, glass onion (glo) or injection of a cdh2 morpholino (MO) into single-cell embryos. Here we show that cdh2 function is required to alter the directional vectors of growing axons upon reaching intermediate targets. The central axons enter the hindbrain appropriately but fail to turn caudally towards their final targets. Similarly, the peripheral axons extend ventrally, but fail to turn and project along a rostral/caudal axis. Furthermore, by expressing dominant negative cdh2 constructs selectively within cranial sensory ganglia (CSG) neurons, we found that cdh2 function is necessary within the axons to elicit these stereotypic turns, thus demonstrating that cdh2 acts cell autonomously. Together, our in vivo data reveal a novel role for cdh2 in the establishment of circuits by peripheral sensory neurons.
Spontaneous neural hyperactivity in the central auditory pathway is often associated with deafness, the most common form of which is partial hearing loss. We quantified both peripheral hearing loss and spontaneous activity in single neurons of the contralateral inferior colliculus in a guinea-pig model 1 week after a unilateral partial deafness induced by cochlear mechanical lesion. We also measured mRNA levels of candidate genes in the same animals using quantitative real-time PCR. Spontaneous hyperactivity was most marked in the frequency region of the peripheral hearing loss. Expression of glutamate decarboxylase 1 (GAD1), GABA-A receptor subunit alpha-1 (GABRA1), and potassium channel subfamily K member 15 (KCNK15) was decreased ipsilaterally in the cochlear nucleus and bilaterally in the inferior colliculus. A member of RAB family of small GTPase (RAB3A) was decreased in both ipsilateral cochlear nucleus and contralateral inferior colliculus. RAB3 GTPase activating protein subunit 1 (RAB3GAP1) and glycine receptor subunit alpha-1 (GLRA1) were reduced ipsilaterally in the cochlear nucleus only. These results suggest that a decrease in inhibitory neurotransmission and an increase in membrane excitability may contribute to elevated neuronal spontaneous activity in the auditory brainstem following unilateral partial hearing loss.
Pharmacological studies have indirectly shown the possible presence of cannabinoid receptors in the urinary bladder and their potential role in reducing bladder inflammatory pain. However, the localization of cannabinoid receptors in the urinary bladder remains unknown and there are no published data on the effects of cannabinoids on the sensory system of the bladder. The present study was performed to evaluate the expression of the cannabinoid CB(1) receptors in the mouse urinary bladder and to assess their co-localization with the purinergic P2X(3) receptor, a major player in the transduction of sensory events in the bladder. Also, the effect of intravesical administration of a cannabinoid agonist on the electrical activity of bladder afferent fibers was studied. The expression of mRNA coding for CB(1) receptor was assessed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Immunofluorescence experiments were performed to study CB(1) and P2X(3) protein expression in the bladder. The electrical activity of bladder afferent fibers was recorded using an ex vivo bladder-nerve preparation. Mechanical stimulation of the bladder was performed by a controlled slow inflation with an external pump. A bolus of a cannabinoid agonist (AZ12646915) was administered intravesically prior to a second inflation. Afferent activity was measured before and after administration of the cannabinoid compound or its vehicle. The effects of CB(1) receptor antagonist (AM251) on the AZ12646915 response were also analyzed. Cannabinoid receptor CB(1) mRNA was detected in the urinary bladder of the mouse. The protein was found in the urothelium, as well as in nerve fibers. CB(1) and P2X(3) receptors were found to be co-expressed in urothelial cells and in some nerve fibers. In addition, intravesical administration of a cannabinoid receptor agonist reduced the mechanically-evoked activity of bladder afferents in the pelvic nerve. This effect was abolished by the previous administration of the CB(1) antagonist AM251. These data demonstrate the presence of cannabinoid CB(1) receptor mRNA and the protein in the mouse urinary bladder. CB(1) and P2X(3) protein co-localization supports the hypothesis of an interaction between the cannabinoid and the purinergic systems in the transduction of sensory information in the urinary bladder. Finally, the reduction of nerve activity induced by cannabinoid-receptor activation implicates CB(1) receptors in the peripheral modulation of bladder afferent information.
It has been proposed that alterations in spinal inhibitory neurotransmission are critically involved in the pathophysiology of neuropathic pain. The mechanisms by which a relief from inhibitory tone contributes to pathological pain are not fully understood. Hitherto it is still under debate whether there is a loss of inhibitory neurons in the spinal cord in neuropathic pain. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether a specific loss of glycinergic neurons is necessary to develop hyperalgesia and allodynia in the chronic constriction injury (CCI) model of neuropathic pain. The experiments were performed in bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mice which specifically express enhanced green fluorescent protein under the control of the promotor of the glycine transporter 2 gene, which is a reliable marker for glycinergic neurons. Thus, possible technical inconsistencies due to immunoreactivity in fixed tissues could be ruled out. Twelve days after CCI, in neuropathic animals and in sham-operated and naive animals, lumbar and thoracic segments were analyzed using the physical disector method. Although all animals that had undergone CCI showed pathological nociceptive behavior, stereology revealed no significant difference in glycinergic neurons-neither between the different groups nor between the ipsilateral and contralateral side of the thoracic and lumbar spinal segments. Our findings suggest that a loss of glycinergic neurons is not necessary for the development of pathological nociceptive behavior in the chronic constriction injury model of neuropathic pain in mice. A different mechanism may account for the decrease in inhibitory transmission in neuropathic pain.
Increasing evidence implicates the c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway in the regulation of apoptosis in neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we examined the neuroprotective effect of SP600125, a selective JNK inhibitor, in cerebellar granule cells (CGNs) deprived of serum and potassium (S/K withdrawal). S/K withdrawal-induced apoptosis occurs via activation of multiple pro-apoptotic pathways, including re-entry into the cell cycle, activation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3beta), cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5/p35) breakdown, formation of cdk5/p25 and JNK activation. Here we demonstrate that SP600125 is able to inhibit all these pro-apoptotic pathways via the inhibition of JNK. Further, we found that JNK inhibition maintains the phosphorylation/activation of Akt after S/K withdrawal. For further confirmation of this result, we studied several targets downstream of Akt including GSK-3beta, p-FOXO1, p-CREB and p35. In addition, the specific PI3K/Akt inhibitor LY294002 greatly diminished the antiapoptotic effects of SP600125 upon S/K withdrawal, confirming that Akt is involved in the neuroprotection achieved by SP600125. These results suggest that the maintenance of the PI3-kinase/Akt pathway by inhibition of JNK contributes to the prevention of apoptosis in rat cerebellar granule neurons mediated by S/K withdrawal. Furthermore, we propose that JNK may regulate the cell cycle re-entry by a novel mechanism that involves Akt, GSK-3beta and Rb phosphorylation.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs), the members of the epithelial sodium channel/degenerin (ENaC/DEG) superfamily, are proton-gated voltage-insensitive cation channels. Six ASIC subunits have been identified and characterized in the mammalian nervous system so far. Of these subunits, ASIC3 has been shown to be predominantly expressed in the peripheral nervous system of rodents and implicated in mechnosensation, chemosensation and pain perception. Little is known on ASIC3 in the brain. We thus employed reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blot to examine the expression of ASIC3 in various rat brain regions, including hippocampus, amygdala, caudate putamen, prefrontal cortex, and hypothalamus. Specific attention was paid to the distribution of ASIC3 in the hypothalamus of rats by using immunohistochemistry. ASIC3 immunoreactivity showed a widespread pattern throughout the hypothalamus, with the highest density in paraventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, arcuate nucleus, dorsomedial nucleus, median preoptic nucleus, ventromedial preoptic nucleus, and dorsal tuberomammillary nucleus. This study may contribute to the understanding of ASIC3 functions in the CNS.
The evolution of corpus callosum (CC) was integral to the development of higher cognitive processes and hemispheric specialization. An examination of CC morphology and organization across different primate species will further our understanding of the evolution of these specified functions. Using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as a non-invasive technique to measure CC size and to approximate the degree of myelination in the corpus callosum, we report differences in CC morphology and organization in capuchin monkeys and chimpanzees, two divergent primate species that have independently evolved several behavioral and anatomical characteristics. Species differences in CC morphology were detected, with chimpanzees having a larger overall CC compared to capuchin monkeys. Additionally, chimpanzees had the genu as the largest subdivision; in capuchin monkeys, the genu and splenium were the largest subdivisions. Sex differences in signal intensity were detected; capuchin monkey males had higher signal intensity values whereas chimpanzee females had higher signal intensity values. Thus, while capuchin monkeys and chimpanzees show some similarity in patterns of CC morphology, these species differ significantly in the regional organization of the CC.
To comprehend the role of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) in epilepsy or seizure, we investigated whether the expressions of two PLP synthetic enzymes (pyridoxal kinase, PLK; pyridoxine-5'-phosphate oxidase, PNPO) are altered in the hippocampus and whether changes in paired-pulse responses in the hippocampus are associated with altered PLP synthetic enzyme expressions following status epilepticus (SE). PLK and PNPO immunoreactivities were significantly increased in the rat hippocampus accompanied by reductions in paired-pulse inhibition at 1 day and 1 week after SE. Four weeks after SE, PLK and PNPO immunoreactivities in dentate granule cells were similar to those in control animals, while their immunoreactivities were markedly reduced in Cornu Ammonis 1 (CA1) pyramidal cells due to neuronal loss. Linear regression analysis identified a direct proportional relationship between PLK/PNPO immunoreactivity and normalized population spike amplitude ratio in the dentate gyrus and the CA1 region as excluded the data obtained from 4 weeks after SE. These findings indicate that the upregulation of PLK and PNPO immunoreactivities in principal neurons may not be involved in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic inhibition, but rather in enhanced excitability during epileptogenic periods.
The study of architectonic differentiation in the cortex is advanced by the articulation of objective definitions based on clear features of the cortical architecture. We adopted areal density profiles as a means of sampling the cortex. On the profiles, we isolated and quantified the density of individual cortical layers. These features may serve as criteria in objective definitions in a way that builds on qualitative observations found in the classical literature. A preprocessing procedure was introduced to overcome artefacts in the density profiles caused by the partial overlap of neighboring neuronal layers and cortical folding. We applied this method to the medial half of the orbital frontal cortex in specimens drawn from 10 human postmortem brain hemispheres. The measurements successfully confirmed the existence of several qualitatively observed areas (architectonic areas 14c, 14r, 11m, 11 and 13). The selection of specific sampling parameters was justified on the basis of simultaneous measurements of the cortical morphology which demonstrate its influence on the appearance of the cortical layers. We also examined the robustness of the measuring procedure by analyzing the outcome of varying systematically the sampling parameters. We describe here a novel method of sampling the cortex for architectonic analysis and demonstrate its application on histological sections obtained from the medial half of the human orbitofrontal cortex.
The neurovascular unit (NVU) comprises cerebral blood vessels and surrounding astrocytes, neurons, perivascular microglia and pericytes. Astrocytes associated with the NVU are responsible for maintaining cerebral blood flow and ionic and osmotic balances in the brain. A significant proportion of individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have vascular amyloid deposits (cerebral amyloid angiopathy, CAA) that contribute to the heterogeneous nature of the disease. To determine whether NVU astrocytes are affected by the accumulation of amyloid at cerebral blood vessels we examined astrocytic markers in four transgenic mouse models of amyloid deposition. These mouse models represent mild CAA, moderate CAA with disease progression to tau pathology and neuron loss, severe CAA and severe CAA with disease progression to tau pathology and neuron loss. We found that CAA and disease progression both resulted in distinct NVU astrocytic changes. CAA causes a loss of apparent glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytic end-feet and loss of water channels (aquaporin 4) localized to astrocytic end feet. The potassium channels Kir4.1, an inward rectifying potassium channel, and BK, a calcium-sensitive large-conductance potassium channel, were also lost. The anchoring protein, dystrophin 1, is common to these channels and was reduced in association with CAA. Disease progression was associated with a phenotypic switch in astrocytes indicated by a loss of GFAP-positive cells and a gain of S100 beta-positive cells. Aquaporin 4, Kir4.1 and dystrophin 1 were also reduced in autopsied brain tissue from individuals with AD that also display moderate and severe CAA. Together, these data suggest that damage to the neurovascular unit may be a factor in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
The effect of an acute bout of moderate treadmill walking on behavioral and neuroelectric indexes of the cognitive control of attention and applied aspects of cognition involved in school-based academic performance were assessed. A within-subjects design included 20 preadolescent participants (age=9.5+/-0.5 years; eight female) to assess exercise-induced changes in performance during a modified flanker task and the Wide Range Achievement Test 3. The resting session consisted of cognitive testing followed by a cardiorespiratory fitness assessment to determine aerobic fitness. The exercise session consisted of 20 min of walking on a motor-driven treadmill at 60% of estimated maximum heart rate followed by cognitive testing once heart rate returned to within 10% of pre-exercise levels. Results indicated an improvement in response accuracy, larger P3 amplitude, and better performance on the academic achievement test following aerobic exercise relative to the resting session. Collectively, these findings indicate that single, acute bouts of moderately-intense aerobic exercise (i.e. walking) may improve the cognitive control of attention in preadolescent children, and further support the use of moderate acute exercise as a contributing factor for increasing attention and academic performance. These data suggest that single bouts of exercise affect specific underlying processes that support cognitive health and may be necessary for effective functioning across the lifespan.
Sensory gating refers to the ability of cerebral networks to inhibit responding to irrelevant environmental stimuli, a mechanism that protects the brain from information overflow. The reduction of the P50 amplitude (an early component of the event-related potential/ERP in electrophysiological recordings) after repeated occurrence of a particular acoustic stimulus is one means to quantitatively assess gating mechanisms. Even though P50 suppression has been extensively investigated, neuroimaging studies on the cortical correlates of auditory sensory gating are so far very sparse. Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is an optical imaging technique perfectly suitable for the investigation of auditory paradigms, since it involves virtually no noise. We conducted a simultaneous NIRS-ERP measurement to assess cortical correlates of auditory sensory gating in humans. The multi-channel NIRS recording indicated a specific activation of prefrontal and temporo-parietal cortices during conditions of increased sensory gating (dual-click trials). Combining the hemodynamic data with an electrophysiological index of the &quot;gating quality&quot; (gating quotient Q) revealed a positive correlation between the amount of sensory gating and the strength of the hemodynamic response during dual-clicks in the left prefrontal and temporal cortices. The results are in line with previous findings and confirm a possible inhibitory influence of the prefrontal cortex on primary auditory cortices.
Calcium- and cAMP-dependent activation of CREB and transcription of cAMP-responsive element (CRE)-target genes play critical roles in various physiological and pathological conditions. TORCs (transducers of regulated CREB) represent a new family of conserved CREB coactivators that function as intracellular calcium- and cAMP-sensitive coincidence detectors, controlling the kinetics of CRE-mediated responses and long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission. Here we examined the expression and activity-dependent translocation of TORCs in adult retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), the primary target of acute retinal ischemic injury as well as chronic retinal degenerative diseases. We found that both mRNAs of TORC1 and TORC2, but not TORC3, were enriched in adult rat retina. Comparing with TORC2, TORC1 protein was highly and selectively expressed in RGCs. At resting condition, TORC1 protein was localized in the cytoplasm but not nucleus of RGCs. Activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors by intravitreous injection of NMDA or increase of cAMP signaling by administration of forskolin triggered nuclear accumulation of TORC1. Furthermore, transient retinal ischemic injury resulted in peri-nuclear and nuclear accumulation of TORC1 as well as transcription of BDNF in RGCs. Our results demonstrate that TORC1 is enriched in RGCs and its subcellular location could be regulated by Ca(2+) and cAMP, suggesting that manipulation of TORC1 activity may promote survival of RGCs in some optic disease conditions.
Atomic force microscopy (AFM), malondialdehyde (MDA) assays, and amperometric measurements of extracellular hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) were used to test the hypothesis that graded hyperoxia induces measurable nanoscopic changes in membrane ultrastructure and membrane lipid peroxidation (MLP) in cultured U87 human glioma cells. U87 cells were exposed to 0.20 atmospheres absolute (ATA) O(2), normobaric hyperoxia (0.95 ATA O(2)) or hyperbaric hyperoxia (HBO(2), 3.25 ATA O(2)) for 60 min. H(2)O(2) (0.2 or 2 mM; 60 min) was used as a positive control for MLP. Cells were fixed with 2% glutaraldehyde immediately after treatment and scanned with AFM in air or fluid. Surface topography revealed ultrastructural changes such as membrane blebbing in cells treated with hyperoxia and H(2)O(2). Average membrane roughness (R(a)) of individual cells from each group (n=35 to 45 cells/group) was quantified to assess ultrastructural changes from oxidative stress. The R(a) of the plasma membrane was 34+/-3, 57+/-3 and 63+/-5 nm in 0.20 ATA O(2), 0.95 ATA O(2) and HBO(2), respectively. R(a) was 56+/-7 and 138+/-14 nm in 0.2 and 2 mM H(2)O(2). Similarly, levels of MDA were significantly elevated in cultures treated with hyperoxia and H(2)O(2) and correlated with O(2)-induced membrane blebbing (r(2)=0.93). Coapplication of antioxidant, Trolox-C (150 microM), significantly reduced membrane R(a) and MDA levels during hyperoxia. Hyperoxia-induced H(2)O(2) production increased 189%+/-5% (0.95 ATA O(2)) and 236%+/-5% (4 ATA O(2)) above control (0.20 ATA O(2)). We conclude that MLP and membrane blebbing increase with increasing O(2) concentration. We hypothesize that membrane blebbing is an ultrastructural correlate of MLP resulting from hyperoxia. Furthermore, AFM is a powerful technique for resolving nanoscopic changes in the plasma membrane that result from oxidative damage.
Opiates, such as morphine, decrease neurogenesis in the postnatal hippocampal subgranular zone (SGZ) by inhibiting progenitor proliferation and maturation. However, it is not known how morphine influences the growth factors and vasculature that encompass the neurogenic SGZ microenvironment. We examined morphine's effect on pro- and anti-proliferative factors in the dentate gyrus (DG; Experiment 1) as well as the DG neurovasculature itself (Experiment 2). For Experiment 1, mice were implanted with subcutaneous sham or morphine pellets (0 and 48 h) and were decapitated 24 or 96 h later. One brain hemisphere was postfixed to examine proliferation by immunohistochemistry, and a DG-enriched sample was dissected from the other hemisphere to examine the neurogenic microenvironment via immunoblotting for known pro- and anti-proliferative factors. Consistent with previous results, morphine decreased the number of proliferating cells in the SGZ, as the number of Ki67-immunoreactive (IR) cells was decreased at 96 h. Morphine did not alter DG levels of the pro-proliferative factor brain-derived neurotrophic factor, anti-proliferative factor interleukin-1 beta, or their receptors TrkB and IL1R1 at either time point. However, morphine increased the pro-proliferative factor vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) at 96 h. Given that VEGF is also a potent angiogenic factor, Experiment 2 examined whether the morphine-induced increase in VEGF correlated with altered DG neurovasculature. Mice were implanted with morphine pellets as in Experiment 1, and 2 h before perfusion (24 or 96 h) were administered bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU; intraperitoneal, 150 mg/kg). Tissue was co-stained for BrdU and the endothelial cell marker endoglin to enable examination of DG vessels and proximity of BrdU-IR cells to endoglin-IR vessels. At 96 h, endoglin-IR vessel area and perimeter were increased, but proximity of BrdU-IR cells to endoglin-IR vessels remained unchanged. These data suggest that following chronic morphine exposure, factors within the neurogenic microenvironment are maintained or upregulated to compensate for decreased SGZ proliferation.
Resveratrol is a natural polyphenol found in grapes and wine and has been associated with protective effects against cardiovascular diseases. In vitro, both resveratrol preconditioning (RPC) and ischemic preconditioning (IPC) require activation of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+))-dependent deacetylase, to induce neuroprotection against cerebral ischemia. In the present study, we tested two hypotheses: (a) that neuroprotection against cerebral ischemia can be induced by RPC in vivo; and (b) that RPC neuroprotection involves alterations in mitochondrial function via the SIRT1 target mitochondrial uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2). IPC was induced by 2 min of global ischemia (temporary bilateral carotid artery occlusion with hypotension), and RPC, by i.p. injection of resveratrol at 10, 50 and 100 mg/kg dosages. Forty-eight hours later, we compared the neuroprotective efficacy of RPC and IPC in vulnerable cornu ammonis 1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons using a rat model of asphyxial cardiac arrest (ACA). SIRT1 activity was measured using a SIRT1-specific fluorescent enzyme activity assay. In hippocampal mitochondria isolated 48 h after IPC or RPC, we measured UCP2 levels, membrane potential, respiration, and the mitochondrial ATP synthesis efficiency (ADP/O ratio). Both IPC and RPC induced tolerance against brain injury induced by cardiac arrest in this in vivo model. IPC increased SIRT1 activity at 48 h, while RPC increased SIRT1 activity at 1 h but not 48 h after treatment in hippocampus. Resveratrol significantly decreased UCP2 levels by 35% compared to sham-treated rats. The SIRT1-specific inhibitor sirtinol abolished the neuroprotection afforded by RPC and the decrease in UCP2 levels. Finally, RPC significantly increased the ADP/O ratio in hippocampal mitochondria reflecting enhanced ATP synthesis efficiency. In conclusion, in vivo resveratrol pretreatment confers neuroprotection similar to IPC via the SIRT1-UCP2 pathway.
Epidemiological studies demonstrate that affective disorders are at least twice as common in women as in men, but surprisingly, very few preclinical studies have been conducted on female experimental animals. Therefore, the necessity of developing valid animal models for studying the pathophysiology of stress-related disorders in women is obvious. Chronic social stress has the potential to induce depression in humans and therefore we characterize here a chronic social instability stress paradigm in female rats. This consists of a 4-week period with alternating stressful social situations, including phases of isolation and crowding, in an unpredictable manner. At the physiological level, increased adrenal weight and plasma corticosterone levels indicated hyperactivity of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis. Elevated plasma luteinizing hormone and disruption of the estrus cycle together with increased serum prolactin levels revealed disrupted regulation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis. Body temperature regulation was affected during the last week of stress such that stressed rats reduced their body temperature less during the rest phase than the controls, thus exhibiting a flattened temperature curve. Behaviorally, chronically stressed rats showed reduced sucrose preference and food intake. However, we did not observe any effect of stress on performance in the forced swim test and hippocampal neurotrophin levels were similarly unaffected. Our results indicate that, by using this social instability paradigm, female rats can be kept under chronic stress for weeks without habituation, and that ultimately the animals develop a depressive-like phenotype. This model may provide a valuable tool for further analyses of the neurobiology of stress-related disorders in women and has the potential to serve as a paradigm for screening novel antidepressant drugs with special efficacy in women.
The role of somatostatin receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell in rat turning behaviour was studied. Unilateral injection of neither the somatostatin receptor agonist somatostatin (1.0 microg) nor the somatostatin receptor antagonist cyclosomatostatin (100.0 ng) into the nucleus accumbens shell elicited turning behaviour. Unilateral injection of a mixture of dopamine D(1) ((+/-)-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol, SKF 38393) and D(2/3) (quinpirole) receptor agonists into the nucleus accumbens shell has been found to elicit contraversive pivoting. Somatostatin (0.5 and 1.0 microg) dose-dependently potentiated the contraversive pivoting induced by a mixture of SKF 38393 (1.0 microg) and quinpirole (10.0 microg) injected into the nucleus accumbens shell. This potentiating effect of somatostatin (1.0 microg) on the dopaminergic pivoting was dose-dependently inhibited by cyclosomatostatin (10.0 and 100.0 ng) injected into the nucleus accumbens shell. Unilateral injection of acetylcholine receptor agonist carbachol into the nucleus accumbens shell has been found to elicit contraversive circling. Neither somatostatin (1.0 ?g) nor cyclosomatostatin (100.0 ng) significantly affected the contraversive circling induced by carbachol (5.0 microg) injected into the nucleus accumbens shell. These results suggest that somatostatin receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell play a modulatory role in rat dopaminergic pivoting, but not in rat cholinergic circling.
Research in songbirds shows that singing behavior is regulated by both brain areas involved in vocal behavior as well as those involved in social behavior. Interestingly, the precise role of these regions in song can vary as a function of the social, environmental and breeding context. To date, little is known about the neurotransmitters underlying such context-dependent regulation of song. Dopamine (DA) modulates highly motivated, goal-directed behaviors (including sexually motivated song) and emerging data implicate DA in the context-dependent regulation of singing behavior. This study was performed to begin to examine whether differences in DA receptors may underlie, in part, context-dependent differences in song production. We used autoradiographic procedures to label D1-like and D2-like DA receptors to examine the relationship between DA receptor density and singing behavior in multiple contexts in male European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). Within a breeding context (when testosterone (T) was high), D1-like receptor density in the medial preoptic nucleus (POM) and midbrain central gray (GCt) negatively correlated with song used to attract a female. Additionally in this context, D1-like receptor density in POM, GCt, medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTm), and lateral septum (LS) negatively correlated with song likely used to defend a nest box. In contrast, in a non-breeding context (when T was low), D1-like receptor density in POM and LS positively correlated with song used to maintain social flocks. No relationships were identified between song in any context and D2-like receptor densities. Differences in the brain regions and directional relationships between D1-like receptor binding and song suggest that dopaminergic systems play a region and context-specific role in song. These data also suggest that individual variation in singing behavior may, in part, be explained by individual differences in D1-like receptor density in brain regions implicated in social behavior.
Recent evidence suggests that agmatine, the metabolite of arginine by arginine decarboxylase, exists in the mammalian brain and is a novel neurotransmitter. Exogenous agmatine can modulate behaviour function, including learning and memory. The present study investigated the effects of repeated i.c.v. microinfusion of agmatine (once daily) on the reference and working memory versions of the water maze task, as well as the elevated plus maze and open field. Rats with high (100 microg), but not low (10 microg), dose of agmatine displayed reduced exploratory and locomotor activity in the open field relative to the saline controls on day 1 (received three infusions), but not day 12 (received 14 infusions). The three groups performed similarly on both days in the elevated plus maze tested prior to the open field. In the reference memory version of the water maze task, rats with agmatine treatment at both doses performed as well as the saline controls in the cued navigation (day 2), place navigation (days 3-7) and probe test (day 7). In the working memory version of the water maze task (days 8-11), the two agmatine groups generated markedly shorter path length and took significantly less time to reach the platform at the 180 s, but not 30 s, delay as compared to the saline group. These results demonstrate that repeated agmatine treatment produces transient impairments in exploratory and locomotor activity in the open field in a dose-dependent manner. Agmatine significantly facilitates spatial working memory at a longer delay, but not reference memory, suggesting its differential influence on the two types of spatial learning and memory. The underlying mechanisms need to be explored in the future.
There is increasing concern about the neurodegenerative and behavioral consequences of ozone pollution in industrialized urban centers throughout the world and that women may be more susceptible to brain neurodegenerative disorders. In the present study we have investigated the effects of chronic (30 or 60 days) exposure to ozone on olfactory perception and memory and on levels of lipid peroxidation, alpha and beta estrogen receptors and dopamine beta-hydroxylase in the olfactory bulb in ovariectomized female rats. The ability of 17beta-estradiol to prevent these effects was then assessed. Results showed that ozone exposure for 30 or 60 days impaired formation/retention of a selective olfactory recognition memory 120 min after exposure to a juvenile stimulus animal with the effect at 60 days being significantly greater than at 30 days. They also showed impaired speed in locating a buried chocolate reward after 60 days of ozone exposure indicating some loss of olfactory perception. These functional impairments could all be prevented by coincident estradiol treatment. In the olfactory bulb, levels of lipid peroxidation were increased at both 30- and 60-day time-points and numbers of cells with immunohistochemical staining for alpha and beta estrogen receptors, and dopamine beta-hydroxylase were reduced as were alpha and beta estrogen receptor protein levels. These effects were prevented by estradiol treatment. Oxidative stress damage caused by chronic exposure to ozone does therefore impair olfactory perception and social recognition memory and may do so by reducing noradrenergic and estrogen receptor activity in the olfactory bulb. That these effects can be prevented by estradiol treatment suggests increased susceptibility to neurodegenerative disorders in aging women may be contributed to by reduced estrogen levels post-menopause.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating event which causes dramatic changes in the everyday life of the patient. We have found that acute SCI reduced BDNF expression selectively in the hippocampus of lesioned rats, a decrease which persists at least 1 week, thus identifying the modulation of the neurotrophin biosynthesis as an important mechanism underlying brain vulnerability to SCI. These data are the first to show that SCI alters hippocampal BDNF expression and identify the neurotrophin as a potential target through which SCI changes brain functions, a notion that might prove useful in understanding the mechanisms underlying brain vulnerability to SCI.
Following transient global cerebral ischemia (GCI), spontaneous electrocortical activity resumes from the isoelectric line through a sequence of &quot;bursts&quot; of activity alternating with periods of electrical &quot;suppression,&quot; commonly referred to as the post-ischemic burst suppression (BS) pattern. Several lines of evidence suggest that BS reflects an impairment of neocortical connectivity. Here we tested in vivo whether synaptic depression by adenosine A1 receptor (A1R) activation contributes to BS patterns following GCI. Male Wistar rats were subjected to 1, 5 or 10 min of GCI using a &quot;four-vessel occlusion&quot; model under chloral hydrate anesthesia. Quantification of BS recovery was carried out using BS ratio. During GCI full electrocortical suppression was attained (BS ratio reached 100%). During the following reperfusion the BS ratio returned to 0. The time course of the decay was exponential after 1 and 5-min GCI and bi-exponential after 10-min GCI. The BS recovery was progressively delayed with the duration of ischemia. Administration of the A1R antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, 1.25 mg/kg i.p.) accelerated the post-ischemic BS recovery for all GCI durations. Following the 10-min GCI the effect of DPCPX was only apparent on the initial fast decay of the BS ratio. These data suggest that endogenous adenosine release promotes BS patterns during reperfusion following transient cerebral ischemia. Furthermore, the endogenous A1R activation may be the primary underlying cause of post-ischemic BS patterns following brief ischemic episodes. It is likely that synaptic depression by post-ischemic A1R activation functionally disrupts the connectivity within the cortical networks to an extent that promotes BS patterns.
Chronic L-DOPA pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease is often accompanied by the development of abnormal and excessive movements known as L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of dopaminergic neurons chronically treated with L-DOPA develop a rodent analog of this dyskinesia characterized by severe axial, limb, locomotor and orofacial abnormal involuntary movements. While the mechanisms by which these effects occur are not clear, they may involve the nitric oxide system. In the present study we investigate if nitric oxide synthase inhibitors can prevent dyskinesias induced by repeated administration of L-DOPA in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. Chronic L-DOPA (high fixed dose, 100 mg/kg; low escalating dose, 10-30 mg/kg) treatment induced progressive dyskinesia changes. Two nitric oxide synthase inhibitors, 7-nitroindazole (1-30 mg/kg) and NG-nitro-L-arginine (50 mg/kg), given 30 min before L-DOPA, attenuate dyskinesia. 7-Nitroindazolee also improved motor performance of these animals in the rota-rod test. These results suggest the possibility that nitric oxide synthase inhibitors may be useful to treat L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
Functional studies suggest that nitric oxide (NO) modulates sympathetic outflow by enhancing synaptic GABAergic function. Furthermore, the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), an important site for autonomic and endocrine homeostasis constitutes an important center mediating NO actions on sympathetic outflow. However, the exact anatomical organization of GABA and NO releasing neurons with the PVN neurons that regulate autonomic activity is poorly understood. The present study addressed this by identifying PVN-presympathetic neurons in the rat with the retrograde tracer Fluorogold injected into T2 segment of the spinal cord or herpes simplex virus injected into the adrenal medulla (AM). GABAergic or nitric oxide cell bodies were identified by antibodies directed towards GABA or glutamate decarboxylase (GAD67) enzyme or neuronal nitric oxide synthase. This revealed a population of GABAergic neurons to be synaptically associated with a chain of pre-sympathetic neurons targeting the AM. Furthermore, this GABAergic population is not a cellular source of NO. Within the PVN, the majority of cellular nitric oxide was localized to non-spinally projecting neurons while for the PVN-spinally projecting neuronal pool only a minority of neuron were immunopositive for neuronal nitric oxide synthase. In summary, nitrergic and GABAergic neurons are associated with a hierarchical chain of neurons that regulate autonomic outflow. This anatomical arrangement supports the known function role of a NO-GABA modulation of sympathetic outflow.

We studied whether detectable percepts could be produced by electrical stimulation of intracranial electrodes placed over human visual areas identified with fMRI. Identification of areas was confirmed by recording local-field potentials from the electrode, such as face-selective electrical responses from electrodes over the fusiform face area (FFA). The probability of detecting electrical stimulation of a visual area varied with the position of the area in the visual cortical hierarchy. Stimulation of early visual areas including V1, V2, and V3 was almost always detected, whereas stimulation of late visual areas such as FFA was rarely detected. When percepts were elicited from late areas, subjects reported that they were simple shapes and colors, similar to the descriptions of percepts from early areas. There were no reports of elaborate percepts, such as faces, even in areas like FFA, where neurons have complex response properties. For sites eliciting percepts, the detection threshold was determined by varying the stimulation current as subjects performed a forced-choice detection task. Current thresholds were similar for late and early areas. The similarity between both percept quality and threshold across early and late areas suggests the presence of functional microcircuits that link electrical stimulation with perception.
Human epidemiologic studies reveal that fetal ethanol exposure is highly predictive of adolescent ethanol avidity and abuse. Little is known about how fetal exposure produces these effects. It is hypothesized that fetal ethanol exposure results in stimulus-induced chemosensory plasticity. Here, we asked whether gestational ethanol exposure increases postnatal ethanol avidity in rats by altering its taste and odor. Experimental rats were exposed to ethanol in utero via the dam's diet, whereas control rats were either pair-fed an iso-caloric diet or given food ad libitum. We found that fetal ethanol exposure increased the taste-mediated acceptability of both ethanol and quinine hydrochloride (bitter), but not sucrose (sweet). Importantly, a significant proportion of the increased ethanol acceptability could be attributed directly to the attenuated aversion to ethanol's quinine-like taste quality. Fetal ethanol exposure also enhanced ethanol intake and the behavioral response to ethanol odor. Notably, the elevated intake of ethanol was also causally linked to the enhanced odor response. Our results demonstrate that fetal exposure specifically increases ethanol avidity by, in part, making it taste and smell better. More generally, they establish an epigenetic chemosensory mechanism by which maternal patterns of drug use can be transferred to offspring. Given that many licit (e.g., tobacco products) and illicit (e.g., marijuana) drugs have noteworthy chemosensory components, our findings have broad implications for the relationship between maternal patterns of drug use, child development, and postnatal vulnerability.
Human amygdalar activation has been reported during facial emotion recognition (FER) studies, mostly using fast temporal resolution techniques (fMRI, H(2)(15)O PET or MEG). The (18)FDG PET technique has never been previously applied to FER studies. We decided to test whether amygdala response during FER tasks could be assessed with this technique. The study was conducted in 10 healthy right-handed volunteers who underwent two scans on different days in random order. Content of the tasks was either emotional (ET) or neutral (CT) and lasted for 17 (1/2) min. Three SPM2 analyses were completed. The first, an ET-CT contrast, showed left amygdalar activation. The second ruled out order effect as a confounder factor. Finally, the whole brain contrast showed activation of the emotional recognition-related areas. Time responses and errors indicated high rates of accuracy in both tasks. We discuss the results and the role of habituation phenomena and the possibility of applying this technique to samples of patients with psychiatric disorders. In conclusion, our study reveals left amygdalar activation assessed with FDG PET, as well as other major emotion recognition-related brain areas during FER tasks.
We studied the development of chemosensitivity during the neonatal period in rat nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) neurons. We determined the percentage of neurons activated by hypercapnia (15% CO(2)) and assessed the magnitude of the response by calculating the chemosensitivity index (CI). There were no differences in the percentage of neurons that were inhibited (9%) or activated (44.8%) by hypercapnia or in the magnitude of the activated response (CI 164+/-4.9%) in NTS neurons from neonatal rats of all ages. To assess the degree of intrinsic chemosensitivity in these neurons we used chemical synaptic block medium and the gap junction blocker carbenoxolone. Chemical synaptic block medium slightly decreased basal firing rate but did not affect the percentage of NTS neurons that responded to hypercapnia at any neonatal age. However, in neonates aged &lt;P10, but not in older neonates, chemical synaptic block medium increased CI. Carbenoxolone did not significantly alter the number of NTS neurons activated by hypercapnia in neonatal rats of any age. In summary, the response of NTS neurons from neonatal rats appears to be intrinsic and largely unchanged throughout early development. In young neonates (&lt;P10) chemical synaptic input reduces the magnitude of the firing rate response to hypercapnia, but otherwise neither chemical synaptic input nor gap junctions significantly alter the percentage of NTS neurons that respond to hypercapnia or the magnitude of that response.

Organotypic cultures of mouse and rat magnocellular neurons (MCNs) in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system (HNS) have served as important experimental models for the molecular and physiological study of this neuronal phenotype. However, it has been difficult to maintain significant numbers of the MCNs, particularly vasopressin MCNs, in these cultures for long periods. In this paper, we describe the use of the neurotrophic factors, leukemia inhibiting factor (LIF) and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) to rescue rat vasopressin (Avp)- and oxytocin (Oxt)-MCNs from axotomy-induced, programmed cell death in vitro. Quantitative data are presented for the efficacy of the LIF family of neurotrophic factors on the survival of MCNs in three nuclei, the paraventricular (PVN), supraoptic (SON), and accessory (ACC) nuclei in the mouse and rat hypothalamus.
We describe a new method of investigation of the integrative action of fusimotor inputs in mammalian muscle spindles by stimulation of multiple fusimotor axons using independent pseudorandom pulse trains, each of low mean rate with pseudorandomly distributed stimulus intervals. Technically it was feasible only because of the development of (1) a novel, highly efficient approach to functional isolation of fusimotor efferents in ventral-root filaments, which we have called the isodyne strategy; (2) a real-time, microprocessor-based stimulus artefact cancellation device (SACAD); and (3) a highly adjustable, multi-branch stimulation electrode array. The general approach of using multiple, independent, pseudorandom stimulation of several input channels has wider applications in controlled-activation paradigms.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) are evoked activities of the brain related to specific events. They can be estimated by averaging across many trials aligned to a specific event onset time point, such as the stimulus, the response, or other behaviorally significant markers. If a single trial includes more than one such event (marker), as in all reaction-time tasks, the cross-contamination of components related to different events may mislead the explanation of ERPs. In order to recover event-related components, Zhang [Zhang J. Decomposing stimulus and response component waveforms in ERP. Journal of Neuroscience Methods 1998;80:49-63] provided a method for decomposing of ERPs according to two markers (stimulus and the behavioral response). Here we extend this formulation to deal with three or more markers in a single trial, and recover individual ERP components that are time-locked to those markers. As an application, we analyzed a cuing experiment with three events: cue, stimulus and response. The elapse between cue and stimulus was varied from trial to trial by the experimenter, and the time between stimulus and response was determined by the subjects (reaction-time variation). Our decomposition results show that the cue-dependent component waveform turns out to flatten out 500 ms after cue-onset, a finding consistent with our experimental paradigm.
Laser capture microdissection (LCM) permits isolation of specific cell types and cell groups based upon morphology, anatomical landmarks and histochemical properties. This powerful technique can be used for region-specific dissection if the target structure is clearly delineated. However, it is difficult to visualize anatomical boundaries in an unstained specimen, while histological staining can complicate the microdissection process and compromise downstream processing and analysis. We now introduce a novel method in which in situ hybridization (ISH) signal is used to guide LCM on adjacent unstained sections to collect tissue from neurochemically defined regions of the human postmortem brain to minimize sample manipulation prior to analysis. This approach was validated in nuclei that provide monoaminergic inputs to the forebrain, and likely contribute to the pathophysiology of mood disorders. This method was used successfully to carry out gene expression profiling and quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) confirmation from the dissected material. When compared to traditional micropunch dissections, our ISH-guided LCM method provided enhanced signal intensity for mRNAs of specific monoaminergic marker genes as measured by genome-wide gene expression microarrays. Enriched expression of specific monoaminergic genes (as determined by microarrays and qPCR) was detected within appropriate anatomical locations validating the accuracy of microdissection. Together these results support the conclusion that ISH-guided LCM permits acquisition of enriched nucleus-specific RNA that can be successfully used for downstream gene expression investigations. Future studies will utilize this approach for gene expression profiling of neurochemically defined regions of postmortem brains collected from mood disorder patients.
This paper describes a software package, named sigTOOL, for processing biological signals. The package runs in the MATLAB programming environment and has been designed to promote the sharing of laboratory-developed software across the worldwide web. As proof-of-concept of the design of the system, sigTOOL has been used to build an analysis application for dealing with neuroscience data complete with a user-friendly graphical user interface which implements a range of waveform and spike-train analysis functions. The interface allows many commonly used neuroscience data file formats to be loaded (including those of Alpha Omega, Cambridge Electronic Design, Cyberkinetics Inc., Molecular Devices, Nex Technologies and Plexon Instruments). Waveform analysis functions selectable from the interface support waveform averaging (mean and median), auto- and cross-correlation, power spectral analysis, coherence estimation, digital filtering (feedback and feedforward) and resampling. Spike-train analyses include interspike interval distributions, Poincar plots, event auto- and cross-correlations, spike-triggered averaging, stimulus driven and phase-related peri-event time histograms and rasters as well as frequencygrams. User-developed additions to sigTOOL that are archived and distributed electronically will be added to the sigTOOL interface on-the-fly, without the need to modify the core sigTOOL code. Full sigTOOL functionality will be provided to support the user-developed code, including the ability to record a user action history for batch processing of files and support for exporting the results of analyses to external graphics editing software and spreadsheet-based data processing packages.

Spatially continuous networks with heterogeneous connections are ubiquitous in biological systems, in particular neural systems. To understand the mutual effects of locally homogeneous and globally heterogeneous connectivity, we investigate the stability of the rest-state activity of a neural field as a function of its connectivity. The variation of the connectivity is operationalized through manipulation of a heterogeneous two-point connection embedded into the otherwise homogeneous connectivity matrix, as well as by variation of connectivity strength and a finite transmission speed. The latter results in a time delay of communication among individual brain areas. We demonstrate that the local connectivity generates the well-known power-law behaviour of the electroencephalographic power spectrum with an exponent close to -2, whereas the global connections generate a more characteristic line spectrum. These spectral characteristics are routinely observed in large-scale topographies of the human brain.
Naturally occurring coumarins possess anti-carcinogenic activities in part by inducing carcinogen-detoxifying enzymes glutathione S-transferase (GST) and/or NAD(P)H quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1). Our goal was to determine whether citrus coumarins induce hepatic GST and/or NQO1 via activation of Nrf2 and the antioxidant response element (ARE). First, HepG2 cells stably transfected with the ARE and a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter were treated with increasing concentrations of coumarins and compared to positive controls. tert-Butylhydroquinone (TBHQ) and oltipraz increased GFP fluorescence, as did coumarin, limettin, auraptene, imperatorin, and 7,8-benzoflavone, suggesting that they activate the ARE, whereas isopimpinellin did not increase GFP fluorescence. Next, the effects of orally administered coumarins and oltipraz on hepatic GST and NQO1 activities were compared in Nrf2 knockout mice or Nrf2 heterozygous mice exhibiting the wild-type phenotype. Oltipraz, auraptene, imperatorin, isopimpinellin, and auraptene all significantly increased liver cytosolic GST activities in Nrf2 heterozygous mice. This effect was abrogated in Nrf2(-/-) mice dosed with oltipraz, attenuated in mice Nrf2(-/-) mice treated with auraptene and imperatorin, and still significant in Nrf2(-/-) mice treated with isopimpinellin. Of these compounds, only isopimpinellin significantly increased liver cytosolic NQO1 activities, and this effect was not attenuated in Nrf2(-/-) mice. These results strongly suggest that imperatorin and auraptene induce murine liver cytosolic GST activities via the Nrf2/ARE mechanism. Although structurally similar, isopimpinellin did not appear to activate HepG2-ARE-GFP and the Nrf2 knockout mouse study suggests that isopimpinellin may induce GST and NQO1 via additional mechanisms.
Relatively little information is available about the molecular mechanism of ethanol inhibition of P2X receptors. Here, we investigated the possibility that 10 conserved cysteine residues in the extracellular loop of the rat P2X4 receptor may regulate ethanol inhibition of the receptor using a series of individual cysteine to alanine point mutations. Each of the mutated receptors generated robust inward current in response to ATP and the mutations produced less than a sixfold change in the ATP EC50 value. For the C116A, C126A, C149A, and C165A mutants, 100 mM ethanol did not significantly affect the current activated by an EC40 concentration of ATP. By contrast, for the C261A and C270A mutants, ethanol inhibited ATP-activated current in a competitive manner similar to that for the wild-type receptor. Interestingly, for the C132A, C159A, C217A, and C227A mutants, ethanol inhibited ATP-activated current, but decreased the maximal response to ATP by 70-75% without significantly changing the EC50 value of ATP, thus exhibiting a noncompetitive-type inhibition. The results suggest that cysteines and disulfide bonds between cysteines are differentially involved in the inhibition of the rat P2X4 receptor by ethanol.

The amyloid precursor protein (APP) is cleaved to produce the Alzheimer disease-associated peptide Abeta, but the normal functions of uncleaved APP in the brain are unknown. We found that APP was present in the postsynaptic density of central excitatory synapses and coimmunoprecipitated with N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs). The presence of APP in the postsynaptic density was supported by the observation that NMDARs regulated trafficking and processing of APP; overexpression of the NR1 subunit increased surface levels of APP, whereas activation of NMDARs decreased surface APP and promoted production of Abeta. We transfected APP or APP RNA interference into primary neurons and used electrophysiological techniques to explore the effects of APP on postsynaptic function. Reduction of APP decreased (and overexpression of APP increased) NMDAR whole cell current density and peak amplitude of spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. The increase in NMDAR current by APP was due to specific recruitment of additional NR2B-containing receptors. Consistent with these findings, immunohistochemical experiments demonstrated that APP increased the surface levels and decreased internalization of NR2B subunits. These results demonstrate a novel physiological role of postsynaptic APP in enhancing NMDAR function.
The SLC6 family of structurally related, Na(+)-dependent transporter proteins is responsible for presynaptic reuptake of the majority of neurotransmitters. Within this family are a number of orphan transporters, including NTT4/XT1 (SLC6A17), a protein first identified over 15 years ago. NTT4/XT1 is expressed exclusively in the nervous system and specifically on synaptic vesicles in glutamatergic and some GABAergic neurons. Despite extensive efforts by a number of groups, no substrate has been reported for NTT4/XT1. Here we use a combination of molecular manipulations to increase expression of the NTT4/XT1 protein at the plasma membrane and to directly demonstrate that it catalyzes neutral amino acid transport. The substrate profile of the NTT4/XT1-dependent activity is similar to that of the closely related B(0)AT2/SBAT1 (SLC6A15), including a submillimolar apparent affinity for proline and leucine and a low millimolar apparent affinity for glutamine. The transport activity is Na(+)-dependent and Cl(-)-independent and is inhibited by low pH as is SLC6A15, suggesting redundant roles for these proteins. This characterization of NTT4/XT1 offers important insights into neurotransmitter metabolism as well as the mechanistic differences among the structurally related, but functionally divergent, SLC6 proteins.
Much of what we know about the neurosciences is the direct result of studying psychoactive natural products. Unfortunately, there are many gaps in our understanding of the basic biological processes that contribute to the etiology of many CNS disorders. The investigation of psychoactive natural products offers an excellent approach to identify novel agents to treat CNS disorders and to find new chemical tools to better elucidate their biological mechanisms. This review will detail recent progress in a program directed toward investigating psychoactive natural products with the goal of treating drug abuse by targeting kappa opioid receptors.
The cytoplasmic domains of UNC5 are responsible for its netrin-mediated signaling events in axonal migrations, blood vessel patterning, and apoptosis, although the molecular mechanisms governing these processes are unknown. To provide a foundation for the elucidation of the UNC5-mediated signaling mechanism, we determined the crystal structure of the cytoplasmic portion of UNC5b. We found that it contains three distinctly folded domains, namely ZU5, UPA, and death domain (DD). These three domains form a structural supramodule, with ZU5 binding to both UPA and DD, thereby locking the ZU5-UPA-DD supramodule in a closed conformation and suppressing its biological activities. Release of the closed conformation of the ZU5-UPA-DD supramodule leads to the activation of the receptor in the promotion of apoptosis and blood vessel patterning. Finally, we provide evidence showing that the supramodular nature of UNC5 ZU5-UPA-DD is likely to be shared by the ankyrin and PIDD families of scaffold proteins.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the pathological deposition of amyloid-beta protein in the aged brain. Inefficient clearance of amyloid-beta from brain tissue is believed to play a major role in the pathogenesis of these deposits. Since amyloid-beta clearance likely involves activation of microglial cells via toll-like receptors and since these receptors and their signaling pathways are regarded as potential therapeutic targets, we have studied the expression of toll-like receptor (tlr) mRNAs in an animal model of AD (APP23 transgenic mice). Laser microdissection was used to harvest plaques, tissue surrounding plaques and plaque-free tissue from cortex of aged APP23 transgenic mice and age-matched controls. Real-time RT-PCR was employed to quantify expression levels of different tlr mRNAs in these tissues. This revealed a strong upregulation of tlr2, tlr4, tlr5, tlr7 and tlr9 mRNAs in plaque material compared to plaque-free tissue. In contrast, tlr3 was not significantly upregulated. Plaque-free tissue did not show an increased expression of any tlr mRNAs compared to age-matched control mice. Double-immunofluorescence for TLR2 and the microglial marker Iba1 was used to demonstrate localization of TLR2 on plaque-associated microglia. Taken together, these data show a strong upregulation of mRNAs encoding surface TLRs in plaque-associated brain tissue of aged APP23 transgenic mice. Since TLR-upregulation is restricted to plaques, modifying TLR-signaling may be a promising therapeutic strategy for plaque removal.
Ultrasonic vocalization at 55kHz (55kHz-USVs) by rodents has been proposed to be a behavioral manifestation of affectively positive incentive motivation. To examine the extent to which 55kHz-USV emissions correlate with cocaine-induced locomotor activity, we measured cocaine-induced 55kHz-USVs and their relationship to cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization in rats. We demonstrate that similar to locomotor responses, 55kHz-USVs are also sensitized by exposure to cocaine. Furthermore, we show that the magnitude of cocaine-induced 55kHz-USV sensitization is positively correlated with that of locomotor sensitization. Moreover, we demonstrate that rats selectively bred for high rates of 55kHz-USVs exhibit higher levels of cocaine-induced 55kHz-USV sensitization than animals selectively bred for low levels of 55kHz USVs. These results suggest that the neural circuits underlying 55kHz-USV, which may directly reflect affective experience/motivation, can be sensitized by cocaine in a way that resembles locomotor sensitization.
Attempts at replicating the first genome-wide association study (GWAS) in Parkinson's disease (PD) have not successfully identified genetic risk factors. The present study reevaluates data from the first GWAS and focuses on the SNP (rs11155313, located in the Phactr2 gene) with the lowest P-value in the Tier 2 patient-control series. We employed four case-control series to examine the nominated SNP rs11155313 and identified association in US (OR: 1.39, P=0.032), Canadian (OR: 1.41, P=0.014) and Irish (OR: 1.44, P=0.034) patient-control series, but not in the Norwegian series (OR: 1.15, P=0.27). When combining all four series the observed trend was statistically significant (OR: 1.30, P&lt;0.001). This study shows that reappraisal of publicly available results of GWAS may help nominate new risk factors for PD.
J. Cataliotti and A. Gilchrist (1995) reported that, consistent with anchoring theory, the lightness of a black step in a reflectance staircase was not altered by moving a white step from a remote to an adjacent location. Recently, E. Economou, S. Zdravkovic, and A. Gilchrist (2007) reported data supporting three additional predictions of the anchoring model (A. Gilchrist et al., 1999): 1) equiluminant incremental targets in staircase simultaneous lightness contrast stimuli appeared equally light; 2) the simultaneous lightness contrast effect was due mainly to the lightening of the target on the black surround; and 3) the strength of lightness induction was greatest for darker targets. We investigated similar stimuli using brightness/lightness matching and found, contrary to these reports, that: 1) the relative position of the steps in a luminance staircase significantly influenced their brightness/lightness; 2) equiluminant incremental targets in staircase simultaneous brightness/lightness contrast stimuli did not all appear equally bright/light; 3) an asymmetry due to a greater brightening/lightening of the target on the black surround was not general; and 4) darker targets produced larger effects only when plotted on a log scale. In addition, the ODOG model (B. Blakeslee &amp; M. E. McCourt, 1999) did an excellent job of accounting for brightness/lightness matching in these stimuli.
In tasks of associative learning, animals establish new links between unrelated items by using information about trial outcome to strengthen correct/rewarded associations and modify incorrect/unrewarded ones. To study how hippocampal neurons convey information about reward and trial outcome during new associative learning, we recorded hippocampal neurons as monkeys learned novel object-place associations. A large population of hippocampal neurons (50%) signaled trial outcome by differentiating between correct and error trials during the period after the behavioral response. About half these cells increased their activity following correct trials (correct up cells) while the remaining half fired more following error trials (error up cells). Moreover, correct up cells, but not error up cells, conveyed information about learning by increasing their stimulus-selective response properties with behavioral learning. These findings suggest that information about successful trial outcome conveyed by correct up cells may influence new associative learning through changes in the cell's stimulus-selective response properties.
The neuron-astrocyte synaptic complex is a fundamental operational unit of the nervous system. Astroglia regulate synaptic glutamate, via neurotransmitter transport by GLT1/EAAT2. Astroglial mechanisms underlying this essential neuron-glial communication are not known. We now show that presynaptic terminals regulate astroglial synaptic functions, GLT1/EAAT2, via kappa B-motif binding phosphoprotein (KBBP), the mouse homolog of human heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (hnRNP K), which binds the GLT1/EAAT2 promoter. Neuron-stimulated KBBP is required for GLT1/EAAT2 transcriptional activation and is responsible for astroglial alterations in neural injury. Denervation of neuron-astrocyte signaling by corticospinal tract transection, ricin-induced motor neuron death, or neurodegeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis all result in reduced astroglial KBBP expression and transcriptional dysfunction of astroglial transporter expression. Presynaptic elements dynamically coordinate normal astroglial function and also provide a fundamental signaling mechanism by which altered neuronal function and injury leads to dysregulated astroglia in CNS disease.
In the lateral hypothalamus (LH), the inhibitory amino acid neurotransmitter, GABA, has had a long-standing presumptive role as an inhibitor of food intake. However, minimal investigation has been focused on GABA, especially as compared to the attention received by many peptide transmitters. To begin to address this deficiency in the understanding of the role of GABA in the LH and feeding, we report that antagonism of GABA(A) receptors in the rat LH elicits feeding, consistent with previous findings, and provide evidence for the behavioral selectivity of this effect. We extend previous findings that activation of LH GABA(A) receptors suppresses feeding, in particular by showing that nighttime and deprivation-induced eating are dramatically suppressed. Finally, we show that chronic activation, but not blockade, of the LH GABA(A) receptors leads to a reduction in 24 h food intake with concomitant body weight loss. These data collectively suggest that activation of GABA(A) receptors plays a fundamental role in controlling food intake and body weight, a role that has previously been somewhat underestimated.
Interferon-alpha (IFNalpha) is a pleomorphic cytokine produced by nucleated cells in response to viral infection. In patients, treatment with IFNalpha has side effects including cognitive impairment resembling subcortical dementia, which is a hallmark of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated dementia (HAD). IFNalpha is increased in the CSF of HAD patients compared with HIV patients without dementia. In this study, blocking IFNalpha in a HIV encephalitis (HIVE) mouse model with intraperitoneal injections of IFNalpha neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) significantly improved cognitive function compared with untreated or control antibody-treated HIVE mice during water radial arm maze behavioral testing. Treatment with IFNalpha NAbs significantly decreased microgliosis and prevented loss of dendritic arborization in the brains of HIVE mice. Furthermore, treatment of primary neuron cultures with IFNalpha resulted in dose-dependent loss of dendritic arborization that was blocked with IFNalpha NAb treatment and partially blocked with NMDA antagonists [AP5 and MK801 (dizocilpine maleate)] indicating glutamate signaling is involved in IFNalpha-mediated neuronal damage. These results show that IFNalpha has a major role in the pathogenesis of HIVE in mice and is likely important in the development neurocognitive dysfunction in humans with HIV. Blocking IFNalpha could be important in improving cognitive and pathological developments in HAD patients and may be clinically important in other neuroinflammatory diseases as well.
It has long been thought that propensities for visual or verbal learning styles influence how children acquire knowledge successfully and how adults reason in everyday life. There is no direct evidence to date, however, linking these cognitive styles to specific neural systems. In the present study, visual and verbal cognitive styles are measured by self-report survey, and cognitive abilities are measured by scored tests of visual and verbal skills. Specifically, we administered the Verbalizer-Visualizer Questionnaire (VVQ) and modality-specific subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) to 18 subjects who subsequently participated in a functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment. During the imaging session, participants performed a novel psychological task involving both word-based and picture-based feature matching conditions that was designed to permit the use of either a visual or a verbal processing style during all conditions of the task. Results demonstrated a pattern of activity in modality-specific cortex that distinguished visual from verbal cognitive styles. During the word-based condition, activity in a functionally defined brain region that responded to viewing pictorial stimuli (fusiform gyrus) correlated with self-reported visualizer ratings on the VVQ. In contrast, activity in a phonologically related brain region (supramarginal gyrus) correlated with the verbalizer dimension of the VVQ during the picture-based condition. Scores from the WAIS subtests did not reliably correlate with brain activity in either of these regions. These findings suggest that modality-specific cortical activity underlies processing in visual and verbal cognitive styles.
Rapid synaptic transmission at the calyciform synapse in the embryonic chicken ciliary ganglion is mediated by two classes of nicotinic receptors: those containing alpha3 subunits [alpha3-nicotinic ACh receptors (nAChRs)] and those containing alpha7 subunits (alpha7-nAChRs). alpha3-nAChRs and alpha7-nAChRs are differentially distributed on the cell surface; alpha3-nAChRs are concentrated at postsynaptic densities, whereas both alpha7-nAChRs and alpha3-nAChRs are found extrasynaptically on somatic spines. I explored the contribution of alpha3-nAChRs and alpha7-nAChRs to uniquantal responses, measured as mEPSCs, or as evoked responses under low release probability conditions. The contribution that each nAChR makes to uniquantal response shape was determined by blocking one nAChR type; pharmacologically isolated alpha7-nAChR responses were kinetically fast (rise time, 0.32 +/- 0.02 ms; decay time, 1.66 +/- 0.18 ms; mean +/- SD; n = 6 cells), whereas pharmacologically isolated alpha3-nAChR responses were slow (rise time, 1.28 +/- 0.35 ms; decay time, 6.71 +/- 1.46 ms; n = 8 cells). In the absence of antagonists, most cells (11 of 14) showed heterogeneity in the kinetics of uniquantal responses, with approximately 25% of events exhibiting fast, alpha7-nAChR-like kinetics and approximately 75% of events exhibiting the kinetics expected of coactivation of alpha7-nAChRs and alpha3-nAChRs. Cells rarely showed significant numbers of uniquantal responses with slow, alpha3-nAChR-like kinetics, which was unexpected given that alpha3-nAChRs alone are concentrated at postsynaptic densities. The only site where ACh quanta can activate both alpha3-nAChRs and alpha7-nAChRs readily is on the somatic spines, where alpha7-nAChRs and alpha3-nAChRs are present extrasynaptically. At the calyciform synapse, rapid synaptic transmission is mediated apparently without participation of ionotropic receptors concentrated at postsynaptic densities.
The mechanisms responsible for long-term, massive reorganization of representational maps in primate somatosensory cortex after deafferentation are poorly understood. Sprouting of cortical axons cannot account for the extent of reorganization, and withdrawal of axons of deafferented brainstem and thalamic neurons, permitting expression of previously silent synapses, has not been directly demonstrated. This study is focused on the second of these. In monkeys, deafferented for two years by section of the cuneate fasciculus at the C1 level, there was extensive withdrawal of axon terminals from thalamus and cortex, detectable a decade before visible atrophy of their parent neuronal somata in the cuneate nucleus or thalamus. Slow, inexorable progression of lemniscal and thalamocortical axonal withdrawal is a neurodegenerative phenomenon likely to be a powerful inducement to compensatory long-term plasticity, a mechanism that can explain the long-term evolution of cortical reorganization and, with it, phantom sensations in spinal patients and amputees.
Brainstem serotonin (5-HT) neurons modulate activity of many neural circuits in the mammalian brain, but in many cases endogenous mechanisms have not been resolved. Here, we analyzed actions of raph 5-HT neurons on respiratory network activity including at the level of the pre-Btzinger complex (pre-BtC) in neonatal rat medullary slices in vitro, and in the more intact nervous system of juvenile rats in arterially perfused brainstem-spinal cord preparations in situ. At basal levels of activity, excitation of the respiratory network via simultaneous release of 5-HT and substance P (SP), acting at 5-HT(2A/2C), 5-HT(4), and/or neurokinin-1 receptors, was required to maintain inspiratory motor output in both the neonatal and juvenile systems. The midline raph obscurus contained spontaneously active 5-HT neurons, some of which projected to the pre-BtC and hypoglossal motoneurons, colocalized 5-HT and SP, and received reciprocal excitatory connections from the pre-BtC. Experimentally augmenting raph obscurus activity increased motor output by simultaneously exciting pre-BtC and motor neurons. Biophysical analyses in vitro demonstrated that 5-HT and SP modulated background cation conductances in pre-BtC and motor neurons, including a nonselective cation leak current that contributed to the resting potential, which explains the neuronal depolarization that augmented motor output. Furthermore, we found that 5-HT, but not SP, can transform the electrophysiological phenotype of some pre-BtC neurons to intrinsic bursters, providing 5-HT with an additional role in promoting rhythm generation. We conclude that raph 5-HT neurons excite key circuit components required for generation of respiratory motor output.
The glutamatergic pathway arising in the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) and projecting to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) core is a critical component of the reward circuitry that underlies reinstatement to cocaine-seeking behavior. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is expressed by and modulates PFC-NAc neurons. BDNF infusion into the dmPFC attenuates reinstatement to cocaine-seeking behavior, as well as some cocaine-induced molecular adaptations within the NAc. In the present study, it is demonstrated that a single intra-dmPFC infusion of BDNF prevents cocaine self-administration-induced reduction in basal extracellular glutamate, as well as cocaine prime-induced increases in extracellular glutamate levels within the NAc. These data suggest that intra-PFC BDNF attenuates reinstatement to cocaine-seeking behavior by normalizing cocaine-induced neuroadaptations that alter glutamate neurotransmission within the NAc.
Excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) are believed to limit extracellular glutamate concentrations with specific roles poorly understood. At cerebellar climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synapse, EAAT4 and metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1) are closely expressed in surrounding postsynaptic locations, suggesting that EAAT4 may regulate mGluR1 activation. We examined the actions of EAAT4 on synaptic plasticity by applying blockers of glutamate transporters, DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartic acid and D-aspartate. Inhibition of EAAT4 markedly prolonged AMPA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents evoked by stimulating climbing fibers. Impairing glutamate uptake facilitated mGluR1-dependent climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synaptic long-term depression (LTD). Glutamate uptake blockers also sufficiently rescued climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synaptic LTD that failed to be induced by a weaker tetanus. Our results suggest that neuronal glutamate transporters strongly influence mGluR1-dependent cerebellar LTD.
Of the three major subdivisions of the auditory thalamus, the medial subdivision is the only one that receives a direct projection from the dorsal cochlear nucleus. Those cells in the medial auditory thalamus that receive the projection from the dorsal cochlear nucleus continue to the auditory cortex. A combination of anterograde and retrograde anatomical tracer injections made in the dorsal cochlear nucleus and the auditory cortex respectively, revealed terminal boutons which were directly apposed onto the dendrites and cell bodies of neurons in the medial auditory thalamus. The presence of a monosynaptic pathway, which transfers information from the first relay in the auditory system to the last, suggests that this pathway may rapidly convey very basic information to the auditory cortex.
How the brain 'binds' information to create a coherent perceptual experience is an enduring question. Recent research in the psychophysics of perceptual binding and developments in fMRI analysis techniques are bringing us closer to an understanding of how the brain solves the binding problem.
Developmental dyslexia is a specific reading and spelling deficit affecting 4% to 10% of the population. Advances in understanding its origin support a core deficit in phonological processing characterized by difficulties in segmenting spoken words into their minimally discernable speech segments (speech sounds, or phonemes) and underactivation of left superior temporal cortex. A suggested but unproven hypothesis is that this phonological deficit impairs the ability to map speech sounds onto their homologous visual letters, which in turn prevents the attainment of fluent reading levels. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study investigated the neural processing of letters and speech sounds in unisensory (visual, auditory) and multisensory (audiovisual congruent, audiovisual incongruent) conditions as a function of reading ability. Our data reveal that adult dyslexic readers underactivate superior temporal cortex for the integration of letters and speech sounds. This reduced audiovisual integration is directly associated with a more fundamental deficit in auditory processing of speech sounds, which in turn predicts performance on phonological tasks. The data provide a neurofunctional account of developmental dyslexia, in which phonological processing deficits are linked to reading failure through a deficit in neural integration of letters and speech sounds.
The ability to recognize sounds allows humans and animals to efficiently detect behaviorally relevant events, even in the absence of visual information. Sound recognition in the human brain has been assumed to proceed through several functionally specialized areas, culminating in cortical modules where category-specific processing is carried out. In the present high-resolution fMRI experiment, we challenged this model by using well-controlled natural auditory stimuli and by employing an advanced analysis strategy based on an iterative machine-learning algorithm that allows modeling of spatially distributed, as well as localized, response patterns. Sounds of cats, female singers, acoustic guitars, and tones were controlled for their time-varying spectral characteristics and presented to subjects at three different pitch levels. Sound category information--not detectable with conventional contrast-based methods analysis--could be detected with multivoxel pattern analyses and attributed to spatially distributed areas over the supratemporal cortices. A more localized pattern was observed for processing of pitch laterally to primary auditory areas. Our findings indicate that distributed neuronal populations within the human auditory cortices, including areas conventionally associated with lower-level auditory processing, entail categorical representations of sounds beyond their physical properties.
Primates developed the ability to recognize and individuate their conspecifics by the face. Despite numerous electrophysiological studies in monkeys, little is known about the face-processing strategies that monkeys employ. In contrast, face perception in humans has been the subject of many studies providing evidence for specific face processing that evolves with perceptual expertise. Importantly, humans process faces holistically, here defined as the processing of faces as wholes, rather than as collections of independent features (part-based processing). The question remains to what extent humans and monkeys share these face-processing mechanisms. By using the same experimental design and stimuli for both monkey and human behavioral experiments, we show that face processing is influenced by the species affiliation of the observed face stimulus (human versus macaque face). Furthermore, stimulus manipulations that selectively reduced holistic and part-based information systematically altered eye-scanning patterns for human and macaque observers similarly. These results demonstrate the similar nature of face perception in humans and monkeys and pin down effects of expert face-processing versus novice face-processing strategies. These findings therefore directly contribute to one of the central discussions in the behavioral and neurosciences about how faces are perceived in primates.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) undergoes sequential cleavages to generate various polypeptides, including the amyloid beta (1-42) peptide (Abeta[1-42]), which is believed to play a major role in amyloid plaque formation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we provide evidence that, in contrast with its pathological role when accumulated, endogenous Abeta in normal hippocampi mediates learning and memory formation. Furthermore, hippocampal injection of picomolar concentrations of exogenous Abeta(1-42) enhances memory consolidation. Correlative data suggest that Abeta peptides may exert their function via nicotinic acethylcoline receptors. Hence, Abeta peptides, including Abeta(1-42), play an important physiological role in hippocampal memory formation.
In essentially every domain of neuroscience, the generally implicit assumption that few, if any, meaningful differences exist between male and female brain function is being challenged. Here we address how this development is influencing studies of the neurobiology of learning and memory. While it has been commonly held that males show an advantage on spatial tasks, and females on verbal tasks, there is increasing evidence that sex differences are more widespread than previously supposed. Differing performance between the sexes have been observed on a number of common learning tasks in both the human and animal literature, many neither purely spatial nor verbal. We review sex differences reported in various areas to date, while attempting to identify common features of sexually dimorphic tasks, and to place these differences in a neurobiological context. This discussion focuses on studies of four classes of memory tasks for which sex differences have been frequently reported: spatial, verbal, autobiographical, and emotional memory. We conclude that the female verbal advantage extends into numerous tasks, including tests of spatial and autobiographical abilities, but that a small but significant advantage may exist for general episodic memory. We further suggest that for some tasks, stress evokes sex differences, which are not normally observed, and that these differences are mediated largely by interactions between stress and sex hormones.



We propose an integrative cognitive neuroscience framework for understanding the cognitive and neural foundations of religious belief. Our analysis reveals 3 psychological dimensions of religious belief (God's perceived level of involvement, God's perceived emotion, and doctrinal/experiential religious knowledge), which functional MRI localizes within networks processing Theory of Mind regarding intent and emotion, abstract semantics, and imagery. Our results are unique in demonstrating that specific components of religious belief are mediated by well-known brain networks, and support contemporary psychological theories that ground religious belief within evolutionary adaptive cognitive functions.
The sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) of skeletal muscle cells is a complex network of tubules and cisternae that share a common lumen delimited by a single continuous membrane. The SR contains longitudinal and junctional domains characterized by distinctive patterns of protein localization, but how SR proteins reach and/or are retained at these sites is not known. Here, we report that the organization of longitudinal SR proteins is a slow process characterized by temporally distinct patterns of protein localization. In contrast, junctional SR proteins rapidly and synchronously assembled into clusters which, however, merged into mature triadic junctions only after completion of longitudinal SR protein organization. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching experiments indicated that SR organization was accompanied by significant changes in the dynamic properties of longitudinal and junctional proteins. The decrease in mobility that accompanied organization of the longitudinal SR proteins ank1.5-GFP and GFP-InsP3R1 was abrogated by deletion of specific binding sites for myofibrillar or cytoskeletal proteins, respectively. Assembly of junctional SR domains was accompanied by a strong decrease in mobility of junctional proteins that in triadin appeared to be mediated by its intraluminal region. Together, the data suggest that the organization of specific SR domains results from a process of membrane reorganization accompanied by the establishment of multiple protein-protein interactions with intrinsic and extrinsic cues.

An increasing number of studies within the recent years connected physical exercise with changes in brain cortical activity. Most of this data (1) refers to aerobic exercise and (2) does not correlate to psychological parameters although it is well known that exercise has a positive effect on mood. In times where health activities play a major role it is increasingly necessary to connect somato-physiological and somatopsychological components of physical activity. This study aimed to find changes in EEG activity and mood after low, preferred and high intensity running. EEG and actual state of mood were recorded before and after exercise. Results showed an effect for the preferred and high intensity velocity in both, EEG and mood. As only the higher frequency areas N18 Hz showed persisting decreases post-exercise we concluded that this might be a sign of outlasting effects of exercise on brain cortical activity which may have influences on general well-being. We could also show that there is a clear relationship between EEG activity and mood reflecting a basic principle of cortical excitation.
Differences in the rate of maternal behaviours received by rodent offspring are associated with differential programming of molecular and behavioural components of anxiety and stress-related functions. To determine the degree to which maternal behaviours are sensitive to environmental conditions, Long-Evans rat dams were exposed to the odour of a predator (cat) at two different time points during the first week postpartum. Exposure on the day of birth (DOB), but not the third day following birth, increased levels of maternal care in predator-exposed dams relative to dams exposed to a control condition across the first 5 days post-partum. As adults, female offspring of dams exposed on DOB exhibited a less-anxious phenotype in a novel open-field, spending more time in the center and less time displaying thigmotaxis. In contrast, under the same conditions, male offspring showed the opposite behavioural response, consistent with an increasingly anxious phenotype. Results from a subsequent stressor test (response to a predator odour) were consistent with the notion that the rearing effects were specific to anxiety-related behaviours in offspring. Accordingly, we showed that rearing conditions did not affect GR mRNA or NGFI-A expression in the hippocampus of offspring or cross-fostered offspring. The dissociation between stress and anxiety, as well as the sex-specific alterations in behaviour, may reflect the specificity inherent to neural programming in the face of naturalistic early life conditions.
The current study sought to determine whether prenatal 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methamphetamine (MDMA) exposure from E14-20 in the rat resulted in behavioral sequelae in adult offspring. Prenatal MDMA exposure results in increased dopaminergic fiber density in the prefrontal cortex, striatum and nucleus accumbens of young rats. Since these areas are critical in response to novelty, reward, attention and locomotor activity, we hypothesized that prenatal MDMA exposure would produce significant changes in the performance of tasks that examine such behaviors in adult rats. Adult rats prenatally exposed to MDMA exhibited greater activity and spent more time in the center during a novel open field test as compared to controls. This increased activity was not reflected in normal home cage activity. Prenatal exposure to MDMA did not affect feeding or food reward. It did not alter cocaine self-administration behaviors, nor did it have an effect on the locomotor response to amphetamine challenge. Finally, while prenatal MDMA did not affect performance in the radial arm maze or the Morris water maze (MWM), these animals demonstrated altered performance in a cued MWM paradigm. Prenatal MDMA exposure resulted in perseverative attendance to a hanging cue when the platform in the MWM was removed as compared to controls. Together, these data demonstrate that prenatal exposure to MDMA results in a behavioral phenotype in adult rats characterized by reduced anxiety, a heightened response to novelty, and &quot;hyperattentiveness&quot; to environmental cues during spatial learning.
The interactions with the mother and with peers are among the most relevant early environmental factors shaping adult brain function and behavior. In order to investigate the role of these factors, we exploited a novel early manipulation, the Communal Nest (CN), consisting in a single nest where three mothers give birth, keep their pups and share care-giving behavior from birth to weaning. In particular, we reared CD-1 swiss mice in three different CN conditions, each one characterized by a different interval between the three deliveries (Birth Spacing) of 3, 5 or 7 days (respectively, CN+/-3, CN+/-5, CN+/-7). Length of birth spacing affected maternal behavior, CN+/-7 pups receiving the highest levels. At adulthood, mice reared in the different conditions showed differences in emotional response and social skills. In the plus maze test, short birth spacing was found to be associated with enhanced emotionality, CN+/-3 mice showing highest levels of anxiety-like responses in the plus maze compared to the other two CN groups. In the social interaction test, the strategies to achieve dominance differed among the three groups. While CN+/-3 mice appeared to have a more aggressive strategy, displaying high levels of attack behavior in the first encounter, CN+/-5 and CN+/-7 mice displayed a more affiliative strategy based on social investigation. Overall, these findings show that birth spacing shapes the early mouse social environment and, in turn, affects the development of social skills and emotional responses.

The recent identification of several novel endocytic compartments has challenged our current understanding of the topological and functional organization of the endocytic pathway. Using quantitative single vesicle imaging and acute manipulation of phosphoinositides we show that APPL endosomes, which participate in growth factor receptor trafficking and signaling, represent an early endocytic intermediate common to a subset of clathrin derived endocytic vesicles and macropinosomes. Most APPL endosomes are precursors of classical PI3P positive endosomes, and PI3P plays a critical role in promoting this conversion. Depletion of PI3P causes a striking reversion of Rab5 positive endosomes to the APPL stage, and results in enhanced growth factor signaling. These findings reveal a surprising plasticity of the early endocytic pathway. Importantly, PI3P functions as a switch to dynamically regulate maturation and signaling of APPL endosomes.
Distinct molecules are segregated into somatodendritic and axonal compartments of polarized neurons, but mechanisms underlying the development and maintenance of such segregation remain largely unclear. In cultured hippocampal neurons, we observed an ankyrin G- and F-actin-dependent structure that emerged in the cytoplasm of the axon initial segment (AIS) within 2 days after axon/dendrite differentiation, imposing a selective filter for diffusion of macromolecules and transport of vesicular carriers into the axon. Axonal entry was allowed for KIF5-driven carriers of synaptic vesicle protein VAMP2, but not for KIF17-driven carriers of dendrite-targeting NMDA receptor subunit NR2B. Comparisons of transport rates between chimeric forms of KIF17 and KIF5B, with the motor and cargo-binding domains switched, and between KIF5 loaded with VAMP2 versus GluR2 suggest that axonal entry of vesicular carriers depends on the transport efficacy of KIF-cargo complexes. This selective AIS filtering may contribute to preferential trafficking and segregation of cellular components in polarized neurons.
We and others have previously reported that lactotransferrin (LF), acting both as an iron-binding protein and inflammatory modulator, is greatly up-regulated in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, it remains unknown which type of cells express LF in the brain of AD. In this study, therefore, we investigated the expression and localization of LF messenger RNA (mRNA) in the cerebral cortex of AD and control cases using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and in situ hybridization histochemistry. Real-time PCR demonstrated that LF mRNA expression in the cortex of AD cases was significantly greater than that in control cases. LF mRNA-positive granules were observed in the cortex by in situ hybridization histochemistry, and the number of positive granules was increased in AD cases compared to controls. The double staining technique of LF mRNA in situ hybridisation and D-related human leukocyte antigen (HLA-DR) immunohistochemistry revealed that positive granules were localized in a subpopulation of HLA-DR-positive reactive microglia. In addition, LF mRNA-positive granules were observed in some cells that were negative for HLA-DR. These cells were also negative for CD4 and CD8 but positive for leukocyte common antigen (CD45RB), suggesting they were monocytes/macrophages. These results indicate that reactive microglia in the cerebral cortex and monocytes/macrophages infiltrating from the circulation might be responsible for synthesizing LF in AD brain.
Stress facilitates development of addictive behaviors in part by stress-induced increase in the strength of glutamatergic synapses at dopamine (DA) neurons within the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Here, we further demonstrate that this stress-induced synaptic adaptation is glucocorticoid-dependent and is progressively developed. Activation of glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) either by in vivo injection of dexamethasone (Dex) or incubation of the VTA slice with Dex potentiate the synaptic strength of glutamatergic synapses at VTA DA neurons, whereas preventing the activation of GRs by Ru486 abolishes this effect. These results suggest that the VTA GRs play a critical role in stress-induced cellular adaptations.
C3, a synthetic peptide binding to the Ig1 module of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) has previously been identified and shown to inhibit NCAM homophilic binding and NCAM-mediated activation of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor (FGFR). However, C3 can also stimulate signalling on its own in a way similar to NCAM. Here we show that in the absence of NCAM, C3 can bind and activate FGFR, whereas in the presence of NCAM, C3 inhibits the NCAM-stimulated FGFR activation without activating FGFR on its own. Several competing models of FGFR activation by NCAM have been previously proposed. In one of them, the FGFR Ig2-Ig3 modules are involved in binding to NCAM, whereas in another - the FGFR &quot;acid box&quot; region mediates the interaction. The bi-modal effect of C3 can be explained in the context of the former model and is not consistent with the latter, thus providing evidence in support of the former model.
We analytically describe a transition scenario to self-organized criticality (SOC) that is new for physics as well as neuroscience; it combines the criticality of first and second-order phase transitions with a SOC phase. We consider a network of pulse-coupled neurons interacting via dynamical synapses, which exhibit depression and facilitation as found in experiments. We analytically show the coexistence of a SOC phase and a subcritical phase connected by a cusp bifurcation. Switching between the two phases can be triggered by varying the intensity of noisy inputs.
Previous research has shown that injection of morphine into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) facilitates the onset of maternal behavior in virgin female rats, and injection of the opioid antagonist naltrexone into the VTA disrupts the onset of maternal behavior in parturient rats. Placentophagia -- ingestion of placenta and amniotic fluid, usually at parturition -- modifies central opioid processes. Ingestion of the active substance in placenta and amniotic fluid, Placental Opioid-Enhancing Factor (POEF), enhances the hypoalgesic effect of centrally administered morphine, and more specifically, enhances delta- and kappa-opioid-receptor-mediated hypoalgesia and attenuates mu-opioid-receptor-mediated hypoalgesia. POEF (in placenta or amniotic fluid) ingestion does not, by itself, produce hypoalgesia. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that ingestion of amniotic fluid enhances the facilitative effect of opioid activity (unilateral morphine injection) in the VTA on the rate of onset of maternal behavior. Virgin female Long-Evans rats were given one intra-VTA injection of morphine sulfate (0.0, 0.01, or 0.03 microg, in saline) and an orogastric infusion of 0.25 ml amniotic fluid or saline once each day of the first three days of the 10-day testing period. Subjects were continuously exposed to foster pups that were replaced every 12 h; replacement of pups was followed by a 15-min observation period. Maternal behavior latency was determined by the first of two consecutive tests wherein the subject displayed pup retrieval, pup licking in the nest, and crouching over all foster pups, during the 15-min observation. We confirmed the previous finding that the VTA injection, alone, of 0.03 microg morphine shortened the latency to show maternal behavior and that 0.0 microg and 0.01 microg morphine did not. Ingestion of amniotic fluid (and therefore POEF) facilitated the onset of maternal behavior in rats receiving an intra-VTA microinjection of an otherwise subthreshold dose of morphine (0.01 microg).
Brief whole body exposures of rats to weak (1 microT) complex magnetic fields whose patterns induce long term potential (LTP) when applied as electric current to hippocampal slices produced powerful behavioral changes. Rats exposed for 30 min before but not 30 min after hourly training sessions for spatial memory displayed impairments comparable to those elicited by complete electrode-induced saturation of hippocampal activity. Exposure to the same LTP-patterned magnetic fields after weaning during the induction of limbic seizures produced diminished learning of conditioned contextual fear during adulthood. However exposure to magnetic fields designed to simulate a &quot;virtual&quot; hippocampal state during acquisition of a timed inhibitory task (DRL) facilitated performance. These results show that physiologically-patterned magnetic fields can produce dramatic changes in behavior when they are applied during states associated with marked synaptic plasticity.

Recent studies suggest that bone marrow-derived macrophages can effectively reduce beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposition in brain. To further elucidate the mechanisms by which macrophages degrade Abeta, we cultured murine macrophages on top of Abeta plaque-bearing brain sections from transgenic mice expressing PDAPP [human amyloid precursor protein (APP) with the APP(717V&gt;F) mutation driven by the platelet-derived growth factor promoter]. Using this ex vivo assay, we found that macrophages from wild-type mice very efficiently degrade both soluble and insoluble Abeta in a time-dependent manner and markedly eliminate thioflavine-S positive amyloid deposits. Because macrophages express and secrete apolipoprotein E (apoE), we compared the efficiency of Abeta degradation by macrophages prepared from apoE-deficient mice or mice expressing human apoE2, apoE3, or apoE4. Macrophages expressing apoE2 were more efficient at degrading Abeta than apoE3-expressing, apoE4-expressing, or apoE-deficient macrophages. Moreover, macrophage-induced degradation of Abeta was effectively blocked by an anti-apoE antibody and receptor-associated protein, an antagonist of the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor family, suggesting involvement of LDL receptors. Measurement of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) activity in the media from human apoE-expressing macrophages cocultured with Abeta-containing brain sections revealed greater levels of MMP-9 activity in apoE2-expressing than in either apoE3- or apoE4-expressing macrophages. Differences in MMP-9 activity appear to contribute to the isoform-specific differences in Abeta degradation by macrophages. These apoE isoform-dependent effects of macrophages on Abeta degradation suggest a novel &quot;peripheral&quot; mechanism for Abeta clearance from brain that may also, in part, explain the isoform-dependent effects of apoE in determining the genetic risk for Alzheimer's disease.
Endocytic trafficking of neurotransmitter receptors is critical to neuronal signaling and activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. Although the importance of clathrin-mediated endocytosis in receptor trafficking in neurons is well established, the contribution of the caveolar/lipid raft pathway has been little explored. Here, we show that caveolin-1, an adaptor protein that associates with lipid rafts and the main coat protein of caveolae, binds to and colocalizes with metabotropic glutamate receptors 1/5 (mGluR1/5). The interaction with caveolin-1 controls the rate of constitutive mGluR1 internalization, thereby regulating expression of the receptor at the cell surface. Consistent with a role for caveolin-1 in mGluR trafficking, we show that mGluR1/5 associate with lipid rafts in the brain and that their constitutive internalization is mediated, in both heterologous cells and neurons, by caveolar/raft-dependent endocytosis. We further show that caveolin-1 attenuates mGluR1-dependent activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling, an effect that is abolished in cells expressing mutant mGluR1 lacking intact caveolin binding motifs. Neurons from caveolin-1 knock-out mice show enhanced basal ERK1/2 phosphorylation and prolonged ERK1/2 activation in response to stimulation with DHPG [(RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine], a group I mGluR-selective agonist. Together, these findings underscore the importance of caveolar rafts in neurons and suggest that this pathway might play an important role in synapse formation and plasticity.
Morphine is the most commonly used and most effective analgesic in the clinic. However, its use is limited by the tolerance. Evidence indicates that the delta-opioid receptor (DOR) is essential for morphine antinociceptive tolerance; however, their underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we show that cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), activated in morphine antinociceptive tolerance, directly phosphorylates DOR at Thr-161 in DRG neurons. Cdk5 was found to phosphorylate Thr-161 in the second loop of DOR, but not the corresponding residue in the mu-opioid receptor (MOR). Phosphorylation at Thr-161 is required for normal cell surface expression of DOR, and the formation of DOR-MOR heterodimers. Our studies indicated that inhibition of Cdk5 activity or overexpression of a DOR mutant lacking the Cdk5 phosphorylation site displayed relatively low cell surface expression and relatively low abilities to form heterodimers of DOR and MOR; intrathecal delivery of a construct expressing the T161A mutant of DOR attenuated morphine antinociceptive tolerance in rats, suggesting that Thr-161 phosphorylation of DOR contributed to Cdk5-mediated morphine antinociceptive tolerance. Furthermore, an engineered Tat fusion-interfering peptide corresponding to the second intracellular loop of DOR (Tat-DOR-2L), reduced the cell surface expression of DOR, disrupted the formation of DOR-MOR heterodimers, and significantly attenuated the development of morphine antinociceptive tolerance after intrathecal injection. The present study indicates that Cdk5-mediated phosphorylation of DOR at Thr-161 plays a crucial role in the development of morphine tolerance and suggests the possibility of targeting DOR phosphorylation at Thr-161 to attenuate morphine antinociceptive tolerance during pain management.
Although chronic cocaine-induced changes in dendritic spines on nucleus accumbens (NAc) neurons have been correlated with behavioral sensitization, the molecular pathways governing these structural changes, and their resulting behavioral effects, are poorly understood. The transcription factor, nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB), is rapidly activated by diverse stimuli and regulates expression of many genes known to maintain cell structure. Therefore, we evaluated the role of NFkappaB in regulating cocaine-induced dendritic spine changes on medium spiny neurons of the NAc and the rewarding effects of cocaine. We show that chronic cocaine induces NFkappaB-dependent transcription in the NAc of NFkappaB-Lac transgenic mice. This induction of NFkappaB activity is accompanied by increased expression of several NFkappaB genes, the promoters of which show chromatin modifications after chronic cocaine exposure consistent with their transcriptional activation. To study the functional significance of this induction, we used viral-mediated gene transfer to express either a constitutively active or dominant-negative mutant of Inhibitor of kappa B kinase (IKKca or IKKdn), which normally activates NFkappaB signaling, in the NAc. We found that activation of NFkappaB by IKKca increases the number of dendritic spines on NAc neurons, whereas inhibition of NFkappaB by IKKdn decreases basal dendritic spine number and blocks the increase in dendritic spines after chronic cocaine. Moreover, inhibition of NFkappaB blocks the rewarding effects of cocaine and the ability of previous cocaine exposure to increase an animal's preference for cocaine. Together, these studies establish a direct role for NFkappaB pathways in the NAc to regulate structural and behavioral plasticity to cocaine.
Microglia in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord are increasingly recognized as being crucial in the pathogenesis of pain hypersensitivity after injury to a peripheral nerve. It is known that P2X4 purinoceptors (P2X4Rs) cause the release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) from microglia, which is necessary for maintaining pain hypersensitivity after nerve injury. However, there is a critical gap in understanding how activation of microglial P2X4Rs leads to the release of BDNF. Here, we show that stimulating P2X4Rs with ATP evokes a biphasic release of BDNF from microglia: an early phase occurs within 5 min, whereas a late phase peaks 60 min after ATP stimulation. Concomitant with the late phase of release is an increased level of BDNF within the microglia. Both phases of BDNF release and the accumulation within the microglia are dependent on extracellular Ca(2+). The late phase of BDNF release and accumulation, but not the early phase of release, are suppressed by inhibiting transcription and translation, indicating that activation of P2X4R causes an initial release of a pre-existing pool of BDNF followed by an increase in de novo synthesis of BDNF. The release of BDNF is abolished by inhibiting SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor)-mediated exocytosis. Furthermore, we find that the P2X4R-evoked release and synthesis of BDNF are dependent on activation of p38-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Together, our findings provide a unifying mechanism for pain hypersensitivity after peripheral nerve injury through P2X4R-evoked increase in Ca(2+) and activation of p38-MAPK leading to the synthesis and exocytotic release of BDNF from microglia.
There is a growing interest in how temporal order of episodic memories is represented within the medial temporal lobe (MTL). Animal studies suggest that the hippocampal formation (HF) is critical for retrieving the temporal order of past experiences. However, human imaging studies that have tested recency discrimination between pairs of previously encoded items have generally failed to report HF activation. We hypothesized that recalling a naturalistic sequence of past events would be particularly sensitive to HF function, attributable to greater involvement of associative processes. To test this prediction, we let subjects watch a novel movie and later, during functional magnetic resonance imaging, asked them to rearrange and &quot;replay&quot; scenes from the movie in correct order. To identify areas specifically involved in retrieval of temporal order, we used a control condition where subjects logically inferred the order of scenes from the same movie. Extensive MTL activation was observed during sequence recall. Activation within the right HF was specifically related to retrieval of temporal order and correlated positively with accuracy of sequence recall. Also, the bilateral parahippocampal cortex responded to retrieval of temporal order, but the activation here was not related to performance. Our study is the first to unequivocally demonstrate that correct sequence recall depends on HF.
At the optic chiasm, retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons make the decision to either avoid or traverse the midline, a maneuver that establishes the binocular pathways. In mice, the ipsilateral retinal projection arises from RGCs in the peripheral ventrotemporal (VT) crescent of the retina. These RGCs express the guidance receptor EphB1, which interacts with ephrin-B2 on radial glia cells at the optic chiasm to repulse VT axons away from the midline and into the ipsilateral optic tract. However, because VT RGCs express more than one EphB receptor, the sufficiency and specificity of the EphB1 receptor in directing the ipsilateral projection is unclear. In this study, we use in utero retinal electroporation to demonstrate that ectopic EphB1 expression can redirect RGCs with a normally crossed projection to an ipsilateral trajectory. Moreover, EphB1 is specifically required for rerouting RGC projections ipsilaterally, because introduction of the highly similar EphB2 receptor is much less efficient in redirecting RGC fibers, even when expressed at higher surface levels. Introduction of EphB1-EphB2 chimeric receptors into RGCs reveals that both extracellular and juxtamembrane domains of EphB1 are required to efficiently convert RGC projections ipsilaterally. Together, these data describe for the first time functional differences between two highly similar Eph receptors at a decision point in vivo, with EphB1 displaying unique properties that efficiently drives the uncrossed retinal projection.
Neurodegeneration is the irremediable pathological event occurring during chronic inflammatory diseases of the CNS. Here we show that, in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a mouse model of multiple sclerosis, inflammation is capable in enhancing glutamate transmission in the striatum and in promoting synaptic degeneration and dendritic spine loss. These alterations occur early in the disease course, are independent of demyelination, and are strongly associated with massive release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha from activated microglia. CNS invasion by myelin-specific blood-borne immune cells is the triggering event, and the downregulation of the early gene Arc/Arg3.1, leading to the abnormal expression and phosphorylation of AMPA receptors, represents a culminating step in this cascade of neurodegenerative events. Accordingly, EAE-induced synaptopathy subsided during pharmacological blockade of AMPA receptors. Our data establish a link between neuroinflammation and synaptic degeneration and calls for early neuroprotective therapies in chronic inflammatory diseases of the CNS.
The paired teleost Mauthner (M)-cells and their associated network serve as an excellent system to study the biophysical basis of decision making. In teleosts, an abrupt sound evokes an M-spike, triggering a C-start escape that is usually directed away from a sound source. The response latency is minimized by electrical synapses between auditory afferents and the M-cell lateral dendrite. Here, we demonstrate that the electrical synapses also mediate phase encoding. Ramped sound pressure waves (150-250 Hz) evoked electrotonic postsynaptic potentials in the M-cell locked to two diametrically opposed phase angles that were frequency dependent but intensity independent. Phase encoding was also evident at the behavioral level underwater, because the stimuli evoked directional C-starts with an onset that was phase locked to the sound wave. In interneurons inhibitory to the M-cell, these same stimuli also evoked phase-locked electrotonic postsynaptic potentials and action potentials. The resulting chemical and electrical (i.e., field effect) inhibitions functioned tonically and phasically, respectively. Phase encoding could be important in underwater sound source localization, which is thought to require a neural computation involving a phase comparison between the pressure and the directional particle motion components of sound. This computation may be implemented by an interplay between phase-dependent afferent excitation and feedforward inhibition that activates the appropriate M-cell and directs the C-start away from the sound source.

Theta rhythm has been connected to ERP components such as the error-related negativity (ERN) and the feedback-related negativity (FRN). The nature of this theta activity is still unclear, that is, whether it is related to error detection, conflict between responses or reinforcement learning processes. We examined slow (e.g., theta) and fast (e.g., gamma) brain rhythms related to rule violation. A time-frequency decomposition analysis on a wide range of frequencies band (0-95 Hz) indicated that the theta activity relates to evaluation processes, regardless of motor/action processes. Similarities between the theta activities found in rule-violation tasks and in tasks eliciting ERN/FRN suggest that this theta activity reflects the operation of general evaluation mechanisms. Moreover, significant effects were found also in fast brain rhythms. These effects might be related to the synchronization between different types of cognitive processes involving the fulfillment of a task (e.g., working memory, visual perception, mathematical calculation, etc.).
Nicotine, a cholinergic agonist, rapidly crosses the blood-brain barrier, promotes neuronal plasticity and has been suggested to enhance behavior in a variety of neurological conditions. Nicotine has also been suggested to benefit functional recovery in rodent models of stroke. At present there has been no systematic investigation of the potential benefits of nicotine therapy in both the acute and chronic post-stroke period. This was the objective of the present study and to that end, the effects of nicotine administration prior to and following motor cortex stroke were examined in a skilled reaching task. The task provides a thorough assessment of learned nonuse and constraint-induced recovery of behavior as determined by both end-point and movement element analysis. Nicotine (0.3 mg/kg p.o.) was administered twice daily during reach training and following motor cortex stroke. Rats were divided into four groups based on their pre-/post-stroke treatment: nicotine/nicotine, nicotine/vehicle, vehicle/nicotine, vehicle/vehicle. After stroke, nicotine did not counteract learned nonuse, facilitate constraint-induced therapy, or improve long-term recovery as measured by end-point analysis and movement element analysis. The results are discussed in relation to the problem of identifying pharmacotherapeutic agents that augment rehabilitation following stroke.
The mesolimbic dopaminergic system that projects from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens is critical for initiation of opioid reinforcement and reward-related effects of drugs of abuse. In the present study, the effects of reversible inactivation of VTA on acquisition and expression of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) were investigated in rats. One hundred and eighty-one adult male albino Wistar rats were used in these experiments. Reversible inactivation of VTA was done through the unilateral and bilateral intra-VTA microinjection of 2% lidocaine during the acquisition and expression of morphine (5 mg/kg; s.c.)-induced CPP. Animal displacement, conditioning score and locomotor activity were recorded by Ethovision software. The results showed that bilateral but not unilateral intra-VTA administration of lidocaine significantly decreases the acquisition (P&lt;0.01) and expression (P&lt;0.05) of morphine-induced CPP compared to their respective saline-microinjected groups. Moreover, intra-VTA administration of lidocaine had no effect on locomotor activity in these experiments. Our results further support the idea that VTA may play an important role in the acquisition of morphine-induced CPP. In addition, there is no functional lateralization in the VTA for acquisition and/or expression of morphine-induced CPP in the rat.
Voluntary movement is often perturbed by the external forces in the environment. Because corticospinal (CS) control of wrist muscles during preparation of voluntary movement has been extensively studied without variation in the external forces, very little is known about the way CS control adapts when subjects expect motor perturbations. Here, we studied the CS control of wrist muscles during expectation of an imposed wrist extension. Subjects were instructed either to compensate (COMP) the perturbation (applied at variable delays) or not to intervene (NINT). In a quarter of all trials at random, in the time window when perturbation might occur, TMS was applied over contralateral M1. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were measured in the FCR (flexor carpi radialis) and ECR (extensor carpi radialis) muscles, as well as the silent period (SP) in the FCR. Following the perturbation, we found a larger long-latency stretch reflex in COMP than in NINT. During the expectation of the perturbation, MEP amplitudes did not differ across conditions in FCR. However, those evoked in ECR were greater in COMP than in NINT condition. Moreover in the FCR, the silent period lasted longer in NINT. Thus, we showed a selective effect of the prepared reaction on the anticipatory tuning of CS excitability and cortical inhibition in the agonist/antagonist muscles. This tuning clearly differed from the tuning during voluntary movement preparation without variation in the external forces. This shows that the tuning of the CS system during motor preparation depends on the dynamical context of movement production.
An animal that has stepped over an obstacle with its forelimbs uses a memory of the obstacle to guide the hind limbs so that they also clear the obstacle, even in situations in which long pauses are introduced between forelimb and hind limb stepping. To further clarify the features of hind limb obstacle clearance memory, the present study examined hind limb obstacle clearance in the horse. A rider guided horses over obstacles and paused the horse over obstacles in tests that examined the relationship between forelimb and hind limb stepping, with the following results. First, the horses displayed memory for an obstacle as measured by hind limb lifting over the obstacle for durations lasting as long as 15 min. The response was not dependent upon ongoing visualization of the obstacle, as limb lifting was unaffected by visual occlusion with blinders, a blindfold, or by removing the obstacle during the pause. Second, previous experience of stepping over an obstacle led to pause-related hind limb lifting at the object's previous location even on trials for which there was no obstacle and so no preceding forelimb lifting. Third, whereas a horse would lift its hind limbs to clear two successively presented obstacles, replacing an obstacle before the horse after the forelimbs had cleared the obstacle prevented subsequent hind limb lifting at the obstacle's previous location. Taken together the results show that hind limb obstacle clearance is guided by a place-object memory. The results are discussed in relation to the differential sensory and memonic control of forelimb and hind limb stepping with the suggestion that place-object memory can guide hind stepping as well as overshadow working memory from front leg stepping.
The serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor sibutramine has been licensed as an anti-obesity treatment for more than a decade. However, while inhibitory effects on food intake and weight gain are well documented, surprisingly little published detail exists regarding its influence on feeding and related behaviours. The present study was therefore designed to assess the effects of acute sibutramine treatment on food intake, the behavioural satiety sequence (BSS) and post-treatment weight gain. Subjects were 10 non-deprived adult male Lister hooded rats, tested with 0.5-3.0 mg/kg sibutramine hydrochloride during 1-h DVD-recorded test sessions with palatable mash. Our results show that sibutramine dose-dependently reduced food intake, an effect significant at all doses tested. Ethological analysis revealed very few behavioural effects, except for a dose-dependent reduction in time spent feeding and an increase in the frequency of resting. Behavioural specificity was further supported by time-bin analysis which confirmed both the structural integrity and dose-dependent acceleration of the BSS. Single dosing with sibutramine (3.0 mg/kg) also suppressed daily weight gain over the 24-72 h period post-dosing. Current data support the conclusion that the acute anorectic and weight loss efficacy of sibutramine in adult male rats is not secondary to behavioural disruption but, instead, is due largely to an acceleration in behavioural satiety.
The endovascular perforation model of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a commonly used model in rats as it is performed without a craniotomy and accurately mimics the physiological effects of SAH in humans. The long-term behavioural profile of the model, however, has not been characterized. Given that humans often have cognitive deficits following SAH, we set out to characterize the behavioural profile as well as the spontaneous temperature changes of rats following intraluminal perforation. Rats were pre-trained on three motor tasks (tapered beam, limb-use asymmetry and the horizontal ladder tasks) prior to receiving a SAH. The animals were then assessed on post-surgical days 3, 7, 14 and 21 on these tasks. At the completion of motor testing, the rats were assessed on a moving platform version of the Morris water task. Despite significant mortality (33%), SAH did not result in lasting motor deficits on any of the tasks examined. However, the SAH group did show a minor cognitive impairment in the Morris water task. In addition, SAH produced a slight, but significant elevation in body temperature (vs. sham operated rats) despite an acute decrease in general home cage activity. The majority of the animals did not have any observable infarcts and the SAH did not significantly affect cortical thickness. In summary, the endovascular perforation model of SAH results in no lasting motor deficits and only minor cognitive impairment in survivors, which alone would be difficult to evaluate in neuroprotection or rehabilitation studies.
An important aspect of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is its temporary amelioration by novelty and by stimulant medication. Extant learning-based accounts of ADHD are unable to account for the temporary amelioration effect. One possible mechanism is a drive for novelty. Computational simulations have previously shown that such a drive can result from a &quot;dopamine appetite&quot;. Empirical demonstration of such a process requires, as a first step, the development of standard criteria for identifying drive-based, versus learning-based, changes in behaviour. Using a variable-interval reinforcement schedule, we looked over a range of timescales for behavioural changes showing putative characteristics of drives, namely: low information content, unidirectionality, saturability, spontaneous reversibility in less than a day, and cycle stability. SHR lacks normal down-regulation of responding when the schedule becomes sparser. SHR appears to be re-learning the schedule length during the days of each calendar week. SHR hyperactivity is specific to the operant and develops gradually over the first five minutes of each session. Empirical within-session results were replicated by a simple simulation containing two interacting reward systems, one for water and the other for stimulation (including novelty). To summarise, enhanced sensation-seeking (or a subtype of it, novelty-seeking) provides the best available account of changes in SHR activity within sessions, though not of changes over longer timecourses. Sensation-seeking appears to be associated with low anxiety in the SHR. SHR propensity to display multiple influences on their behaviour makes them ideal for further pharmacological, genetic, and behavioural investigation.
Several existing theoretical models of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) predict that a high or low learning rate contributes to some cases of ADHD; and that this is controlled by the dopamine signal. The Spontaneously Hypertensive (Hyperactive) Rat has an abnormal Dopamine Transporter (DAT), which is likely to be hypofunctional, thereby increasing the dopamine concentration and the learning rate. We therefore test the prediction that the SHR learns too fast. Using a variable interval reinforcement schedule, we looked for increased responding within each interval, at around the durations of the last three intervals. At the time predicted by the previous interval, SHR responded significantly (10%) more than their baseline rate, and control WKY rats similarly less than their baseline. At the time predicted by the second (and third) previous intervals, there were minor trends (and no change) in the same direction. In summary, at the times predicted, SHR respond more than control rats. The effect size is insufficient to account for all the differences from control rats, such as their nearly threefold greater operant responding. At the times when SHR increase responding, WKY suppress it. This demonstrates similar learning to the SHR but the opposite response, probably due to anxiety about the bang accompanying reinforcer delivery: WKY are known to have a very negative response to stress. Interval schedules with randomised interval lengths have considerable potential for assessing multiple causes of behaviour, particularly those acting over short timecourses. Alterations in learning rate are not a sufficient explanation for either SHR or ADHD difference from controls.
Variable intervals are widely believed to produce steady rates of responding. However, based on the calming effect of unpredictability in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) we hypothesised that an animal model of this disorder, the Spontaneously Hyperactive (or Hypertensive) Rat, would become less active following particularly variable sequences of interval-lengths in a variable interval schedule. From a large dataset of holepokes and tray-reports by rats in a variable interval reinforcement schedule, we extracted numerous short sequences of intervals on the basis of the first, second, and third derivatives of reinforcement timing (i.e. rate, acceleration, and jerk) in recent intervals. Sets of selected intervals were compared with one another to elucidate the effect of these different derivatives on behaviour in the current interval. Results show that SHR are more active after richer recent reinforcement; after decelerating reinforcers; and after predictable reinforcers. The hypothesis is supported. In conclusion, SHR behaviour largely complies with the Extended Temporal Difference model which in turn has been previously validated against published data in ADHD. The Extended TD model therefore is able to account for two species' behaviour in a wide range of experimental paradigms. SHR are similar in several respects to group averages of children with ADHD, except that SHR have reduced variability and perform actions faster than controls. Hyperactivity in the SHR is very dependent on momentary environmentally determined states, which is an important area for future investigation of ADHD.
Regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) make up a diverse family primarily known as GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) for heterotrimeric G proteins. In addition to the RGS domain, which is responsible for GAP activity, most RGS proteins contain other distinct structural motifs. For example, members of the R7 family of RGS proteins contain a DEP, GGL, and novel DHEX domain and are obligatory dimers with G protein beta subunit Gbeta5. Here we show that the Gbeta5-RGS7 complex can inhibit Ca2+ mobilization elicited by muscarinic acetylcholine receptor type 3 (M3R), but not by other Gq-coupled receptors such as M1, M5, histamine H1, and GNRH receptors. The isolated DEP domain of RGS7 is sufficient for the inhibition of M3R signaling, whereas the deletion of the DEP domain renders the Gbeta5-RGS7 complex ineffective. Deletion of a portion of the third intracellular loop allowed the receptor (M3R-short) to signal but rendered it insensitive to the effect of the Gbeta5-RGS7 complex. Accordingly, the recombinant DEP domain bound in vitro to the GST-fused i3 loop of the M3R. These results identify a novel molecular mechanism that can impart receptor subtype selectivity on signal transduction via Gq-coupled muscarinic receptors.
During a police chase on foot, a previously well police officer was hit mistakenly by a taser shot meant for the suspect. The taser gun had been fired once, sending 2 barbed darts into his upper back and occiput. Within seconds, the officer collapsed and experienced a generalized tonic-clonic seizure with loss of consciousness and postictal confusion. Subsequent magnetic resonance imaging scans of the head and electroencephalograms were normal. The patient has experienced no recurrence of seizure over more than a year of follow-up. This report shows that a taser shot to the head may result in a brain-specific complication such as generalized tonic-clonic seizure. It also suggests that seizure should be considered an adverse event related to taser use.

With the use of a rabbit polyclonal antiserum against a conserved region (54-118) of C-peptide of human preproinsulin-like peptide 7, referred to herein as C-INSL7, neurons expressing C-INSL7-immunoreactivity (irC-INSL7) were detected in the pontine nucleus incertus, the lateral or ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, dorsal raphe nuclei and dorsal substantia nigra. Immunoreactive fibers were present in numerous forebrain areas, with a high density in the septum, hypothalamus and thalamus. Pre-absorption of C-INSL7 antiserum with the peptide C-INSL7 (1 microg/ml), but not the insulin-like peptide 7 (INSL7; 1 microg/ml), also known as relaxin 3, abolished the immunoreactivity. Optical imaging with a voltage-sensitive dye bis-[1,3-dibutylbarbituric acid] trimethineoxonol (DiSBAC4(3)) showed that C-INSL7 (100 nM) depolarized or hyperpolarized a small population of cultured rat hypothalamic neurons studied. Ratiometric imaging studies with calcium-sensitive dye fura-2 showed that C-INSL7 (10-1000 nM) produced a dose-dependent increase in cytosolic calcium concentrations [Ca2+]i in cultured hypothalamic neurons with two distinct patterns: (1) a sustained elevation lasting for minutes; and (2) a fast, transitory rise followed by oscillations. In a Ca2+-free Hanks' solution, C-INSL7 again elicited two types of calcium transients: (1) a fast, transitory increase not followed by a plateau phase, and (2) a transitory rise followed by oscillations. INSL7 (100 nM) elicited a depolarization or hyperpolarization in a small population of hypothalamic neurons, and an increase of [Ca2+]i with two patterns that were dissimilar from that of C-INSL7. [125I]C-INSL7 bindings to rat brain membranes were inhibited by C-INSL7 in a dose-dependent manner; the Kd and Bmax. values were 17.7 +/- 8.2 nM and 45.4 +/- 20.5 fmol/mg protein. INSL7 did not inhibit [125I]C-INSL7 binding to rat brain membranes, indicating that C-INSL7 and INSL7 bind to distinct binding sites. Collectively, our result raises the possibility that C-INSL7 acts as a signaling molecule independent from INSL7 in the rat CNS.
The circadian rhythms of mammals are generated by the circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus. Its intrinsic period is entrained to a 24 h cycle by external cues, mainly by light. Light impinging on the SCN at night causes either advancing or delaying phase shifts of the circadian clock. N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDAR) are the main glutamate receptors mediating the effect of light on the molecular clockwork in the SCN. They are composed of multiple subunits, each with specific characteristics whose mutual interactions strongly determine properties of the receptor. In the brain, the distribution of NMDAR subunits depends on the region and developmental stage. Here, we report the circadian expression of the NMDAR1 subunit in the adult rat SCN and depict its splice variants that may constitute the functional receptor channel in the SCN. During ontogenesis, expression of two of the NMDAR1 subunit splice variants, as well as the NMDAR3A and 3B subunits, exhibits developmental loss around the time of eye opening. Moreover, we demonstrate the spatial and developmental characteristics of the expression of the truncated splice form of NMDAR1 subunit NR1-E in the brain. Our data suggest that specific properties of the NMDAR subunits we describe within the SCN likely influence the photic transduction pathways mediating the clock entrainment. Furthermore, the developmental changes in NMDAR composition may contribute to the gradual postnatal maturation of the entrainment pathways.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) coordinates neuroendocrine and behavioral adaptations to stress. Acute CRH administration in vivo activates extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in limbic brain areas, acting through the CRH receptor type 1 (CRH-R1). In the present study, we used CRH-COE-Cam mice that overexpress CRH in limbic-restricted areas, to analyze the effect of chronic CRH overexpression on ERK1/2 activation. By immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy analysis we found that pERK1/2 levels in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) were similar in control and CRH overexpressing mice under basal conditions. Acute stress caused comparably increased levels of corticosterone in both control (CRH-COEcon-Cam) and CRH overexpressing (CRH-COEhom-Cam) animals. CRH-COEhom-Cam mice after stress showed reduced pERK1/2 immunoreactivity in the BLA compared to CRH-COEhom-Cam animals under basal conditions. Radioligand binding and in situ hybridization revealed higher density of CRH-R1 in the amygdala of CRH-COEhom mice under basal conditions compared to control littermates. A significant reduction of the receptor levels was observed in this area after acute stress, suggesting that stress may trigger CRH-R1 internalization/downregulation in these CRH overexpressing mice. Chronic CRH overexpression leads to reduced ERK1/2 activation in response to acute stress in the BLA.
Most forms of Parkinson's disease (PD) are sporadic in nature, but some have genetic causes as first described for the alpha-synuclein gene. The alpha-synuclein protein also accumulates as insoluble aggregates in Lewy bodies in sporadic PD as well as in most inherited forms of PD. The focus of the present study is the modulation of synaptic plasticity in the corticostriatal pathway of transgenic (Tg) mice that overexpress the human alpha-synuclein protein throughout the brain (ASOTg). Paired-pulse facilitation was detected in vitro by activation of corticostriatal afferents in ASOTg mice, consistent with a presynaptic effect of elevated human alpha-synuclein. However basal synaptic transmission was unchanged in ASOTg, suggesting that human alpha-synuclein could impact paired-pulse facilitation via a presynaptic mechanism not directly related to the probability of neurotransmitter release. Mice lacking alpha-synuclein or those expressing normal and A53T human alpha-synuclein in tyrosine hydroxylase-containing neurons showed, instead, paired-pulse depression. High-frequency stimulation induced a presynaptic form of long-term depression solely in ASOTg striatum. A presynaptic, N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-independent form of chemical long-term potentiation induced by forskolin (FSK) was enhanced in ASOTg striatum, while FSK-induced cAMP levels were reduced in ASOTg synaptoneurosome fractions. Overall the results suggest that elevated human alpha-synuclein alters presynaptic plasticity in the corticostriatal pathway, possibly reflecting a reduction in glutamate at corticostriatal synapses by modulation of adenylyl cyclase signaling pathways. ASOTg mice may recapitulate an early stage in PD during which overexpressed alpha-synuclein dampens corticostriatal synaptic transmission and reduces movement.
Islet-associated protein 2 (IA-2) and IA-2beta are major autoantigens in type 1 diabetes and transmembrane proteins in dense core secretory vesicles (DCV) of neuroendocrine cells. The deletion of these genes results in a decrease in insulin secretion. The present study was initiated to test the hypothesis that this deletion not only affects the secretion of insulin, but has a more global effect on neuroendocrine secretion that leads to disturbances in behavior and learning. Measurement of neurotransmitters showed that norepinephrine, dopamine and 5-HT were significantly decreased in the brain of double knockout (DKO) mice (P&lt;0.05 to &lt;0.001). In tests evaluating anxiety-like behavior and conditioned-learning, the DKO mice showed a highly significant increase in anxiety-like behavior (P&lt;0.01 to &lt;0.001) and impairment of conditioned learning (P&lt;0.01) as compared to WT mice. The DKO mice also displayed an increase in spontaneous and induced seizures (P&lt;0.01) and age-related death. Contrary to the generally held view that IA-2 and IA-2beta are expressed exclusively in DCV, subcellular fractionation studies revealed that IA-2beta, but not IA-2, co-purifies with fractions rich in synaptic vesicles (SV), and that the secretion of dopamine, GABA and glutamate from the synaptosomes of the DKO mice was significantly decreased as was the number of SV (P&lt;0.01). Taken together, these findings show that IA-2beta is present in both DCV and SV, and that the deletion of IA-2/IA-2beta has a global effect on the secretion of neurotransmitters. The impairment of secretion leads to behavioral and learning disturbances, seizures and reduced lifespan.
We have previously shown that axonal growth from a subset of sensory neurons was promoted by keratinocytes when the two cell types were co-cultured in a low calcium medium. This phenomenon involves the production of one or several diffusible factors. Here we show that the neuritogenic effect of keratinocytes was significantly reduced in the case of rat primary sensory dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, or completely suppressed in the case of the sensory neuron cell line ND7-23, when the activity of neurotrophin receptors (Trk receptors) was blocked with K252a. This trophic effect apparently involved the activation of tyrosine kinase receptors A and B (TrkA and TrkB) expressed by subpopulations of small- to medium-sized DRG neurons, or only of TrkA receptors in the case of ND7-23 neurons. A residual neurite growth promoting effect of keratinocytes persisted in a fraction of DRG neurons after Trk receptor blockade. This effect was mimicked by the steroid dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) but not by other steroids such as pregnenolone, progesterone or 17beta-estradiol. The use of pharmacological agents which inhibit different steps of steroidogenesis indicated that DHEA was probably synthesized from cholesterol in keratinocytes. Our results strongly suggest that DHEA might act as a neurotrophic signal derived from keratinocytes to promote axonal outgrowth from a subpopulation of sensory neurons.
In rats and primates, the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeN) is most known for its role in responses to fear stimuli. Recent evidence also shows that the CeN is required for directing attention and behaviors when the salience of competing stimuli is in flux. To examine how information flows through this key output region of the primate amygdala, we first placed small injections of retrograde tracers into the subdivisions of the central nucleus in Old world primates, and examined inputs from specific amygdaloid nuclei. The amygdalostriatal area and interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure (IPAC) were distinguished from the CeN using histochemical markers, and projections to these regions were also described. As expected, the basal nucleus and accessory basal nucleus are the main afferent connections of the central nucleus and transition zones. The medial subdivision of the central nucleus (CeM) receives a significantly stronger input from all regions compared to the lateral core subdivision (CeLcn). The corticoamygdaloid transition zone (a zone of confluence of the medial parvicellular basal nucleus, paralaminar nucleus, and the sulcal periamygdaloid cortex) provides the main input to the CeLcn. The IPAC and amygdalostriatal area can be divided in medial and lateral subregions, and receive input from the basal and accessory basal nucleus, with differential inputs according to subdivision. The piriform cortex and lateral nucleus, two important sensory interfaces, send projections to the transition zones. In sum, the CeM receives broad inputs from the entire amygdala, whereas the CeLcn receives more restricted inputs from the relatively undifferentiated corticoamygdaloid transition region. Like the CeN, the transition zones receive most of their input from the basal nucleus and accessory basal nucleus, however, inputs from the piriform cortex and lateral nucleus, and a lack of input from the parvicellular accessory basal nucleus, are distinguishing afferent features.
The En2 gene, coding for the homeobox-containing transcription factor Engrailed-2 (EN2), has been associated to autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Due to neuroanatomical and behavioral abnormalities, which partly resemble those observed in ASD patients, En2 knockout (En2(-/-)) mice have been proposed as a model for ASD. In the mouse embryo, En2 is involved in the specification of midbrain/hindbrain regions, being predominantly expressed in the developing cerebellum and ventral midbrain, and its expression is maintained in these structures until adulthood. Here we show that in the adult mouse brain, En2 mRNA is expressed also in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Hippocampal En2 mRNA content decreased after seizures induced by kainic acid (KA). This suggests that En2 might also influence the functioning of forebrain areas during adulthood and in response to seizures. Indeed, a reduced expression of parvalbumin and somatostatin was detected in the hippocampus of En2(-/-) mice as compared to wild-type (WT) mice, indicating an altered GABAergic innervation of limbic circuits in En2(-/-) mice. In keeping with these results, En2(-/-) mice displayed an increased susceptibility to KA-induced seizures. KA (20 mg/kg) determined more severe and prolonged generalized seizures in En2(-/-) mice, when compared to WT animals. Seizures were accompanied by a widespread c-fos and c-jun mRNA induction in the brain of En2(-/-) but not WT mice. Long-term histopathological changes (CA1 cell loss, upregulation of neuropeptide Y) also occurred in the hippocampus of KA-treated En2(-/-) but not WT mice. These findings suggest that En2(-/-) mice might be used as a novel tool to study the link between epilepsy and ASD.
The avian hippocampal formation (HF) is reported to have a role equivalent to that of the mammalian hippocampus, which may involve the glutamatergic system as well. In the present paper we offer evidence of the occurrence and distribution of the subunits composing AMPA-type glutamate receptors on neurons in the hippocampus region of the pigeon brain. The experiment analyzed the immunolabeling of glutamate receptor (GluR)(1)(,) GluR(4,) and GluR(2/3) receptor subunits in adult pigeons and found consistent evidence that neurons located in the five main areas of the avian HF have these AMPA-type subunits, but their incidence varies according to position and neuro-type. About 20%-35% of the irregular and 35%-70% of the triangular neurons on the lateral and medial &quot;V&quot; arms contain GluR(1) and GluR(2/3), while GluR(4) was found only at rounded neurons. The majority of the triangular neurons (over 90%) and about half of the irregular neurons in the medial area contain GluR(1) and GluR(2/3,) whereas the rounded neurons contain primarily GluR(4) (95%). Labeling revealed GluR(1) (40%-60%) and GluR(2/3) (30%) in the dorsomedial and lateral areas but only in irregular neurons, while 60%-80% of the rounded neurons synthesize GluR(4). While triangular and irregular neurons appear to match the description of projecting neurons, rounded ones seem to participate in local circuits. A discussion of the functional significance of the avian HF concentrates on a postulation of the &quot;V&quot; arms as equivalent to the dentate gyrus and the dorsomedial area being similar to the Ammon's horn.
A rat model of complete sciatic nerve transection was used to evaluate the effect of bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMC) transplanted to the injury site immediately after lesion. Rats treated with BMMC had both sensory and motor axons reaching the distal stump earlier compared to untreated animals. In addition, BMMC transplantation reduced cell death in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) compared to control animals. Transplanted BMMC remained in the lesion site for several days but there is no evidence of BMMC differentiation into Schwann cells. However, an increase in the number of Schwann cells, satellite cells and astrocytes was observed in the treated group. Moreover, neutralizing antibodies for nerve growth factor (NGF) (but not for brain-derived neurotrophic factor and ciliary-derived neurotrophic factor) added to the BMMC-conditioned medium reduced neurite growth of sensory and sympathetic neurons in vitro, suggesting that BMMC release NGF, improve regeneration of the sciatic nerve in the adult rat and stimulate Schwann and satellite cell proliferation or a combination of both.
The effect of experimentally induced acute renal failure (ARF) on neuronal cell activation was investigated by immunohistochemistry for Fos and Fra-2 in the rat brain. ARF in rats was induced by bilateral nephrectomy (BNX), bilateral ureter ligature (BUL) and uranyl acetate injection with proper controls (sham-operation or saline injections, respectively). To follow the effect of the development of ARF, rats were killed 30 and 60 min, and 3, 12, 24 and 72 h after surgery, or 3 h to 12 days after uranyl acetate injections. In the BUL and BNX rats, urea and creatinine rose markedly in the plasma within 72 h, while in the uranyl acetate-injected rats the highest levels were observed on the 7th day, followed by a marked decline. At each time-point of the three different, experimentally induced ARF, the presence of Fos- and/or Fra-2-immunoreactive neurons was determined in 120 different brain areas and nuclei. In general, the 73 of 120 brain areas that showed time and intensity dependent activation in response to ARF can be classified into four groups: 1) biogenic amine (noradrenaline, adrenaline, histamine and 5-HT) expressing cell groups in the lower brainstem, 2) &quot;stress-sensitive&quot; forebrain areas, with regard to certain hypothalamic, limbic and cortical areas, 3) neuronal cell groups that participate in the central regulation of body and brain water and electrolyte homeostasis, including the circumventricular organs, and 4) central autonomic cell groups, especially visceral sensory cell groups in the brain, which are in primary, secondary or tertiary connections with renal afferents. Data presented here indicate that a wide variety of neurons in several regulatory mechanisms is affected by ARF-induced peripheral and central alterations.
Several studies have shown that the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin, 5-HT) system is severely affected after degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. In the present study, we examined the changes in the firing rate and firing pattern of the dorsal and median raphe nuclei (DRN and MRN) 5-HT neurons, and the effect of the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist (R)-(+)-8-hydroxy-2-(dipropylamino)tetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT) and antagonist (N-(2-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-2-pyridylcyclohexane carboxamide maleate salt (WAY-100635) on the neuronal firing in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta by using extracellular recording. The unilateral lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway significantly increased the mean firing rate of DRN and MRN 5-HT neurons compared with normal rats, and the firing pattern of these neurons also changed significantly towards a more bursty one. The lower dose of 8-OH-DPAT, 4 microg/kg (cumulative doses, i.v.), completely inhibited the firing activity of all DRN and MRN 5-HT neurons examined in normal and sham rats. In contrast to normal and sham rats, only the higher doses of 8-OH-DPAT, 128 and 64 microg/kg, completely inhibited the firing rate of DRN and MRN 5-HT neurons in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, respectively. Furthermore, the local application of 8-OH-DPAT, 1.5 microg, in the DRN completely inhibited the firing rate of 5-HT neurons in normal and sham rats, while having no effect on firing rate in the lesioned rats. Altogether, these results indicate that lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway leads to hyperactivity of DRN and MRN 5-HT neurons, suggesting the implication of the DRN and MRN in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease, and the decreased response of these 5-HT neurons to 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation, reflecting 5-HT(1A) receptor dysfunction in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats.
The experimental model of cortical dysplasia (CD) obtained by administering carmustine (1-3-bis-chloroethyl-nitrosurea [BCNU]) in pregnant rat uterus mimics the histopathological abnormalities observed in human CD patients: altered cortical layering, and presence of heterotopia and dysmorphic/heterotopic neurons. To investigate further the cortical layering disruption and the neuronal composition of heterotopia in BCNU-exposed cortex, we analyzed the expression pattern of the transcription factors Nurr1, Er81, Ror-beta, and Cux2 (respectively specific markers of layers VI, V, IV and superficial layers) in the cortical areas of BCNU-treated rats by means of in situ hybridization, and compared the findings with those observed in adult control rats. Combining in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry we also investigated the origin of dysmorphic or heterotopic neurons. The main results of the present study are (i) the analysis of cortical layer thickness revealed that the cortical thinning in the BCNU model was prevalently restricted to the superficial layers; (ii) in cortical and periventricular heterotopia, the prevalent presence of superficial layer neurons in the internal areas, and deeper layer neurons in a more peripheral region, demonstrated a rudimentary pattern of laminar organization in nodule formation; and (iii) the Er81 signal in the dysmorphic and heterotopic pyramidal neurons located in layers I/II showed that they belong to layer V. These results shed light on the disorganization of the laminar architecture of the BCNU model by providing correlations with normal cortical layering and revealing the ontogenesis of heterotopia and heterotopic/dysmorphic neurons. They also provide strong evidence of the usefulness of layer-specific markers in investigating the neuropathology of CD, thus opening up the possibility of expanding their application to human neuropathology.
This study aimed to determine the potential of in vivo functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) methods as a non-invasive means of detecting effects of increased 5-HT release in brain. Changes in blood-oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) contrast induced by administration of the 5-HT-releasing agent, fenfluramine, were measured in selected brain regions of halothane-anesthetized rats. Initial immunohistochemical measurements of the marker of neural activation, Fos, confirmed that in halothane-anesthetized rats fenfluramine (10 mg/kg i.v.) evoked cellular responses in cortical regions which were attenuated by pre-treatment with the 5-HT synthesis inhibitor p-chlorophenylalanine (300 mg/kg i.p. once daily for 2 days). Fenfluramine-induced Fos was demonstrated in numerous glutamatergic pyramidal neurons (Fos/excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) co-labeled), but also a small number of GABA interneurons (Fos/glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)(67) colabeled). Fenfluramine (10 mg/kg i.v.) evoked changes in BOLD signal intensity in a number of cortical and sub-cortical regions with the greatest effects being observed in the nucleus accumbens (-13.0%+/-2.7%), prefrontal cortex (-10.1%+/-3.2%) and motor cortex (+2.3%+/-1.0%). Pre-treatment with p-chlorophenylalanine, significantly attenuated the response to fenfluramine (10 mg/kg i.v.) in all regions with the exception of the motor cortex which showed a trend. These experiments demonstrate that increased 5-HT release evokes region-specific changes in the BOLD signal in rats, and that this effect is attenuated in almost all regions by 5-HT depletion. These findings support the use of fMRI imaging methods as a non-invasive tool to study 5-HT function in animal models, with the potential for extension to clinical studies.
To perform visually guided hand movements the visuo-motor system transforms visual information into movement parameters, invoking both central and peripheral processes. Central visuo-motor processes are active in the CNS, whereas peripheral processes are active at the neuromuscular junction. A major share of research attention regarding central visuo-motor processes concerns the question which parameters the CNS controls to guide the hand from one point to another. Findings in the literature are inconsistent. Whereas some researchers suggest that the CNS controls the hand displacement vector, others suggest that it controls final hand position. The current paper introduces a paradigm and analysis method designed to identify the parameters that the CNS controls to guide the hand. We use simulations to validate our analysis in the presence of peripheral visuo-motor noise and to estimate the level of peripheral noise in our data. Using our new tools, we show that hand movements are controlled either in terms of the hand displacement vector or in terms of final hand position, depending on the way visual information relevant for movement production is specified. Interestingly, our new analysis method reveals a difference in central visuo-motor processes, even though a traditional analysis of movement endpoint distributions does not. We estimate the level of peripheral noise in our data to be less than or equal to 40%. Based on our results we conclude that the CNS is flexible with regard to the parameters it controls to guide the hand; that spatial distributions of movement endpoints are not necessarily indicative of central visuo-motor processes; and that both peripheral and central noise has to be carefully considered in the interpretation of movement data.
Although hydrocephalus is usually considered a disorder of periventricular white matter, disturbance of gray matter is probably also involved. However, so far gray matter metabolism has not been studied in experimental hydrocephalus using high resolution in vivo magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). Therefore 15 rats were made hydrocephalic by injection of 0.1 ml kaolin into the cisterna magna, whereas 10 sham-operated rats served as controls. (1)H MRS and magnetic resonance imaging were performed longitudinally in acute hydrocephalus 2 and 4 weeks after kaolin treatment and in chronic hydrocephalus after 6 weeks. Volumes of interest included the gray matter regions cortex, thalamus and hippocampus. In hydrocephalic animals, (1)H MRS revealed decreased glutamate levels in all examined areas at all time points. Moreover, in acute hydrocephalus disturbances were noted in the hippocampus with decreased concentrations of N-acetyl aspartate, creatine, inositol and taurine, and in the cortex with decreased taurine levels. A clear lactate peak was detected in CSF spectra from hydrocephalic rats. In addition, T2-weighted images showed increase of free water in the hippocampus. It can be concluded that glutamate metabolism is deranged in gray matter in acute and chronic hydrocephalus in rats. If confirmed in humans, early detection of glutamatergic disturbances and lactate accumulation using in vivo(1)H MRS might serve as an indication for surgical treatment of hydrocephalus before irreversible neuronal damage develops.
Although sex differences have been reported in hippocampal-dependent learning and memory, including contextual fear memories, the underlying molecular mechanisms contributing to such differences are not well understood. The present study examined the extent to which sex differences in contextual fear conditioning are related to differential activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK/MAPK), a protein kinase critically involved in memory formation. We first show that male rats exhibit more long-term retention of contextual fear conditioning than female rats. During a tone test, females spent more time freezing than males, although both sexes exhibited robust retention of auditory fear learning. Using Western blot analysis, we then show that phosphorylated ERK levels in ventral, but not dorsal, hippocampus are higher in males than females, relative to same-sex controls, 60 minutes after fear conditioning. Post-conditioning increases in ERK activation were observed in the amygdala in both males and females, suggesting a selective effect of sex on hippocampal ERK activation. Together, these findings suggest that differential activation of the ERK signal transduction pathway in male and female rats, particularly in the ventral hippocampus, is associated with sex differences in contextual fear.
Excitability and axon/dendrite specification are the most distinctive features in the establishment of neuronal polarization. Conditioned medium from rat sciatic nerve (CM) induced a neuronal-like morphology in PC12 cells. Here we show that CM neuritogenic activity is limited to the induction of dendrites in PC12 cells. However, treatment of these cells with CM in combination with a generic inhibitor for tyrosine kinase receptors (k252a) promoted the enhancement of neurite length, development of axons and induction of sodium currents. On the other hand, specific inhibition of TrkA and p75(NTR) receptors in CM-treated cells reduced the neurite length in comparison with cells treated only with CM, although the effect over the induction of sodium currents was continuously observed. These results suggested that CM had some components that, even though are able to start the morphological cell differentiation and produce short neurites (likely acting through TrkA and p75(NTR)), can restrain further neurite extension. Depletion of pro-NGF isoforms from CM produced a similar effect as the exerted by k252a, TrkA and p75(NTR) receptor inhibitors in CM-treated cells, inducing the elicitation of sodium currents. These results suggested that the effect of CM might be mediated through pro-NGF. The difference between the results obtained with the generic inhibitor for Trk receptors and the specific inhibitors for TrkA and p75(NTR) receptors in CM-treated cells, suggested that alternative pathways could be used to regulate neurite elongation, axon specification and sodium currents in PC12 cells. These findings represent important clues to improve the understanding of the initiation of neuronal polarity.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether nicotine acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are expressed in a more pronounced way in astrocytes co-cultured with microvascular endothelial cells from adult rat brain, compared with monocultured astrocytes, as a sign of a more developed signal transduction system. Also investigated was whether nicotine plays a role in the control of neuroinflammatory reactivity in astrocytes. Ca(2+) imaging experiments were performed using cells loaded with the Ca(2+) indicator Fura-2/AM. Co-cultured astrocytes responded to lower concentrations of nicotine than did monocultured astrocytes, indicating that they are more sensitive to nicotine. Co-cultured astrocytes also expressed a higher selectivity for alpha7nAChR and alpha4/beta2 subunits and evoked higher Ca(2+) transients compared with monocultured astrocytes. The Ca(2+) transients referred to are activators of Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores, both IP(3) and ryanodine, triggered by influx through receptor channels. The nicotine-induced Ca(2+) transients were attenuated after incubation with the inflammatory mediator lipopolysaccharide (LPS), but were not attenuated after incubation with the pain-transmitting peptides substance P and calcitonin-gene-related peptide, nor with the infection and inflammation stress mediator, leptin. Furthermore, LPS-induced release of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was more pronounced in co-cultured versus monocultured astrocytes. Incubation with both LPS and IL-1beta further attenuated nicotine-induced Ca(2+) response. We also found that LPS and IL-1beta induced rearrangement of the F-actin filaments, as measured with an Alexa488-conjugated phalloidin probe. The rearrangements consisted of increases in ring formations and a more dispersed appearance of the filaments. These results indicate that there is a connection between a dysfunction of nicotine Ca(2+) signaling in inflammatory reactive astrocytes and upregulation of IL-1beta and the rearrangements of actin filaments in the cells.
Mobilization and translation of mRNAs, two important events believed to involve stress granules (SGs), in neurons are important for their survival and activities. However, the formation and disassembly of SGs in neurons remains unclear. By using an arsenite-induced neuronal stress model of rat primary spinal cord neuron cultures, we demonstrate the formation of SGs that contain common SG components and RNAs in both stressed neuronal cell bodies and their neurites. By employing small interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown, we discovered that dynein motor subunit localizes in SG, and is important for SG assembly in neurons. Under stress, dynein motor subunit also facilitates translational repression and enhances the formation and integrity of SG in neurons. By blocking the energy source of dynein motor, both the formation and disassembly of SG are attenuated. These findings demonstrate, for the first time, that dynein motor complex plays a critical role in the dynamics of neuronal SGs, as well as translation of certain mRNAs.
Brain asymmetry is linked with several neurological diseases, and transthyretin (TTR) is a protein sequestering beta-amyloid (Abeta) and helping to prevent the Alzheimer's disease (AD). We show, by real time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), in situ hybridization and Western blotting, that TTR exhibits a pattern of adult male-specific, leftward distribution in the mouse brain. This asymmetry appeared to be mainly due to the asymmetric distribution of the choroid plexus cells in the ventricles. Unlike the normal mice, however, the hemispheric levels of TTR transcripts of 2- and 6-month-old Tg2576 mice, a transgenic AD mouse model overexpressing Abeta, were symmetric in both sexes. Furthermore, at the age of 10 months when the pathological AD-like features had developed, the level of TTR transcripts in the left hemisphere of the male Tg2576 became significantly lower than the right one. This lowering of TTR transcript is accompanied with a higher Abeta level in the left hemisphere of the 10-month Tg2576 males. Finally, for both genders, the TTR transcript levels in the two hemispheres of aged Tg2576 mice were lower than either the adult Tg2576 or the aged nontransgenic controls. Based on the above, we suggest scenarios to correlate the changes in the levels and hemispheric patterns of TTR expression to the pathogenesis of AD.
The type 1 chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP-1) has been implicated in the generation of inflammatory and neuropathic pain, but the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. Here we show that mechanical hyperalgesia induced by intradermal injection of MCP-1 in the rat is blocked by the intrathecal administration of isolectin B4 (IB4)-saporin, a selective neurotoxin for IB4(+)/Ret(+)-nociceptors. MCP-1-induced hyperalgesia is also attenuated by intrathecal antisense oligodeoxynucleotides targeting mRNA for versican, a molecule that binds MCP-1 and that also renders the Ret-expressing nociceptors IB4-positive (+). Finally, peripheral administration of ADAMTS-4 or chondroitinase ABC, two enzymes that disrupt versican integrity by the degradation of the versican core-protein or its chondroitin sulfate glycosaminoglycan side chains, respectively, also attenuated MCP-1 hyperalgesia at the site of nociceptive testing. We suggest that versican's glycosaminoglycan side chains present MCP-1 to a CCR2 expressing cell type in the skin that, in turn, selectively activates IB4(+)/Ret(+) nociceptors, thereby contributing to enhanced mechanical sensitivity under inflammatory conditions.
Previous studies have demonstrated that rodents' chorda tympani (CT) nerve fibers responding to NaCl can be classified according to their sensitivities to the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) blocker amiloride into two groups: amiloride-sensitive (AS) and -insensitive (AI). The AS fibers were shown to respond specifically to NaCl, whereas AI fibers broadly respond to various electrolytes, including NaCl. These data suggest that salt taste transduction in taste cells may be composed of at least two different systems; AS and AI ones. To further address this issue, we investigated the responses to NaCl, KCl and HCl and the amiloride sensitivity of mouse fungiform papilla taste bud cells which are innervated by the CT nerve. Comparable with the CT data, the results indicated that 56 NaCl-responsive cells tested were classified into two groups; 25 cells ( approximately 44%) narrowly responded to NaCl and their NaCl response were inhibited by amiloride (AS cells), whereas the remaining 31 cells ( approximately 56%) responded not only to NaCl, but to KCl and/or HCl and showed no amiloride inhibition of NaCl responses (AI cells). Amiloride applied to the basolateral side of taste cells had no effect on NaCl responses in the AS and AI cells. Single cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) experiments indicated that ENaC subunit mRNA was expressed in a subset of AS cells. These findings suggest that the mouse fungiform taste bud is composed of AS and AI cells that can transmit taste information differently to their corresponding types of CT fibers, and apical ENaCs may be involved in the NaCl responses of AS cells.
Large aspiny neurons and most of the GABAergic interneurons survive transient cerebral ischemia while medium spiny neurons degenerate in 24 h. Expression of a long-term enhancement of excitatory transmission in medium spiny neurons but not in large aspiny neurons has been indicated to contribute to this selective vulnerability. Because neuronal excitability is determined by the counterbalance of excitation and inhibition, the present study examined inhibitory synaptic transmission in large aspiny neurons after ischemia in rats. Transient cerebral ischemia was induced for 22 min using the four-vessel occlusion method and whole-cell voltage-clamp recording was performed on striatal slices. The amplitudes of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents in large aspiny neurons were significantly increased at 3 and 24 h after ischemia, which was mediated by the increase of presynaptic release. Postsynaptic responses were depressed at 24 h after ischemia. Inhibitory postsynaptic currents could be evoked in large aspiny neurons at 24 h after ischemia, suggesting that they receive GABAergic inputs from the survived GABAergic interneurons. Muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, presynaptically facilitated inhibitory synaptic transmission at 24 h after ischemia. Such facilitation was dependent on the extracellular calcium and voltage-gated sodium channels. The present study demonstrates an enhancement of inhibitory synaptic transmission in large aspiny neurons after ischemia, which might reduce excitotoxicity and contribute, at least in part, to the survival of large aspiny neurons. Our data also suggest that large aspiny neurons might receive inhibitory inputs from GABAergic interneurons.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthases (nNOS) is distributed throughout the central nervous system (CNS) and has been proposed to modulate neuronal activity in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS). Here, we investigated whether the activation of nNOS is involved in insulin-induced cardiovascular responses in the NTS. Insulin (100 IU/ml) was unilaterally microinjected into the NTS, and the cardiovascular effects were evaluated before and after microinjection of the nNOS inhibitors 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) (5 pmol) and N(5)-(1-imino-3-butenyl)-l-ornithine (vinyl-L-NIO) (600 pmol). Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses were performed to determine nNOS phosphorylation levels after insulin or phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor LY294002 microinjection into the NTS. Unilateral microinjection of insulin into the NTS produced prominent depressor and bradycardic effects in WKY rats. Pretreatment with the nNOS inhibitors 7-NI and Vinyl-L-NIO attenuated the cardiovascular response evoked by insulin in Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Moreover, Western blot analysis showed a significant increase in nNOS (16.5+/-0.4-fold; P&lt;0.05; n=4) phosphorylation after insulin injection, whereas the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 abolished the insulin-induced effects. In situ nNOS phosphorylation was found to be increased in the NTS after insulin injection. Furthermore, co-immunoprecipitation assay showed Akt and nNOS can bind to each other as detected by phospho-Akt(S473) and phospho-nNOS(S1416) antibodies. In vitro kinase assay showed insulin activated Akt can directly phosphorylate nNOS(S1416). These results demonstrated that nNOS may couple with the activation of the insulin receptor, via the liberation of NO, in order to participate in central cardiovascular regulation of WKY rats.
The prefrontal cortex is highly vulnerable to traumatic brain injury (TBI) resulting in the dysfunction of many high-level cognitive and executive functions such as planning, information processing speed, language, memory, attention, and perception. All of these processes require some degree of working memory. Interestingly, in many cases, post-injury working memory deficits can arise in the absence of overt damage to the prefrontal cortex. Recently, excess GABA-mediated inhibition of prefrontal neuronal activity has been identified as a contributor to working memory dysfunction within the first month following cortical impact injury of rats. However, it has not been examined if these working memory deficits persist, and if so, whether they remain amenable to treatment by GABA antagonism. Our findings show that working memory dysfunction, assessed using both the delay match-to-place and delayed alternation T-maze tasks, following lateral cortical impact injury persists for at least 16 weeks post-injury. These deficits were found to be no longer the direct result of excess GABA-mediated inhibition of medial prefrontal cortex neuronal activity. Golgi staining of prelimbic pyramidal neurons revealed that TBI causes a significant shortening of layers V/VI basal dendrite arbors by 4 months post-injury, as well as an increase in the density of both basal and apical spines in these neurons. These changes were not observed in animals 14 days post-injury, a time point at which administration of GABA receptor antagonists improves working memory function. Taken together, the present findings, along with previously published reports, suggest that temporal considerations must be taken into account when designing mechanism-based therapies to improve working memory function in TBI patients.
Ca(v)2.2 high voltage-gated calcium channels are regulated by phorbol-12-myristae, 13-acetate (PMA) via Ser/Thr protein kinase C (PKC) phosphorylation sites in the I-II linker and C-terminus of the alpha(1) 2.2 subunit. Here we show that PMA enhancement of Ca(v)2.2 currents expressed in Xenopus oocytes can be blocked by inhibitors of PKC betaII or PKC epsilon isozymes, as shown previously for Ca(v)2.3 currents, and that microinjection of PKC betaII or PKC epsilon isozymes in the oocytes expressing the WT Ca(v)2.2 channels increases the basal barium current (I(Ba)). The I-V plot shows a large increase in current amplitude with PKC betaII and PKC epsilon isozymes with only a small shift in the peak I(Ba) in the hyperpolarizing direction. The potentiation of Ca(v)2.2 currents by microinjection of PKC betaII and PKC epsilon isozymes was not altered by the inhibition of G proteins with GDPbetaS. The combination of isozyme specific inhibitors with previously generated Ser/Thr to Ala mutants of alpha(1) 2.2 subunit revealed that PKC betaII or PKC epsilon isozymes (but not PKC alpha or delta) can provide full enhancement through the stimulatory site (Thr-422) in the I-II linker but that PKC epsilon is better at decreasing channel activity through the inhibitory site Ser-425. The enhancing effect of PKC betaII or epsilon at Thr-422 is dominant over the inhibitory effect at Ser-425. Injected PKC betaII also enhances Ca(v)2.2 current when any of the potential stimulatory sites (Ser-1757, Ser-2108 and Ser-2132) are available in the C-terminus. PKC epsilon provides lesser enhancement with C-terminal sites and only with Ser-2108 and Ser-2132. Sites Ser-1757 and Ser-2132, but not Ser-2108, are dominant over the inhibitory site Ser-425. Collectively, these results reveal a hierarchy of regulatory sites in Ca(v)2.2 channels. Site-specific regulation by different PKC isozymes may allow graded levels of channel activation and susceptibility or resistance to subsequent stimulatory events.
We aimed to examine whether thalidomide might inhibit the neuronal damage resulting from focal cerebral ischemia, and if so to explore the neuroprotective mechanism. Focal cerebral ischemia was induced by permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in mice, and thalidomide was intraperitoneally administered a total of three times (at 10 min before, just before, and 1 h after MCAO). Thalidomide significantly reduced (a) the infarct area and volume at 24 and 72 h after MCAO and (b) the neurological score at 72 h after MCAO. Brains were also histochemically assessed for apoptosis and lipid peroxidation using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) staining and an antibody recognizing 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), respectively. Thalidomide reduced both the number of TUNEL-positive cells and the oxidative damage. However, post-treatment of thalidomide [20 mg/kg, three times (at just after, 1 h after, 3 h after MCAO)] did not reduce the infarct volume. In an in vitro study, we examined the effects of thalidomide on lipid peroxidation in mouse brain homogenates and on the production of various radical species. Thalidomide inhibited both the lipid peroxidation and the production of H(2)O(2) and O(2).(-) (but not HO(-)) radicals. We also measured the brain concentration of TNF-alpha by ELISA. The TNF-alpha level in the brain was significantly increased at 9-24 h after MCAO. However, thalidomide did not reduce the elevated TNF-alpha level at either 12 or 24 h after MCAO. These findings indicate that thalidomide has neuroprotective effects against ischemic neuronal damage in mice, and that an inhibitory action of thalidomide against oxidative stress may be partly responsible for these neuroprotective effects.
Numerous studies have established a link between individuals with affective disorders and a dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, most notably characterized by a reduced sensitivity to glucocorticoid negative (-) feedback. Furthermore there is a sex difference in the etiology of mood disorders with incidence in females being two to three times that of males, an association that may be a result of the influence of estradiol (E2) on HPA axis function. In these studies, we have examined the effect of E2 on glucocorticoid-mediated HPA axis (-) feedback during both the diurnal peak and the stress-induced rise in corticosterone (CORT). Young adult female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were ovariectomized (OVX) and 1 week later treated subcutaneous (s.c.) with oil or estradiol benzoate (EB) for 4 days. On the 4th day of treatment, animals were injected with a single dose of dexamethasone (DEX), or vehicle. EB treatment significantly increased the evening elevation in CORT and the stress-induced rise in CORT. In contrast, DEX treatment reduced the diurnal and stress induced rise in CORT and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), and this reduction was not apparent following co-treatment with EB. To determine a potential site of E2's action, female SD rats were OVX and 1 week later, wax pellets containing E2, the estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) agonist diarylpropionitrile (DPN), or the estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) agonist propylpyrazoletriol (PPT), was implanted bilaterally and dorsal to the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). Seven days later, animals were injected s.c. with a single dose of DEX, or vehicle to test for glucocorticoid-dependent (-) feedback. Results show that E2 and PPT increased, while DPN decreased the diurnal peak and stress-induced CORT and ACTH levels as compared to controls. Furthermore, E2 and PPT impaired the ability of DEX to inhibit both the diurnal and the stress-induced rise in CORT and ACTH, whereas DPN had no effect. Neuronal activation was measured by c-fos mRNA expression within the PVN following restraint. E2 and PPT increased c-fos mRNA, and impaired the normal DEX suppression of neuronal activation in the PVN. Taken together, these data indicate that estradiol causes a dysregulation of HPA axis (-) feedback as evidenced by the inability of DEX to suppress diurnal and stress-induced CORT and ACTH secretion. Additionally, the ability of E2 to inhibit glucocorticoid (-) feedback occurs specifically via ERalpha acting at the level of the PVN.
Here we tested a hypothesis that epileptogenesis influences expression pattern of genes in the basolateral amygdala that are critical for fear conditioning. Whole genome molecular profiling of basolateral rat amygdala was performed to compare the transcriptome changes underlying fear learning in epileptogenic and control animals. Our analysis revealed that after fear conditioning procedure 26 genes were regulated differently in the basolateral amygdala of both groups. Thus, our study provides the first evidence that not only the damage to the neuronal pathways but also altered composition or activity level of molecular machinery responsible for formation of emotional memories within surviving pathways can contribute to impairment in emotional learning in epileptogenic animals. Understanding the function of those genes in emotional learning provides an attractive avenue for identification of novel drug targets for treatment of emotional disorders after epileptogenesis-inducing insult.
The anxiolytic effects of opiates active at the mu-opioid receptor (mu-OR) may be ascribed, in part, to suppression of neurons that are responsive to the stress-associated peptide, corticotropin releasing factor (CRF), in the central amygdala (CeA) and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). The corticotropin releasing factor receptor (CRFr) and mu-OR are expressed in both the CeA and BNST, but their subcellular relationship to each other is not known in either region. To address this question, we used dual electron microscopic immunolabeling of mu-OR and CRFr in the mouse lateral CeA and anterolateral BNST. Immunolabeling for each receptor was detected in the same as well as in separate somatic, dendritic and axonal profiles of neurons in each region. CRFr had a plasmalemmal or cytoplasmic distribution in many dendrites, including those co-expressing mu-OR. The co-expression of CRFr and mu-OR also was seen near excitatory-type synapses on dendritic spines. In both the CeA and BNST, over 50% of the CRFr-labeled dendritic profiles (dendrites and spines) contained immunoreactivity for the mu-OR. However, less than 25% of the dendritic profiles containing the mu-OR were labeled for CRFr in either region, suggesting that opiate activation of the mu-OR affects many neurons in addition to those responsive to CRF. The dendritic profiles containing CRFr and/or mu-OR received asymmetric, excitatory-type synapses from unlabeled or CRFr-labeled axon terminals. In contrast, the mu-OR was identified in terminals forming symmetric, inhibitory-type synapses. Thus, in both the CeA and BNST, mu-OR and CRFr have strategic locations for mediation of CRF and opioid effects on the postsynaptic excitability of single neurons, and on the respective presynaptic release of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters. The commonalities in the synaptic location of both receptors in the CeA and BNST suggest that this is a fundamental cellular association of relevance to both drug addiction and stress-induced disorders.
The medial amygdaloid nucleus (MeA) modulates several physiological and behavioral processes and among them, the cardiovascular correlates of behavioral responses to stressful stimuli. Acute restraint evokes cardiovascular responses, which are characterized by both elevated blood pressure (BP) and intense heart rate (HR) increase. We presently report effects of MeA pharmacological manipulations on BP and HR responses evoked by acute restraint in rats. Bilateral microinjection of 100 nL of the unspecific synaptic blocker CoCl(2) (1 mM) into the MeA increased HR response to acute restraint, without significant effect on the BP response. This result indicates an inhibitory influence of MeA on restraint-evoked HR changes. Injections of the non-selective muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine (3 nmol); the inhibitor of choline uptake hemicholinium (2 nmol) or the selective M(1)-receptor antagonist pirenzepine (6 nmol) caused effects that were similar to those caused by cobalt. These results suggest that local cholinergic neurotransmission and M(1)-receptors mediate the MeA inhibitory influence on restraint-related HR responses. Pretreatment with the M3 receptor antagonist 4-DAMP (4-Diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide-2 nmol) did not affect restraint-related cardiovascular responses, reinforcing the idea that M(1)-receptors mediate MeA-related inhibitory influence on restraint-evoked HR increase.
We examined the gene expression and regulation of type III human interferon (IFN), IFN-lambda, in human neuronal cells. Human neuronal cells expressed endogenous IFN-lambda1 but not IFN-lambda2/3. Upon the activation of Toll-like receptor (TLR)-3 expressed in the neuronal cells by polyriboinosinic polyribocytidylic acid (PolyI:C), both IFN-lambda1 and IFN-lambda2/3 expression was significantly induced. The activation of TLR-3 also exhibited antiviral activity against pseudotyped human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 infection of the neuronal cells. Human neuronal cells also expressed functional IFN-lambda receptor complex, interleukin-28 receptor alpha subunit (IL-28Ralpha) and IL-10Rbeta, as evidenced by the observations that exogenous IFN-lambda treatment inhibited pseudotyped HIV-1 infection of the neuronal cells and induced the expression of apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like (APOBEC)3G/3F, the newly identified anti-HIV-1 cellular factors. These data provide direct and compelling evidence that there is intracellular expression and regulation of IFN-lambda in human neuronal cells, which may have an important role in the innate neuronal protection against viral infections in the CNS.
Cochlea removal severs peripheral processes of cochlear ganglion cells and permanently abolishes afferent input to nucleus magnocellularis (NM) neurons. Deafferented chick NM neurons undergo a series of morphologic and metabolic changes, which ultimately trigger the death of 20%-40% of neurons. Previous studies suggested that this cell specific death involves activation of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway, including increased presence of cytochrome c and active caspase-9 in the cytoplasm of deafferented NM neurons. Interestingly, however, both markers were detected pan-neuronally, in both degenerating and surviving NM neurons [Wilkinson BL, Elam JS, Fadool DA, Hyson RL (2003) Afferent regulation of cytochrome-c and active caspase-9 in the avian cochlear nucleus. Neuroscience 120:1071-1079]. Here, we provide evidence for the increased appearance of late apoptotic indicators and describe novel characteristics of cell death in deafferented auditory neurons. Young broiler chickens were subjected to unilateral cochlea removal, and brainstem sections through NM were reacted for active caspase-3 and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL). Caspase-3 activation is observed in the cytoplasm of both dying and surviving deafferented NM neurons 24 h to 7 days following cochlea removal, suggesting that caspase-3, usually considered an &quot;executioner&quot; of apoptotic death, may also function as a &quot;modulator&quot; of death. In addition, we find that TUNEL labeling of degraded DNA is observed in deafferented NM. In contrast to upstream apoptotic markers, however, TUNEL labeling is restricted to a subpopulation of deafferented neurons. Twelve hours following cochlea removal, TUNEL labeling is observed as punctate accumulations within nuclei. Twenty-four hours following cochlea removal, TUNEL accumulates diffusely throughout neuronal cytoplasm in those neurons likely to die. This cytoplasmic TUNEL labeling may implicate mitochondrial nucleic acid degradation in the selective death of some deafferented NM neurons. Our study examines the subcellular distributions of two prominent apoptotic mediators, active caspase-3 and TUNEL, relative to known histochemical markers, in deafferented NM; provides new insight into the apoptotic mechanism of cell death; and proposes a role for mitochondrial DNA in deafferentation-induced cell death.
ACSL4 is a gene involved in non-syndromic X-linked mental retardation. It encodes for a ubiquitous protein that adds coenzyme A to long-chain fatty acids, with a high substrate preference for arachidonic acid. It presents also a brain-specific isoform deriving from an alternative splicing and containing 41 additional N-terminal amino acids. To start to unravelling the link between ACSL4 and mental retardation, we have performed molecular and cell biological studies. By retro-transcription polymerase chain reaction analyses we identified a new transcript with a shorter 5'-UTR region. By immunofluorescence microscopy in embryonic rat hippocampal neurons we report that ACSL4 is associated preferentially to endoplasmic reticulum tubules. ACSL4 knockdown by siRNAs in hippocampal neurons indicated that this protein is largely dispensable for these cells' gross architectural features (i.e. axonal and dendritic formation and final length) yet it is required for the presence of normal spines. In fact, reduced levels of ACSL4 led to a significant reduction in dendritic spine density and an alteration in spine/filopodia distribution. The possible mechanisms behind this phenotype are discussed.
The major aim of this study was to elucidate the relationship between nitric oxide (NO) and generalized epilepsy. Mice lacking the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) gene (nNOS(-/-)) were used in this study to determine the relationship between nNOS alpha and NO in pentylentetrazole (PTZ)-induced convulsions. nNOS(-/-) mice exhibited severe convulsions following injection with a subconvulsive dose of PTZ (40 mg/kg i.p.) and convulsive doses were lethal in all of the mice (60 mg/kg i.p.) following tonic convulsions. The results were confirmed by using selective nNOS inhibitors in wild-type (nNOS(+/+)) mice. The higher doses of the nNOS inhibitors 1-[2-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] imidazole (TRIM) and 3-bromo-7-nitroindazole (3Br7NI) inhibited clonic-tonic convulsions induced by a convulsive dose of PTZ (60 mg/kg) in nNOS(+/+) mice. In contrast, either TRIM or 3Br7NI at lower doses enhanced convulsions following injection with a subconvulsive dose of PTZ (40 mg/kg) in nNOS(+/+) mice similar to nNOS(-/-) mice treated with PTZ. Such a proconvulsant effect was observed in nNOS(+/+) mice pretreated with nNOS inhibitors but not other NOS inhibitors. These results indicate that NO may be regarded as an anticonvulsant or a proconvulsant substance in relation to convulsions induced by PTZ in mice. Pretreatment with N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists (5S,10R)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801), (E)-(+/-)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phospho no-3-pentenoic acid ethyl ester, CGP39551) and DL-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist (2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide, NBQX) inhibited a subconvulsive dose of PTZ-induced convulsions in nNOS(-/-) mice, demonstrating that convulsions induced by PTZ are modulated by endogenous NO production and ionotropic glutamate receptor-mediated stimulation. These results suggest a negative or positive modulation of neuronal interactions by basal or enhanced NO production, respectively.
While the primary motor cortex (M1) is know to receive dopaminergic projections, the functional role of these projections is poorly characterized. Here, it is hypothesized that dopaminergic signals modulate M1 excitability and somatotopy, two features of the M1 network relevant for movement execution and learning. To test this hypothesis, movement responses evoked by electrical stimulation using an electrode grid implanted epidurally over the caudal motor cortex (M1) were assessed before and after an intracortical injection of D1- (R-(+),8-chloro,7-hydroxy,2,3,4,5,-tetra-hydro,3-methyl,5-phenyl,1-H,3-benzazepine maleate, SCH 23390) or D2-receptor (raclopride) antagonists into the M1 forelimb area of rats. Stimulation mapping of M1 was repeated after 24 h. D2-inhibition reduced the size of the forelimb representation by 68.5% (P&lt;0.001). Movements thresholds, i.e., minimal currents required to induce movement responses increased by 37.5% (P&lt;0.001), and latencies increased by 35.9% (P&lt;0.01). Twenty-4 h after the injections these effects were reversed. No changes were observed with D1-antagonist or vehicle. By enhancing intracortical excitability and signal transduction, D2-mediated dopaminergic signaling may affect movement execution, e.g. by enabling task-related muscle activation synergies, and learning.
The tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) voltage-gated Na(+) channels Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.9 are expressed by a subset of primary sensory neurons and have been implicated in various pain states. Although recent studies suggest involvement of TTX-R Na(+) channels in sensory synaptic transmission and spinal pain processing, it remains unknown whether TTX-R Na(+) channels are expressed and function presynaptically. We examined expression of TTX-R channels at sensory synapses formed between rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal cord (SC) neurons in a DRG/SC co-culture system. Immunostaining showed extensive labeling of presynaptic axonal boutons with Na(v)1.8- and Na(v)1.9-specific antibodies. Measurements using the fluorescent Na(+) indicator SBFI demonstrated action potential-induced presynaptic Na(+) entry that was resistant to tetrodotoxin (TTX) but was blocked by lidocaine. Furthermore, presynaptic [Ca(2+)](i) elevation in response to a single action potential was not affected by TTX in TTX-resistant DRG neurons. Finally, glutamatergic synaptic transmission was not inhibited by TTX in more than 50% of synaptic pairs examined; subsequent treatment with lidocaine completely blocked these TTX-resistant excitatory postsynaptic currents. Taken together, these results provide evidence for presynaptic expression of functional TTX-R Na(+) channels that may be important for shaping presynaptic action potentials and regulating transmitter release at the first sensory synapse.
Arteriogenesis supports restored perfusion in the ischemic brain and improves long-term functional outcome after stroke. We investigate the role of endothelial nitric oxide synthetase (eNOS) and a nitric oxide (NO) donor, (Z)-1-[N-(2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-ammonioethyl) amino] diazen-1-ium-1, 2-diolate (DETA-NONOate), in promoting arteriogenesis after stroke. Adult wild-type (WT, n=18) and eNOS-knockout (eNOS(-/-), n=36) mice were subjected to transient (2.5 h) right middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) and were treated with or without DETA-NONOate (0.4 mg/kg) 24 h after MCAo. Functional evaluation was performed. Animals were sacrificed 3 days after MCAo for arterial cell culture studies, or 14 days for immunohistochemical analysis. Consistent with previous studies, eNOS(-/-) mice exhibited a higher mortality rate (P&lt;0.05, n=18/group) and more severe neurological functional deficit after MCAo than WT mice (P&lt;0.05, n=12/group). Decreased arteriogenesis, was evident in eNOS(-/-) mice compared with WT mice, as demonstrated by reduced vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation, arterial density and diameter in the ischemic brain. eNOS(-/-) mice treated with DETA-NONOate had a significantly decreased mortality rate and improved functional recovery, and exhibited enhanced arteriogenesis identified by increased VSMC proliferation, and upregulated arterial density and diameter compared to eNOS(-/-) mice after stroke (P&lt;0.05, n=12/group). To elucidate the mechanisms underlying eNOS/NO mediated arteriogenesis, VSMC migration was measured in vitro. Arterial cell migration significantly decreased in the cultured common carotid artery (CCA) derived from eNOS(-/-) mice 3 days after MCAo compared to WT arterial cells. DETA-NONOate-treatment significantly attenuated eNOS(-/-)-induced decrease of arterial cell migration compared to eNOS(-/-) control artery (P&lt;0.05; n=6/group). Using VSMC culture, DETA-NONOate significantly increased VSMC migration, while inhibition of NOS significantly decreased VSMC migration (P&lt;0.05; n=6/group). Our data indicated that eNOS not only promotes vascular dilation but also increases VSMC proliferation and migration, and thereby enhances arteriogenesis after stroke. Therefore, increase eNOS may play an important role in regulating of arteriogenesis after stroke.
Endotoxin-induced uveitis (EIU) is a common animal model for anterior uveitis in humans that causes long-term changes in trigeminal brain stem neurons. This study used c-fos immunohistochemistry to assess the effects of different routes of administration of endotoxin on activation of trigeminal brain stem neurons produced by ocular surface stimulation. A single dose of endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide (LPS)) given to male rats by systemic (i.p., 1 mg/kg) or intraocular (ivt, 20 microg) routes increased the number of Fos-positive neurons in rostral (trigeminal subnucleus interpolaris/subnucleus transition (Vi/Vc)) and caudal portions of trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (trigeminal subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical spinal cord transition (Vc/C(1-2))) by 20% mustard oil (MO) applied to the ocular surface 7 days, but not at 2 days, after LPS compared with nave rats. I.c.v. (20 microg) LPS did not affect MO-evoked Fos. To determine if the pattern of enhanced Fos expression after systemic LPS also depended on the nature of the ocular surface stimulus, additional groups received ocular stimulation by 10% histamine or dry eye conditions. Seven days, but not 2 days, after i.p. LPS both histamine- and dry eye-evoked Fos was increased at the Vi/Vc transition, while smaller effects were seen at other regions. These results suggested that EIU modulation of trigeminal brain stem neuron activity was mediated mainly by peripheral actions of LPS. Enhancement of Fos at the Vi/Vc region after MO, histamine and dry eye conditions supports the hypothesis that this region integrates innocuous as well as noxious sensory information, while more caudal portions of Vc process mainly nociceptive signals from the eye.
Age-related cognitive impairments are associated with structural and functional changes in the cerebral cortex. We have previously demonstrated in the rat that excitatory and inhibitory pre- and postsynaptic changes occur with respect to age and cognitive status; however, in aged cognitively impaired animals, we have shown a significant imbalance in postsynaptic markers of excitatory versus inhibitory synapses, using markers of excitatory versus inhibitory neurotransmitter-related scaffolding proteins [postsynaptic density-95 (PSD95)/synapse associated protein-90 (SAP90) and gephyrin, respectively]. The present study focuses on whether the expression of various excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic proteins is affected by ageing and cognitive status. Thus, aged animals were segregated into aged cognitively impaired (AI) and aged cognitively unimpaired (AU) groups using the Morris water maze. We applied Western immunoblotting to reveal the expression patterns of a number of relevant excitatory and inhibitory receptors in the prefrontal and parietal cortices of young (Y), AU and AI animals, and performed semi-quantitative analyses to statistically tabulate changes among the three animal groups. A significant increase in the inhibitory postsynaptic scaffold protein, gephyrin, was observed in the parietal cortex of AI animals. Similarly, an increase in GABA(A) receptor subunit alpha1 was observed in the parietal cortex of AI animals. An increase in the excitatory N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor 1 expression was observed in the parietal cortex of AI animals, whereas a significant decrease in AMPA receptor subunit glutamate receptor 2 expression was found in the prefrontal cortex of AI animals. Finally, the excitatory, postsynaptic neuronal cell-adhesion receptor, neuroligin-1, was found to be significantly increased in both the prefrontal and parietal cortical areas of AI animals.
Many animals produce continuous brainwaves, known as the electroencephalogram (EEG), but it is not known at what point in evolution the EEG developed. Planarians possess the most primitive form of brain, but still exhibit learning and memory behaviors. Here, we observed and characterized the EEG waveform of the planarian. We inserted a monopole electrode into the head of a planarian on a cold stage, and were able to observe the EEG at sub-microvolt amplitudes. The EEG had a continuous waveform, similar to that of evolutionarily advanced animals with more developed brains. Occasional myogenic potential spikes were observed in the EEG due to sticking of the electrode, but this was markedly diminished by cooling the sample, which enabled us to investigate the intrinsic character of the continuous EEG waveform. The frequency spectrum of the EEG was observed in the range of 0.1-5 Hz, showing a broad rise below 0.5 Hz and a monotonic decrease above 1 Hz, apparently following the 1/f law. The intensity of the total EEG diminished during anesthesia by cooling to 2-3 degrees C, and recovered when the sample was warmed to about 10 degrees C. The EEG signal was sustained for 30-40 min, and gradually weakened as the animal died. Stimulation of the planarian with water vibration at 0.5-2 Hz induced chaotic resonance with a broad peak spectrum of around the stimulation frequency. Strong illumination suppressed the EEG signals for several minutes, with the degree of suppression positively correlating with the intensity of the light. This provides evidence that the EEG responds to optical signals, although there were no synchronous reactions to light flashes. The continuous EEG waveform suggests the existence of feedback loop circuits in the neural network of the planarian, which was supposed in electric shock memory experiments [McConnell JV, Cornwell P, Clay M (1960) An apparatus for conditioning planaria. Am J Psychol 73:618-622]. However, because of the broad band character of chaotic resonance observed, these loops appear to be loose couplings between ganglia.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are G-coupled receptors that modulate synaptic activity. Previous studies have shown that Group I mGluRs are present in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), in which many visceral afferents terminate. Microinjection of selective Group I mGluR agonists into the NTS results in a depressor response and decrease in sympathetic nerve activity. There is, however, little evidence detailing which phenotypes of neurons within the NTS express Group I mGluRs. In brainstem slices, we performed immunohistochemical localization of Group I mGluRs and either glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 kDa isoform (GAD67), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) or tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Fluoro-Gold (FG, 2%; 15 nl) was microinjected in the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM) of the rat to retrogradely label NTS neurons that project to CVLM. Group I mGluRs were distributed throughout the rostral-caudal extent of the NTS and were found within most NTS subregions. The relative percentages of Group I mGluR expressing neurons colabeled with the different markers were FG (6.9+/-0.7) nNOS (5.6+/-0.9), TH (3.9+/-1.0), and GAD67 (3.1+/-1.4). The percentage of FG containing cells colabeled with Group I mGluR (13.6+/-2.0) was greater than the percent colabeled with GAD67 (3.1+/-0.5), nNOS (4.7+/-0.5), and TH (0.1+/-0.08). Cells triple labeled for FG, nNOS, and Group I mGluRs were identified in the NTS. Thus, these data provide an anatomical substrate by which Group I mGluRs could modulate activity of CVLM projecting neurons in the NTS.
A growing body of evidence from human postmortem and animal studies suggests that deficits in glial cell (particularly astrocytes) density and function, in limbic regions of the brain contribute to the etiology of depressive disorders. Despite the widespread use of Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rat strain as a model of depression and stress susceptibility, there is a paucity of data examining whether alterations in brain astrocytic population are present in the model. In the present study, we investigated the expression of the astrocytic markers glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in various brain regions in WKY rats in comparison to Sprague-Dawley rats. A significant deficit in GFAP-immunoreactive cells was found in the prefrontal cortex region (infralimbic, prelimbic and anterior cingulate cortex), in the basolateral amygdala as well as in the hippocampus (CA3 and dentate gyrus) in WKY rat brain. No statistical difference was found in the other brain regions analyzed (insular cortex, somatosensory cortex, CA1 and callosal white matter). No difference was found in the total density of astrocytes (assessed by s-100beta immunoreactivity), neurons (determined by NeuN expression) or in the total number of cells in the regions of interest. A slight increase in the intensity of s-100beta immunoreactivity was observed. The lower expression of GFAP in WKY rats was further confirmed by Western-blot analysis. These results suggest that specific astrocytic deficits in GFAP expression in corticolimbic circuits may be a general correlate of depressive-like behavior in animal models in addition to human major depression. Moreover, they suggest that glial physiology may become a therapeutic target in depression and other stress-related conditions.
We compared conscious and nonconscious processing of briefly flashed words using a visual masking procedure while recording intracranial electroencephalogram (iEEG) in ten patients. Nonconscious processing of masked words was observed in multiple cortical areas, mostly within an early time window (&lt;300 ms), accompanied by induced gamma-band activity, but without coherent long-distance neural activity, suggesting a quickly dissipating feedforward wave. In contrast, conscious processing of unmasked words was characterized by the convergence of four distinct neurophysiological markers: sustained voltage changes, particularly in prefrontal cortex, large increases in spectral power in the gamma band, increases in long-distance phase synchrony in the beta range, and increases in long-range Granger causality. We argue that all of those measures provide distinct windows into the same distributed state of conscious processing. These results have a direct impact on current theoretical discussions concerning the neural correlates of conscious access.
Protein glycosylation is an important element of biologic systems because of its significant effects on protein properties and functions. Although prominent within all domains of life, O-linked glycosylation systems modifying serine and threonine residues within bacteria and eukaryotes differ substantially in target protein selectivity. In particular, well-characterized bacterial systems have been invariably dedicated to modification of individual proteins or related subsets thereof. Here we characterize a general O-linked glycosylation system that targets structurally and functionally diverse groups of membrane-associated proteins in the gram-negative bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae, the etiologic agent of the human disease gonorrhea. The 11 glycoproteins identified here are implicated in activities as varied as protein folding, disulfide bond formation, and solute uptake, as well as both aerobic and anaerobic respiration. Along with their common trafficking within the periplasmic compartment, the protein substrates share quasi-related domains bearing signatures of low complexity that were demonstrated to encompass sites of glycan occupancy. Thus, as in eukaryotes, the broad scope of this system is dictated by the relaxed specificity of the glycan transferase as well as the bulk properties and context of the protein-targeting signal rather than by a strict amino acid consensus sequence. Together, these findings reveal previously unrecognized commonalities linking O-linked protein glycosylation in distantly related life forms.
Neurodegeneration in an inherited form of ALS is non-cell-autonomous, with ALS-causing mutant SOD1 damage developed within multiple cell types. Selective inactivation within motor neurons of an ubiquitously expressed mutant SOD1 gene has demonstrated that mutant damage within motor neurons is a determinant of disease initiation, whereas mutant synthesis within neighboring astrocytes or microglia accelerates disease progression. We now report the surprising finding that diminished synthesis (by 70%) within Schwann cells of a fully dismutase active ALS-linked mutant (SOD1(G37R)) significantly accelerates disease progression, accompanied by reduction of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) in nerves. Coupled with shorter disease duration in mouse models caused by dismutase inactive versus dismutase active SOD1 mutants, our findings implicate an oxidative cascade during disease progression that is triggered within axon ensheathing Schwann cells and that can be ameliorated by elevated dismutase activity. Thus, therapeutic down-regulation of dismutase active mutant SOD1 in familial forms of ALS should be targeted away from Schwann cells.
Purkinje cells can encode the strength of parallel fiber inputs in their firing by using 2 fundamentally different mechanisms, either as pauses or as linear increases in firing rate. It is not clear which of these 2 encoding mechanisms is used by the cerebellum. We used the pattern-recognition capacity of Purkinje cells based on the Marr-Albus-Ito theory of cerebellar learning to evaluate the suitability of the linear algorithm for cerebellar information processing. Here, we demonstrate the simplicity and versatility of pattern recognition in Purkinje cells linearly encoding the strength of parallel fiber inputs in their firing rate. In contrast to encoding patterns with pauses, Purkinje cells using the linear algorithm could recognize a large number of both synchronous and asynchronous input patterns in the presence or absence of inhibitory synaptic transmission. Under all conditions, the number of patterns recognized by Purkinje cells using the linear algorithm was greater than that achieved by encoding information in pauses. Linear encoding of information also allows neurons of deep cerebellar nuclei to use a simple averaging mechanism to significantly increase the computational capacity of the cerebellum. We propose that the virtues of the linear encoding mechanism make it well suited for cerebellar computation.
The purpose of this study was to examine the relative contributions of antipsychotic medication, negative symptoms and executive functions to impairment in social functioning in a sample of outpatients with stable schizophrenia. One-hundred and sixty-eight consecutive outpatients with stable schizophrenia were enrolled in a cross-sectional study. We performed a path analysis using multiple regression technique in order to assess the specific effect of antipsychotic type (first-generation antipsychotics versus second-generation antipsychotics) on social functioning and the possible mediating role of executive functions and negative symptoms. Our findings suggested that (i) second generation antipsychotics (SGAs) use predicted better social functioning (Beta=.24, p=.003) and better executive functions (Beta=.25, p=.003); conversely SGAs use was not associated with lesser negative symptoms (Beta=.00, p=.981); (ii) impaired executive functions and severity of negative symptoms were associated with worse social functioning (Beta=.19, p=.016; Beta=.28, p=.001); (iii) when we inserted in the model Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale - Negative Symptom subscale (PANSS-N) and Wisconsin Card Sorting Test - number of achieved sorting categories (WCST-cat), the former failed to show a mediation effect, while the latter seemed to mediate partially the effect of SGAs on social functioning. Taken together, the present results suggest that it is critical to examine individually executive functions and negative symptoms because they seem to relate to social functioning in different and independent ways and thus might represent separable treatment targets. Furthermore, social functioning appears a complex outcome multiply determined with no single predictor variable explaining a sufficient amount of variance.
Gap junctions play an important role in brain physiology. They synchronize neuronal activity and connect glial cells participating in the regulation of brain metabolism and homeostasis. Gap junction blockers (GJBs) include various chemicals that impair gap junction communication, disrupt oscillatory neuronal activity over a wide range of frequencies, and decrease epileptic discharges. The behavioural and clinical effects of GJBs suggest that gap junctions can be involved in the regulation of locomotor activity, arousal, memory, and breathing. Severe neuropsychiatric side effects suggest the involvement of gap junctions in mechanisms of consciousness. Unfortunately, the available GJBs are not selective and can bind to targets other than gap junctions. Other problems in behavioural studies include the possible adverse effects of GJBs, for example, retinal toxicity and hearing disturbances, changes in blood-brain transport, and the metabolism of other drugs. Therefore, it is necessary to design experiments properly to avoid false, misleading or uninterpretable results. We review the pharmacological properties and electrophysiological, behavioural and cognitive effects of the available gap junction blockers, such as carbenoxolone, glycyrrhetinic acid, quinine, quinidine, mefloquine, heptanol, octanol, anandamide, fenamates, 2-APB, several anaesthetics, retinoic acid, oleamide, spermine, aminosulfonates, and sodium propionate. It is concluded that despite a number of different problems, the currently used gap junction blockers could be useful tools in pharmacology and neuroscience.

To mimic clinical treatment with methylphenidate (MPH; Ritalin) for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), rat pups were injected with MPH (5 mg/kg, i.p.) or placebo twice daily during their nocturnal active phase from postnatal day (PND) 7-35. Thirty-nine days after the last MPH administration (PND 76), four litters of rats experienced stressful conditions during the 2003 New York City blackout. MPH-treated rats that endured the blackout lost more weight and regained it at a slower pace than controls (p&lt;0.05; N=7-11 per group). Furthermore, MPH-treated rats had elevated systolic arterial blood pressure (from 115.6+/-1.2 to 126+/-1.8 mmHg; p&lt;0.05), assessed on PND 130 by tail cuff plethysmography. Immunocytochemical studies of transmitter systems in the brain demonstrated rearrangements of catecholamine and neuropeptide Y fibers in select brain regions at PND 135, which did not differ between blackout and control groups. However, MPH-treated rats that endured the blackout had more ectopic granule cells in the hilus of the dorsal hippocampal dentate gyrus compared to controls at PND 135 (p&lt;0.05; N=6 per group). These findings indicate that early postnatal exposure to high therapeutic doses of MPH can have long lasting effects on the plasticity of select brain regions and can induce changes in the reactivity to stress that persist into adulthood.
Accumulating evidence suggests that neurons prone to degeneration in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) exhibit evidence of re-entry into an aberrant mitotic cell cycle. Our laboratory recently demonstrated that, in a genomic amyloid precursor protein (APP) mouse model of AD (R1.40), neuronal cell cycle events (CCEs) occur in the absence of beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposition and are still dependent upon the amyloidogenic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). These data suggested that soluble Abeta species might play a direct role in the induction of neuronal CCEs. Here, we show that exposure of non-transgenic primary cortical neurons to Abeta oligomers, but not monomers or fibrils, results in the retraction of neuronal processes, and induction of CCEs in a concentration dependent manner. Retraction of neuronal processes correlated with the induction of CCEs and the Abeta monomer or Abeta fibrils showed only minimal effects. In addition, we provide evidence that induction of neuronal CCEs are autonomous to primary neurons cultured from the R1.40 mice. Finally, our results also demonstrate that Abeta oligomer treated neurons exhibit elevated levels of activated Akt and mTOR (mammalian Target Of Rapamycin) and that PI3K, Akt or mTOR inhibitors blocked Abeta oligomer-induced neuronal CCEs. Taken together, these results demonstrate that Abeta oligomer-based induction of neuronal CCEs involve the PI3K-Akt-mTOR pathway.

A miniaturized biotelemetric device for the amperometric detection of brain tissue oxygen is presented. The new system, derived from a previous design, has been coupled with a carbon microsensor for the real-time detection of dissolved O(2) in the striatum of freely moving rats. The implantable device consists of a single-supply sensor driver, a current-to-voltage converter, a microcontroller, and a miniaturized data transmitter. The oxygen current is converted to a digital value by means of an analog-to-digital converter integrated in a peripheral interface controller (PIC). The digital data is sent to a personal computer using a six-byte packet protocol by means of a miniaturized 434 MHz amplitude modulation (AM) transmitter. The receiver unit is connected to a personal computer (PC) via a universal serial bus. Custom developed software allows the PC to store and plot received data. The electronics were calibrated and tested in vitro under different experimental conditions and exhibited high stability, low power consumption, and good linear response in the nanoampere current range. The in vivo results confirmed previously published observations on oxygen dynamics in the striatum of freely moving rats. The system serves as a rapid and reliable model for studying the effects of different drugs on brain oxygen and brain blood flow and it is suited to work with direct-reduction sensors or O(2)-consuming biosensors.

Several N-pyridin-3-yl spirobicyclic diamines, designed as conformationally restricted analogs of tebanicline (ABT-594), were synthesized as novel ligands for nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR). The spirocyclic compounds exhibited weaker binding affinity, than other constrained analogs in accord with a pharmacophore model. Nevertheless, some (1a, 1b) possessed (partial) agonist potencies comparable to nicotine at the alpha4beta2 subtype, but with greatly improved selectivity relative to the alpha3beta4* nAChR.
Age-dependent accumulation of partially deleted mitochondrial DNA (DeltamtDNA) has been suggested to contribute to aging and the development of age-associated diseases including Parkinson's disease. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the generation and accumulation of DeltamtDNA have not been addressed in vivo. In this study, we have developed a mouse model expressing an inducible mitochondria-targeted restriction endonuclease (PstI). Using this system, we could trigger mtDNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) in adult neurons. We found that this transient event leads to the generation of a family of DeltamtDNA with features that closely resemble naturally-occurring mtDNA deletions. The formation of these deleted species is likely to be mediated by yet uncharacterized DNA repairing machineries that participate in homologous recombination and non-homologous end-joining. Furthermore, we obtained in vivo evidence that DeltamtDNAs with larger deletions accumulate faster than those with smaller deletions, implying a replicative advantage of smaller mtDNAs. These findings identify DSB, DNA repair systems and replicative advantage as likely mechanisms underlying the generation and age-associated accumulation of DeltamtDNA in mammalian neurons.
Rho GTPases are crucial regulators of actin cytoskeletal rearrangements and play important roles in many cell functions linked to membrane trafficking processes. In neuroendocrine cells, we have previously demonstrated that RhoA and Cdc42 mediate part of the actin remodelling and vesicular trafficking events that are required for the release of hormones by exocytosis. Here, we investigate the functional importance of Rac1 for the exocytotic reaction and dissect the downstream and upstream molecular events that might integrate it to the exocytotic machinery. Using PC12 cells, we found that Rac1 is associated with the plasma membrane and is activated during exocytosis. Silencing of Rac1 by siRNA inhibits hormone release, prevents secretagogue (high K(+))-evoked phospholipase D1 (PLD1) activation and blocks the formation of phosphatidic acid at the plasma membrane. We identify betaPix as the guanine nucleotide-exchange factor integrating Rac1 activation to PLD1 and the exocytotic process. Finally, we show that the presence of the scaffolding protein Scrib at the plasma membrane is essential for betaPix/Rac1-mediated PLD1 activation and exocytosis. As PLD1 has recently emerged as a promoter of membrane fusion in various exocytotic events, our results define a novel molecular pathway linking a Rho GTPase, Rac1, to the final stages of Ca(2+)-regulated exocytosis in neuroendocrine cells.
HIV-1-associated neurocognitive impairments are intrinsically linked to microglial immune activation, persistent viral infection, and inflammation. In the era of antiretroviral therapy, more subtle cognitive impairments occur without adaptive immune compromise. We posit that adaptive immunity is neuroprotective, serving in both the elimination of infected cells through CD8(+) cytotoxic T cell activities and the regulation of neuroinflammatory responses of activated microglia. For the latter, little is known. Thus, we studied the neuromodulatory effects of CD4(+) regulatory T cells (Treg; CD4(+)CD25(+)) or effector T cells in HIV-1-associated neurodegeneration. A newly developed HIV-1 encephalitis mouse model was used wherein murine bone marrow-derived macrophages are infected with a full-length HIV-1(YU2)/vesicular stomatitis viral pseudotype and injected into basal ganglia of syngeneic immunocompetent mice. Adoptive transfer of CD3-activated Treg attenuated astrogliosis and microglia inflammation with concomitant neuroprotection. Moreover, Treg-mediated anti-inflammatory activities and neuroprotection were associated with up-regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor expression and down-regulation of proinflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress, and viral replication. Effector T cells showed contrary effects. These results, taken together, demonstrate the importance of Treg in disease control and raise the possibility of their utility for therapeutic strategies.
Production of immunospecific egg yolk antibodies (IgY antibodies) in egg laying hens through oral immunization is an attractive alternative to conventional antibody production in mammals for economic reasons as well as for animal welfare reasons. Oral immunization results in a systemic humoral response, but oral booster immunizations lack efficiency. The aim of the present study was to develop immunization schemes in which the concentration of immunospecific IgY would increase following oral booster immunizations. Two groups of egg laying hens (5 in each group) were immunized orally (each immunization event consisted of dosing on three consecutive days) with Bovine Serum Albumin (BSA) in combination with RhinoVax (RV) using different immunization schemes. A 3rd group served as a reference and received BSA emulsified in Freund's Incomplete Adjuvant (FIA) by subcutaneous injection three times and one oral dose with BSA+RV. The eggs of the chickens in this group had a significantly higher immunospecific anti BSA IgY-concentration than did any of the eggs from the orally immunized chickens. One of the immunization regimes (immunizations in weeks 1, 7 and 18) clearly included a booster effect of the immunization in week 18, demonstrating the presence of memory cells following the two initial oral immunizations. Considering that oral immunization results in approximately ten times lower concentrations of immunospecific antibodies in the egg yolk, compared to traditional subcutaneous immunization schemes, the oral immunization routines have to be further refined to compete with parenteral immunization protocols.
We describe the long-term clinical outcome of a patient with Leigh-like syndrome presenting as an early onset encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy caused by the T8993G mutation in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Clinical follow-up for 20 years revealed a peculiar pattern of slow disease progression, characterized by the addition of new minor deficits, while worsening of previous symptoms was mild. Brain MRI revealed cerebellar atrophy, diffuse demyelination of corona radiata and parietal white matter, and bilateral and symmetrical putaminal lesions. The proportion of mutant mtDNAs in blood was 72% (+/-0.02%) and in skeletal muscle was 81% (+/-0.4%). Leigh-like syndrome caused by the T8993G mtDNA mutation is a progressive disease, although not necessarily associated with an aggressive clinical course.
Ataxia with oculo-motor apraxia type 2 (AOA2) is a recently described autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia (ARCA) caused by mutations in the senataxin gene (SETX). We analysed the phenotypic spectrum of 19 AOA2 patients with mutations in SETX, which seems to be the third most frequent form of ARCA in Algeria after Freidreich ataxia and Ataxia with vitamin E deficiency. In AOA2 patients, the mean age at onset for all families was in the second decade. Cerebellar ataxia was progressive, slowly leading to disability which was aggravated by axonal polyneuropathy present in almost all the patients. Mean disease duration until wheelchair was around 20 years. Oculo-motor apraxia (OMA) was present in 32% of the patients while convergent strabismus was present in 37%. Strabismus is therefore also very suggestive of AOA2 when associated with ataxia and polyneuropathy even in the absence of OMA. Cerebellar atrophy was more severe in the eldest patients; however it may also be an early sign since it was present in the youngest and paucisymptomatic patients. The initial sign was gait ataxia in all but two patients who presented with head tremor and writer cramp, respectively. Serum alpha-fetoprotein, which was elevated in all tested patients, was a good marker to suggest molecular studies of the SETX gene.

Emotional Lability (EL) is a well recognized symptom of cortico-bulbar pathway dysfunction in Motor Neuron Disease/Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (MND/ALS), and is reported to occur in 19-49% of patients. The Emotional Lability Questionnaire (ELQ), is specifically designed to detect EL as reported by MND patients and as observed by their carers. The aims of this study were to 1) validate the Italian version of the ELQ; 2) investigate the relationship between EL and presence of cognitive dysfunction; 3) investigate the relationship between EL and presence of psychopathology. Forty one MND patients, 39 caregivers and respective control groups composed of 39 subjects and 39 partners/friends were tested. The Italian version of the ELQ was found to have good psychometric properties. Seventy-one per cent of patients reported suffering from EL. Correlations were found between bulbar involvement and EL, and between bulbar involvement and low performance on tests of fluid intelligence and working memory. However, the cognitive profile did not correlate with any aspect of EL. The findings suggests that damage to different neurological pathways underlie cognitive change and EL, which supports the concept of MND/ALS as a multisystem disorder. Moreover the outcomes suggest that EL affects patients' everyday life with the increased anxiety and emotional frailty. The findings suggest that those involved in the care of MND patients should be more aware of the effects of EL in the management of the disease.
Both genetic and environmental factors are thought to be involved in the aetiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). Oxidative damage, mitochondrial and proteasomal dysfunction, and inflammatory change are considered to participate in PD pathogenesis. Dopamine agonists are used in the symptomatic treatment of PD but attention has recently also been focussed on their potential for use in slowing disease progression. We have studied the protective actions of the D2 dopamine agonist cabergoline in toxin (paraquat) and genetic (wild-type and mutant [A53T] alpha-synuclein) models of PD using SHSY-5Y cells. Cabergoline increased glutathione content, reduced free radical production and caspase-3 activation, increased mitochondrial membrane potential and ameliorated cell death in SHSY-5Y cells exposed to paraquat and this action was inhibited in part by D2 receptor blockade. Cabergoline also reduced the toxicity of wild-type and mutant alpha-synuclein expression following paraquat exposure by similar mechanisms. These results confirm the protective action of cabergoline in reducing cell death in two separate genetic and environmental model systems of PD.
This work describes a novel methodology for automatic contour extraction from 2D images of 3D neurons (e.g. camera lucida images and other types of 2D microscopy). Most contour-based shape analysis methods cannot be used to characterize such cells because of overlaps between neuronal processes. The proposed framework is specifically aimed at the problem of contour following even in presence of multiple overlaps. First, the input image is preprocessed in order to obtain an 8-connected skeleton with one-pixel-wide branches, as well as a set of critical regions (i.e., bifurcations and crossings). Next, for each subtree, the tracking stage iteratively labels all valid pixel of branches, up to a critical region, where it determines the suitable direction to proceed. Finally, the labeled skeleton segments are followed in order to yield the parametric contour of the neuronal shape under analysis. The reported system was successfully tested with respect to several images and the results from a set of three neuron images are presented here, each pertaining to a different class, i.e. alpha, delta and epsilon ganglion cells, containing a total of 34 crossings. The algorithms successfully got across all these overlaps. The method has also been found to exhibit robustness even for images with close parallel segments. The proposed method is robust and may be implemented in an efficient manner. The introduction of this approach should pave the way for more systematic application of contour-based shape analysis methods in neuronal morphology.
The somatosensory whisker pathway has been a useful system for increasing our understanding of experience-induced plasticity. However, precisely timed whisker activation in the awake freely moving mouse has been very difficult. This manuscript describes a method for construction of a whisker stimulator that can be attached to a freely moving mouse. The stimulator was used to activate the whiskers in a time-sensitive forebrain-dependent task, trace eyeblink conditioning. After repeatedly pairing whisker stimulation with delivery of a mild periorbital shock following a stimulus-free trace interval, trace-conditioned mice were able to learn the association. This study demonstrates the potential for using the whisker stimulator in time-sensitive behavioral tasks, such as trace eyeblink conditioning, thus enhancing our ability to examine experience-induced neuronal plasticity in the somatosensory whisker pathway in awake behaving rodents.
We describe a device which allows the mechanical sensitivity of trigeminovascular sensory neurons to be monitored over extended time periods. The device can be used to stimulate either the skin or dura mater and consists of a solenoid-driven plunger to which are fixed interchangeable von Frey hairs. The solenoid can be attached to a stereotaxic carrier and mounted on a stereotaxic frame to allow precise positioning over the receptive field. The device is driven from the synchronization signals of a standard stimulator via TTL circuitry and a relay driver, to allow stimulation by a single or multiple stimuli. The advantages of the device over manual stimulation include the reproducibility of the site of stimulation; the ability to apply a known force for a known time; the ability to measure response latencies to millisecond precision and to compare them to latencies to other stimuli and; easy interface with computer-control. We discuss some of the drawbacks of the von Frey system as usually used and illustrate the use of the new device with results from experiments on peripherally induced sensitization.
A novel method of optimal spectral tracking is presented which permits the characterisation of trial-varying parameters. Many experimental studies suffer from the limitations of available analysis methodologies, which often impose a condition of stationarity. This severely limits our ability to track slow varying or dynamic responses with any statistical certainty. Presented is a complete framework for the non-stationary analysis of trial-varying data. Theory is introduced and developed in the characterisation of speed dependent neural modulation of the locomotor drive to tibialis anterior (TA) during healthy treadmill locomotion. The approach adopts adaptive filter theory while retaining a spectral focus, thus remaining compatible with much of the current literature. Spectral tracking procedures are evaluated using both surrogate and neurophysiological time-series. Confidence intervals are derived in both empiric and numerical form. Analysis of the pre-synaptic drive to TA under the modulation of treadmill belt speed follows, with results demonstrating clear speed dependent influences on the spectral content of TA, suggesting dynamic neural modulation of the locomotor drive. Findings include speed-modulated components at 7-12Hz (early swing) and 15-20Hz (pre-stance). Speed invariant components were identified at 8-15 and 15-20Hz during early and late swing, in agreement with previous studies. Modification to the method permits a sub-optimal alternative, encouraging the exploration of short epoched data.
High-density microelectrode arrays (MEAs) enabled by recent developments of microelectronic circuits (CMOS-MEA) and providing spatial resolutions down to the cellular level open the perspective to access simultaneously local and overall neuronal network activities expressed by in vitro preparations. The short inter-electrode separation results in a gain of information on the micro-circuit neuronal dynamics and signal propagation, but requires the careful evaluation of the time resolution as well as the assessment of possible cross-talk artifacts. In this respect, we have realized and tested Pt high-density (HD)-MEAs featuring four local areas with 10microm inter-electrode spacing and providing a suitable noise level for the assessment of the high-density approach. First, simulated results show how possible artifacts (duplicated spikes) can be theoretically observed on nearby microelectrodes only for very high-shunt resistance values (e.g. R(sh)=50 kOmega generates up to 60% of false positives). This limiting condition is not compatible with typical experimental conditions (i.e. dense but not confluent cultures). Experiments performed on spontaneously active cortical neuronal networks show that spike synchronicity decreases by increasing the time resolution and analysis results show that the detected synchronous spikes on nearby electrodes are likely to be unresolved (in time) fast local propagations. Finally, functional connectivity analysis results show stronger local connections than long connections spread homogeneously over the whole network demonstrating the expected gain in detail provided by the spatial resolution.
We sought an optimal method for targeted delivery into dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) for experimental studies, in terms of precision of delivery and avoidance of behavioral disturbances. We examined three approaches for injection into rat DRGs: percutaneous injection without surgical exposure, injection after deep exposure, and injection following deep exposure and partial laminectomy. Coomassie blue and Fast Blue were injected into DRGs for validation. At necropsy, the spread of Coomassie blue and Fast Blue was investigated under stereomicroscope and fluorescent microscope, respectively. We found that percutaneous approach did not provide any successful DRG injections. Deep exposure prior to intraganglionic injection provided variable results, but intraganglionic injection after deep exposure plus partial laminectomy was successful in 100% of attempts. Our subsequent skeletal analysis showed that the anatomical location of DRG is not compatible with successful DRG injection without surgical exposure. Neither of the methods using surgical exposure caused behavioral disturbances. Based on these results we conclude that partial laminectomy offers the most precise method of injecting DRG and does not produce behavioral evidence of nerve damage. Intraganglionic injection after deep exposure alone is less predictable, while percutaneous approaches only allow injection in the peripheral nerve.
The administration of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the nigrostriatal pathway is a rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD). The footfault test is a behavioural task in which rodents have their motor functions assessed. Here, we observed that unilaterally 6-OHDA-lesioned animals show a context-induced ipsilateral rotational behaviour when placed on the footfault apparatus for 3 min and this may be used as index to detect lesioned animals. Our results showed a sensitivity and specificity of 100% for lesions higher than 94% and 64%, respectively (ROC curve: AUC=0.988). A binary logistic regression model showed an expB=1.116 (95% CI, 1.007-1.236) and C=-9.081+/-4.554 (p=0.046) using the nigral tyrosine hidroxylase immunocontent as standard (each unit represents a 10%-lesion extension). Additionally, the footfault test was more sensitive than apomorphine challenging at 1mg/kg when these tests were carried out days apart and it was less sensitive than methylphenidate at 40 mg/kg (sign test, p&lt;0.05). Therefore, the footfault test may be very useful in the PD animal model for screening animals since it is fast and simple and it does not require a drug to induce rotational activity.
Electroporation creates transient pores in the plasma membrane to introduce macromolecules within a cell or cell population. Generally, electrical pulses are delivered between two electrodes separated from each other, making electroporation less likely to be localised. We have developed a new device combining local pressure ejection with local electroporation through a double-barrelled glass micropipette to transfer impermeable macromolecules in brain slices or in cultured HEK293 cells. The design achieves better targeting of the site of pressure ejection with that of electroporation. With this technique, we have been able to limit the delivery of propidium iodide or dextran amine within areas of 100-200 micrometer. We confirm that local electroporation is transient and show that when combined with pressure ejection, it allows local transfection of EGFP plasmids within HEK293 cells or within cerebellar and hippocampal slice cultures. We further show that local electroporation is less damaging when compared to global electroporation using two separate electrodes. Focal delivery of dextran amine dyes within trapezoid body fibres allowed tracing axonal tracts within brainstem slices, enabling the study of identified calyx of Held presynaptic terminals in living brain tissue. This labelling method can be used to target small nuclei in neuronal tissue and is generally applicable to the study of functional synaptic connectivity, or live axonal tracing in a variety of brain areas.
Light-emitting diodes (LEDs) have recently been used for the imaging of unstained living cells in the whole brain and spinal cord preparations, in which one cut was done to remove the overlying white matter. Here we show that in many cases the neurones can be visualized through the white matter in an intact nervous tissue (rats P0-P36 and mice P0-P2). We used an upright microscope with a water immersion objective and a powerful infrared LED (emission peak, 850 nm; maximum radiant intensity, 270 mW/sr) as a source of oblique illumination. In the isolated spinal cord, we were able to visualize lamina I and II neurones as well as motoneurones. In the brainstem, the neurones from the superficial nuclei were successfully viewed. In the sensory ganglion, we obtained images of unstained cells as well as intracellular structures, like endoplasmic reticulum, nucleus and nucleolus. In isolated cerebellum, parallel fibers, Purkinje and granule cells were viewed. Whole-cell recordings were done to fill spinal lamina I neurones, motoneurones and brainstem neurones with biocytin for detailed 2D-3D reconstruction of their dendritic and axonal arbores. Our imaging technique also allowed labelling individual intact neurones by injecting biocytin through the extracellular cell-attached pipette. This imaging technique opens broad possibilities for functional studies of neurones with completely preserved anatomical structures and synaptic inputs. We also show that the application of oblique infrared LED illumination allows a construction of a simple digital videomicroscope for the high-quality living cell imaging in intact nervous tissue.
Fast synaptic transmission is mediated by post-synaptic ligand-gated ion channels (LGICs) transiently activated by neurotransmitter released from pre-synaptic vesicles. Although disruption of synaptic transmission has been implicated in numerous neurological and psychiatric disorders, effective and practical methods for studying LGICs in vitro under synaptically relevant conditions are unavailable. Here, we describe a novel microfluidic approach to solution switching that allows for precise temporal control over the neurotransmitter transient while substantially increasing experimental throughput, flexibility, reproducibility, and cost-effectiveness. When this system was used to apply ultra-brief ( approximately 400micros) GABA pulses to recombinant GABA(A) receptors, members of the cys-loop family of LGICs, the resulting currents resembled hippocampal inhibitory post-synaptic currents (IPSCs) and differed from currents evoked by longer, conventional pulses, illustrating the importance of evaluating LGICs on a synaptic timescale. This methodology should therefore allow the effects of disease-causing mutations and allosteric modulators to be evaluated in vitro under physiologically relevant conditions.
Spreading depression (SD), whether elicited by local application of high K(+) medium to the cortical surface or by other stimuli, can increase the brain's tolerance to a subsequent, severe ischaemic insult in vivo, a phenomenon termed preconditioning. Herein, we have developed and validated a robust in vitro protocol for high-K(+)-preconditioning of cultured neurones. This new model is especially appropriate to unravel the molecular mechanisms underlying neuronal preconditioning and subsequent ischaemic tolerance. With this new, optimised preparation, preconditioning was found to be dependent upon culture day in vitro, cell density, K(+) concentration and duration of treatment. Finally, preconditioning was shown to be dependent upon N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), CAM-kinase II signalling and alpha7-nicotinic (alpha7 nACh) receptor function, which is analogous to in vivo preconditioning induced by various stimuli.
A C18 reversed-phase column and isocratic fluorescence HPLC method for the simultaneous detection of glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is described. In this article a fast and more efficient method for the extraction of these neurotransmitters in rat brain tissue is also presented. The supernatant was derivatized with o-phthalaldehyde (OPA) and analyzed by HPLC with fluorescence detection. Intraday reproducibility was 97.0% and 96.7% and interday reproducibility was 97.1% and 93.7% for GABA and glutamate, respectively. Recovery assays indicate that the accuracy of the method for GABA is 99.6+/-2.3% and for glutamate is 101.9+/-1.8%. In addition, the time consumed to run a sample is lower than that described by other authors. Mean elution time was 3.10 min and 8.22 min for glutamate and GABA, respectively. Thus, in a total runtime of less than 9 min both neurotransmitters were detected. Moreover, when compared to the current methods, the extraction solution used here allowed a high drawing out of the neurotransmitters, glutamate and GABA, from the hippocampus, thalamus and prefrontal cortex of the rat brain.
The timing of the measurement of biological samples (e.g. biomarkers) is not always standardized. Biomarkers are the focus of many recent studies and treatments. The purpose of this study was to determine the timing of the release of beta-endorphin (BE), a possible biomarker, after exposure to pain and/or handling stress in order to standardize measurements. Mouse plasma was collected for BE analysis following handling i.e. being picked up by the investigator, exposure to a painful (55 degrees C hot-plate), or exposure to a nonpainful stimulus (room temperature hot-plate). The groups exposed to either a painful or nonpainful stimulus released BE in response to the stimulus, but the duration of the response was longer in mice exposed to a painful stimulus than in mice exposed to a nonpainful stimulus. The BE in the mice exposed to a nonpainful stimulus peaked at 1 min and returned to baseline levels by 5 min while the BE response of the mice exposed to a painful stimulus peaked at 10 min and remained elevated for 25 min. The results of this study indicate that BE can be a biomarker for pain and handling stress, however, the timing of the measurement should differ.

In adult animals, leptin is an adipose-derived hormone that is important primarily in the regulation of energy balance during short- and long-term changes in nutritional state. Expression of leptin and its receptors is widespread in fetal and placental tissues, although the role of leptin as a nutritional signal in utero is unclear. Before birth, leptin concentration correlates with several indices of fetal growth, and may be an endocrine marker of fetal size and energy stores in the control of metabolism and maturation of fetal tissues. In addition, leptin synthesis and plasma concentration can be modified by insulin, glucocorticoids, thyroid hormones and oxygen availability in utero, and therefore, leptin may be part of the hormonal response to changes in the intrauterine environment. Evidence is emerging to show that leptin has actions before birth that are tissue-specific and may occur in critical periods of development. Some of these actions are involved in the growth and development of the fetus and others have long-term consequences for the control of energy balance in adult life.
Data on the prevalence and severity of cognitive impairment among patients with newly diagnosed idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) is limited. Using a prospectively collected clinical database, we studied the longitudinal trend of mini-mental state examination (MMSE) change and baseline factors predictive for MMSE decline. One hundred six patients with mean age of 61.2 years and mean baseline MMSE of 27.8 +/- 2.3 were studied. MMSE increased by 0.4 points/year among patients without cognitive decline (n = 73) and decreased by 2.39 points/year among patients with cognitive decline (n = 33). Univariate analysis demonstrated education, age of diagnosis, depression, and diabetes mellitus to be associated with cognitive decline. Motor scores and hallucination were not associated with cognitive decline. Multivariate analysis demonstrated higher level of education to be protective (HR = 0.91, 95% CI 0.82-0.99, P = 0.047) and depression having borderline significance in predicting cognitive decline (HR = 2.00, 95% CI 0.97-4.15, P = 0.061). We found that 31% of newly diagnosed idiopathic PD patients have measurable cognitive decline at an early stage of disease. Higher education is protective while depression may be predictive of cognitive decline.
In addition to pure PD and pure dystonic syndromes, there are a group of disorders with overlapping features. The differential diagnosis of these dystonia parkinsonism syndromes can be complex. In view of the growing list of recognized disorders and recent advances in genetics, we review the autosomal recessive forms of dystonia parkinsonism, summarizing clinical presentations, results of investigations, and response to treatment of gene-proven cases. We concentrate on PANK2-, PLA2G6-, ATP13A2-, FBX07, TAF1-, and PRKRA-associated neurodegeneration. Parkin, PINK1, and DJ-1 are also briefly reviewed.
Mutations in PINK1 cause autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease. PINK1 is a mitochondrial kinase of unknown function. We investigated calcium homeostasis and mitochondrial function in PINK1-deficient mammalian neurons. We demonstrate physiologically that PINK1 regulates calcium efflux from the mitochondria via the mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger. PINK1 deficiency causes mitochondrial accumulation of calcium, resulting in mitochondrial calcium overload. We show that calcium overload stimulates reactive oxygen species (ROS) production via NADPH oxidase. ROS production inhibits the glucose transporter, reducing substrate delivery and causing impaired respiration. We demonstrate that impaired respiration may be restored by provision of mitochondrial complex I and II substrates. Taken together, reduced mitochondrial calcium capacity and increased ROS lower the threshold of opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) such that physiological calcium stimuli become sufficient to induce mPTP opening in PINK1-deficient cells. Our findings propose a mechanism by which PINK1 dysfunction renders neurons vulnerable to cell death.
This study examined the role of group1 metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR5 and associated postsynaptic scaffolding protein Homer1b/c in behavioral plasticity after three withdrawal treatments from cocaine self-administration. Rats self-administered cocaine or saline for 14 days followed by a withdrawal period during which rats underwent extinction training, remained in their home cages, or were placed in the self-administration chambers in the absence of extinction. Subsequently, the tissue level and distribution of proteins in the synaptosomal fraction associated with the postsynaptic density were examined. Cocaine self-administration followed by home cage exposure reduced the mGluR5 protein in nucleus accumbens (NA) shell and dorsolateral striatum. While extinction training reduced mGluR5 protein in NAshell, NAcore and dorsolateral striatum did not display any change. The scaffolding protein PSD95 increased in NAcore of the extinguished animals. Extinction of drug seeking was associated with a significant decrease in the synaptosomal mGluR5 protein in NAshell and an increase in dorsolateral striatum, while that of NAcore was not modified. Interestingly, both Homer1b/c and PSD95 scaffolding proteins were decreased in the synaptosomal fraction after extinction training in NAshell but not NAcore. Extinguished drug-seeking behavior was also associated with an increase in the synaptosomal actin proteins in dorsolateral striatum. Therefore, extinction of cocaine seeking is associated with neuroadaptations in mGluR5 expression and distribution that are region-specific and consist of extinction-induced reversal of cocaine-induced adaptations as well as emergent extinction-induced alterations. Concurrent plasticity in the scaffolding proteins further suggests that mGluR5 receptor neuroadaptations may have implications for synaptic function.
As fundamental units of neuronal communication, chemical synapses are composed of presynaptic and postsynaptic specializations that form at specific locations with defined shape and size. Synaptic assembly must be tightly regulated to prevent overgrowth of the synapse size and number, but the molecular mechanisms that inhibit synapse assembly are poorly understood. We identified regulator of synaptogenesis-1 (RSY-1) as an evolutionarily conserved molecule that locally antagonized presynaptic assembly. The loss of RSY-1 in Caenorhabditis elegans led to formation of extra synapses and recruitment of excessive synaptic material to presynaptic sites. RSY-1 directly interacted with and negatively regulated SYD-2/liprin-alpha, a master assembly molecule that recruits numerous synaptic components to presynaptic sites. RSY-1 also bound and regulated SYD-1, a synaptic protein required for proper functioning of SYD-2. Thus, local inhibitory mechanisms govern synapse formation.
Memories are thought to be encoded by sparsely distributed groups of neurons. However, identifying the precise neurons supporting a given memory (the memory trace) has been a long-standing challenge. We have shown previously that lateral amygdala (LA) neurons with increased cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein (CREB) are preferentially activated by fear memory expression, which suggests that they are selectively recruited into the memory trace. We used an inducible diphtheria-toxin strategy to specifically ablate these neurons. Selectively deleting neurons overexpressing CREB (but not a similar portion of random LA neurons) after learning blocked expression of that fear memory. The resulting memory loss was robust and persistent, which suggests that the memory was permanently erased. These results establish a causal link between a specific neuronal subpopulation and memory expression, thereby identifying critical neurons within the memory trace.


As the Neuroscience Peer Review Consortium (NPRC) ends its first year, it is worth looking back to see how the experiment has worked. In order to encourage dissemination of the details outlined in this Editorial, it will also be published in other journals in the Neuroscience Peer Review Consortium.
Whether the visual system uses a buffer to store image information and the duration of that storage have been debated intensely in recent psychophysical studies. The long phases of stable perception of reversible figures suggest a memory that persists for seconds. But persistence of similar duration has not been found in signals of the visual cortex. Here, we show that figure-ground signals in the visual cortex can persist for a second or more after the removal of the figure-ground cues. When new figure-ground information is presented, the signals adjust rapidly, but when a figure display is changed to an ambiguous edge display, the signals decay slowly--a behavior that is characteristic of memory devices. Figure-ground signals represent the layout of objects in a scene, and we propose that a short-term memory for object layout is important in providing continuity of perception in the rapid stream of images flooding our eyes.
Separate studies have implicated the lateral habenula (LHb) or amygdala-related regions in processing aversive stimuli, but their relationships to each other and to appetitive motivational systems are poorly understood. We show that neurons in the recently identified GABAergic rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg), which receive a major LHb input, project heavily to midbrain dopamine neurons, and show phasic activations and/or Fos induction after aversive stimuli (footshocks, shock-predictive cues, food deprivation, or reward omission) and inhibitions after rewards or reward-predictive stimuli. RMTg lesions markedly reduce passive fear behaviors (freezing, open-arm avoidance) dependent on the extended amygdala, periaqueductal gray, or septum, all regions that project directly to the RMTg. In contrast, RMTg lesions spare or enhance active fear responses (treading, escape) in these same paradigms. These findings suggest that aversive inputs from widespread brain regions and stimulus modalities converge onto the RMTg, which opposes reward and motor-activating functions of midbrain dopamine neurons.
Migraine is a common disabling brain disorder. A subtype of migraine with aura (familial hemiplegic migraine type 1: FHM1) is caused by mutations in Ca(V)2.1 (P/Q-type) Ca(2+) channels. Knockin mice carrying a FHM1 mutation show increased neuronal P/Q-type current and facilitation of induction and propagation of cortical spreading depression (CSD), the phenomenon that underlies migraine aura and may activate migraine headache mechanisms. We studied cortical neurotransmission in neuronal microcultures and brain slices of FHM1 mice. We show gain of function of excitatory neurotransmission due to increased action-potential-evoked Ca(2+) influx and increased probability of glutamate release at pyramidal cell synapses but unaltered inhibitory neurotransmission at fast-spiking interneuron synapses. Using an in vitro model of CSD, we show a causative link between enhanced glutamate release and CSD facilitation. The synapse-specific effect of FHM1 mutations points to disruption of excitation-inhibition balance and neuronal hyperactivity as the basis for episodic vulnerability to CSD ignition in migraine.
Axial muscles are innervated by motor neurons of the median motor column (MMC). In contrast to the segmentally restricted motor columns that innervate limb, body wall, and neuronal targets, MMC neurons are generated along the entire length of the spinal cord. We show that the specification of MMC fate involves a dorsoventral signaling program mediated by three Wnt proteins (Wnt4, Wnt5a, and Wnt5b) expressed in and around the floor plate. These Wnts appear to establish a ventral(high) to dorsal(low) signaling gradient and promote MMC identity and connectivity by maintaining expression of the LIM homeodomain proteins Lhx3/4 in spinal motor neurons. Elevation of Wnt4/5 activity generates additional MMC neurons at the expense of other motor neuron columnar subtypes, whereas depletion of Wnt4/5 activity inhibits the production of MMC neurons. Thus, two dorsoventral signaling pathways, mediated by Shh and Wnt4/5, are required to establish an early binary divergence in motor neuron columnar identity.
Migraine is thought to be triggered by excessive neocortical neuronal excitability that leads to cortical spreading depression. In this issue of Neuron, Tottene et al. study a mouse model of familial hemiplegic migraine type 1, and provide evidence for the hyperactivity of P/Q-type calcium channel-mediated cortical glutamatergic synaptic transmission as an underlying mechanism for the susceptibility of cortical spreading depression initiation in migraine disorders.
In this issue of Neuron, Seitz et al. show that humans exhibit enhanced perceptual discrimination for visual stimuli that have been repeatedly paired with reward under conditions of suppressed awareness. These findings challenge the view that awareness and focused attention are necessary for perceptual learning.
Ovarian cancer (OC) is the leading cause of death from gynecological malignancy. However, the mechanism by which OC develops remains largely unknown. Increases in cytosolic free Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) can result in different physiological changes including cell growth, differentiation and death. The transient receptor potential (TRP) C channels are nonselective cation channels with permeability to Ca(2+). Here we report that TRPC3 channels promote human OC growth. The TRPC3 protein levels in human OC specimens were greatly increased than those in normal ovarian specimens. Downregulating TRPC3 expression in SKOV3 cells, a human OC cell line, led to reduction of proliferation, suppression in epidermal growth factor-induced Ca(2+) influx, dephosphorylation of Cdc2 and CaMKIIalpha and prolonged progression through M phase of these cells. Further, decreased the expression of TRPC3 suppressed the tumor formation generated by injecting SKOV3 cells in nude mice. Together, our results suggest that increased activity of TRPC3 channels is necessary for the development of OCs.
Recent studies have shown that the anterior (ATN) and lateral thalamic nuclei (including the intralaminar nuclei; ILN/LT) play different roles in memory processes. These nuclei have prominent direct and indirect connections with the hippocampal system and/or the prefrontal cortex and may thus participate in the time-dependent reorganization of memory traces during systems-level consolidation. We investigated whether ATN or ILN/LT lesions in rats influenced acquisition and subsequent retrieval of spatial memory in a Morris water maze. Retrieval was assessed with a probe trial after a short (5 d, recent memory) or a long (25 d, remote memory) postacquisition delay. The ATN group showed impaired acquisition compared with the Sham controls and ILN/LT groups, which did not differ during acquisition, and exhibited no preference for the target quadrant during the recent or remote memory probe trials. In contrast, probe trial performance in rats with ILN/LT lesions differed according to the age of the memory, with accurate spatial retrieval for the recent memory probe trial but impaired retrieval during the remote memory one. These findings confirm that ATN but not ILN/LT lesions disrupt the acquisition of spatial memory and provide new evidence that the ILN/LT region contributes to remote memory processing. Thus, the lateral thalamus may modulate some aspects of remote memory formation and/or retrieval during the course of systems-level consolidation.
Spinogenesis and synaptic pruning during development are widely believed to subserve connectional specificity in the mature CNS via Hebbian-type reinforcement. Refinement of neuronal circuit through this &quot;use it or lose it&quot; principle is considered critical for brain development. Here we demonstrate that the magnitude of spinogenesis and pruning in the basal dendritic trees of pyramidal cells differ dramatically among sensory, association, and executive cortex. Moreover, somewhat counterintuitively, we demonstrate that the dendritic trees of pyramidal cells in the primary visual area actually lose more spines than they grow following the onset of visual experience. The present findings reveal that the process of synaptic refinement differs not only according to time, but also location.
Although research implicates lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) in executive control and goal-directed behavior, it remains unclear how goals influence executive processes. One possibility is that goal-relevant information, such as expected rewards, could modulate the representation of information relating to executive control, thereby ensuring the efficient allocation of cognitive resources. To investigate this, we examined how reward modulated spatial working memory. Past studies investigating spatial working memory have focused on dorsolateral PFC, but this area only weakly connects with areas processing reward. Ventrolateral PFC has better connections in this regard. Thus, we contrasted the functional properties of single neurons in ventrolateral and dorsolateral PFC as two subjects performed a task that required them to hold spatial information in working memory under different expectancies of reward for correct performance. We balanced the order of presentation of spatial and reward information so we could assess the neuronal encoding of the two pieces of information independently and conjointly. Neurons in ventrolateral PFC encoded both spatial and reward information earlier, stronger and in a more sustained manner than neurons in dorsolateral PFC. Within ventrolateral PFC, spatial selectivity was more prevalent on the inferior convexity than within the principal sulcus. Finally, when reward increased spatial selectivity, behavioral performance improved, whereas when reward decreased spatial selectivity, behavioral performance deteriorated. These results suggest that ventrolateral PFC may be a locus whereby information about expected rewards can modulate information in working memory. The pattern of results is consistent with a role for ventrolateral PFC in attentional control.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-mediated excitotoxicity is implicated as a proximate cause of neurodegeneration in Huntington Disease (HD). This hypothesis has not been tested rigorously in vivo. NMDAR-NR2B subunits are a major NR2 subunit expressed by striatal medium spiny neurons that degenerate in HD. To test the excitotoxic hypothesis, we crossed a well validated murine genetic model of HD (Hdh((CAG)150)) with a transgenic line overexpressing NMDAR-NR2B subunits. In the resulting double-mutant line, we show exacerbation of selective striatal neuron degeneration. This is the first direct in vivo evidence of NR2B-NMDAR-mediated excitotoxicity in the context of HD. Our results are consistent with previous suggestions that direct and/or indirect interactions of mutant huntingtin with NMDARs are a proximate cause of neurodegeneration in HD.
Our ability to focus attention on task-relevant information and ignore distractions is reflected by differential enhancement and suppression of neural activity in sensory cortex (i.e., top-down modulation). Such selective, goal-directed modulation of activity may be intimately related to memory, such that the focus of attention biases the likelihood of successfully maintaining relevant information by limiting interference from irrelevant stimuli. Despite recent studies elucidating the mechanistic overlap between attention and memory, the relationship between top-down modulation of visual processing during working memory (WM) encoding, and subsequent recognition performance has not yet been established. Here, we provide neurophysiological evidence in healthy, young adults that top-down modulation of early visual processing (&lt; 200 ms from stimulus onset) is intimately related to subsequent WM performance, such that the likelihood of successfully remembering relevant information is associated with limiting interference from irrelevant stimuli. The consequences of a failure to ignore distractors on recognition performance was replicated for two types of feature-based memory, motion direction and color. Moreover, attention to irrelevant stimuli was reflected neurally during the WM maintenance period as an increased memory load. These results suggest that neural enhancement of relevant information is not the primary determinant of high-level performance, but rather optimal WM performance is dependent on effectively filtering irrelevant information through neural suppression to prevent overloading a limited memory capacity.
Fast and accurate motor behavior requires combining noisy and delayed sensory information with knowledge of self-generated body motion; much evidence indicates that humans do this in a near-optimal manner during arm movements. However, it is unclear whether this principle applies to eye movements. We measured the relative contributions of visual sensory feedback and the motor efference copy (and/or proprioceptive feedback) when humans perform two saccades in rapid succession, the first saccade to a visual target and the second to a memorized target. Unbeknownst to the subject, we introduced an artificial motor error by randomly &quot;jumping&quot; the visual target during the first saccade. The correction of the memory-guided saccade allowed us to measure the relative contributions of visual feedback and efferent copy (and/or proprioceptive feedback) to motor-plan updating. In a control experiment, we extinguished the target during the saccade rather than changing its location to measure the relative contribution of motor noise and target localization error to saccade variability without any visual feedback. The motor noise contribution increased with saccade amplitude, but remained &lt;30% of the total variability. Subjects adjusted the gain of their visual feedback for different saccade amplitudes as a function of its reliability. Even during trials where subjects performed a corrective saccade to compensate for the target-jump, the correction by the visual feedback, while stronger, remained far below 100%. In all conditions, an optimal controller predicted the visual feedback gain well, suggesting that humans combine optimally their efferent copy and sensory feedback when performing eye movements.
In humans, tobacco withdrawal produces symptoms that contribute to the difficulty associated with smoking cessation. Nicotine withdrawal symptoms can also be observed in rodents. A major standing question is which nicotinic receptor subtypes and which areas of the brain are necessary for nicotine withdrawal to occur. Using knock-out mice, we previously showed that the beta4, but not the beta2 subunit of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, is necessary for the somatic manifestations of nicotine withdrawal. Since the beta4 subunit is highly expressed in the medial habenula, we focused our studies on the medial habenula and its primary target, the interpeduncular nucleus. In particular, we studied nicotine withdrawal in mice lacking the alpha2 or the alpha5 nicotinic receptor subunits, which are highly expressed in the interpeduncular nucleus. We precipitated withdrawal by systemically injecting the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine in mice chronically treated with nicotine. Both the alpha2 and the alpha5 null mutations abolished the somatic manifestations of nicotine withdrawal. In addition, in wild-type mice chronically treated with nicotine, mecamylamine precipitated withdrawal when microinjected into the habenula or the interpeduncular nucleus, but not into the cortex, ventral tegmental area or hippocampus. Our results demonstrate a major role for the habenulo-interpeduncular system and the nicotinic receptor subunits expressed therein, in nicotine withdrawal symptoms. Our data suggest that the efforts to develop new smoking cessation therapies should concentrate on these areas and receptor types.
Since the identification of tau as the main component of neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease and related tauopathies, and the discovery that mutations in the tau gene cause frontotemporal dementia, much effort has been directed towards determining how the aggregation of tau into fibrillar inclusions causes neuronal death. As evidence emerges that tau-mediated neuronal death can occur even in the absence of tangle formation, a growing number of studies are focusing on understanding how abnormalities in tau (e.g. aberrant phosphorylation, glycosylation or truncation) confer toxicity. Though data obtained from experimental models of tauopathies strongly support the involvement of pathologically modified tau and tau aggregates in neurodegeneration, the exact neurotoxic species remain unclear, as do the mechanism(s) by which they cause neuronal death. Nonetheless, it is believed that tau-mediated neurodegeneration is likely to result from a combination of toxic gains of function as well as from the loss of normal tau function. To truly appreciate the detrimental consequences of aberrant tau function, a better understanding of all functions carried out by tau, including but not limited to the role of tau in microtubule assembly and stabilization, is required. This review will summarize what is currently known regarding the involvement of tau in the initiation and development of neurodegeneration in tauopathies, and will also highlight some of the remaining questions in need of further investigation.


New work shows that spatial attention modulates visual responses of single neurons in monkey thalamus, providing empirical support for a long-standing theoretical prediction that specific thalamic nuclei play a key role in controlling the spotlight of visual attention.
Choline acetyltransferase of the peripheral type (pChAT) is a splice variant that lacks exons 6-9 of the common-type ChAT (cChAT); the role of pChAT remains unknown. We investigated the expression of pChAT and cChAT after axotomy to try to elucidate its function. In the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (DMNV), nucleus ambiguus (NA), and hypoglossal nucleus (HN) of control rats, we observed neural expression of cChAT but no pChAT-positive neurons. Following nerve transection, we clearly detected pChAT-labeled neurons in the DMNV and weakly labeled neurons in the NA, but pChAT was not seen in the HN. In the DMNV, the mean number of cChAT-positive neurons decreased rapidly to 40.5% of control at 3 days post transection, and to 5.0% of control after 7 days. The number of cChAT-positive neurons then gradually increased and reached a plateau of about 25% of control value at 28 days post transection. pChAT-positive neurons did not appear until 7 days after transection. On the same day, pChAT mRNA was detected in the DMNV neurons by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) by using laser capture microdissection. The number of pChAT-positive neurons gradually decreased, and only 10% of the cholinergic neurons retained pChAT expression 56 days post transection. Double-immunofluorescence analysis showed that some of the DMNV neurons expressed both cChAT and pChAT upon recovery from axotomy. These results suggest that the expression of pChAT is associated with the regenerative or degenerative processes of motoneurons especially for general visceral efferents.
Molecular studies have revealed the presence of R-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels at pre- and postsynaptic regions; however, no evidence for the participation of these channels in transmitter release has been presented for the spinal cord. Here we characterize the effects of SNX-482, a selective R channel blocker, on the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked in motoneurons by stimulation of dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) terminals in a slice preparation from the adult turtle spinal cord. SNX-482 inhibited neurotransmission in a dose-dependent manner, with an IC(50) of approximately 9 +/- 1 nM. The EPSP time course and membrane time constant of the motoneurons were not altered, suggesting a presynaptic mechanism. The toxin inhibited the residual component of the EPSPs recorded in the presence of N- and P/Q-type Ca(2+) channel blockers, strongly suggesting a role for the R channels in neurotransmission at the spinal cord DLF terminals. Consistently with this, RT-PCR analysis of turtle spinal cord segments revealed the expression of the Ca(V)2.3 pore-forming (alpha(1E)) subunit of R channels, whereas the use of anti-alpha(1E)-specific antibodies resulted in its localization in the DLF fibers as demonstrated by immunohistochemistry coupled with laser confocal microscopy.
To examine neuroanatomical mechanisms underlying fine motor control of the primate hand, adult rhesus monkeys underwent injections of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the right motor cortex. Spinal axonal anatomy was examined using detailed serial-section reconstruction and modified stereological quantification. Eighty-seven percent of corticospinal tract (CST) axons decussated in the medullary pyramids and descended through the contralateral dorsolateral tract of the spinal cord. Eleven percent of CST axons projected through the dorsolateral CST ipsilateral to the hemisphere of origin, and 2% of axons projected through the ipsilateral ventromedial CST. Notably, corticospinal axons decussated extensively across the spinal cord midline. Remarkably, nearly 2-fold more CST axons decussated across the cervical spinal cord midline (approximately 12,000 axons) than were labeled in all descending components of the CST (approximately 6,700 axons). These findings suggest that CST axons extend multiple segmental collaterals. Furthermore, serial-section reconstructions revealed that individual axons descending in either the ipsilateral or contralateral dorsolateral CST can: 1) terminate in the gray matter ipsilateral to the hemisphere of origin; 2) terminate in the gray matter contralateral to the hemisphere of origin; or 3) branch in the spinal cord and terminate on both sides of the spinal cord. These results reveal a previously unappreciated degree of bilaterality and complexity of corticospinal projections in the primate spinal cord. This bilaterality is more extensive than that of the rat CST, and may resemble human CST organization. Thus, augmentation of sprouting of these extensive bilateral CST projections may provide a novel target for enhancing recovery after spinal cord injury.
The habenular complex of the epithalamus connects the limbic basal forebrain with numerous neuromodulatory centers in the midbrain. The habenula consists of the medial and lateral nuclei, each of which is speculated to contain multiple subdivisions. Such anatomical arrangements raise the possibility that the habenula accounts for multiple channels of information flow from the limbic forebrain to the midbrain. For understanding whether and, if so, how the multiple streams are organized via the habenula, knowledge of the precise input-output connectivity of each habenular subdivision is essential. In the present study, biotinylated dextran amine and cholera toxin subunit B were used to delineate the differential outputs of various subregions of the medial and lateral nuclei of the habenula in the rat. Both anterograde and retrograde tracing uncovered a heavy commissural connection between the two habenulae on the ipsilateral and contralateral sides. The commissural projection arises primarily in the lateral nucleus and exhibits a fine topography in that a local commissural efferent terminates primarily in the corresponding subregion on the contralateral side. The subregions of the medial and lateral nuclei also give rise to distinct projections to midbrain areas such as the interpeduncular nucleus, the median/paramedian nuclei, and the central gray. These projections produce terminal fields centered in different areas of the targets, supporting the topographically organized descending projections from the habenula. These data together support the organization of multiple channels in the habenula that convey parallel streams of information to the contralateral habenula, midbrain, and brainstem.
In all nervous systems, short-term enhancement of transmitter release is achieved by increasing the weights of unitary synapses; in contrast, long-term enhancement, which requires nuclear gene expression, is generally thought to be mediated by the addition of new synaptic vesicle release sites. In Drosophila motor neurons, induction of AP-1, a heterodimer of Fos and Jun, induces cAMP- and CREB-dependent forms of presynaptic enhancement. Light and electron microscopic studies indicate that this synaptic enhancement is caused by increasing the weight of unitary synapses and not through the insertion of additional release sites. Electrophysiological and optical measurements of vesicle dynamics demonstrate that enhanced neurotransmitter release is accompanied by an increase in the actively cycling synaptic vesicle pool at the expense of the reserve pool. Finally, the observation that AP-1 mediated enhancement eliminates tetanus-induced forms of presynaptic potentiation suggests: (i) that reserve-pool mobilization is required for tetanus-induced short-term synaptic plasticity; and (ii) that long-term synaptic plasticity may, in some instances, be accomplished by stable recruitment of mechanisms that normally underlie short-term synaptic change.
Using chromatin immunoprecipitation combined with genomic microarrays we have identified targets of No tail (Ntl), a zebrafish Brachyury ortholog that plays a central role in mesoderm formation. We show that Ntl regulates a downstream network of other transcription factors and identify an in vivo Ntl binding site that resembles the consensus T-box binding site (TBS) previously identified by in vitro studies. We show that the notochord-expressed gene floating head (flh) is a direct transcriptional target of Ntl and that a combination of TBSs in the flh upstream region are required for Ntl-directed expression. Using our genome-scale data we have assembled a preliminary gene regulatory network that begins to describe mesoderm formation and patterning in the early zebrafish embryo.
Previous research has shown that estradiol increases the anorexia associated with serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission. To examine further the putative relationship between estradiol and 5-HT, we investigated whether estradiol increases the expression of Pet-1 and the 5-HT transporter (5-HTT), two genes implicated in the development and regulation of the 5-HT system. Ovariectomized (OVX) rats (n=5-6/group) were treated with 0, 2, or 10 microg estradiol benzoate (EB) in sesame oil on 2 consecutive days. Food intake and body weight were recorded 2 days later when EB-treated rats typically display signs of behavioral estrus (e.g., reduced feeding). Following the collection of behavioral data, rats were perfused, brains were removed, and coronal sections were cut through the midbrain raphe nuclei. Pet-1 and 5-HTT mRNA levels were quantified throughout the dorsal and median raphe nuclei (DRN and MRN) by conducting in situ hybridization on free-floating tissue sections using (35)S-labeled cDNA probes. As expected, EB treatment decreased food intake and body weight on the day that modeled estrus. At this same time, EB treatment increased Pet-1 and 5-HTT mRNA levels within the DRN and MRN. We conclude that a physiologically relevant regimen of estradiol treatment in OVX rats increases Pet-1 and 5-HTT mRNA levels in the midbrain raphe nuclei at a time when the anorexigenic effect of estradiol is apparent. Further studies are required to determine whether the increased expression of Pet-1 and 5-HTT mRNA plays a causal role in the anorexigenic effect of estradiol.
Sleep loss/disruption has been shown to suppress adult hippocampal neurogenesis. Whether the administration of hypnotic drugs, by promoting sleep, especially in older subjects, who typically exhibit poor sleep, has a beneficial effect on neurogenesis parameters is unknown. We examined the effects of zolpidem, a widely prescribed nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic, on cell proliferation and survival in the dentate gyrus of young ( approximately 2 1/2 months) and old ( approximately 13 months) male Sprague-Dawley rats. Zolpidem (5, 10 or 20 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle was administered twice daily, at the beginning and middle of the sleep period, for either 2 days (acute study) or 21 days (chronic study). Proliferation and cell survival were measured by staining for Ki67 or 5-bromo-2'-deoxyurdine (BrdU), respectively. Acute administration of zolpidem produced a suppression of cell proliferation, which attained statistical significance only in the aged animals. The magnitude of the suppressive effect was larger in the hilus than in the subgranular zone (SGZ). In contrast, chronic administration of zolpidem produced little or no effect on proliferation in either age group, despite marked differences in basal proliferation levels between the two age groups. Similarly, there was little change in cell survival following chronic zolpidem administration in young versus old animals. A slight reduction of cell survival in the granular cell layer (GCL)/SGZ was observed in young animals and a slight augmentation in aged animals. To the extent that zolpidem improves sleep, these data suggest little or no benefit of hypnotic drug treatment on neurogenesis parameters in young or old rats.
Neuronal axons are guided by attractive and repulsive cues in their local environment. Because the repulsive guidance molecule A (RGMa) was originally identified as an axon repellent in the visual system, diverse functions in the developing and adult central nervous system have been ascribed to it. RGMa binding to its receptor neogenin induces RhoA activation, leading to inhibitory/repulsive behavior and collapse of the neuronal growth cone. However, the precise mechanisms that regulate RhoA activation are poorly understood. In this study, we show that Unc5B, a member of the netrin receptor family, interacts with neogenin as a coreceptor for RGMa. Moreover, leukemia-associated guanine nucleotide exchange factor (LARG) associates with Unc5B to transduce the RhoA signal. Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is involved in RGMa-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of LARG as well as RhoA activation. These findings uncover the molecular basis for diverse functions mediated by RGMa.
Munc18-1 and soluble NSF attachment protein receptors (SNAREs) are critical for synaptic vesicle fusion. Munc18-1 binds to the SNARE syntaxin-1 folded into a closed conformation and to SNARE complexes containing open syntaxin-1. Understanding which steps in fusion depend on the latter interaction and whether Munc18-1 competes with other factors such as complexins for SNARE complex binding is critical to elucidate the mechanisms involved. In this study, we show that lentiviral expression of Munc18-1 rescues abrogation of release in Munc18-1 knockout mice. We describe point mutations in Munc18-1 that preserve tight binding to closed syntaxin-1 but markedly disrupt Munc18-1 binding to SNARE complexes containing open syntaxin-1. Lentiviral rescue experiments reveal that such disruption selectively impairs synaptic vesicle priming but not Ca(2+)-triggered fusion of primed vesicles. We also find that Munc18-1 and complexin-1 bind simultaneously to SNARE complexes. These results suggest that Munc18-1 binding to SNARE complexes mediates synaptic vesicle priming and that the resulting primed state involves a Munc18-1-SNARE-complexin macromolecular assembly that is poised for Ca(2+) triggering of fusion.
It has been suggested that low mood in humans is an adaptive response to unfavourable circumstances, and that the anhedonia, pessimism and fatigue that often accompany it function to minimise risk until circumstances improve. While this is plausible, it would be possible to make the opposite prediction equally plausibly: individuals in bad circumstances should take greater risks in order to improve their situations. Here, I present a simple analytical model adapted from the risk-sensitive foraging literature. It shows that in dire states, individuals should be risk-prone, in poor states, risk-averse, and in good states, risk-prone again. I discuss how the various kinds of mood state observed in humans might be understood as mechanisms for adaptively adjusting behavioural risk-taking to the current situation.
Integrate and fire (IF) neurons have found widespread applications in computational neuroscience. Particularly important are stochastic versions of these models where the driving consists of a synaptic input modeled as white Gaussian noise with mean mu and noise intensity D. Different IF models have been proposed, the firing statistics of which depends nontrivially on the input parameters mu and D. In order to compare these models among each other, one must first specify the correspondence between their parameters. This can be done by determining which set of parameters (mu,D) of each model is associated with a given set of basic firing statistics as, for instance, the firing rate and the coefficient of variation (CV) of the interspike interval (ISI). However, it is not clear a priori whether for a given firing rate and CV there is only one unique choice of input parameters for each model. Here we review the dependence of rate and CV on input parameters for the perfect, leaky, and quadratic IF neuron models and show analytically that indeed in these three models the firing rate and the CV uniquely determine the input parameters.
Recently, microfluidic systems have shown great potential in the study of molecular and cellular biology. With its excellent properties, such as miniaturization, integration and automation, to name just a few, microfluidics creates new opportunities for the spatial and temporal control of cell growth and environmental stimuli in vitro. In the field of neuroscience, microfluidic devices offer precise control of the microenvironment surrounding individual cells, and the delivery of biochemical or physical cues to neural networks or single neurons. The intent of this review is to outline recent advances in microfluidic-based applications in neurobiology, with emphasis on neuron culture, neuron manipulation, neural stem cell differentiation, neuropharmacology, neuroelectrophysiology, and neuron biosensors. It also aims to stimulate development of microfluidic-based applications in neurobiology by involving scientists from various disciplines, especially neurobiology and microtechnology.
Arterial spin labelling (ASL) is a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique that can be used to provide a quantitative assessment of cerebral perfusion. Despite the development of a number of theoretical models to facilitate quantitative ASL, some key challenges still remain. The purpose of this study is to develop a novel quantitative ASL method based on a macroscopic model that reduces the number of variables required to describe the physiological processes involved. To this end, a novel Fokker-Planck equation consisting of stochastically varying macroscopic variables was derived from a general Langevin equation. ASL data from the rat brain was acquired using a bolus-tracking ASL protocol where a bolus of labelled spins flowing from an inversion plane in the neck into an imaging plane in the brain can be observed. Bolus durations of 1.5 s, 2.0 s and 3.0 s were used and the solution to the Fokker-Planck equation for the boundary conditions of bolus-tracking ASL was fitted to the experimental data using a least-squares fit. The mean transit time (MTT) and capillary transit time (CTT) were calculated from the first and second moments of the resultant curve respectively and the arterial transit time (ATT) was calculated by subtracting the CTT from the MTT. The average MTT, CTT and ATT values were 1.75 +/- 0.22 s, 1.43 +/- 0.12 s and 0.32 +/- 0.04 s respectively. In conclusion, a new ASL protocol has been developed by combining the theoretical model with ASL experiments. The technique has the unique ability to provide solutions for varying bolus volumes and the generality of the new model is demonstrated by the derivation of additional solutions for the continuous and pulsed ASL (CASL and PASL) techniques.
The indirect secondary electron contrast (ISEC) condition of the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) produces high contrast detection with minimal damage of unstained biological samples mounted under a thin carbon film. The high contrast image is created by a secondary electron signal produced under the carbon film by a low acceleration voltage. Here, we show that ISEC condition is clearly able to detect unstained bacteriophage T4 under a thin carbon film (10-15 nm) by using high-resolution field emission (FE) SEM. The results show that FE-SEM provides higher resolution than thermionic emission SEM. Furthermore, we investigated the scattered electron area within the carbon film under ISEC conditions using Monte Carlo simulation. The simulations indicated that the image resolution difference is related to the scattering width in the carbon film and the electron beam spot size. Using ISEC conditions on unstained virus samples would produce low electronic damage, because the electron beam does not directly irradiate the sample. In addition to the routine analysis, this method can be utilized for structural analysis of various biological samples like viruses, bacteria, and protein complexes.
Formation of receptor complexes between micro-opioid and alpha2A-adrenergic receptors has been demonstrated in transfected cells. The functional significance and underlying mechanisms of such receptor interactions remain to be determined in neuronal systems. We examined functional interactions between endogenous micro and alpha2A receptors in mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons. Acute application of the micro agonist [D-Ala2,N-MePhe4, Gly-ol5]enkephalin (DAMGO) or the alpha2 agonist clonidine inhibited voltage-gated Ca2+ currents in these neurons. Prolonged treatment with either DAMGO or clonidine induced a mutual cross-desensitization between micro and alpha2A receptor-mediated current inhibition. The cross-desensitization was closely associated with simultaneous internalization of micro and alpha2A receptors. Morphine, a mu agonist triggering little mu receptor endocytosis, induced neither cross-desensitization nor internalization of alpha2A receptors. Furthermore, inhibition of p38 MAPK prevented the cross-desensitization as well as cointernalization of micro and alpha2A receptors. Changes in receptor trafficking profiles suggested that p38 MAPK activity was required for initiating micro receptor internalization and maintaining possible micro-alpha2A association during their cointernalization. Finally, the micro-alpha2A cross-desensitization was absent in dorsal root ganglion neurons lacking beta-arrestin 2. These findings demonstrated p38 MAPK- and beta-arrestin 2-dependent cross-regulation between neuronal micro and alpha2A receptors. By promoting receptor cross-desensitization and cointernalization, such functional interactions may serve as negative feedback mechanisms triggered by prolonged agonist exposure to modulate the signaling of functionally related G protein-coupled receptors.

