Epilepsy is the most common neurological disorder affecting young people. The etiologies are multiple and most cases are sporadic. However, some rare families with Mendelian inheritance have provided evidence of genes' important role in epilepsy. Two important but apparently different groups of disorders have been extensively studied: epilepsies associated with malformations of cortical development (MCDs) and epilepsies associated with a structurally normal brain (or with minimal abnormalities only). This review is focused on clinical and molecular aspects of focal cortical dysplasia, polymicrogyria, periventricular nodular heterotopia, subcortical band heterotopia, lissencephaly and schizencephaly as examples of MCDs. Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, childhood absence epilepsy, some familial forms of focal epilepsy and epilepsies associated with febrile seizures are discussed as examples of epileptic conditions in (apparently) structurally normal brains.
This study aimed to examine the long-term effect of high blood pressure (systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, pulse pressure, and mean arterial pressure) on white matter lesions and to study changes in different blood pressure components in relation to white matter lesions. A representative population of women was examined in 1968 and re-examined in 1974, 1980, 1992, and 2000. The presence and severity of white matter lesions on computed tomography were rated by a visual rating scale in 1992 and 2000 in 539 women. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures were measured at all of the examinations. We found that presence and severity of white matter lesions in 1992/2000 were associated with higher diastolic blood pressure and mean arterial pressure at each examination but not with systolic blood pressure and pulse pressure. Odds ratios (95% CIs) for the presence of white matter lesions per 10-mm Hg increase in diastolic pressure were 1.4 (1.0 to 1.9) in 1968, 1.3 (1.0 to 1.8) in 1974, 1.4 (1.1 to 1.9) in 1980, and 1.3 (1.0 to 1.6) in 1992 after adjustment for confounders. The presence of white matter lesions was also associated with a 24-year increase in diastolic pressure (&gt;10 mm Hg), systolic pressure (&gt;40 mm Hg), pulse pressure (&gt;24 mm Hg), and mean arterial pressure (&gt;6 mm Hg; odds ratios [95% CIs]: 2.6 [1.3 to 5.1] for diastolic pressure; 2.0 [1.2 to 3.4] for systolic pressure; 1.8 [1.1 to 2.7] for pulse pressure; and 2.2 [1.4 to 3.4] for mean arterial pressure). Our findings suggest that lowering high diastolic blood pressure and preventing large increases in systolic and diastolic blood pressures may have a protective effect on white matter lesions.
Tracking the autonomic control and respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) from electrocardiogram and respiratory measurements is an important problem in cardiovascular control. We propose a point process adaptive filter algorithm based on an inverse Gaussian model to track heart beat intervals that incorporates respiratory measurements as a covariate and provides an analytic form for computing a dynamic estimate of RSA gain. We use Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests and autocorrelation function analyses to assess model goodness-of-fit. We illustrate the properties of the new dynamic estimate of RSA in the analysis of simulated heart beat data and actual heart beat data recorded from subjects in a four-state postural study of heart beat dynamics: control, sympathetic blockade, parasympathetic blockade, and combined sympathetic and parasympathetic blockade. In addition to giving an accurate description of the heart beat data, our adaptive filter algorithm confirms established findings pointing at a vagally mediated RSA and provides a new dynamic RSA estimate that can be used to track cardiovascular control between and within a broad range of postural, pharmacological, and age conditions. Our paradigm suggests a possible framework for designing a device for ambulatory monitoring and assessment of autonomic control in both laboratory research and clinical practice.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system and a defect in the regulatory T-cell subset seems to be involved in the pathogenesis of the disease. Foxp3 is a transcription factor that is selectively expressed in CD4+ CD25+ regulatory T cells and is required for their development and function. T-bet is a key transcription factor for the development of T helper 1 (Th1) cells. We found that both the percentage of circulating CD4+ CD25+ Foxp3+ cells and Foxp3 expression were lower in relapsing-remitting (RR) MS patients during relapses than during remission. Otherwise, the percentage of CD4+ T-bet+ T cells and T-bet expression in CD4+ T cells were higher in relapsing than in remitting RRMS patients. CD4+ CD25+ T cells both from relapsing and from remitting RRMS patients showed significantly less capacity than corresponding cells from healthy subjects to suppress autologous CD4+ CD25(-) T-cell proliferation, despite a similar Foxp3 expression level. CD4+ CD25+ T cells from healthy subjects and patients in remission clearly reduced T-bet mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) in CD4+ CD25(-) T cells up to a ratio of 1:10, whereas CD4+ CD25+ T cells from patients in relapse were able to reduce T-bet expression only at a high ratio. Our data indicate that the increased number of regulatory T (T-reg) cells and the increased Foxp3 expression in circulating CD4+ CD25+ T cells may contribute to the maintenance of tolerance in the remission phase of MS. Moreover, the inhibitory capacity of CD4+ CD25+ T cells seems to be impaired in relapsing patients under inflammatory conditions, as shown by the high levels of T-bet expression in CD4+ T cells.


The incidence of pressure ulcers in patients with psychiatric illness, especially with catatonia might be more than what is reported in the literature. We report a case of catatonia secondary to severe depression presenting with multiple pressure ulcers. Single case report - description and management. An 18 yrs old boy reported with a continuous course illness characterized by features of catatonia secondary to severe depression with multiple pressure ulcers over sacrum and heels. Ulcers were effectively managed by a multidisciplinary team of physiatrist, psychiatrist, and rehabilitation nurses. Immobility, reduced nocturnal movements, increased skin fragility, and poor nutrition contribute to the development of the pressure ulcer in bed-bound psychiatric patients. Efforts should be directed toward the prevention of pressure ulcers in these patients to reduce additional morbidity.

Schizophrenia is conceptualized as a disorder of aberrant neurodevelopment, with evident stigmata such as minor physical anomalies (MPA), neurological soft signs (NSS), and abnormalities of brain structure and function, proposed as disease endophenotypes. We have examined the neurobiology of schizophrenia using neurodevelopmental markers, structural MRI (sMRI), EEG spectral power, and coherence as well as neuropsychological testing in neuroleptic-nave, recent-onset schizophrenia (NRS) subjects. It has been our focus to link the positive and negative symptom dimensions of schizophrenia with their underlying neural correlates specifically reflecting fronto-temporal circuitry dysfunction. We found that MPAs and NSSs constituted independent neurodevelopmental markers of schizophrenia and would afford greater predictive validity when used as a composite endophenotype. In an exploratory factor analytic study of the dimensionality of psychopathology, we noted that the symptoms segregated into three dimensions, viz., positive, negative, and disorganization, even in NRS subjects. Executive function tests as well as EEG spectral power and coherence studies revealed that the symptom dimensions of schizophrenia could be linked to specific neural correlates. In an attempt to study the relationship between the symptom dimensions and brain structure and function using MRI, we have proposed neuroanatomical definitions with cytoarchitectonic meaning for parcellation of the prefrontal sub-divisions. Using sMRI, we have found specific corpus callosal abnormalities that possibly link the temporo-parietal association cortices with the positive symptom dimension. Recently, we also found evidence for neurodevelopmental deviance in schizophrenia possibly involving the frontal pole (FP)-driven cortical network, in a sMRI study linking FP volume and total brain volume with age in NRS subjects and age-, gender- and education-matched healthy subjects. Overall, our findings highlight the potential significance of linking the homogeneous symptom dimensions of schizophrenia with dysfunctional connectivity in the fronto-temporal region.


The present study examined children's and adults' categorization and moral judgment of truthful and untruthful statements. 7-, 9-and 11-year-old Chinese children and college students read stories in which story characters made truthful or untruthful statements and were asked to classify and evaluate the statements. The statements varied in terms of whether the speaker intended to help or harm a listener and whether the statement was made in a setting that called for informational accuracy or politeness. Results showed that the communicative intent and setting factors jointly influence children's categorization of lying and truth-telling, which extends an earlier finding (Lee &amp; Ross, 1997) to childhood. Also, we found that children's and adults' moral judgments of lying and truth-telling were influenced by the communicative intent but not the setting factor. The present results were discussed in terms of Sweetser's (1987) folkloristic model of lying.
The expression of the human mu opioid receptor splice variants (hMOR-1A, hMOR-1O, hMOR-1X, and hMOR-1Y) mRNA in peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) was explored in opioid addicted, methadone maintained, long-term abstinent, and control subjects. Real-time PCR showed that hMOR-1X and hMOR-1Y are not expressed in PBLs. The hMOR-1A mRNA was 0.33 fold down-regulated in abstinent and 1.94 fold up-regulated in methadone maintained subjects. The hMOR-1O mRNA was down-regulated 0.39 and 0.53 fold in abstinent and methadone maintained groups, respectively. Expression of both variants in addicted group was not different from controls. It is concluded that expression of hMOR-1A and hMOR-1O variants measured by a suggested peripheral marker can serve to identify people at risk for opioid addiction and also to evaluate the successfulness of methadone therapy.
Voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs), classically known to play a central role in excitability and signalling in nerves and muscles, have also been found to be expressed in a range of 'non-excitable' cells, including lymphocytes, fibroblasts and endothelia. VGSC abnormalities are associated with various diseases including epilepsy, long-QT syndrome 3, Brugada syndrome, sudden infant death syndrome and, more recently, various human cancers. Given their pivotal role in a wide range of physiological and pathophysiological processes, regulation of functional VGSC expression has been the subject of intense study. An emerging theme is post-translational regulation and macro-molecular complexing by protein-protein interactions and intracellular trafficking, leading to changes in functional VGSC expression in plasma membrane. This partially involves endoplasmic reticulum associated degradation and ubiquitin-proteasome system. Several proteins have been shown to associate with VGSCs. Here, we review the interactions involving VGSCs and the following proteins: p11, ankyrin, syntrophin, beta-subunit of VGSC, papin, ERM and Nedd4 proteins. Protein kinases A and C, as well as Ca(2+)-calmodulin dependent kinase II that have also been shown to regulate intracellular trafficking of VGSCs by changing the balance of externalization vs. internalization, and an effort is made to separate these effects from the short-term phosphorylation of mature proteins in plasma membrane. Two further modulatory mechanisms are reciprocal interactions with the cytoskeleton and, late-stage, activity-dependent regulation. Thus, the review gives an updated account of the range of post-translational molecular mechanisms regulating functional VGSC expression. However, many details of VGSC subtype-specific regulation and pathophysiological aspects remain unknown and these are highlighted throughout for completeness.


The present paper reviews and summarizes the basic findings concerning the nature of the neurobiological and behavioral characteristics of aggression and rage. For heuristic purposes, the types of aggression will be reduced to two categories - defensive rage (affective defense) and predatory attack. This approach helps explain both the behavioral properties of aggression as well as the underlying neural substrates and mechanisms of aggression both in animals and humans. Defensive rage behavior is activated by a threatening stimulus that is real or perceived and is associated with marked sympathetic output. This yields impulsivity with minimal cortical involvement. Predatory attack behavior in both animals and humans is generally planned, taking minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, or even years (with respect to humans) for it to occur and is directed upon a specific individual target; it reflects few outward sympathetic signs and is believed to require cortical involvement for its expression. Predatory attack requires activation of the lateral hypothalamus, while defensive rage requires activation of the medial hypothalamus and midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG). Both forms of aggressive behavior are controlled by components of the limbic system, a region of the forebrain that is influenced by sensory inputs from the cerebral cortex and monoaminergic inputs from the brainstem reticular formation. Control of aggressive tendencies is partly modifiable through conditioning and related learning principles generated through the cerebral cortex.
Human societies have formalized instincts for compliance with reciprocal altruism in laws that sanction some aggression and not other aggression. Neuroscience makes steady advances toward measurements of various aspects of brain function pertinent to the aggressive behaviors that laws are designed to regulate. Consciousness, free will, rationality, intent, reality testing, empathy, moral reasoning, and capacity for self-control are somewhat subject to empirical assessment. The question becomes: how should law accommodate the wealth of information regarding these elements of mind that the science of aggression increasingly makes available? This essay discusses the evolutionary purpose of aggression, the evolutionary purpose of law, the problematic assumptions of the mens rea doctrine, and the prospects for applying the neuroscience of aggression toward the goal of equal justice for unequal minds. Nine other essays are introduced, demonstrating how each of them fits into the framework of the permanent debate about neuroscience and justice. It is concluded that advances in the science of human aggression will have vital, but biologically limited, impact on the provision of justice.


In the study of aggression, psychopathy represents a disorder that is of particular interest because it often involves aggression which is premeditated, emotionless, and instrumental in nature; this is especially true for more serious types of offenses. Such instrumental aggression is aimed at achieving a goal (e.g., to obtain resources such as money, or to gain status). Unlike the primarily reactive aggression observed in other disorders, psychopaths appear to engage in aggressive acts for the purpose of benefiting themselves. This is especially interesting in light of arguments that psychopathy may represent an alternative life-history strategy that is evolutionarily adaptive; behaviors such as aggression, risk-taking, manipulation, and promiscuous sexual behavior observed in psychopathy may be means by which psychopaths gain advantage over others. Recent neurobiological research supports the idea that abnormalities in brain regions key to emotion and morality may allow psychopaths to pursue such a strategy-psychopaths may not experience the social emotions such as empathy, guilt, and remorse that typically discourage instrumentally aggressive acts, and may even experience pleasure when committing these acts. Findings from brain imaging studies of psychopaths may have important implications for the law.
There is evidence suggesting that some patients with schizophrenia have increased circulating pro-inflammatory markers present in their serum. We hypothesize that serum soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2r) levels may serve as a biomarker for a subset of patients with schizophrenia. Serum sIL-2r levels were serially sampled from 59 medically stabilized subjects with schizophrenia and 57 control subjects. Serum sIL-2r levels were consistently elevated for subjects with schizophrenia when compared to controls. This finding was driven by a subgroup of patients (16/59) who had serum sIL-2r levels two standard deviations beyond the mean of the control sample. Elevated serum sIL-2r levels were associated with increased Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale total scores, negative symptom and general psychopathology subscale scores. These results suggest that a subset of patients with schizophrenia have an elevation in a marker of immune activation that is stable over time and is associated with increased levels of psychopathology.
The human serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene is one of the most extensively studied in psychiatry. A functional polymorphism in the promoter region of the 5-HTT gene (5-HTTLPR) has been associated with several psychiatric disorders as well as anxiety-related personality traits. In search of a mechanistic understanding of the functional implications of 5-HTTLPR, the influence of this polymorphism on regional 5-HT1A receptor density has previously been examined in two positron emission tomography (PET) studies in humans, yielding, however, contradictory results. In the present study, 54 control subjects were examined with [11C]WAY 100635 PET and a battery of cognitive tests. Regional binding potential (BP) of [11C]WAY 100635 to 5-HT1A receptor was calculated for the dorsal raphe nuclei, the hippocampus, the anterior cingulate, the insula, the temporal cortex and the frontal cortex. The influence of 5-HTTLPR genotype on regional 5-HT1A BP and cognitive performance was investigated. No differences in 5-HT1A receptor density between carriers and non-carriers of the S allele were found. Thus, we could not replicate any of the previously reported associations between 5-HTTLPR and 5-HT1A density. There was, however, a highly significant association between 5-HTTLPR genotype and performance in Wisconsin Card Sorting Test; carriers of the S allele had a superior performance compared to the LL carriers. These observations suggest that functional implications of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism are not likely to be mediated by differences in 5-HT1A expression levels and that other biomarkers must be considered for future investigations at phenotype level.

In this paper we consider how functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) has been used to study cortical connectivity in autism and autistic spectrum disorders (ASD). We discuss those studies that have contributed to the evidence supporting a model of disordered cortical connectivity in autism and (ASD), with a focusing emphasis on the application to research into the underconnectivity model. We note that the analytical techniques employed are limited and do not allow interpretation in terms of effective, or directional connectivity, nor do they provide information about the temporal or spectral characteristics of the functional networks being studied. We highlight how currently the features of neural generators that are being assessed by functional connectivity in fMRI are unclear. In addition, we note the importance in clinical studies of considering the consequences of task choice for the nature of the imaging data that can be collected and also of individual differences in participant state and trait characteristics for the accurate interpretation of imaging data. We discuss how alternative techniques such as EEG/MEG may address the limitations of fMRI in assessing brain connectivity, and additionally consider the potential of multimodal approaches. We conclude that fMRI has made significant contributions towards our understanding of the brain in terms of neural systems but that the conclusions drawn from its application in the sphere of autism research need to be approached with caution. It is important in research of this kind that we are aware of the need to examine the methodological and analytical techniques closely when applying findings in clinical populations, not only when they are used to support the development of theoretical models but also to inform diagnostic or treatment decisions.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has led to an enormous growth in the study of cognitive neuroanatomy, and combined with advances in high-field electrophysiology (and other methods), has led to a fast-growing field of human neuroscience. Technological advances in both hardware and software will lead to an ever more promising future for fMRI. We have developed a new computational framework that facilitates fMRI experimentation and analysis, and which has led to some rethinking of the nature of experimental design and analysis. The Computational Neuroscience Applications Research Infrastructure (CNARI) incorporates novel methods for maintaining, serving, and analyzing massive amounts of fMRI data. By using CNARI, it is possible to perform naturalistic, network-based, statistically valid experiments in systems neuroscience on a very large scale, with ease of data manipulation and analysis, within reasonable computational time scales. In this article, we describe this infrastructure and then illustrate its use on a number of actual examples in both cognitive neuroscience and neurological research. We believe that these advanced computational approaches will fundamentally change the future shape of cognitive brain imaging with fMRI.
Expectations for what functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can offer psychophysiology vary greatly. Overreaching enthusiasm such as the idea that fMRI can reveal lies and political attitudes are as common as the opinion that fMRI, in its current form, is useless for the advancement of psychological theories. Errors in the inferences being drawn from fMRI data may be contributing to each of these extreme positions, so the present paper addresses these several common inferential errors and describes some of the potential of fMRI for psychophysiological theory and research.
Since the observation of the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) effect on measured MR signal in the brain, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has rapidly become the tool of choice for exploring brain function in cognitive neuroscience. Although fMRI is an exciting and powerful means to examining the brain in vivo, the field has sometimes permitted itself to believe that patterns of BOLD activity reveal more than it is possible to measure given the method's spatial and temporal sampling, while concurrently not fully exploring the amount of information it provides. In this article, we examine some of the constraints on the kinds of inferences that can be supported by fMRI. We critique the concept of reverse inference that is often employed to claim some cognitive function must be present given activity in a specific region. We review the consideration of functional and effective connectivity that remain infrequently applied in cognitive neuroimaging, highlighting recent thinking on the ways in which functional imaging can be used to characterize inter-regional communication. Recent advances in neuroimaging that make it possible to assess anatomical connectivity using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and we discuss how these may inform interpretation of fMRI results. Descriptions of fMRI studies in the media, in some instances, serve to misrepresent fMRI's capabilities. We comment on how researchers need to faithfully represent fMRI's promise and limitations in dealing with the media. Finally, as we stand at the crossroads of fMRI research, where one pathway leads toward a rigorous understanding of cognitive operations using fMRI and another leads us to a predictable collection of observations absent of clear insight, we offer our impressions of a fruitful path for future functional imaging research.






Curvilinear effects of age on self-reported annoyance from environmental noise were investigated in a pooled international and a Dutch sample of in total 62,983 individuals aged between 15 and 102 years. All respondents were frequently exposed to varying levels of transportation noise (i.e., aircraft, road traffic, and railway noise). Results reveal an inverted U-shaped pattern, where the largest number of highly annoyed individuals was found in the middle-aged segment of the sample (peaking around 45 years) while the lowest number was found in the youngest and oldest age segments. This pattern was independent of noise exposure level and self-reported noise sensitivity. The inverted U-shape explains the absence of linear age effects in previous studies. The results are discussed in light of theories predicting an age-related vulnerability to noise.

Depression is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), coronary heart disease (CHD) and cardiac death. Dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function is frequent in major depression and hypercortisolemia may be a mediating factor in these relationships. The aim of this study was to assess HPA axis function measured with the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in relation to CVD and CHD mortality in a cohort of 382 inpatients with mood disorder admitted to the department of Psychiatry at the Karolinska University Hospital between 1980 and 2000. Death certificates ascertained that 75 patients had died of cardiovascular disease and 30 patients of CHD during the mean follow-up of 18 years. DST non-suppression and higher baseline serum cortisol predicted CVD death. In male inpatients with mood disorder, the DST non-suppressor status was significantly associated with CVD death but not with CHD death. In depressed female inpatients the DST non-suppression was not associated with cardiovascular mortality. Baseline serum cortisol and post-dexamethasone serum cortisol levels at 4:00 p.m. showed a trend to be higher in female CVD/CHD victims. Effect of aging on HPA axis functioning was shown in male CHD deaths. HPA axis dysregulation may be a mediating factor between depression and increased risk of cardiovascular death in male mood disorder inpatients indicating that HPA-axis hyperactivity is a long term risk factor for cardiovascular mortality.

Abstract Even in this so-called era of the brain, there has been no consensual agreement on understanding the genesis of the mind by the brain, the problem that also baffled Freud, the neurologist at the start of his great discoveries. Especially, there has been no progress in solving what is known as the &quot;hard problem,&quot; namely, how neurophysiological processes in the brain can produce conscious experiences, feelings, and intentions that constitute the &quot;qualia,&quot; the various aspects of the phenomena of consciousness. Some of the predominant contemporary positions on the mind-brain problem, from Freud's Project for a Scientific Psychology to the present day, will be described and some of the technical vocabulary will be explained. I will conclude from this review that the &quot;mysterian&quot; position or some derivatives of it such as &quot;anomalous monism&quot; or &quot;agnostic materialism&quot; are probably the most plausible, given the present state of our knowledge and capacities. The latter two positions suggest that we simply do not know enough about the physical world of matter at this time but eventually perhaps discoveries about the nature of matter may solve the problem. But as of now, the implication of this impasse is that the introspective data of consciousness are ontologically subjective, pointing to the absolute necessity for our studying this data in its own domain through introspection. The most meticulous and thorough method for this study is psychoanalytic psychiatry, which was specifically devised by Freud for that purpose.
Copper interactions with the beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) are believed to play a role in Alzheimer's disease (AD), in particular due to production of reactive oxygen species and Cu(2+)-mediated oligomerization. To understand the role that copper might play in these processes, a detailed knowledge of the fundamental Cu(2+)/Abeta interactions is essential. To date, the identity of the oxygen ligand(s) involved in Cu(2+) coordination by Abeta has remained unclear. Here, we have used site-specific (13)C and (15)N labeling in conjunction with hyperfine sublevel correlation (HYSCORE) spectroscopy to unambiguously identify the carbonyl of Alanine-2 as an oxygen ligand in one of the pH-dependent Cu(2+) coordination modes of Abeta. Polarization of the carbonyl moiety by Cu(2+) could promote amide hydrolysis and cleavage of the peptide bond between Ala2 and Glu3, providing a chemical mechanism for the generation of truncated Abeta 3-40/42 species found in AD plaques.
The accumulation of oxygen in the earth's atmosphere enabled metabolic pathways based on high-energy electron transfers that were capable of sustaining complex multicellular organisms to evolve. This advance came at a price, however, for the high reactivity of oxygen posed a major challenge as biological molecules became susceptible to oxidative damage, resulting in potential loss of function. Many extant physiological systems are therefore adapted, and homeostatically regulated, to supply sufficient oxygen to meet energy demands whilst also protecting cells, and mitochondria in particular, from excessive concentrations that could lead to oxidative damage. The invasive form of implantation displayed by the human conceptus presents particular challenges in this respect. During the first trimester, the conceptus develops in a low oxygen environment that favours organogenesis in the embryo, and cell proliferation and angiogenesis in the placenta. Later in pregnancy, higher oxygen concentrations are required to support the rapid growth of the fetus. This transition, which appears unique to the human placenta, must be negotiated safely for a successful pregnancy. Normally, onset of the maternal placental circulation is a progressive periphery-centre phenomenon, and is associated with extensive villous regression to form the chorion laeve. In cases of miscarriage, onset of the circulation is both precocious and disorganized, and excessive placental oxidative stress and villous regression undoubtedly contribute to loss of the pregnancy. Comparison of experimental and in vivo data indicates that fluctuations in placental oxygen concentration are a more powerful stimulus for the generation of oxidative stress than chronic hypoxia alone. Placental oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stress appear to play key roles in the pathophysiology of complications of pregnancy, such as intrauterine growth restriction and preeclampsia, through their adverse impacts on placental function and growth. Establishing an inviolable maternal blood supply for the second and third trimesters is therefore one of the most crucial aspects of human placentation.
Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) generates contractions by activation of motor axons (peripheral mechanism), but the afferent volley also contributes by recruiting spinal motoneurons synaptically (central mechanism), which recruits motoneurons according to Henneman's size principle. Thus, we hypothesized that contractions that develop due to a combination of peripheral and central mechanisms will fatigue less rapidly than when electrically evoked contractions are generated by the activation of motor axons alone. Plantar-flexion torque evoked by NMES over the triceps surae was compared in five able-bodied subjects before (Intact) and during (Blocked) a complete anesthetic block of the tibial and common peroneal nerves. In the Blocked condition, plantar-flexion torque could only develop from the direct activation of motor axons beneath the stimulating electrodes. NMES was delivered using three protocols: protocol A, constant 100 Hz for 30 s; protocol B, four 2-s bursts of 100 Hz alternating with 20-Hz stimulation; and protocol C, alternating 100 Hz bursts (1 s on, 1 s off) for 30 s. The percent change in evoked plantar flexion torque from the beginning to the end of the stimulation differed (P &lt; 0.05) between Intact and Blocked conditions for all protocols (Intact: protocol A = +125%, B = +230%, C = +78%; Blocked: protocol A = -79%, B = -15%, C = -35%). These results corroborate previous evidence that NMES can evoke contractions via the recruitment of spinal motoneurons in addition to the direct recruitment of motor axons. We now show that NMES delivered for periods of up to 30 s generates plantar-flexion torque which decreases when only motor axons are recruited and increases when the central nervous system can contribute.


In the late 1990s, the government of Ontario undertook a province-wide implementation of Assertive Community Treatment (ACT). Capacity grew to 59 teams within 6 years. This paper describes the implementation process, focusing on three phases--start-up, or the enabling phase; feedback, or the reinforcement phase; and response, or the corrective action phase. Key implementation supports include an active oversight committee with representation from both the ministry and the field and the availability of the planning data on ACT performance. Three areas of underperformance were identified: lower than expected team caseloads, drift from the target client group, and significant under-staffing in the teams. Likely causes were suggested, and corrective actions developed, which centered on clarifying the ACT standards, especially related to intake criteria, rate of intake and staffing, increasing team funding, and establishing expectations for reporting and accountability. While these corrective responses are promising, implementation of infrastructure and mechanisms for providing systematic practice feedback is still underdeveloped.
Sertoli cells, lining the walls of the seminiferous tubules, are in close contact with and regulate all aspects of the development of the germ cells. Clusterin, is a glycoprotein produced abundantly by Sertoli cells, and associated with either apoptosis or cell survival. Zinc is present in high concentrations in the testis and required for sperm development by an as yet unknown mechanism. Permeation of zinc into cells via voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs), however, is suggested to induce cell death. We examined the possibility that Zn(2+) acts via clusterin to regulate germ cell survival. Employing an ex vivo model of mouse testis, we have assessed the role of permeation of heavy metal ions on clusterin production and secretion. Up-regulation of clusterin expression and its secretion was observed after a short exposure to zinc or to cadmium under depolarizing conditions. Expression of zinc transporter-1 (ZnT-1), previously shown to regulate Zn(2+) influx, increased following prolonged application of zinc or cadmium to the explants and prevented clusterin up-regulation by subsequent exposure to these ions. Inhibition of the MAPK and PI3K pathways reduced the up-regulation of clusterin following the intracellular rise of Zn(2+) or Cd(2+). Neutralization of secreted clusterin by an antibody or attenuation of clusterin up-regulation by inhibition of Zn(2+) permeation via the LTCC, reduced cell death in cultured seminiferous tubule cells. Taken together, our results indicate that Zn(2+) and Cd(2+) influx induce expression and secretion of clusterin, thereby linking metal homeostasis and germ cell fate.
L-Glutamate, the photoreceptor neurotransmitter, depolarizes horizontal cells and OFF-bipolar cells by ionotropic receptors and hyperpolarizes ON-bipolar cells by metabotropic receptors. Despite extensive light microscopy on the distribution of glutamate receptors in zebrafish retina, there are little ultrastructural data. Given the importance of zebrafish in studies on the genetic manipulation of retinal development and function, precise data on the synaptic neurochemical organization of the zebrafish retina is needed. Immunohistochemical techniques were used to determine the ultrastructural localization of glutamate receptor subunits GluR2, GluR4, NMDA2B (NR2B) and mGluR1alpha in zebrafish outer plexiform layer (OPL). These antibodies were chosen because of an apparent conservation of localization of GluR2, GluR4 and mGluR1alpha in the vertebrate OPL, while there is some support for NMDA receptors in the OPL. GluR2-immunoreactivity (IR) was in all horizontal cell dendrites that invaginated cone pedicles and rod spherules. Three arrangements of dendrites contained GluR-IR in rod spherules: classical-type with GluR2-IR on lateral horizontal cell dendrites, a butterfly-shaped horizontal cell dendrite, and a goblet-shaped dendrite, likely of bipolar cell origin. GluR4-IR was restricted to dendrites of OFF-bipolar cells that innervated rod and cone terminals. NR2B-IR was restricted to a subtype of cone ON-bipolar cell. mGluR1alpha-IR was restricted to ON mixed rod/cone (Mb) bipolar cells whose dendrites innervated rod and cone synaptic terminals. The presence of mGluR1alpha on Mb bipolar cell dendrites is consistent with a role in retrograde endocannabinoid suppression. The subunit composition of glutamate receptors should affect the kinetics and pharmacology of these cells to glutamate receptor activation.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a peptide well known for its role in coordinating various neuroendocrine, autonomic, and behavioral components of the vertebrate stress response, including rapid enhancement of locomotor activity. Although CRF's locomotor enhancing properties are well documented, the neuronal mechanisms and specific target neurons that underlie the peptide's effect on locomotor behavior remain poorly understood. In the present study, we describe the synthesis and functional characteristics of a CRF rhodamine analogue TAMRA-X conjugate mixture (CRF-TAMRA 1), to be used for tracking this peptide's internalization into target neurons in the brainstem of an amphibian, the roughskin newt (Taricha granulosa). CRF-TAMRA 1 conjugate administration into the lateral cerebral ventricle resulted in a rapid, endosomal-like internalization of fluorescence into brainstem medullary neurons. In addition, central CRF-TAMRA 1 administration produced neurobehavioral effects comparable to the native peptide, effects that were blocked by pre-treatment with the CRF receptor antagonist, alpha-helical CRF. Taken together, our results show the efficacy of CRF-TAMRA 1 as a novel tool for tracking CRF internalization into targets neurons in vivo and ultimately, aiding in elucidating the neuronal mechanisms and circuitry underlying CRF's influence on behavioral and physiological responses to stress.
The clinical features and morphological findings in 2 Indian siblings with tubular aggregates are described. The siblings aged 14 and 9 years, respectively, born of consanguineous marriage presented with early onset gradually progressive lower limb proximal muscle weakness associated with seizures and mental subnormality. Muscle biopsy in both revealed characteristic tubular aggregates in type II fibers, which were confirmed electron microscopically. To the best of our knowledge, association of seizures and mental subnormality in familial tubular aggregates has not been described. Muscle biopsy helped in establishing the diagnosis of this rare familial disorder.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) appears to be associated with osteoporosis. The aim of the study was to evaluate the prevalence of osteoporosis risk (OP risk) in a sample of patients with COPD. In 3030 patients (1768 men and 1262 women) aged &gt;50 yr, we evaluated COPD severity with spirometry and OP risk by using a quantitative ultrasound device. We analyzed several risk factors for osteoporosis, such as age, gender, body mass index (BMI), fracture history, smoking status, glucocorticoid (GC) treatment in univariate and in multinomial logistic regressions. The risk of osteoporosis was higher in women and in older participants, among those with more severe COPD, treated with GC. In multivariate analysis, we found interactions between fracture history and smoking and between age and gender. Significant associations were found with BMI and GC treatment, whereas only a tendency, not statistically significant, was found for very severe COPD being associated to high risk of osteoporosis. In COPD patients the risk of osteoporosis is high, in particular at severe stages of the disease, but seems to be due to traditional risk factors, such as older age, female gender, low BMI, history of smoking and fractures, GC treatment.
Phase II clinical trials revealed that the lymphocyte-depleting humanized monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab (Campath-1H) is highly effective in the treatment of early relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. However, 30% of patients develop autoimmunity months to years after pulsed exposure to alemtuzumab, usually targeting the thyroid gland and, more rarely, blood components. In this study, we show that autoimmunity arose in those patients with greater T cell apoptosis and cell cycling in response to alemtuzumab-induced lymphocyte depletion, a phenomenon that is driven by higher levels of IL-21. Before treatment, patients who went on to develop secondary autoimmunity had more than 2-fold greater levels of serum IL-21 than the nonautoimmune group. We suggest that serum IL-21 may, therefore, serve as a biomarker for the risk of developing autoimmunity months to years after alemtuzumab treatment. This has implications for counseling those patients with multiple sclerosis who are considering lymphocyte-depleting therapy with alemtuzumab. Finally, we demonstrate through genotyping that IL-21 expression is genetically predetermined. We propose that, by driving cycles of T cell expansion and apoptosis to excess, IL-21 increases the stochastic opportunities for T cells to encounter self antigen and, hence, for autoimmunity.

Neurocysticercosis (NCC) is an infection of the brain and its coverings by the larval stage of the tapeworm Taenia solium. It is the most common helminthic infestation of the central nervous system and a leading cause of acquired epilepsy worldwide. NCC induces neurological syndromes that vary from an asymptomatic infection to sudden death. Neuroimaging is the mainstay of diagnosis. The diagnosis is suggested in patients living in endemic areas with typical CT scan findings and a compatible clinical picture. Since the late 1980s, successful medical treatment has been established with relatively short courses of either albendazole or praziquantel. The selection of cases for medical or surgical treatments has improved and these two forms of therapy are complementary. In general, indications of surgery are: cysts that compress the brain and cranial nerves locally, intracranial hypertension or edema refractory to medical treatment, intraventricular NCC, spinal NCC with cord or root compression and ocular cysts. Recently, endoscopic approaches for ventricular NCC have been developed, which are now the treatment of choice for ventricular NCC with hydrocephalus.
Since the 1990s, affective neurosciences have aimed to identify the neurophysiological underpinnings of depressive disorders. Despite the large number of studies, the results have been inconclusive. We sought to test an experimental paradigm that combined emotional processing and electrophysiological response. Healthy volunteers were presented with emotional faces that depicted variable intensities of fear and their skin conductance response was recorded through digital electrodes. By using this paradigm we found a pattern of linear association between electrodermal activity and increasing intensity of negative emotional stimuli, suggesting that this paradigm may be soon employed in a clinical population and shed light on the neurophysiological substrates of affective disorders.
We describe the successful excision, guided by spontaneous ventilation, of a cervico-medullary hemangioblastoma in a 22-year-old female in the sitting position. A balanced anesthesia technique comprising an oxygen, nitrous oxide, sevoflurane, fentanyl and vecuronium mixture was used. Apart from routine monitors, electroencephalographic spectral entropy monitoring was used to determine the depth of anesthesia and transesophageal echocardiography for detection of venous air embolism. The patient remained in spontaneous ventilation for 235min during tumor excision. The intraoperative and postoperative course were uneventful. The patient recovered without any major neurological deficit.
Gliomas are intrinsic brain tumours that are frequently associated with cerebral oedema. As such, keyhole approaches may not be appropriate because if the craniotomy is small, intraoperative cerebral oedema may occur, resulting in cortical compression at the bone edge. This would lead to further neurological deficit, especially if the swollen brain is located in eloquent areas. In awake craniotomy, worsening of such a deficit would mandate premature cessation of surgery and lead to a less than ideal extent of resection. Two such cases of intraoperative brain swelling are described to illustrate this point. The authors suggest doing a larger craniotomy for glioma patients undergoing awake surgery to prevent compression of normal brain at the craniotomy edge and to allow for a more complete resection by providing access to the tumour even if intraoperative swelling does occur.

Depression is a long-term illness, and most patients require ongoing treatment to prevent recurrence. Three phases of therapy are needed to effectively treat depression-acute, continuation, and maintenance therapy. Patients who receive therapy beyond the acute phase have better outcomes than those who discontinue treatment; however, data about continuation and maintenance treatments are scarce. By continuously monitoring patients and making modifications when necessary, clinicians can help patients achieve and sustain remission.

The discovery of mirror neurons in macaque frontal cortex has sparked a resurgence of interest in motor/embodied theories of cognition. This critical review examines the evidence in support of one of these theories, namely, that mirror neurons provide the basis of action understanding. It is argued that there is no evidence from monkey data that directly tests this theory, and evidence from humans makes a strong case against the position.




The apelinergic system has a widespread expression in the central nervous system (CNS) including the paraventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus and median eminence, and isolated cells of the anterior lobe of the pituitary. This pattern of expression in hypothalamic nuclei known to contain corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) and vasopressin (AVP) and to co-ordinate endocrine responses to stress has generated interest in a role for apelin in the modulation of stress, perhaps via the regulation of hormone release from the pituitary. In this study, to determine whether apelin has a central role in the regulation of CRF and AVP neurones, we investigated the effect of i.c.v. administration of pGlu-apelin-13 on neuroendocrine function in male mice pre-treated with the CRF receptor antagonist, alpha-helical CRF(9-41), and in mice-lacking functional AVP V1b receptors (V1bR KO). Administration of pGlu-apelin-13 (1 mg/kg i.c.v.) resulted in significant increases in plasma ACTH and corticosterone (CORT), which were significantly reduced by pre-treatment with alpha-helical CRF(9-41), indicating the involvement of a CRF-dependent mechanism. Additionally, pGlu-apelin-13-mediated increases in both plasma ACTH and CORT were significantly attenuated in V1bR KO animals when compared with wild-type controls, indicating a role for the vasopressinergic system in the regulation of the effects of apelin on neuroendocrine function. Together, these data confirm that the in vivo effects of apelin on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal neuroendocrine function appear to be mediated through both CRF- and AVP-dependent mechanisms.
We examined the effect of agonistic behavior on cell proliferation and neurogenesis in the central nervous system (CNS) of adult male Acheta domesticus crickets. We combined 5-bromo,2'deoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeling of dividing cells with immunocytochemical detection of the neuronal marker horseradish peroxidase to examine the proliferation of progenitor cells and the survival of newborn neurons. In crickets, the mushroom bodies of the brain contain clusters of proliferative cells that divide and generate new neurons in adulthood. Pairs of male crickets were allowed to fight and establish social rank and were then injected with BrdU. Proliferation of mushroom body neurogenic cluster cells was unaffected by agonistic interactions; 24 h after a fight, the number of BrdU positive cells in fought and un-fought males did not significantly differ. However, agonistic interactions did influence cell survival. Two weeks after an agonistic interaction, fought males had more newborn neurons than males that did not fight. There was also a rank-specific effect because dominant males had significantly more new neurons than subordinates. We also report for the first time that neurogenesis in adult crickets can occur in other regions of the brain and in other CNS ganglia, including the terminal abdominal ganglion (TAG). Agonistic interactions enhanced the proliferation of these distributed precursor cells but did not increase the survival of the newborn neurons generated by these cells.
R. A. Rescorla (2000, Rescorla, 2001, Rescorla, 2002) reported that the associative changes undergone by 2 conditioned stimuli that are reinforced or not reinforced in compound depend on their initial associations. The results contradict the predictions of simple error-correction models but can be explained by models that incorporate a &quot;constrained&quot; error-correction rule. A model of classical conditioning presented by N. A. Schmajuk, Y. Lam, and J. A. Gray (1996) suggests that attentional mechanisms, acting during both compound training and testing, have an important role in producing those results. Moreover, the model suggests that those attentional mechanisms might obscure the evaluation of the associative changes undergone by the conditioned stimuli during compound training. Two experiments that differentiate our model from competing theories are proposed.
In everyday life, one can link anticipated specific cues (e.g. visiting a restaurant) with desired actions (e.g., ordering a healthy meal). Alternatively, intentions such as &quot;I intend to eat more healthily&quot; present the option to act when one encounters the same cue. In the first case, a specific cue triggers a specific action; in the second, one must act in a more self-initiated manner. The authors compared such scenarios using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Participants were either instructed to respond in a particular manner to target events (cued condition) or told that they would score points for such responses, without being told that they were necessary (self-initiated condition). Although conditions differed only in the wording of instructions, the self-initiated condition was associated with poorer performance and greater activity in a predominantly frontoparietal network. Responses to targets in the self-initiated and cued conditions yielded greater activity in lateral and medial Brodmann area 10, respectively. The authors suggest that these results reflect differing demands for self-initiated versus externally cued behavior following different types of instruction, in line with the distinction between goal intentions and implementation intentions proposed by P. M. Gollwitzer and colleagues.
Language requires both storage and composition. However, exactly what is retrieved from memory and what is assembled remains controversial, especially for inflected words. Here, &quot;imageability effects&quot; is introduced as a new diagnostic of storage and a complement to frequency effects. In 2 studies of past-tense morphology, more reliable imageability and frequency effects were found on irregulars than on regulars. An interaction with sex was also observed: Males but not females showed more reliable frequency and imageability effects for irregulars than for regulars; females but not males showed signs of storage for regulars, particularly among higher frequency forms. Overall, the findings validate imageability effects as another diagnostic of storage and suggest that the line between storage and computation is not a simple function; rather, it depends upon the interplay of both item- and subject-specific factors.
Wild groups (n = 167) of the cooperatively breeding Lake Tanganyika cichlid, Neolamprologus pulcher, were used to investigate how social status and sex influence liver investment. In contrast to expectations, males and females (controlling for body size) had similar liver investment and subordinates (both sexes) had relatively larger livers compared with dominants. Three hypotheses were considered for why social status results in liver size disparity: liver mass might reflect status-dependent differences in (1) energy expenditure, (2) energy storage and (3) energy acquisition. First, dominants performed more energetically costly behaviours (e.g. social policing and care) compared with subordinates, supporting the notion that energy expenditure drives liver investment. Moreover, dominants in large groups (with many subordinates to monitor) and those holding multiple territories (with large areas to patrol), tended to have smaller livers. Second, subordinates did not appear to use the liver as a strategic energy storage organ. In laboratory and field experiments, subordinates ascending in rank had similar or larger livers during periods of rapid growth compared with non-ascending controls. Third, although subordinates fed more frequently than dominants, a negative relationship was found between feeding rates and liver size. Hence, these results contrast with previous liver studies and suggest that liver investment patterns were linked to status-driven differences in energy expenditure but not to energy intake or storage in N. pulcher.
N-type inactivation of voltage-gated potassium channels is an autoinhibitory process that occurs when the N terminus binds within the channel pore and blocks conduction. N-type inactivation and recovery occur with single-exponential kinetics, consistent with a single-step reaction where binding and block occur simultaneously. However, recent structure-function studies have suggested the presence of a preinactivated state whose formation and loss regulate inactivation and recovery kinetics. Our studies on N-type inactivation of the Shaker-type AKv1 channel support a multiple-step inactivation process involving a series of conformational changes in distinct regions of the N terminus that we have named the polar, flex, and latch regions. The highly charged polar region forms interactions with the surface of the channel leading up to the side window openings between the T1 domain and the channel transmembrane domains, before the rate-limiting step occurs. This binding culminates with a specific electrostatic interaction between R18 and EDE161-163 located at the entrance to the side windows. The latch region appears to work together with the flex region to block the pore after polar region binding occurs. Analysis of tail currents for a latch region mutant shows that both blocked and unblocked states exist after the rate-limiting transition is passed. Our results suggest that at least two intermediate states exist for N-type inactivation: a polar region-bound state that is formed before the rate-limiting step, and a pre-block state that is formed by the flex and latch regions during the rate-limiting step.
Polyomavirus JC (JCV) infects oligodendrocytes and astrocytes in the brain and is the cause of the demyelinating disease progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). In cell culture, JCV infection is characterized by severe damage to cellular DNA, which begins early in infection, and a viral cytopathic effect, which is observed late in infection. Nevertheless, these JCV-infected cells show a low level of apoptosis, at both the early and late stages of infection. This suggests that there is conflicting interplay between viral anti-apoptotic pathways that seek to optimize virus production, e.g. through T antigen (T-Ag)-p53 interaction, and cellular pro-apoptotic pathways that seek to eliminate virally infected cells. The apoptosis regulatory protein BAG3 is a member of the human Bcl-2-associated athanogene (BAG) family of proteins, which function as molecular co-chaperones through their interaction with Hsc70/Hsp70 and function in the regulation of the cellular stress response, proliferation and apoptosis. This study showed that BAG3 protein is downregulated upon JCV infection and that this effect is mediated by JCV T-Ag via repression of the BAG3 promoter. The site of action of T-Ag was mapped to an AP2 site in the BAG3 promoter, and gel shift and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays showed that T-Ag inhibited AP2 binding to this site, resulting in downregulation of BAG3 promoter expression. Using BAG3 and T-Ag expression and BAG3 siRNA, it was found that BAG3 and T-Ag had antagonistic effects on the induction of apoptosis, being anti-apoptotic and pro-apoptotic, respectively. The significance of these interactions to the JCV life cycle is discussed.
Statins are potent inhibitors of HMG-CoA (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A) reductase in the cholesterol-biosynthesis pathway. They are either lipophilic (e.g. simvastatin) or hydrophilic [e.g. pravastatin (PRV)] compounds, considered mainly for long-term treatment of hypercholesterolaemic individuals. Beneficial effects of statins are not related exclusively to their lipid-lowering action; they also possess cholesterol-independent, pleiotropic effects (e.g. anti-inflammatory and antioxidant). Recent studies revealed that simvastatin treatment increased survival significantly in scrapie-infected mice. Although PRV treatment results in measurable drug levels in the mouse brain, the anti-prion effect of this compound has not been investigated. Therefore, we aimed to test the potential therapeutic action of PRV in a murine scrapie model. Our study showed that high-dose and long-term oral PRV treatment prolonged survival times of strain 139A scrapie-infected mice significantly (194 versus 177 days) in the absence of any obvious toxicity, suggesting that protective effects of statins may be independent of absolute solvent or water solubility of the drug.
Exposure to mass media related to HIV/AIDS has been linked to attitudinal and behavioral changes. This study aims to identify the source(s) of HIV information for the general Chinese population and examine their association with HIV transmission knowledge and stigmatizing attitude toward people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). A total of 3,716 market workers in Fuzhou, China, participated in a face-to-face survey. Multiple regression models were used to describe correlations among respondents' HIV/STD information sources, HIV transmission knowledge, and stigmatizing attitude toward PLWHA. Mass media sources, such as television programs, newspapers, and magazines, were more frequently identified as the channels for HIV information than interpersonal sources, such as friends and service providers. Exposure to multiple sources of HIV information (where at least one source is mass media) was significantly related to HIV knowledge and less stigmatizing attitude toward PLWHA. Mass media in China has been a major source of HIV information to the public. Enhancing the content and penetration of HIV/AIDS campaigns within various channels of the media can be an important strategy in disseminating HIV knowledge and reducing HIV-related discrimination.



A short note about the life and personality of Maria Manasseina (also known as Marie von Manassein, Marie de Manaceine), a Russian woman-doctor of the second half of the nineteenth century, a pioneer in biochemistry and experimental somnology.
This paper shows the relative influence of Ferrier and Hitzig on American and British interest in cerebral physiology in the early 1870s. Although Hitzig published three years before Ferrier, Ferrier was more influential. Evidence comes from multiple sources: numerical trends in citations to Fritsch and Hitzig in British and American publications showed an increase after Ferrier's work. Hitzig's work was primarily discussed in the context of Ferrier's work. Ferrier's work was more impressive than Hitzig's work to American and British contemporaries. Ferrier's work was applicable to medical issues. The secular press failed to popularize Hitzig's work. Was national pride evident?

In the twentieth century the method of identifying pathology in patients with aphasia has fluctuated between localizing and holistic theories. The practical localization of sensation and voluntary movement became a clinical commonplace in the beginning of the century, but the mental component of aphasia made its localization controversial. In Paris before the war, Pierre Marie made the localization of aphasia the centerpiece of his personal feud with Jules Dejerine. After the war Konstantin von Monakow used the phenomenon of recovery from aphasia to support his holistic views of localization. Henry Head, in a 1926 study that remains influential today, took a neo-Jacksonian approach to localization and the physiology of language. Kurt Goldstein led the postwar anti-localizationists, asserting that physicians must look after the whole person and that brain function was inherently unified. Norman Geschwind reflected 1960s physiological thought in analyzing aphasia as a type of disconnection of distinct functional areas. In the twenty-first century the localization of aphasia remains dependent on theory, with competition between holistic and localizing ideas.
In the 1860s John Hughlings Jackson (1835-1911) reasoned on theoretical grounds that voluntary movements probably were represented in the human cerebral cortex. He then studied the clinical phenomenologies and pathological associations of human focal motor epileptic seizures, post-epileptic hemiplegia and aphasia, and also chorea. From these various lines of evidence he concluded by 1870 that voluntary movement of the face and upper limb on the opposite side were represented in a localized area of the human cerebral cortex overlying the corpus striatum. He recognized this shortly before the physiologists demonstrated such cortical localization of function in experimental animals. Over the following three decades, Jackson analyzed the spread of focal motor epileptic seizure activity, and the phenomenology of other types of epileptic seizure in humans, and related this knowledge to the sites of the brain pathology that appeared responsible for these events. This enabled him to locate cerebral cortical sites for the representation of foot movement, consciousness, and various aspects of special sensory function, as well as for certain psychic phenomena that arose from temporal lobe paroxysmal disturbance.
Although many individuals contributed to the development of the science of cerebral localization, its conceptual framework is the work of a single man--John Hughlings Jackson (1835-1911), a Victorian physician practicing in London. Hughlings Jackson's formulation of a neurological science consisted of an axiomatic basis, an experimental methodology, and a clinical neurophysiology. His axiom--that the brain is an exclusively sensorimotor machine--separated neurology from psychiatry and established a rigorous and sophisticated structure for the brain and mind. Hughlings Jackson's experimental method utilized the focal lesion as a probe of brain function and created an evolutionary structure of somatotopic representation to explain clinical neurophysiology. His scientific theory of cerebral localization can be described as a weighted ordinal representation. Hughlings Jackson's theory of weighted ordinal representation forms the scientific basis for modern neurology. Though this science is utilized daily by every neurologist and forms the basis of neuroscience, the consequences of Hughlings Jackson's ideas are still not generally appreciated. For example, they imply the intrinsic inconsistency of some modern fields of neuroscience and neurology. Thus, &quot;cognitive imaging&quot; and the &quot;neurology of art&quot;--two topics of modern interest--are fundamentally oxymoronic according to the science of cerebral localization. Neuroscientists, therefore, still have much to learn from John Hughlings Jackson.
At the beginning of the eighteenth century, attempts to localize cerebral functions generated a wide range of different ideas. Ancient theories and their revisions stood next to new doctrines; anatomical, pathological, and surgical observations stood beside philosophical conjectures or conclusions from physiological experiments. Echoing Descartes and Willis, many scholars placed the sensorium commune in structures such as corpus callosum, cerebellum, or meninges. Since the explanatory power of these ideas was limited, a strictly holistic approach gained momentum around 1750. The key neurophysiological concept of the second half of the eighteenth century was Haller's doctrine of the equipotentiality of all cerebral structures including the cortex. However, shortly before 1800, one final effort to reconcile philosophy and science was made. The anatomist Samuel Thomas Soemmerring contended that ventricular fluid was the immediate organ of the soul. The refutation of this hypothesis and the rise of Gall's doctrine mark the end of the premodern era of cerebral localization. This paper reconstructs the era's principle arguments and contemporary experiments. It demonstrates that some current controversies regarding the mind-body problem are repetitions of eighteenth-century neuro-philosophical debates.
Fragments of neurology can be found in the oldest medical writings in antiquity. Recognizable cerebral localization is seen in Egyptian medical papyri. Most notably, the Edwin Smith papyrus describes hemiplegia after a head injury. Similar echoes can be seen in Homer, the Bible, and the pre-Hippocratic writer Alcmaeon of Croton. While Biblical writers thought that the heart was the seat of the soul, Hippocratic writers located it in the head. Alexandrian anatomists described the nerves, and Galen developed the ventricular theory of cognition whereby mental functions are classified and localized in one of the cerebral ventricles. Medieval scholars, including the early Church Fathers, modified Galenic ventricular theory so as to make it a dynamic model of cognition. Physicians in antiquity subdivided the brain into separate areas and attributed to them different functions, a phenomenon that connects them with modern neurologists.


Antiretroviral therapy (ART) shows variable blood-brain barrier penetration. This may affect the development of neurological complications of HIV infection. In attempts to attenuate viral growth for the nervous system, cell-based nanoformulations were developed with the focus on improving drug pharmacokinetics. We reasoned that ART carriage could be facilitated within blood-borne macrophages traveling across the blood-brain barrier. To test this idea, an HIV-1 encephalitis (HIVE) rodent model was used where HIV-1-infected human monocyte-derived macrophages were stereotactically injected into the subcortex of severe combined immunodeficient mice. ART was prepared using indinavir (IDV) nanoparticles (NP, nanoART) loaded into murine bone marrow macrophages (BMM, IDV-NP-BMM) after ex vivo cultivation. IDV-NP-BMM was administered i.v. to mice resulting in continuous IDV release for 14 days. Rhodamine-labeled IDV-NP was readily observed in areas of HIVE and specifically in brain subregions with active astrogliosis, microgliosis, and neuronal loss. IDV-NP-BMM treatment led to robust IDV levels and reduced HIV-1 replication in HIVE brain regions. We conclude that nanoART targeting to diseased brain through macrophage carriage is possible and can be considered in developmental therapeutics for HIV-associated neurological disease.
Obtaining some low memory scores across a battery of tests is common. The purpose of this study was to examine the prevalence of low scores on the Children's Memory Scale (CMS). Participants were 1000 children and adolescents between 5 and 16 years of age from the CMS standardization sample. Consistent with research on other batteries, having some low memory scores is common in healthy children and adolescents. The prevalence of low memory scores also increases with lower intelligence. Clinicians should be cautious when interpreting isolated low memory scores as sole evidence of memory impairment. Knowing the prevalence of low scores as a supplement to clinical judgment should reduce the likelihood of misdiagnosing memory problems.
Cognitive reserve is a hypothetical construct that has been used to inform models of cognitive aging and is presumed to be indicative of life experiences that may mitigate the effects of brain pathology. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the construct validity of cognitive reserve by examining both its convergent and its discriminant validity across three different samples of participants using structural equation modeling. The cognitive reserve variables were found to correlate highly with one another (thereby providing evidence of convergent validity), but demanding tests of discriminant validity indicated that, in two of the samples, the cognitive reserve construct was highly related to an executive functioning construct.
Writer's cramp is a type of idiopathic focal hand dystonia characterized by muscle cramps that accompany execution of the writing task specifically. There has been renewed interest in neurosurgical procedures for the treatment of dystonia over the past several years. In particular, deep brain stimulation (DBS) has received increasing attention as a therapeutic option for patients with dystonia. However, to date, limited reporters made investigations into DBS in relation to the Writer's cramp. In this case, unilateral Ventro-oralis complex (Vo) DBS resulted in a major improvement in patient's focal dystonic movement disorders. Her post-operative Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Rating (BFMDR) scale demonstrated 1 compared with pre-operative BFMDR scale 4. We conclude that thalamic Vo complex DBS may be an important neurosurgical therapeutic option for Writer's cramp.
The standard task used to study inflectional processing of verbs involves presentation of the stem form from which the participant is asked to generate the past tense. This task reveals a processing disadvantage for irregular relative to regular English verbs, more pronounced for lower-frequency items. Dual- and single-mechanism theories of inflectional morphology are both able to account for this pattern; but the models diverge in their predictions concerning the magnitude of the regularity effect expected when the task involves past-tense generation from meaning. In this study, we asked normal speakers to generate the past tense from either form (verb stem) or meaning (action picture). The robust regularity effect observed in the standard form condition was no longer reliable when participants were required to generate the past tense from meaning. This outcome would appear problematic for dual-mechanism theories to the extent that they assume the process of inflection requires stem retrieval. By contrast, it supports single-mechanism models that consider stem retrieval to be task-dependent. We present a single-mechanism model of verb inflection incorporating distributed phonological and semantic representations that reproduces this task-dependent pattern.
Endocannabinoids (ECs) are small lipid mediators that play a critical role in energy metabolism. Human studies have shown that the EC tone in peripheral tissues positively correlates with increased adiposity. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of EC signaling results in weight loss in humans. However, the mechanisms that cause the dysregulation of the EC system in obesity are not well-understood. Since the clinical utility of currently available EC blockers is severely limited due to their side effects like depression and suicidal ideation that are caused by central effects, it is important to delineate the role of central and peripheral effects of EC signaling in regulating glucose and lipid metabolism.
Previous studies have shown that two-way active avoidance (TWAA) memory processing involves a functional interaction between the pontine wave (P wave) generator and the CA3 region of the dorsal hippocampus (DH-CA3). The present experiments examined whether the interaction between P wave generator activity and the DH-CA3 involves the intracellular protein kinase A (PKA) signaling system. In the first series of experiments, rats were subjected to a session of TWAA training followed immediately by bilateral microinjection of either the PKA activation inhibitor (KT-5720) or vehicle control into the DH-CA3 and tested for TWAA memory 24 h later. The results indicated that immediate KT-5720 infusion impaired improvement of TWAA performance. Additional experiments showed that KT-5720 infusion also blocked TWAA training-induced BDNF expression in the DH-CA3. Together, these findings suggest that the PKA activation and BDNF expression in the DH-CA3 is essential for the improvement of TWAA memory.
Epigenetics defines the cellularly heritable properties of genome function, which are not directly encoded in the DNA primary sequence. The underlying mechanisms orchestrate cell identity and memory and are targets for external and internal environmental influences. It becomes increasingly clear that genetic and epigenetic factors are completely interdependent for homeostasis. Subsequently, the same is certainly true for disease. Our understanding of epigenetic mechanisms in chronic kidney disease (CKD) is still lagging, and further studies are needed to understand the importance of, e.g., aberrant DNA methylation in relation to the uremic impact on the functional genome, organismal metabolism and associated premature vascular disease. More research in this field will also help us understand the links between altered gene regulation of specific genes by the uremic environment via epigenetic mechanisms, and initiation and progression of atherosclerosis. The dynamic nature of epigenetic mechanisms prompts therapeutic investigations in CKD, targeting the epigenome with epigenetic drugs. The importance of 1-carbon metabolism for epigenetic modifications suggests that specific diets may also prove to play an important part as efficient remedies in CKD and associated atherosclerotic pathologies.
Studies of patients with schizophrenia or schizophrenia spectrum disorders and general population control groups consistently show differences regarding personality dimensions. However, the profile of personality dimensions in first-degree relatives of those patients is not well understood. We used Temperament and Character Inventory to explore personality dimensions in 61 clinically stable patients with schizophrenia or schizophrenia spectrum disorders, 59 of their first-degree relatives, and 64 healthy controls. Patients scored significantly higher than controls in harm avoidance and self-transcendence and lower in self-directedness and cooperativeness. First-degree relatives showed a tendency to lower novelty seeking and self-transcendence than controls. Interpretations of these findings include the possibility that lower novelty seeking and lower self-transcendence provide a protective influence in the relatives. Further studies are needed to go into this issue in greater depth.
An increase in serum tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) levels is closely related to the pathogenesis of major depression. However, the underlying molecular mechanism between this increase and impairment of brain function remains elusive. To better understand TNF-alpha/TNF receptor 1 signaling in the brain, we analyzed the brain distribution and function of tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated protein 1 (TRAP1). Here we show that TRAP1 is broadly expressed in neurons in the mouse brain, including regions that are implicated in the pathogenesis of major depression. We demonstrate that small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of TRAP1 in a neuronal cell line decreases tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT3, followed by a reduction of the transcription factor E2F1, resulting in a down-regulation of N-cadherin, and affects the adhesive properties of the cells. In addition, in cultured hippocampal neurons, reduced expression of N-cadherin by TRAP1 knockdown influences the morphology of dendritic spines. We also report a significant association between several single nucleotide polymorphisms in the TRAP1 gene and major depression. Our findings indicate that TRAP1 mediates TNF-alpha/TNF receptor 1 signaling to modulate N-cadherin expression and to regulate cell adhesion and synaptic morphology, which may contribute to the pathogenesis of major depression.
The D(2) dopamine receptor is an important therapeutic target for the treatment of psychotic, agitated, and abnormal behavioral states. To better understand the specific interactions of subtype-selective ligands with dopamine receptor subtypes, seven ligands with high selectivity (&gt;120-fold) for the D(4) subtype of dopamine receptor were tested on wild-type and mutant D(2) receptors. Five of the selective ligands were observed to have 21-fold to 293-fold increases in D(2) receptor affinity when three non-conserved amino acids in TM2 and TM3 were mutated to the corresponding D(4) amino acids. The two ligands with the greatest improvement in affinity for the D(2) mutant receptor [i.e., 3-{[4-(4-iodophenyl) piperazin-1-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridine (L-750,667) and 1-[4-iodobenzyl]-4-[N-(3-isopropoxy-2-pyridinyl)-N-methyl]-aminopiperidine (RBI-257)] were investigated in functional assays. Consistent with their higher affinity for the mutant than for the wild-type receptor, concentrations of L-750,667 or RBI-257 that produced large reductions in the potency of quinpirole's functional response in the mutant did not significantly reduce quinpirole's functional response in the wild-type D(2) receptor. In contrast to RBI-257 which is an antagonist at all receptors, L-750,667 is a partial agonist at the wild-type D(2) but an antagonist at both the mutant D(2) and wild-type D(4) receptors. Our study demonstrates for the first time that the TM2/3 microdomain of the D(2) dopamine receptor not only regulates the selective affinity of ligands, but in selected cases can also regulate their function. Utilizing a new docking technique that incorporates receptor backbone flexibility, the three non-conserved amino acids that encompass the TM2/3 microdomain were found to account in large part for the differences in intermolecular steric contacts between the ligands and receptors. Consistent with the experimental data, this model illustrates the interactions between a variety of subtype-selective ligands and the wild-type D(2), mutant D(2), or wild-type D(4) receptors.
The main mammalian circadian clock, localized in the suprachiasmatic nuclei can be synchronized not only with light, but also with serotonergic activation. Serotonergic agonists and serotonin reuptake inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine) have a non-photic influence (shifting effects during daytime and attenuation of photic resetting during nighttime) on hamsters' and mice' main clock. Surprisingly, in rats serotonergic modulation of the clock shows essentially photic-like features in vivo (shifting effects during nighttime). To delineate this apparent paradox, we analyzed the effects of fluoxetine and serotonin agonists on rats' clock. First, fluoxetine induced behavioral phase-advances associated with down-regulated expression of the clock genes Per1 and Rorbeta and up-regulated expression of Rev-erbalpha during daytime. Moreover, fluoxetine produced an attenuation of light-induced phase-advances in association with altered expression of Per1, Per2 and Rorbeta during nighttime. Second, we showed that 5-HT(1A) receptors -maybe with co-activation of 5-HT(7) receptors- were implicated in non-photic effects on the main clock. By contrast, 5-HT(3) and 5-HT(2C) receptors were involved in photic-like effects and, for 5-HT(2C) subtype only, in potentiation of photic resetting. Thus this study demonstrates that as for other nocturnal rodents, a global activation of the serotonergic system induces non-photic effects in the rats' clock during daytime and nighttime.
Behavioral sensitization is an animal model for aspects of cocaine addiction. Cocaine-sensitized rats exhibit increased AMPA receptor (AMPAR) surface expression in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) which may in turn enhance drug seeking. To identify signaling pathways contributing to AMPAR up-regulation, we measured AMPAR surface expression and signaling pathway activation in the NAc of cocaine-sensitized rats, cocaine-exposed rats that failed to sensitize and saline controls on withdrawal days (WD) 1, 7, and 21. We focused on calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK), and protein kinase A (PKA). In sensitized rats, AMPAR surface expression was elevated on WD7 and WD21 but not WD1. ERK2 activation followed a parallel time-course, suggesting a role in AMPAR up-regulation. Both sensitized and non-sensitized rats exhibited CaMKII activation on WD7, suggesting that CaMKII activation is not sufficient for AMPAR up-regulation. PKA phosphorylation, measured using an antibody recognizing phosphorylated PKA substrates, increased gradually over withdrawal in sensitized rats, from below control levels on WD1 to significantly greater than controls on WD21. Using proteomics, novel sensitization-related PKA substrates were identified, including two structural proteins (CRMP-2 and alpha-tubulin) that we speculate may link PKA signaling to previously reported dendritic remodeling in NAc neurons of cocaine-sensitized rats.
Microparticles (MPs) are membrane fragments shed by cells activated by a variety of stimuli including serine proteases, inflammatory cytokines, growth factors, and stress inducers. MPs originating from platelets, leukocytes, endothelial cells, and erythrocytes are found in circulating blood at relative concentrations determined by the pathophysiological context. The procoagulant activity of MPs is their most characterized property as a determinant of thrombosis in various vascular and systemic diseases including myocardial infarction and diabetes. An increase in circulating MPs has also been associated with ischemic cerebrovascular accidents, transient ischemic attacks, multiple sclerosis, and cerebral malaria. Recent data indicate that besides their procoagulant components and identity antigens, MPs bear a number of bioactive effectors that can be disseminated, exchanged, and transferred via MPs cell interactions. Furthermore, as activated parenchymal cells may also shed MPs carrying identity antigens and biomolecules, MPs are now emerging as new messengers/biomarkers from a specific tissue undergoing activation or damage. Thus, detection of MPs of neurovascular origin in biological fluids such as CSF or tears, and even in circulating blood in case of blood-brain barrier leakage, would not only improve our comprehension of neurovascular pathophysiology, but may also constitute a powerful tool as a biomarker in disease prediction, diagnosis, prognosis, and follow-up.
Hippocampus mossy fibre terminals activate CA3 pyramidal neurons via two distinct mechanisms, both quantal and glutamatergic: (i) rapid excitatory transmission in response to afferent action potentials and (ii) delayed and prolonged release following nicotinic receptor activation. These processes were analysed here using rat hippocampus mossy fibres synaptosomes. The relationships between synaptosome depolarisation and glutamate release were established in response to high-KCl and gramicidin challenges. Half-maximal release corresponded to a 52 mV depolarisation step. KCl-induced release was accompanied by transient dissipation of the proton gradient across synaptic vesicle membrane. Nicotine elicited a substantial glutamate release from mossy fibre synaptosomes (EC(50) 3.14 microM; V(max) 12.01 +/- 2.1 nmol glutamate/mg protein; Hill's coefficient 0.99). However, nicotine-induced glutamate release was not accompanied by any change in the membrane potential or in the vesicular proton gradient. The effects of acetylcholine (200 microM) were similar to those of nicotine (25 microM). Nicotinic alpha7 receptors were evidenced by immuno-cytochemistry on the mossy fibre synaptosome plasma membrane. Therefore, the same terminals can release glutamate in response to two distinct stimuli: (i) rapid neurotransmission involving depolarisation-induced activation of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels and (ii) a slower nicotinic activation which does not involve depolarisation or dissipation of the vesicular proton gradient.
Haptoglobin (Hpt) binds the apolipoprotein (Apo) A-I domain, which is involved in stimulating the enzyme lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) for cholesterol esterification. This binding was shown to protect ApoA-I against hydroxyl radicals, thus preventing loss of ApoA-I function in enzyme stimulation. In this study, we report that Hpt is also able to bind ApoE. The Hpt binding site on the ApoE structure was mapped by using synthetic peptides, and found homologous to the Hpt binding site of ApoA-I. Hydroxyl radicals promoted in vitro the formation of ApoE-containing adducts which were detected by immunoblotting. Hpt impaired this oxidative modification whereas albumin did not. CSF from patients with multiple sclerosis or subjects without neurodegeneration contains oxidized forms of ApoE and ApoA-I similar to those observed in vitro. CSF was analyzed for its level of ApoA-I, ApoE, Hpt, cholesteryl esters, and unesterified cholesterol. The ratio of esterified with unesterified cholesterol, assumed to reflect the LCAT activity ex vivo, did not correlate with either analyzed protein, but conversely correlated with the ratio [Hpt]/([ApoE]+[ApoA-I]). The results suggest that Hpt might save the function of ApoA-I and ApoE for cholesterol esterification, a process contributing to cholesterol elimination from the brain.
The application of radionuclides for the localization of essential trace elements in vivo and the characterization of their binding proteins is a story of intermittently made improvements of the techniques used for their detection. In this study we present the use of neutron activation analysis and different autoradiographic imaging methods including real-time digital autoradiography to reveal new insights in the hierarchy of selenium homeostasis. Selenoproteins containing the essential trace element selenium play important roles in the CNS. Although the CNS does not show the highest selenium concentration in the case of selenium-sufficient supply in comparison with other organs, it shows a high priority for selenium uptake and retention in the case of dietary selenium deficiency. To characterize the hierarchy of selenium supply in the brain, in vivo radiotracer labeling with (75)Se in rats with different selenium status was combined with autoradiographic detection of (75)Se in brain tissue sections and (75)Se-labeled selenoproteins after protein separation by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. This study demonstrates significant differences in the uptake of (75)Se into the brain of rats with different selenium status. A brain region-specific uptake pattern of the radiotracer (75)Se in selenium-deficient rats could be revealed and the CSF was identified as a key part of the brain selenium homeostasis.
Interleukin (IL)-6 is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that also affects metabolic function because IL-6 depleted (IL-6(-/-)) mice develop late-onset obesity. IL-6 appears to act in the central nervous system, presumably in the hypothalamus, to increase energy expenditure that appears to involve stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system. In the present study, we explored possible central mechanisms for the effects exerted by IL-6 on body fat. Therefore, we measured the effects of IL-6 depletion in IL-6(-/-) mice on expression of key hypothalamic peptide genes involved in energy balance by the real time polymerase chain reaction. Additionally, co-localisation between such peptides and IL-6 receptor alpha was investigated by immunohistochemistry. IL-6 deficiency decreased the expression of several peptides found in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), which is a nucleus that has been attributed an adipostatic function. For example, corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH), which is reported to stimulate the sympathetic nervous system, was decreased by 40% in older IL-6(-/-) mice. Oxytocin, which is reported to prevent obesity, was also decreased in older IL-6(-/-) animals, as was arginine vasopressin (AVP). The IL-6 receptor alpha was abundantly expressed in the PVN, but also in the supraoptic nucleus, and was shown to be co-expressed to a high extent with CRH, AVP, oxytocin and thyrotrophin-releasing hormone. These data indicate that depletion of endogenous IL-6, a body fat suppressing cytokine, is associated with the decreased expression of CRH and oxytocin (i.e. energy balance regulating peptides) as well as AVP in the PVN. Because IL-6 receptor alpha is co-expressed with CRH, oxytocin and AVP, IL-6 could stimulate the expression of these peptides directly.
Beneficial effects of oestrogen administration on cognition are attenuated if treatment is initiated following long-term ovarian hormone deprivation. The mechanisms underlying this attenuation are unknown. The present study aimed to assess the effects of long-term ovarian hormone deprivation on the ability of subsequent oestradiol treatment to regulate oestrogen receptor (ER) alpha and ERbeta, and steroid receptor coactivator (SRC)-1 in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of middle-aged rats. In an initial experiment to assess oestradiol regulation of these proteins, 2-month-old rats were ovariectomised and immediately implanted with capsules containing cholesterol or oestradiol. Brains were collected 10 days later. In a second experiment, middle-aged (10-month-old) rats were ovariectomised or underwent sham surgeries. Five months later, sham-operated rats were ovariectomised and received oestradiol implants. Previously ovariectomised rats underwent sham surgeries and received oestradiol or cholesterol implants. Protein levels of ERalpha, ERbeta, and SRC-1 were measured following 10 days of oestradiol treatment using western blotting. In young animals, oestradiol treatment significantly increased ERalpha in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex relative to control treatment. In middle-aged animals, immediate oestradiol treatment significantly increased ERalpha in hippocampus, but not the prefrontal cortex. However, delayed oestradiol treatment failed to significantly increase ERalpha protein levels in hippocampus, but did so in prefrontal cortex. Levels of ERbeta and SRC-1 were unaffected by oestradiol treatment in either brain area in either of the age groups. These data indicate that prolonged ovarian hormone deprivation alters the ability of subsequent oestradiol replacement to regulate ERalpha protein levels in brain areas important for cognition.
Stroke is the third leading cause of death in the USA, Canada, Europe, and Japan. According to the American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association, there are now 750,000 new strokes that occur each year, resulting in 200,000 deaths, or 1 of every 16 deaths, per year in the USA alone. Endovascular therapy for patients with acute ischemic stroke is an area of intense investigation. The American Stroke Association has given a qualified endorsement of intra-arterial thrombolysis in selected patients. Intra-arterial thrombolysis has been studied in two randomized trials and numerous case series. Although two devices have been granted FDA approval with an indication for mechanical stroke thrombectomy, none of these thrombectomy devices has demonstrated efficacy for the improvement of patient outcomes. The purpose of the present document is to define what constitutes adequate training to perform neuroendovascular procedures in patients with acute ischemic stroke and what performance standards should be adopted to assess outcomes. These guidelines have been written and approved by multiple neuroscience societies which historically have been directly involved in the medical, surgical and endovascular care of patients with acute stroke. The participating member organizations of the Neurovascular Coalition involved in the writing and endorsement of this document are the Society of NeuroInterventional Surgery, the American Academy of Neurology, the American Association of Neurological Surgeons/Congress of Neurological Surgeons Cerebrovascular Section, and the Society of Vascular &amp; Interventional Neurology.

Stroke remains the most common cause of adult physical disability worldwide, and standard physical rehabilitation methods have limited effectiveness. Thus, the possibility of augmenting motor recovery after stroke using drugs has obvious attractions.
We recently reported the possibility of blocking a migraine attack by prolonged compression of scalp arteries and by the injection of saline around them, suggesting a role of extracranial structures in migraine pain. This study attempts further characterisation of the effect of saline infiltration and the relationship of the response to headache characteristics. A total of 40 patients were examined for scalp artery tenderness (superficial temporal main trunk and frontal branch, and occipital) during migraine attacks. Pain characteristics (implosive vs. explosive) were also evaluated. On the basis of the reported pain location and artery compression performed in order to evaluate which one was possibly more involved in causing pain, periarterial infiltration was effected, 3-5 ml adjacent to each artery, beginning with the one believed to be more involved. Periarterial infiltration of 3-5 ml of saline caused relevant improvement in 82.5% of patients, with complete cessation of pain in 52.5% and &gt;50% relief in 30.0%. Infiltration around only the superficial temporal arteries had the greatest effect in 35.0% of patients. No relationship between the type of pain and response to infiltration was noted. Our results confirm the possibility of obtaining relief from migraine pain using simple saline infiltration around scalp arteries, without drugs, in a large percentage of patients. Moreover, they suggest that at least in a substantial percentage of patients pericranial structures (probably the periarterial nociceptive afferents) are involved. The type of pain reported, implosive versus explosive, does not correlate with response to saline infiltration.
Astroblastoma is one of the rarest tumors of the central nervous system (CNS), and its classification, histogenesis, diagnosis and therapeutic management are still being debated. The typical histopathological appearance is the perivascular, astroblastic pseudorosette, which is however present in other CNS tumors. To clarify the clinical, radiological, histopathological, prognostic and therapeutic characteristics, which have been treated only recently and are not well established yet due to the rarity of this tumor, six cases of histologically proven astroblastoma were retrospectively analyzed in light of more pertinent literature and paying special attention to therapeutic remarks. Between 1996 and 2005, six patients with cerebral astroblastoma were surgically treated at the Department of Neurosciences-Neurosurgery of Sapienza University in Rome. In three cases the lesion was termed low-grade astroblastoma, and high grade in the other three, according to current standard parameters. Median age of the six patients was 36 years. The time to diagnosis ranged from 1 week to 18 months. The radiological and anatomopathological features of this lesion are described. Surgical removal was total in four cases and subtotal in two. All patients received radiotherapy: two also had chemotherapy with temozolomide (TMZ). The three patients with low-grade astroblastoma are still alive today after a follow-up of 2, 5 and 19 years, respectively. Of the three patients with high-grade lesions, one is still alive after a 7-year follow-up, while the other two survived for 17 months (progression time 15 months) and 35 months (progression-reoperation time 23 months), respectively. Conclusions radical surgical resection is the treatment of choice for astroblastomas. Radiotherapy may play an adjuvant role in the treatment of high-grade lesions. The role of chemotherapy is still very debatable. We propose an aggressive standardized treatment for those lesions that meet anaplastic criteria, owing to their postulated glial origin and the propensity to have aggressive courses, and we advocate the use of a safe adjuvant chemotherapeutic regimen with TMZ, used concomitantly and subsequently to radiotherapy, especially for the high-grade astroblastoma cases. Multicenter studies, taking into account molecular biological findings, are necessary to define a common therapeutic strategy for astroblastomas.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding regulatory RNAs that reduce stability and/or translation of fully or partially sequence-complementary target mRNAs. Recent evidence indicates that miRNAs can function both as tumor suppressors and as oncogenes. It has been demonstrated that in glioblastoma multiforme miR-21 and 221 are upregulated whereas miR-128 and 181 are downregulated. Expression of miR-21, 221, 128a, 128b, 128c, 181a, 181b, 181c was studied using real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and northern blotting for human astrocytic tumors with different grade of malignancy. miR-21 and 221 were overexpressed in glioma samples, whereas miRNA 181b was downregulated compared with normal brain tissue. miRNA-21 was hyperexpressed in all tumor samples whereas higher levels of miRNA-221 were found in high-grade gliomas. This study is the first analysis of miRNAs in astrocytic tumor at different stages of malignancy. The different expression pattern observed in tumors at different stages of malignancy is probably dependent on the cell-specific repertoire of target genes of tumors sharing different molecular pathways activity and suggests miRNAs may have also a place in diagnosis and staging of brain tumors.
Several lines of evidence suggest that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) agonists may control brain inflammation and, therefore, may be useful for the treatment of human CNS inflammatory conditions. The PPAR-gamma agonists delay the onset and ameliorate clinical manifestations in animal demyelinating disease models, in which the beneficial effects are thought to be mainly related to anti-inflammatory effects on peripheral and brain immune cells. Direct effects on neurons, oligodendrocytes, and other CNS resident cells cannot be excluded, however. To analyze potential direct actions of PPAR-gamma agonists on oligodendrocytes, we investigated the effects of both natural (15-deoxy Delta prostaglandin J2) and synthetic (pioglitazone) PPAR-gamma agonists in primary cultures of rat oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. The PPAR-gamma agonists promoted oligodendrocyte progenitor cell differentiation and enhanced their antioxidant defenses by increasing levels of catalase and copper-zinc superoxide dismutase while maintaining the overall homeostasis of the glutathione system. Protective effects were abolished in the presence of the specific PPAR-gamma antagonist GW9662, indicating that they are specifically dependent on PPAR-gamma. These observations suggest that in addition to their known anti-inflammatory effects, PPAR-gamma agonists may protect oligodendrocyte progenitor cells by preserving their integrity and favoring their differentiation into myelin-forming cells. Thus, PPAR-gamma may promote recovery from demyelination by direct effects on oligodendrocytes.
Parkinsonism, chorea, and dystonia are well-known clinical manifestations of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), but lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway have never been thoroughly studied. We performed a detailed neuropathologic study of the nigrostriatal pathway in 15 sporadic CJD and 2 variant CJD cases that included clinical correlations and assessment of neuron subtype loss, distribution of prion protein, alpha-synuclein, ubiquitin, and 14-3-3 aggregation. We found evidence of nigrostriatal pathway damage in these CJD cases. Dopaminergic neurons and striatal outflow neurons were markedly affected in sporadic CJD, whereas cholinergic interneurons were spared. In cases of CJD with chorea or myoclonus, there was less presynaptic dopaminergic loss than in cases of CJD with parkinsonism. The 2 variant CJD cases with parkinsonism or chorea showed severe cholinergic interneuron loss in the caudate and putamen, a pattern that differed from that found in sporadic CJD. alpha-Synuclein, ubiquitin, and 14-3-3 aggregation coexisted with prion protein aggregation, thereby generating mixed pathological features. These findings suggest a possible pathophysiological overlap of abnormal protein aggregation in CJD and Parkinson disease.
We recorded neuronal activity simultaneously in the medial and lateral regions of the dorsal striatum as rats learned an operant task. The task involved making head entries into a response port followed by movements to collect rewards at an adjacent reward port. The availability of sucrose reward was signaled by an acoustic stimulus. During training, animals showed increased rates of responding and came to move rapidly and selectively, following the stimulus, from the response port to the reward port. Behavioral &quot;devaluation&quot; studies, pairing sucrose with lithium chloride, established that entries into the response port were habitual (insensitive to devaluation of sucrose) from early in training and entries into the reward port remained goal-directed (sensitive to devaluation) throughout training. Learning-related changes in behavior were paralleled by changes in neuronal activity in the dorsal striatum, with an increasing number of neurons showing task-related firing over the training period. Throughout training, we observed more task-related neurons in the lateral striatum compared with those in the medial striatum. Many of these neurons fired at higher rates during initiation of movements in the presence of the stimulus, compared with similar movements in the absence of the stimulus. Learning was also accompanied by progressive increases in movement-related potentials and transiently increased theta-band oscillations (5-8 Hz) in simultaneously recorded field potentials. Together, these data suggest that representations of task-relevant stimuli and movements develop in the dorsal striatum during instrumental learning.
In natural environments complex and continuous auditory stimulation is virtually ubiquitous. The human auditory system has evolved to efficiently process an infinity of everyday sounds, which range from short, simple bursts of noise to signals with a much higher order of information such as speech. Investigation of temporal processing in this system using the event-related potential (ERP) technique has led to great advances in our knowledge. However, this method is restricted by the need to present simple, discrete, repeated stimuli to obtain a useful response. Alternatively the continuous auditory steady-state response is used, although this method reduces the evoked response to its fundamental frequency component at the expense of useful information on the timing of response transmission through the auditory system. In this report, we describe a method for eliciting a novel ERP, which circumvents these limitations, known as the AESPA (auditory-evoked spread spectrum analysis). This method uses rapid amplitude modulation of audio carrier signals to estimate the impulse response of the auditory system. We show AESPA responses with high signal-to-noise ratios obtained using two types of carrier wave: a 1-kHz tone and broadband noise. To characterize these responses, they are compared with auditory-evoked potentials elicited using standard techniques. A number of similarities and differences between the responses are noted and these are discussed in light of the differing stimulation and analysis methods used. Data are presented that demonstrate the generalizability of the AESPA method and a number of applications are proposed.
We recorded the electrocorticogram directly from the exposed cortical surface of awake neurosurgical patients during the presentation of auditory syllable stimuli. All patients were unanesthetized as part of a language-mapping procedure for subsequent left-hemisphere tumor resection. Time-frequency analyses showed significant high-gamma (gammahigh: 70-160 Hz) responses from the left superior temporal gyrus, but no reliable response from the left inferior frontal gyrus. Alpha suppression (alpha: 7-14 Hz) and event-related potential responses exhibited a more widespread topography. Across electrodes, the alpha suppression from 200 to 450 ms correlated with the preceding (50-200 ms) gammahigh increase. The results are discussed in terms of the different physiological origins of these electrocortical signals.
A fundamental question is how the CNS controls the hand with its many degrees of freedom. Several motor cortical areas, including the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) and primary motor cortex (M1), are involved in reach to grasp. Although neurons in PMd are known to modulate in relation to the type of grasp and neurons in M1 in relation to grasp force and finger movements, whether specific parameters of whole hand shaping are encoded in the discharge of these cells has not been studied. In this study, two monkeys were trained to reach and grasp 16 objects varying in shape, size, and orientation. Grasp force was explicitly controlled, requiring the monkeys to exert either three or five levels of grasp force on each object. The animals were unable to see the objects or their hands. Single PMd and M1 neurons were recorded during the task, and cell firing was examined for modulation with object properties and grasp force. The firing of the vast majority of PMd and M1 neurons varied significantly as a function of the object presented as well as the object grasp dimension. Grasp dimension of the object was an important determinant of the firing of cells in both PMd and M1. A smaller percentage of PMd and M1 neurons were modulated by grasp force. Linear encoding was prominent with grasp force but less so with grasp dimension. The correlations with grasp dimension and grasp force were stronger in the firing of M1 than PMd neurons and across both regions the modulation with these parameters increased as reach to grasp proceeded. All PMd and M1 neurons that signaled grasp force also signaled grasp dimension, yet the two signals showed limited interactions, providing a neural substrate for the independent control of these two parameters at the behavioral level.
The in vitro whole spinal cord preparation has been an invaluable tool for the study of the neural network that underlies walking because it provides a means of recording fictive locomotor activity following surgical and/or pharmacological manipulation. The recent use of molecular genetic techniques to identify discrete neuronal populations in the spinal cord and subsequent studies showing some of these populations to be involved in locomotor activity have been exciting developments that may lead to a better understanding of the structure and mechanism of function of this neural network. It would be of great benefit if the in vitro whole spinal cord preparation could be updated to allow for the direct targeting of genetically defined neuronal populations, allowing each to be characterized physiologically and anatomically. This report describes a new technique that enables the visualization of, and targeted whole cell patch-clamp recordings from, genetically defined populations of neurons while leaving connectivity largely intact. The key feature of this technique is a small notch cut in the lumbar spinal cord that reveals cells located in the intermediate laminae while leaving the ventral portion of the spinal cord-the region containing the locomotor neural network-untouched. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings demonstrate that these neurons are healthy and display large rhythmic depolarizations that are related to electroneurogram bursts recorded from ventral roots during fictive locomotion. Intracellular labeling demonstrates that this technique can also be used to map axonal projection patterns of neurons. We expect that this procedure will greatly facilitate electrophysiological and anatomical study of important neuronal populations that constitute neural networks throughout the CNS.
Mesencephalic trigeminal (M-V) neurons are primary somatosensory neurons with somata located within the CNS, instead of in peripheral sensory ganglia. In amphibians, these unipolar cells are found within the optic tectum and have a single axon that runs along the mandibular branch of the trigeminal nerve. The axon has collaterals in the brain stem and is believed to make synaptic contact with neurons in the trigeminal motor nucleus, forming part of a sensorimotor loop. The number of M-V neurons is known to increase until metamorphosis and then decrease, suggesting that at least some M-V neurons may play a transient role during tadpole development. It is not known whether their location in the optic tectum allows them to process both visual and somatosensory information. Here we compare the anatomical and electrophysiological properties of M-V neurons in the Xenopus tadpole to principal tectal neurons. We find that, unlike principal tectal cells, M-V neurons can sustain repetitive spiking when depolarized and express a significant H-type current. M-V neurons could also be driven synaptically by visual input both in vitro and in vivo, but visual responses were smaller and longer-lasting than those seen in principal tectal neurons. We also found that the axon of M-V neurons appears to directly innervate a tentacle found in the corner of the mouth of premetamorphic tadpoles. Electrical stimulation of this transient sensory organ results in antidromic spiking in M-V neurons in the tectum. Thus M-V neurons may play an integrative multisensory role during tadpole development.
Cortical area V4 in monkeys contains neurons that respond selectively to particular colors. It has been controversial how these color-selective neurons are spatially organized in V4. One view asserts that color-selective neurons are organized in columns with different colors orderly mapped across the cortex, whereas other studies have found no evidence for columnar organization or any other clustered structure. In the present study, we reexamined the functional organization of color-selective neurons in area V4 by quantitatively evaluating and comparing the color selectivity of nearby neurons as well as those encountered along electrode penetrations. Using a multiple single-unit recording technique, we recorded extracellular activities simultaneously from groups of nearby V4 neurons. Color discrimination and color preferences exhibited a moderate correlation between nearby neurons, consistent with neurons in a local region of V4 sharing similar responses to stimulus color. However, the degree of clustering was variable across recording sites. Some regions contained neurons with similar color preferences, whereas others contained neurons with diverse color preferences. Neurons in penetrations normal to the cortical surface responded to an overlapping range of colors and maintained a moderate correlation. Neurons in penetrations tangential to the cortical surface differed dramatically in their preferred color and exhibited a negative correlation. We conclude that neurons in area V4 are moderately clustered according to their color selectivity and that this weak clustering is columnar in structure.
Thalamic intralaminar and medial nuclei participate mainly in affective and motivational aspects of pain processing. Unique to the present study were identification and characterization of spontaneously active neurons in the central lateral nucleus (CL) of the intralaminar thalamus, which were found to respond only to viscerally evoked noxious stimuli in animals under pentobarbital anesthesia. Responses to noxious colorectal distention, intrapancreatic bradykinin, intraperitoneal dilute acetic acid, and greater splanchnic nerve electrical stimulation were characterized. Electrophysiological recordings revealed activity in most CL neurons (93%) was excited (69%) or inhibited (31%) in response to noxious visceral stimulation of visceral nerves. Expression of c-Fos observed in CL nucleus after intensive visceral stimulation confirmed the activation. However, excited CL neurons did not have somatic fields, except in 3 of 43 (7%) CL neurons tested for responses to somatic stimulation (innocuous brush and noxious pinch). Intrathecal administration of morphine significantly reduced the increased responses of CL neurons to colorectal and pancreatic stimuli and was naloxone reversible. High-level thoracic midline dorsal column (DC) myelotomy also dramatically reduced responses, identifying the DC as a major route of travel from the spinal cord for CL input, in addition to input traveling ventromedially in the spinothalamic tract identified anatomically in a previous study. Spinal cord and lower brain stem cells providing input to medial thalamus were mapped after stereotaxic injections of a retrograde dye. These data combined with our previous data suggest that the CL nucleus is an important component of a medial visceral nociceptive system that may mediate attentional, affective, endocrine, motor, and autonomic responses to noxious visceral stimuli.
We consider the problem of extracting smooth, low-dimensional neural trajectories that summarize the activity recorded simultaneously from many neurons on individual experimental trials. Beyond the benefit of visualizing the high-dimensional, noisy spiking activity in a compact form, such trajectories can offer insight into the dynamics of the neural circuitry underlying the recorded activity. Current methods for extracting neural trajectories involve a two-stage process: the spike trains are first smoothed over time, then a static dimensionality-reduction technique is applied. We first describe extensions of the two-stage methods that allow the degree of smoothing to be chosen in a principled way and that account for spiking variability, which may vary both across neurons and across time. We then present a novel method for extracting neural trajectories-Gaussian-process factor analysis (GPFA)-which unifies the smoothing and dimensionality-reduction operations in a common probabilistic framework. We applied these methods to the activity of 61 neurons recorded simultaneously in macaque premotor and motor cortices during reach planning and execution. By adopting a goodness-of-fit metric that measures how well the activity of each neuron can be predicted by all other recorded neurons, we found that the proposed extensions improved the predictive ability of the two-stage methods. The predictive ability was further improved by going to GPFA. From the extracted trajectories, we directly observed a convergence in neural state during motor planning, an effect that was shown indirectly by previous studies. We then show how such methods can be a powerful tool for relating the spiking activity across a neural population to the subject's behavior on a single-trial basis. Finally, to assess how well the proposed methods characterize neural population activity when the underlying time course is known, we performed simulations that revealed that GPFA performed tens of percent better than the best two-stage method.
The attribution of personal cognition to another consciousness or sentient being is strongly correlated with altered perfusion within the frontoparietal or frontotemporal regions. The authors applied weak complex magnetic fields that produce an increased incidence of these experiences in healthy volunteers. Quantitative monopolar electroencephalographic (QEEG) measurements for each of the four lobes of the two hemispheres found that intensity of the sensed presence was significantly correlated with increased power within only the theta range over the right parietal and frontal lobes. Successive 1 Hz incremental analyses indicated specific power increases for 4 Hz-5 Hz and 7 Hz-8 Hz bands over the right parietal and frontal lobes, respectively. These results are consistent with those of other measures for both schizophrenia patients and healthy volunteers; changes in activity within these regions are associated with attribution of one's thoughts and actions to another.
A consecutive series of 79 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease were assessed with a structured psychiatric evaluation, and diagnoses of apathy and depression were made using standardized criteria. Three-dimensional MRI scans were obtained from all patients, and images were segmented into gray matter, white matter, and CSF. White matter hyperintensities were edited on segmented images, and lobar assignments (frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital) were made based on Talairach coordinates. Patients with apathy showed a significantly larger volume of frontal white matter hyperintensities than patients without apathy. Patients with depression had a significantly larger volume of right parietal white matter hyperintensities than patients without depression. However, neither apathy nor depression was significantly associated with lobar gray or white matter atrophy. Frontal and right parietal white matter hyperintensities are the strongest brain structural correlates of apathy and depression in Alzheimer's disease.
The extent to which changes in brain activity can foreshadow human error is uncertain yet has important theoretical and practical implications. The present study examined the temporal dynamics of electrocortical signals preceding a lapse of sustained attention. Twenty-one participants performed a continuous temporal expectancy task, which involved continuously monitoring a stream of regularly alternating patterned stimuli to detect a rarely occurring target stimulus whose duration was 40% longer. The stimulus stream flickered at a rate of 25 Hz to elicit a steady-state visual-evoked potential (SSVEP), which served as a continuous measure of basic visual processing. Increasing activity in the alpha band (8-14 Hz) was found beginning approximately 20 s before a missed target. This was followed by decreases in the amplitude of two event-related components over a short pretarget time frame: the frontal P3 (3-4 s) and contingent-negative variation (during the target interval). In contrast, SSVEP amplitude before hits and misses was closely matched, suggesting that the efficacy of ongoing basic visual processing was unaffected. Our results show that the specific neural signatures of attentional lapses are registered in the EEG up to 20 s before an error.
Brief strong depolarization of cerebellar Purkinje cells produces a slow inward cation current. This current, called depolarization-induced slow current (DISC), is triggered by Ca influx in the Purkinje cell and is attenuated by a blocker of vesicular fusion. Previous work in other brain regions, such as the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area, has shown that dopamine can be released from dendrites to produce paracrine and autocrine signaling. Here, we test the hypothesis that postsynaptic release of dopamine and autocrine activation of dopamine receptors is involved in DISC. Light immunohistochemistry showed that D(3) dopamine receptors, vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 (VMAT2), and dopamine plasma membrane transporters (DATs) were all expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells. However, their expression was strongest in the gyrus region of cerebellar lobules IX and X. Comparison of DISC across lobules revealed that it was weak in the anterior portions of the cerebellum (lobules II, V, and VI) and strong in lobules IX and X. DISC was blocked by dopamine receptor antagonists (haloperidol, clozapine, eticlopride, and SCH23390). Likewise, DISC was strongly attenuated by inhibitors of VMAT (reserpine and tetrabenazine) and DAT (GBR12909 and rimcazole). These drugs did not produce DISC attenuation through blockade of depolarization-evoked Purkinje cell Ca transients. Purkinje cells in cerebellar slices derived from DAT-null mice expressed DISC, but this DISC ran down at a significantly higher rate than littermate controls. Together, these results suggest that strong Purkinje cell depolarization produces Ca-dependent release of vesicular postsynaptic dopamine that then excites Purkinje cells in an autocrine manner.
At the center of the computational cerebellar circuitry are Purkinje cells, which integrate synaptic inputs from &gt;150,000 granule cell inputs. Traditional theories of cerebellar function assume that all granule cell inputs are comparable. However, it has recently been suggested that the two anatomically distinct granule cell inputs, ascending and parallel fiber, have different functional roles. By systematically examining the efficacy of patches of granule cells with photostimulation, we found no differences in the efficacy of the two inputs in driving the activity of, or in producing postsynaptic currents in, Purkinje cells in cerebellar slices in vitro. We also found that the activity of Purkinje cells was significantly increased upon stimulation of lateral granule cells in vivo. Moreover, when we estimated parallel fiber and ascending apparent unitary EPSC amplitudes using photostimulation in cerebellar slices in vitro, we found them to be indistinguishable. These results are inconsistent with differential functional roles for these two inputs. Instead, our data support theories of cerebellar computation that consider granule cell inputs to be functionally comparable.
Globus pallidus (GP) neurons fire rhythmically in the absence of synaptic input, suggesting that they may encode their inputs as changes in the phase of their rhythmic firing. Action potential afterhyperpolarization (AHP) enhances precision of firing by ensuring that the ion channels recover from inactivation by the same amount on each cycle. Voltage-clamp experiments in slices showed that the longest component of the GP neuron's AHP is blocked by apamin, a selective antagonist of calcium-activated SK channels. Application of 100 nm apamin also disrupted the precision of firing in perforated-patch and cell-attached recordings. SK channel blockade caused a small depolarization in spike threshold and made it more variable, but there was no reduction in the maximal rate of rise during an action potential. Thus, the firing irregularity was not caused solely by a reduction in voltage-gated Na(+) channel availability. Subthreshold voltage ramps triggered a large outward current that was sensitive to the initial holding potential and had properties similar to the A-type K(+) current in GP neurons. In numerical simulations, the availability of both Na(+) and A-type K(+) channels during autonomous firing were reduced when SK channels were removed, and a nearly equal reduction in Na(+) and K(+) subthreshold-activated ion channel availability produced a large decrease in the neuron's slope conductance near threshold. This change made the neuron more sensitive to intrinsically generated noise. In vivo, this change would also enhance the sensitivity of GP neurons to small synaptic inputs.
Neuroanatomical studies have revealed a vast network of corticocortical connections among the various fields that form cat auditory cortex. However, few studies have explored the functional communicative properties of these connections. The purpose of the present study was to examine the bidirectional processing contributions between the primary auditory cortex (A1) and the nonprimary anterior auditory field (AAF). Using acute recording techniques, multiunit neuronal activity was collected from the right hemisphere of nine mature cats. Cortical maps were generated, and the precise location of A1 and AAF was identified. Subsequently, the synaptic activity of A1 or AAF was suppressed with reversible thermal deactivation procedures while the neuronal response to tonal stimuli of the non-inactivated area (A1 or AAF) was measured. We examined response strength and latency, characteristic frequency, bandwidth, and neuronal threshold of A1 and AAF receptive fields before and during epochs of deactivation. Three major changes in A1 response properties were observed during AAF neuronal suppression: a decrease in response strength, an increase in neuronal thresholds, and a sharpening of receptive field bandwidths. In contrast, A1 deactivation did not produce any discernible changes in AAF neuronal responses. Collectively, these results suggest that the modulation of acoustic information between A1 and AAF in cat auditory cortex is dominated by a unidirectional AAF to A1 pathway.

Adult mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) exhibit neuroprotective properties when introduced into the degenerating central nervous system through different putative mechanisms including secretion of growth factors and transdifferentiation. In the present study, we injected MSCs into the cerebrospinal fluid of symptomatic hSOD1(G93A) rats, a transgenic animal model of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) expressing a mutated form of the human superoxide dismutase. MSCs were found to infiltrate the nervous parenchyma and migrate substantially into the ventral gray matter, where motor neurons degenerate. Even though overall astrogliosis was not modified, MSCs differentiated massively into astrocytes at the site of degeneration. The intrathecal delivery of MSCs and the subsequent generation of healthy astrocytes at symptomatic stage decreased motor neuron loss in the lumbar spinal cord, preserving motor functions and extending the survival of hSOD1(G93A) rats. This neuroprotection was correlated with decreased inflammation, as shown by the lower proliferation of microglial cells and the reduced expressiontion of COX-2 and NOX-2. Together, these data highlight the protective capacity of adult MSC-derived astrocytes when grafted into the central nervous system and illustrate an attractive strategy to target excessive inflammation in ALS.
Rac1, a member of the Rho family GTPases, participates in a variety of cellular functions including lamellipodia formation, actin cytoskeleton organization, cell growth, apoptosis, and neuronal development. Recent studies have implicated Rac1 in cytoskeletal abnormalities, production of reactive oxygen species, and generation of the amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) observed in Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we examined the relationship between Rac1 and amyloid precursor protein (APP), because the abnormal proteolytic processing of APP is a pathologic feature of Alzheimer's disease. In primary hippocampal neurons, the Rac1-specific inhibitor NSC23766 decreased both Rac1 activity and APP protein levels in a concentration-dependent manner. To elucidate how NSC23766 decreases APP protein levels, we examined the effects of NSC23766 on APP processing, degradation, and biosynthesis. NSC23766 did not increase the levels of the proteolytic products of APP, sAPPalpha, Abeta40, and Abeta42. The proteasome inhibitor lactacystin did not reverse the NSC23766-induced decrease in APP protein levels. NSC23766 did, however, decrease the levels of both APP mRNA and APP protein. Decreased levels of APP mRNA and protein were also observed when HEK293 cells were transfected with an expression vector containing a dominant-negative Rac1 mutant or with siRNA targeting Rac1. By overexpressing progressively deleted fragments of the APP promoter in HEK293 cells, we identified a Rac1 response site at positions -233 to -41 bp in the APP promoter. Taken together, our results suggest that Rac1 regulates transcription of the APP gene in primary hippocampal neurons.
Differentiation of neurosphere-derived cells is regulated by extracellular cues, namely, growth factors and proteins of the extracellular matrix (ECM). In this study we analyzed the influence of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), retinoic acid plus potassium chloride (RA-KCl), and the nonsynthetic ECMs laminin (LN) and fibronectin (FN) versus the synthetic adhesion substrate poly-L-lysine (PLL) in the in vitro differentiation of postnatal neurosphere cells. BDNF increased the number of differentiated neurons and decreased the number of neuronal precursors (nestin-positive cells) compared with NGF or RA-KCl. Moreover, cells treated with BDNF plus B27 supplement acquired a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic phenotype and showed increased survival. No significant differences were found in the number of differentiated neurons in the presence of the ECMs alone. Nevertheless, FN or PLL in combination with BDNF promoted the acquisition of a GABAergic phenotype. The results obtained in this study highlight the importance of growth factors and ECM proteins for the potential of neurosphere cells to differentiate into neurons.
Transformation of peripheral B lymphocytes by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is the method of choice for generating lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs). This method has been in use for the last two decades with a high success rate. With a somatic mutation rate of 0.3% and ease of cell maintenance, lymphoblastoid cells are still the preferred choice of storage for patients' genetic material. Studies have demonstrated a good correlation between using DNA from patient-derived LCLs and conventional sources for the purpose of genetic screening. RNAs from LCLs have also been utilized for detecting splice mutations in various diseases. There is increasing evidence that gene expression in LCLs encompasses a wide range of metabolic pathways that are specific to individuals where the cells originated, making LCLs suitable for molecular and functional studies. There have been efforts to produce a proteome map and database of lymphoblastoid cells by characterizing protein spots on a two-dimensional electrophoresis map. Proteomes from LCLs have been used in the elucidation of protein expression profile analysis of cellular response to DNA double-strand break, an approach now recognized as differential proteome analysis. Despite some inherent limitations, the utility of LCLs is increasingly recognized and with appropriate infrastructure and financial support, LCLs will be an important resource for genetic and functional research of neurological disorders.
Neonatal (P7) brain hypoxia-ischemia (HI) induces intracellular Bax protein shifts to the nucleus, mitochondria, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where it triggers the activation of the respective cell death signaling cascades. When compared with HI-treated rat pups, 100% O(2) resuscitation of HI-treated rat pups increases HI-induced ER Bax levels, ER-mediated cell death signaling, and resultant lesion volume and inflammation due to increased necrotic-like cell death. To better characterize the role of Bax intracellular shuttling ER cell death signaling and necrotic-like cell death, we used rotenone-treated P5 neuronal cortical cultures to increase ER Bax levels and subsequent cell death signaling. We treated P5 primary cortical neurons with 25 microM and 100 microM rotenone as an apoptotic or necrotic-like stimulus, respectively, and measured intracellular organelle Bax levels and the subsequent activation of ER/mitochondrial cell death signaling. The 25 microM rotenone treatment promptly increased nuclear Bax levels followed by a later increase in mitochondrial Bax levels and caspase-mediated cleavage of alpha-fodrin. The 100 microM rotenone treatment also resulted in an early increase in nuclear Bax levels followed by a subsequent increase in ER Bax levels and calpain-mediated cleavage of alpha-fodrin. After pretreatment with the immunosuppressive and neuroprotective FK506, there was a delay in Bax intracellular shifts and cell death signaling for both the 25 and 100 microM rotenone treatments. These results suggest that the different outcomes of apoptotic-like vs. necrotic-like cell death resulting from the treatment of neuronal cultures with rotenone at 25 and 100 microM rotenone reflect changes in the intracellular trafficking of Bax among different organelles.

The genesis of detachable coils and the background of this genesis are described in this article. To frame the beginning developmental stages of the discovery of detachable coils, the previous extravascular-intravascular and endovascular techniques are presented, as well as the development of the various delivery systems. The experimental studies, initial clinical application, and crucial moment of the conception of detachable coils are also reported.
Anesthesia during asleep-awake craniotomy should provide adequate analgesia and sedation whereas permitting language testing. In this work, we used the analysis of heart rate variability (HRV) to quantify the sympatho-vagal balance and better evaluate patient's stress response during asleep-awake craniotomy. Patients admitted to our hospital for tumor resection with language testing were studied (n=21, age range: 22 to 53 y ). Heart rate and systolic arterial blood pressure were collected at 5 time points: T1: preanesthesia; T2: dura mater opening; T3: cortical mapping; T4: subcortical mapping; T5: dura mater suturing. Patients were anesthetized with propofol/remifentanil infusion and ventilated via laryngeal mask during T2, but were awakened for language testing at T3 and T4, and resedated with remifentanil during T5. At each time point, HRV was analyzed by power spectrum analysis: overall variance, very low frequency (VLF), low frequency (LF) and high frequency (HF) powers, and LF/HF ratio (an index of prevalence of sympathetic over parasympathetic tone) were derived. A significant increase in both heart rate and systolic arterial blood pressure was observed from time point T3 through T5 (P&lt;0.05, compared with T1). HRV analysis revealed that the LF/HF ratio progressively increased to reach values during T4 that were significantly higher than preanesthesia values (P&lt;0.05). During T5, LF/HF ratio returned to preanesthesia level. HRV analysis confirmed the presence of moderate intraoperative stress response, indicating a significant increase in the LF/HF ratio during the awake phases. This information might help in tailoring the protocol and the duration of awake phase according to the individual autonomic response.
Rapid recovery is desirable in pediatric neurosurgical patients to obtain an early neurologic assessment. We compared the recovery characteristics of 2 commonly used anesthetic agents, sevoflurane and isoflurane, under bispectral index-guided anesthesia in children undergoing spinal surgery. Eighty children who underwent surgery for occult spinal dysraphism at the lumbar and sacral level were randomized to anesthesia with sevoflurane or isoflurane in oxygen and nitrous oxide. Anesthesia depth was guided by a bispectral index monitor kept between 40 and 60. In addition to time at emergence, extubation and discharge, recovery (modified Aldrete) score, and hemodynamics were compared. The 2 groups did not differ significantly with respect to demographics, duration of surgery and anesthesia, and intraoperative hemodynamic changes. Extubation (6.4+/-3.3 vs. 10.7+/-4.6) and emergence (7.8+/-3.4 vs. 12.8+/-5.6) times (minutes) were significantly shorter with sevoflurane (P&lt;0.001). Time (minutes) to achieve full Aldrete (modified) scores was less with sevoflurane (13.9+/-5.3 vs. 20.3+/-6.5) than isoflurane (P&lt;0.001). However, the time (minutes) to achieve discharge criteria from postanesthesia care unit (140.7+/-49.3 vs. 146+/-43.3) and first dose of postoperative analgesic (60+/-24.1 vs. 72+/-33.4) in addition to incidence of postoperative agitation were similar in both groups (P&gt;0.05). Sevoflurane results in an earlier recovery and assessment of modified Aldrete score when compared with isoflurane.
Deterioration of pulmonary function after surgery for congenital atlantoaxial dislocation (AAD) has been documented in a few studies. We proposed that this deterioration in AAD is much higher than what can be expected after a surgical procedure under general anesthesia or what occurs after any surgery on the cervical spine. To test this hypothesis, we recorded forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory ratio (FEV 1.0), forced expiratory flow (FEF 25%-75%) and muscle power in the extremities in 25 patients undergoing surgical correction of AAD (AAD group), 29 patients undergoing surgery for compressive cervical spine lesions (cervical spine group) and 20 patients undergoing craniotomy for an intracranial lesion (craniotomy group). The observations were made before surgery and on postoperative days 1 and 7. The demographic characters were comparable among the 3 groups. All patients underwent an uneventful surgery and their trachea was extubated in the operating room. There was no decrease in the muscle power in the postoperative period in any of the groups. A significant decrease in FVC (expressed as percentage of the predicted value) was seen postoperatively in all the 3 groups. The reduction of FVC was significantly different among the groups, with the AAD group having the lowest values (P&lt;0.001). The FVC values in the AAD group were 74.6+/-19.6%, 49.6+/-17.7%, 64.0+/-20.8% at baseline, on postoperative days 1 and 7, respectively (P&lt;0.001). Postoperative change in forced expiratory ratio was also significantly different among the groups (P=0.03). A significant difference was found between the AAD and cervical spine group (89.8+/-8.3%, 88.2+/-17.6%, 89.3+/-9.8% in the AAD group and 95.5+/-20.5%, 78.4+/-13.4%, 72.7+/-19.1% in the cervical spine group at baseline and on postoperative days 1 and 7, respectively, P&lt;0.05). FEF 25%-75% changes were also significantly different among the groups (P&lt;0.001). The decrease in the AAD and cervical spine groups was significantly higher than that in the craniotomy group (P&lt;0.001). In conclusion, during the first week after surgery, deterioration of pulmonary function in the AAD group is significantly different from that seen in patients undergoing surgery for compressive cervical lesions or craniotomy for a cerebral lesion. The data imply the need for special attention to respiratory function in patients operated for AAD in the postoperative period.

The Basso, Beattie, Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor rating scale has proven a reliable tool to evaluate impairments of hindlimb locomotor skills after thoracic spinal cord injury (SCI). With the increasing use of cervical SCI rat models, there is a critical need to develop scoring scales designed to more precisely examine alteration and recovery of forelimb functions. The main goal of the present study was to elaborate and evaluate a new rating scale for open-field testing of the fore- and hindlimb locomotor functions after cervical SCI. We also assessed the effectiveness of this rating scale for discriminating the functional consequences of dorsolateral (Hdl group), lateral (Hl group), or complete C4 unilateral hemisections (Hc group). Our findings show that the new rating scale can be considered as a sensitive and reliable descriptor of the postoperative time course of deficits affecting differentially the fore- and hindlimb sensorimotor functions following injuries of various severities. This new method provides reproducible data and can be used reliably by non-expert examiners. The proposed rating scale appears to be a useful tool for the assessment of various treatments designed to promote functional recovery after SCI. See online Supplementary Material (scoring spreadsheet and videotape recordings) at www.liebertonline.com.
Cell-based therapy has been widely evaluated in spinal cord injury (SCI) animal models and shown to improve functional recovery. However, host response to cell transplants at gene expression level is rarely discussed. We reported previously that acute transplantation of radial glial cells RG3.6 following SCI promoted early locomotion improvement within 1 week post-injury. To identify rapid molecular changes induced by RG3.6 transplantation in the host tissue, distal spinal cord segments were subjected to microarray analysis. Although RG3.6 transplantation, reduced activity of macrophages as early as 1-2 weeks post-injury, the expression levels of inflammatory genes (e.g., IL-6, MIP-2, MCP-1) were not decreased by RG3.6 treatment as compared to medium or other cell controls at 6-12 h post-injury. However, genes associated with tissue protection (Hsp70 and Hsp32) and neural cell development (Foxg1, Top2a, Sox11, Nkx2.2, Vimentin) were found to be significantly up-regulated by RG3.6 transplants. Foxg1 was the most highly induced gene in the RG3.6-treated spinal cords, and its expression by immunocytochemistry was confirmed in the host tissue. Moreover, RG3.6 treatment boosted the number of Nkx2.2 cells in the spinal cord, and these cells frequently co-expressed NG2, which marks progenitor cells. Taken together, these results demonstrate that radial glial transplants induced rapid and specific gene expression in the injured host tissue, and suggest that these early responses are associated with mechanisms of tissue protection and activation of endogenous neural progenitor cells.
Wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have resulted in thousands of military personnel suffering traumatic brain injury (TBI), including closed-head injuries. Of interest is whether these individuals and other TBI survivors are at increased risk for substance use disorder (SUD). While it has been well established that drug or alcohol intoxication itself increases probability of suffering a TBI in accidents or acts of violence, little is known about whether the brain insult itself increases the likelihood that a previously non-drug-abusing individual would develop SUD. Might TBI survivors be unusually vulnerable to addiction to opiate analgesics compared to other pain patients? Similarly, it is not known if TBI increases the likelihood of relapse among persons with SUD in remission. We highlight challenges in answering these questions, and review neurochemical and behavioral evidence that supports a causal relationship between TBI and SUD. In this review, we conclude that little is known regarding the directionality of TBI increasing drug abuse, and that collaborative research in this area is critically needed.
We investigated the ability of a population of rat neural stem and precursor cells derived from rat embryonic spinal cord to protect injured neurons in the rat central nervous system (CNS). The neonatal rat optic pathway was used as a model of CNS injury, whereby retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) were axotomized by lesion of the lateral geniculate nucleus one day after birth. Neural stem and precursor cells derived from expanded neurospheres (NS) were transplanted into the lesion site at the time of injury. Application of Fast Blue tracer dye to the lesion site demonstrated that significant numbers of RGCs survived at 4 and 8 weeks in animals that received a transplant, with an average of 28% survival, though in some individual cases survival was greater than 50%. No RGCs survived in animals that received a lesion alone. Furthermore, labeled RGCs were also observed when Fast Blue was applied to the superior colliculus (SC) at 4 weeks, suggesting that neurosphere cells also facilitated RGC to regenerate to their normal target. Transplanted cells did not migrate or express neural markers after transplantation, and secreted several neurotrophic factors in vitro. We conclude that NS cells can protect injured CNS neurons and promote their regeneration. These effects are not attributable to cell replacement, and may be mediated via secretion of neurotrophic factors. Thus, neuroprotection by stem cell populations may be a more viable approach for treatment of CNS disorders than cell replacement therapy.
The electrical perceptual threshold (EPT) test complements the American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) assessment of cutaneous sensory function by providing a quantitative assessment for each dermatome. The aim here was to establish the reliability of the EPT by examining inter- and intra-rater repeatability of test results in spinal cord injury (SCI). Twelve persons with incomplete spinal cord injury (iSCI; two stable at &gt;20 months and 10 sub-acute at &lt;9 months post-injury) and 12 control subjects took part. EPT was established at the ASIA sensory key points. A pulse of 0.5 ms in duration was applied three times per second. Threshold was determined by the method of limits. The strength of stimulation was augmented (0.1 mA.s(-1)) until the recipient reported sensation, then reduced until sensation was lost. EPT was taken as the lowest strength at which the subject reported sensation. Threshold was determined by two raters to establish intra- and inter-rater reliability. There were no significant differences in mean intra- or inter-rater EPT values at, above, or below the level of lesion (ASIA sensory level) for iSCI subjects. The intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) was 0.56-0.80 for intra-rater and 0.52-0.91 for inter-rater classes, depending on the level tested. There was a significant correlation (Pearson's r = 0.93) between EPTs for four different dermatomes of control subjects assessed using two different types of stimulator. EPT provides an objective and quantitative measure of threshold for cutaneous sensory function. The method has good inter- and intra-rater reliability, and can be assessed using different stimulators.
A neuroscience unit in an acute care hospital reported the highest number of falls among the inpatient units. Patient and family education for fall prevention on this unit was added to an existing multifactorial fall prevention program. Through this project, a new fall prevention poster was developed with patient, family, and staff involvement and disseminated throughout the hospital. Using the Plan-Do-Study-Act model to evaluate the project, there were no fall among the patients educated on fall prevention.
Recent animal and human studies have shown that plant sterols and stanols, which are used as functional food ingredients to lower increased LDL cholesterol concentrations, pass the blood-brain barrier. Whether this affects neurocognitive functioning and mental well-being in humans has, to our knowledge, never been investigated. The aim of the present study was therefore to examine the effects of long-term plant sterol or stanol consumption on neurocognitive functioning and mood in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled dietary intervention trial. To this end, hypercholesterolemic individuals, aged 43-69 y, receiving stable statin treatment were randomly assigned to an 85-wk supplementation with margarines enriched with plant sterol esters (2.5 g/d), plant stanol esters (2.5 g/d), or placebo. At baseline and at the end of the intervention period, all participants underwent a cognitive assessment. In addition, subjective cognitive functioning and mood were assessed by means of questionnaires (Cognitive Failure Questionnaire and depression subscale of the Symptom Checklist 90, respectively). Long-term supplementation with plant sterol or stanol esters did not affect cognitive performance (memory, simple information processing speed, complex information processing speed, Letter-Digit Substitution test performance), subjective cognitive functioning, or mood. In conclusion, the present results indicate that long-term use of plant sterols or stanols at recommended intakes of 2.5 g/d does not affect neurocognitive functioning or mood in hypercholesterolemic individuals receiving statin treatment.




What is the function of disgust? Whereas traditional models have suggested that disgust serves to protect the self or neutralize reminders of our animal nature, an evolutionary perspective suggests that disgust functions to solve 3 qualitatively different adaptive problems related to pathogen avoidance, mate choice, and social interaction. The authors investigated this 3-domain model of disgust across 4 studies and examined how sensitivity to these functional domains relates to individual differences in other psychological constructs. Consistent with their predictions, factor analyses demonstrated that disgust sensitivity partitions into domains related to pathogens, sexuality, and morality. Further, sensitivity to the 3 domains showed predictable differentiation based on sex, perceived vulnerability to disease, psychopathic tendencies, and Big 5 personality traits. In exploring these 3 domains of disgust, the authors introduce a new measure of disgust sensitivity. Appreciation of the functional heterogeneity of disgust has important implications for research on individual differences in disgust sensitivity, emotion, clinical impairments, and neuroscience.
Radiotracers suitable for positron emission tomography studies often serve as preclinical tools for in vivo receptor occupancy. The serotonin 1B receptor (5-HT(1B)) subtype is a pharmacological target used to discover treatments for various psychiatric and neurological disorders. In psychiatry, 5-HT(1B) antagonists may provide novel therapeutics for depression and anxiety. We report on the in vitro and in vivo evaluation of tritiated 5-methyl-8-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)-4-oxo-4H-chromene-2-carboxylicacid (4-morpholin-4-yl-phenyl)-amide ([N-methyl-(3)H(3)]AZ10419369), a potent 5-HT(1B) radiotracer. [N-methyl-(3)H(3)]-AZ10419369 showed saturable single-site high-affinity in vitro binding (guinea pig, K(d) = 0.38 and human, K(d) = 0.37) to guinea pig or human 5-HT(1B) receptors in recombinant membranes and high-affinity (K(d) = 1.9 nM) saturable (B(max) = 0.099 pmol/mg protein) binding in membranes from guinea pig striatum. When [N-methyl-(3)H(3)]AZ10419369 was administered to guinea pigs by intravenous bolus, the measured radioactivity was up to 5-fold higher in brain areas containing the 5-HT(1B) receptor (striatum/globus pallidus, midbrain, hypothalamus, and frontal cortex) compared with the cerebellum, the nonspecific binding region. Specific uptake peaked 30 min after injection with slow dissociation from target regions, as suggested by the in vitro binding kinetic profile. Pretreatment with 6-fluoro-8-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)-4-oxo-4H-chromene-2-carboxylic acid [4-(4-propionyl-piperazin-1-yl)-phenyl]-amide (AZD1134) and 2-aminotetralin (AR-A000002), 5-HT(1B)-selective ligands, inhibited [N-methyl-(3)H(3)]AZ10419369-specific binding in a dose-dependent manner. In the guinea pig striatum, AZD1134 (ED(50) = 0.017 mg/kg) occupies a greater percentage of the 5-HT(1B) receptors at a lower administered dose than AR-A000002 (ED(50) = 2.5 mg/kg). In vivo receptor occupancy is an essential component to build binding-efficacy-exposure relationships and compare novel compound pharmacology. [N-methyl-(3)H(3)]AZ10419369 is a useful preclinical tool for investigating 5-HT(1B) receptor occupancy for novel compounds targeting this receptor.
The peptide N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) is present in high concentrations in the mammalian central nervous system. Various mechanisms have been proposed for its action, including selective activation of the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) subtype 3, its action at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, or the production of glutamate by its hydrolysis catalyzed by an extracellular protease. To re-examine its agonist activity at mGluR3, we coexpressed human or rat mGluR3 with G protein inward rectifying channels in Xenopus laevis oocytes. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of commercial sources of NAAG showed 0.38 to 0.48% glutamate contamination. Although both human and rat mGluR3 were highly sensitive to glutamate, with EC(50) values of 58 and 28 nM, respectively, purified NAAG (100 microM) had little activity (7.7% of full activation by glutamate). Only in the millimolar range did it show significant activity, possibly due to residual traces of glutamate remaining in the purified NAAG preparations. In contrast, the unpurified NAAG sample did produce a full agonist response with mGluR3 coexpressed with G alpha(15), with an EC(50) of 120 microM, as measured by a calcium release assay. This response can be explained by the 0.38 to 0.48% glutamate contamination. Our results suggest that NAAG may not have a direct agonist activity at the mGluR3 receptor. Thus, several in vivo and in vitro published results that did not address the issue of glutamate contamination of NAAG preparations may need to be re-evaluated.
Targeting alpha7 neuronal acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) with selective agonists and positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) is considered a therapeutic approach for managing cognitive deficits in schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we describe a novel type II alpha7 PAM, 4-(5-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-methyl-3-propionyl-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)benzenesulfonamide (A-867744), that exhibits a unique pharmacological profile. In oocytes expressing alpha7 nAChRs, A-867744 potentiated acetylcholine (ACh)-evoked currents, with an EC(50) value of approximately 1 microM. At highest concentrations of A-867744 tested, ACh-evoked currents were essentially nondecaying. At lower concentrations, no evidence of a distinct secondary component was evident in contrast to 4-naphthalen-1-yl-3a,4,5,9b-tetrahydro-3H-cyclopenta[c]quinoline-8-sulfonic acid amide (TQS), another type II alpha7 PAM. In the presence of A-867744, ACh concentration responses were potentiated by increases in potency, Hill slope, and maximal efficacy. When examined in rat hippocampus CA1 stratum radiatum interneurons or dentate gyrus granule cells, A-867744 (10 microM) increased choline-evoked alpha7 currents and recovery from inhibition/desensitization, and enhanced spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current activity. A-867744, like other alpha7 PAMs tested [1-(5-chloro-2-hydroxyphenyl)-3-(2-chloro-5-trifluoromethyl-phenyl)urea (NS1738), TQS, and 1-(5-chloro-2,4-dimethoxy-phenyl)-3-(5-methyl-isoxazol-3-yl)-urea (PNU-120596)], did not displace the binding of [(3)H]methyllycaconitine to rat cortex alpha7(*) nAChRs. However, unlike these PAMs, A-867744 displaced the binding of the agonist [(3)H](1S,4S)-2,2-dimethyl-5-(6-phenylpyridazin-3-yl)-5-aza-2-azoniabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane (A-585539) in rat cortex, with a K(i) value of 23 nM. A-867744 neither increased agonist-evoked responses nor displaced the binding of [(3)H]A-585539 in an alpha7/5-hydroxytryptamine(3) (alpha7/5-HT(3)) chimera, suggesting an interaction distinct from the alpha7 N terminus or M2-3 loop. In addition, A-867744 failed to potentiate responses mediated by 5-HT(3A) or alpha3beta4 and alpha4beta2 nAChRs. In summary, this study identifies a novel and selective alpha7 PAM showing activity at recombinant and native alpha7 nAChRs exhibiting a unique pharmacological interaction with the receptor.
The glycine receptor (GlyR) is a ligand-gated ion channel and member of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor superfamily. Acting as allosteric modulators of receptor function, drugs such as alcohol and volatile anesthetics enhance the function of GlyRs. The actions of these drugs at inhibitory receptors in the brain and spinal cord are thought to produce many of the physiological effects associated with their use. The actions of ethanol on the GlyR have been well studied on the macroscopic, whole cell level. We examined the effects of 3 microM glycine +/- 50 or 200 mM ethanol on outside-out patches pulled from Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing wild-type alpha1 GlyR, to determine the effects of alcohol at the single-channel level. Alcohol enhanced GlyR function in a very specific manner. It had minimal effects on open and closed dwell times and likelihood. Instead, ethanol potentiated GlyR function almost exclusively by increasing burst durations and increasing the number of channel openings per burst, without affecting the percentage of open time within bursts. Kinetic modeling suggests that ethanol increases burst durations by decreasing the rate of glycine unbinding.
Orexins are peptides produced by lateral hypothalamic neurons that exert a prominent role in the maintenance of wakefulness by activating orexin-1 (OX1R) and orexin-2 (OX2R) receptor located in wake-active structures. Pharmacological blockade of both receptors by the dual OX1/2R antagonist (2R)-2-[(1S)-6,7-dimethoxy-1-{2-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]ethyl}-3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-yl]-N-methyl-2-phenylethanamide (almorexant) has been shown to promote sleep in animals and humans during their active period. However, the selective distribution of OX1R and OX2R in distinct neuronal circuits may result in a differential impact of these receptors in sleep-wake modulation. The respective role of OX1R and OX2R on sleep in correlation with monoamine release was evaluated in rats treated with selective antagonists alone or in combination. When administered in either phase of the light/dark cycle, the OX2R antagonist 1-(2,4-dibromophenyl)-3-[(4S,5S)-2,2-dimethyl-4-phenyl-1,3-dioxan-5-yl]urea (JNJ-10397049) decreased the latency for persistent sleep and increased nonrapid eye movement and rapid eye movement sleep time. Almorexant produced less hypnotic activity, whereas the OX1R antagonist 1-(6,8-difluoro-2-methylquinolin-4-yl)-3-[4-(dimethylamino)phenyl]urea (SB-408124) had no effect. Microdialysis studies showed that either OX2R or OX1/2R antagonism decreased extracellular histamine concentration in the lateral hypothalamus, whereas both OX1R and OX1/2R antagonists increased dopamine release in the prefrontal cortex. Finally, coadministration of the OX1R with the OX2R antagonist greatly attenuated the sleep-promoting effects of the OX2R antagonist. These results indicate that blockade of OX2R is sufficient to initiate and prolong sleep, consistent with the hypothesis of a deactivation of the histaminergic system. In addition, it is suggested that simultaneous inhibition of OX1R attenuates the sleep-promoting effects mediated by selective OX2R blockade, possibly correlated with dopaminergic neurotransmission.


Mouse connexin57 (Cx57) is expressed most abundantly in horizontal cells of the retina, and forms gap junction (GJ) channels, which constitute a structural basis for electrical and metabolic intercellular communication, and unapposed hemichannels (UHCs) that are involved in an exchange of ions and metabolites between the cytoplasm and extracellular milieu. By combining fluorescence imaging and dual whole-cell voltage clamp methods, we showed that HeLa cells expressing Cx57 and C-terminally fused with enhanced green fluorescent protein (Cx57-EGFP) form junctional plaques (JPs) and that only cell pairs exhibiting at least one JP demonstrate cell-to-cell electrical coupling and transfer of negatively and positively charged dyes with molecular mass up to approximately 400 Da. The permeability of the single Cx57 GJ channel to Alexa fluor-350 is approximately 90-fold smaller than the permeability of Cx43, while its single channel conductance (57 pS) is only 2-fold smaller than Cx43 (110 pS). Gating of Cx57-EGFP/Cx45 heterotypic GJ channels reveal that Cx57 exhibit a negative gating polarity, i.e. channels tend to close at negativity on the cytoplasmic side of Cx57. Alkalization of pH(i) from 7.2 to 7.8 increased gap junctional conductance (g(j)) of approximately 100-fold with pK(a) = 7.41. We show that this g(j) increase was caused by an increase of both the open channel probability and the number of functional channels. Function of Cx57 UHCs was evaluated based on the uptake of fluorescent dyes. We found that under control conditions, Cx57 UHCs are closed and open at [Ca(2+)](o) = approximately 0.3 mm or below, demonstrating that a moderate reduction of [Ca(2+)](o) can facilitate the opening of Cx57 UHCs. This was potentiated with intracellular alkalization. In summary, our data show that the open channel probability of Cx57 GJs can be modulated by pH(i) with very high efficiency in the physiologically relevant range and may explain pH-dependent regulation of cell-cell coupling in horizontal cell in the retina.
Cardiac utilisation of very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and chylomicrons (CM) was investigated in the ZDF rat model of type 2 diabetes, in order to define the role of triacylglycerol (TAG) metabolism in the development of contractile dysfunction. Hearts from obese diabetic and lean littermate control rats were perfused with VLDL and CM from diabetic and control rats. Metabolic fate of the lipoprotein TAG and contractile function were examined. Myocardial utilisation of both VLDL- and CM-TAG was increased in the diabetic state. Diabetic hearts oxidised diabetic lipoprotein-TAG to a greater extent than control lipoproteins; glucose oxidation was decreased. There was no difference in lipoprotein-TAG assimilation into diabetic heart lipids; diabetic lipoproteins were, however, a poor substrate for control heart tissue lipid accumulation. Although the proportion of exogenous lipid incorporated into tissue TAG was increased in diabetic hearts perfused with control lipoproteins, this effect was not seen in diabetic hearts perfused with diabetic lipoproteins. Myocardial heparin-releasable lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity was moderately increased in the diabetic state, and diabetic lipoproteins increased tissue-residual LPL activity. Cardiac hydraulic work was decreased only in diabetic hearts perfused with diabetic CM. Compositional analysis of diabetic variant lipoproteins indicated changes in size and apoprotein content. Alterations in cardiac TAG-rich lipoprotein metabolism in type 2 diabetes are due to changes in both the diabetic myocardium and the diabetic lipoprotein particle; decreased contractile function is not related to cardiac lipid accumulation from TAG-rich lipoproteins but may be associated with changes in TAG-fatty acid oxidation.
During the last 20 years, the identification of triadin function in cardiac and skeletal muscle has been the focus of numerous studies. First thought of as the missing link between the ryanodine receptor and the dihydropyridine receptor and responsible of skeletal type excitation-contraction coupling, the current hypothesis on triadin function has slowly evolved, and triadin is envisaged now as a regulator of calcium release, both in cardiac and skeletal muscle. Nevertheless, none of the experiments performed up to now has given a clear cut view of what triadin really does in muscle. The problem became more complex with the identification of multiple triadin isoforms, having possibly multiple functions. Using a different approach from what has been done previously, we have obtained new clues about the function of triadin. Our data point to a possible involvement of triadin in reticulum structure, in relation with the microtubule network.
By causing long-term stimulation, gold wire implantation at acupoints has been used empirically to prolong the effects of acupuncture. This study shows that subcutaneous gold wire implantation at acupoints has long-term effects on bone regeneration in the rat ulna bone defect model.
beta-Phorbol esters (BPE), synthetic analogues of diacylglycerol (DAG), induce the potentiation of transmission in many kinds of synapses through activating the C(1) domain-containing receptors. However, their effects on synaptic vesicle exocytosis have not yet been investigated. Here, we evaluated the vesicular exocytosis directly from individual large mossy fiber boutons (LMFBs) in hippocampal slices from transgenic mice that selectively express synaptopHluorin (SpH). We found that the activity-dependent increment of SpH fluorescence (DeltaSpH) was enhanced by 4beta-phorbol 12,13-diacetate (PDAc), one of the BPEs, without influencing the recycled component of SpH. These PDAc effects on DeltaSpH were almost completely inhibited by staurosporine, a non-selective antagonist of protein kinases. However, intermittent synaptic transmission was still potentiated through a staurosporine-resistant mechanism. The staurosporine-sensitive cascade may facilitate the vesicle replenishment, thus maintaining the fidelity of transmission at a high level during repetitive firing of the presynaptic neuron.
Microglial inflammatory responses affect Parkinson's disease (PD) associated nigrostriatal degeneration. This is triggered, in measure, by misfolded, nitrated alpha-synuclein (N-alpha-syn) contained within Lewy bodies that are released from dying or dead dopaminergic neurons into the extravascular space. N-alpha-syn-stimulated microglial immunity is regulated by CD4+ T cell subset. Indeed, CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (Treg) induce neuroprotective immune responses. This is seen in rodent models of stroke, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, human immunodeficiency virus associated neurocognitive disorders, and PD. To elucidate the mechanism for Treg-mediated microglial neuroregulatory responses, we used a proteomic platform integrating difference gel electrophoresis and tandem mass spectrometry peptide sequencing. These tests served to determine consequences of Treg on the N-alpha-syn stimulated microglia. The data demonstrated that Treg substantially alter the microglial proteome in response to N-alpha-syn. This is seen through Treg abilities to suppress microglial proteins linked to cell metabolism, migration, protein transport and degradation, redox biology, cytoskeletal, and bioenergetic activities. We conclude that Treg modulate the N-alpha-syn microglial proteome and, in this way, can slow the tempo and course of PD.
A self-report questionnaire was developed to assess attributional and emotional responses to aversive, but socially ambiguous, actions by one or more provocateurs. Multiple vignettes were developed and were followed by questions related to attribution of the provocateur's intent and the subject's emotional response to the provocateur's actions. The resulting social information processing-attribution and emotional response questionnaire (SIP-AEQ) was administered to 923 community-based adults (ages 18-45). Factor analysis revealed a three-factor structure reflecting hostile attribution, instrumental attribution, and benign attribution to provocation. A cross-validational study substantiated the factor structure. The modified 8-vignette SIP-AEQ demonstrated good internal reliability, and convergent and discriminant validity. The hostile attribution items showed a significant relationship with measures of emotion processing and responsiveness. Further analysis in a sample of impulsive aggressive patients and healthy control subjects noted similar psychometric properties and good separation between groups. Implications regarding the cognitive and emotional correlates of aggression are discussed.


The purpose of this study is to measure the effects of a tomographic synchrotron irradiation on healthy mouse brain. The cerebral cortexes of healthy nude mice were irradiated with a monochromatic synchrotron beam of 79 keV at a dose of 15 Gy in accordance with a protocol of photoactivation of cisplatin previously tested in our laboratory. Forty-eight hours, one week and one month after irradiation, the blood brain barrier (BBB) permeability was measured in the irradiated area with intravital multiphoton microscopy using fluorescent dyes with molecular weights of 4 and 70 kDa. Vascular parameters and gliosis were also assessed using quantitative immunohistochemistry. No extravasation of the fluorescent dyes was observed in the irradiated area at any measurement time (48 h, 1 week, 1 month). It appears that the BBB remains impermeable to molecules with a molecular weight of 4 kDa and above. The vascular density and vascular surface were unaffected by irradiation and no gliosis was induced. These findings suggest that a 15 Gy/79 keV synchrotron irradiation does not induce important damage on brain vasculature and tissue on the short term following irradiation.
JC virus (JCV) is a human neurotropic polyomavirus whose replication in the central nervous system induces the fatal demyelinating disease, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). JCV particles have been detected primarily in oligodendrocytes and astrocytes of the brains of patients with PML and in the laboratory its propagation is limited to primary cultures of human fetal glial cells. In this short communication, the development of a new cell culture system is described through the fusion of primary human fetal astrocytes with the human glioblastoma cell line, U-87MG. The new hybrid cell line obtained from this fusion has the capacity to support efficiently expression of JCV and replication of viral DNA in vitro up to 16 passages. This cell line can serve as a reliable culture system to study the biology of JCV host-cell interaction, determine the mechanisms involved in cell type specific replication of JCV, and provide a convenient cell culture system for high throughput screening of anti-viral agents.


Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is the most common inherited neuromuscular disorder. There have been substantial advances in elucidating the molecular bases of this genetically heterogeneous neuropathy and, in most cases, molecular diagnosis is now possible. The diagnostic approach requires careful assessment of clinical presentation and mode of inheritance, nerve-conduction studies, and DNA testing, and current research is focused on assessing natural history and finding effective treatments. Disease course is variable because of genotypic and phenotypic heterogeneity. At present, there is no drug therapy for Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, and rehabilitation therapy and surgical procedures for skeletal deformities are the only available treatments, although best practice has not been defined. Animal models are proving useful for the identification of therapeutic targets and approaches. Progesterone antagonists, neurotrophic factors, ascorbic acid, and curcumin have shown promising results in experimental models, and ascorbic acid is being studied in large randomised controlled trials.

By studying neuronal activity through neuronal electrogenesis, neurophysiological investigations provide a functional assessment of the nervous system and, therefore, has been used for quantitative assessment and follow-up of hepatic encephalopathy (HE). The different clinical neurophysiological approaches can be classified depending on the function to explore and their sensitivity to HE. The reliable techniques are those that reflect cortical function, i.e., cognitive-evoked potentials (EPs) (P300 paradigm), electroencephalogram (EEG), visual EPs (latency&gt;100 ms) and somatosensory EPs (SEPs) (latency between 25 and 100 ms). Short-latency EPs (brainstem acoustic EPs, SEPs of a latency&lt;25 ms) are in principle insensitive to HE, but can disclose brainstem conduction deficits due to oedema. SEPs and motor EPs can disclose myelopathies. Because of its parallelism to the clinical examination, clinical neurophysiology can complement the neurological examination: (i) to provide evidence of HE in patients who have normal consciousness; (ii) to rule out, at least under some conditions, disturbances of consciousness due to other causes (e.g. drug-induced disturbances, non-convulsive status epilepticus) with the reservation that the mildest degrees of encephalopathy might be associated with an EEG pattern similar to that induced by drugs; and (iii) to demonstrate the worsening or, conversely improvement, of HE in the follow-up period.
Objectives of the International Society for Hepatic Encephalopathy and Nitrogen Metabolism Commission were to identify well-characterized animal models of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) and to highlight areas of animal modelling of the disorder that are in need of development. Features essential to HE modelling were identified. The best-characterized animal models of HE in acute liver failure, the so-called Type A HE, were found to be the hepatic devascularized rat and the rat with thioacetamide-induced toxic liver injury. In case of chronic liver failure, surgical models in the rat involving end-to-side portacaval anastomosis or bile duct ligation were considered to best model minimal/mild (Type B) HE. Unfortunately, at this time, there are no satisfactory animal models of Type C HE resulting from end-stage alcoholic liver disease or viral hepatitis, the most common aetiologies encountered in patients. The commission highlighted the urgent need for such models and of improved models of HE in chronic liver failure in general as well as a need for models of post-transplant neuropsychiatric disorders. Studies of HE pathophysiology at the cellular and molecular level continue to benefit from in vitro and or ex vivo models involving brain slices or exposure of cultured cells (principally cultured astrocytes) to toxins such as ammonia, manganese and pro-inflammatory cytokines. More attention could be paid in the future to in vitro models involving the neurovascular unit, microglia and neuronal co-cultures in relation to HE pathogenesis.
Double-wave vector diffusion weighting is expected to represent a possibility to acquire information on cell size and shape. In numerical simulations, a theoretical description of the double wave vector-weighted signal is tested in a situation where the approximating assumptions (infinitely short gradient pulses, infinitely long diffusion time, infinitely long or zero delay between diffusion weightings, small gradient moment) are not strictly met. It is shown how the dependence of the signal on the angle between the diffusion gradient directions changes upon varying the delay between the second and the third gradient pulse, and how the measures of pore geometry derived from signal differences between two angles depend on the duration, temporal separation, and amplitude of the gradient pulses. The results indicate that a violation of the approximation conditions due to finite gradient pulse duration and separation generally leads to an underestimation of pore size and pore eccentricity. It is also concluded from the simulations that for pore sizes on the order of 10 microm the investigated effects are in a range that is observable even with whole-body gradient systems.

In the present study, ratings of the memory of an important event from the previous week on the frequency of voluntary and involuntary retrieval, belief in its accuracy, visual imagery, auditory imagery, setting, emotional intensity, valence, narrative coherence, and centrality to the life story were obtained from 988 adults whose ages ranged from 15 to over 90. Another 992 adults provided the same ratings for a memory from their confirmation day, when they were at about age 14. The frequencies of involuntary and voluntary retrieval were similar. Both frequencies were predicted by emotional intensity and centrality to the life story. The results from the present study-which is the first to measure the frequency of voluntary and involuntary retrieval for the same events-are counter to both cognitive and clinical theories, which consistently claim that involuntary memories are infrequent as compared with voluntary memories. Age and gender differences are noted.
The present research examined how positive and negative moods affect readers' understanding of positive and negative story endings. It demonstrated how negativity bias and mood congruence emerge during narrative comprehension. Participants were induced to experience either a positive or a negative mood and then read stories that could have either a positive or a negative ending. In Experiment 1, participants took longer to integrate negative endings than positive endings, independent of their mood. In Experiment 2, participants judged as more surprising those endings that did not match their mood. The present results illustrate that ending valence has strong influence on moment-by-moment reading, but that readers' moods influence expectations for story outcomes once readers reflect on a complete representation of the story.
Trypanosoma cruzi infection of the adipose tissue of mice triggers the local expression of inflammatory mediators and a reduction in the expression of the adipokine adiponectin. T. cruzi can be detected in adipose tissue by PCR 300 days post-infection. Infection of cultured adipocytes results in increased expression of cytokines and chemokines and a reduction in the expression of adiponectin and the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, both of which are negative regulators of inflammation. Infection also results in the upregulation of cyclin D1, the Notch pathway, and extracellular signal-regulated kinase and a reduction in the expression of caveolin-1. Thus, T. cruzi infection of cultured adipocytes leads to an upregulation of the inflammatory process. Since adiponectin null mice have a cardiomyopathic phenotype, it is possible that the reduction in adiponectin contributes to the pathogenesis of chagasic cardiomyopathy. Adipose tissue may serve as a reservoir for T. cruzi from which parasites can become reactivated during periods of immunosuppression. T. cruzi infection of mice often results in hypoglycemia. In contrast, hyperglycemia as observed in diabetes results in increased parasitemia and mortality. Adipose tissue is an important target tissue of T. cruzi and the infection of this tissue is associated with a profound impact on systemic metabolism, increasing the risk of metabolic syndrome.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNA and play a role in gene expression regulation by inhibiting translation of their target messenger RNAs (mRNAs). In this study, we investigated the effects of endogenous let-7 miRNA on the expression of target genes in various mammalian cells by means of two types of reporter plasmids possessing target sequences for let-7: one carries perfectly matched target sequence for let-7 in the 3'-untranslated region of the luciferase reporter gene to monitor RNA interference (RNAi) activity and the other has three bulged binding sites for let-7 to monitor translation-inhibition activity. The results indicate that different cells have different levels of gene silencing against the target reporter genes. The data presented here suggest that not only microRNA level but also target transcript level likely participate in the generation of a variety of gene silencing.
Neurogenesis in the adult mammalian nervous system is now well established in the subventricular zone of the anterolateral ventricle and subgranular zone of the hippocampus. In these regions, neurons are thought to arise from neural stem cells, identified by their expression of specific intermediate filament proteins (nestin, vimentin, GFAP) and transcription factors (Sox2). In the present study, we show that in adult rat and mouse, the circumventricular organs (CVOs) are rich in nestin+, GFAP+, vimentin+ cells which express Sox2 and the cell cycle-regulating protein Ki67. In culture, these cells proliferate as neurospheres and express neuronal (doublecortin+, beta-tubulin III+) and glial (S100beta+, GFAP+, RIP+) phenotypic traits. Further, our in vivo studies using bromodeoxyuridine show that CVO cells proliferate and undergo constitutive neurogenesis and gliogenesis. These findings suggest that CVOs may constitute a heretofore unknown source of stem/progenitor cells, capable of giving rise to new neurons and/or glia in the adult brain.
A need exists for mapping the protein profiles in the human brain both during normal and disease conditions. Here we studied 800 antibodies generated toward human proteins as part of a Human Protein Atlas program and investigated their suitability for detailed analysis of various levels of a rat brain using immuno-based methods. In this way, the parallel, rather limited analysis of the human brain, restricted to four brain areas (cerebellum, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and lateral subventricular zone), could be extended in the rat model to 25 selected areas of the brain. Approximately 100 antibodies (12%) revealed a distinct staining pattern and passed validation of specificity using Western blot analysis. These antibodies were applied to coronal sections of the rat brain at 0.7-mm intervals covering the entire brain. We have now produced detailed protein distribution profiles for these antibodies and acquired over 640 images that form the basis of a publicly available portal of an antibody-based Rodent Brain Protein Atlas database (www.proteinatlas.org/rodentbrain). Because of the systematic selection of target genes, the majority of antibodies included in this database are generated against proteins that have not been studied in the brain before. Furthermore optimized tissue processing and colchicine treatment allow a high quality, more extended annotation and detailed analysis of subcellular distributions and protein dynamics.




Folates are essential nutrients that are required for one-carbon biosynthetic and epigenetic processes. A deficiency in cellular folates results in aberrant DNA methylation, point mutations, chromosome breakage, defective chromosome recombination and aneuploidy. In 1999 it was first reported that impairments in folate/homocysteine metabolism, due to genetic polymorphisms of metabolic enzymes, could increase the risk for having an infant with Down syndrome (DS). That paper stimulated considerable investigation into the possible role of folate/homocysteine metabolism in the risk of having a DS child and several studies have been performed so far in different countries to better address this issue. However, despite 10 years of active research, the question is still unsolved. Overall, both in vitro and in vivo studies indicate that an impaired folate/homocysteine metabolism can result in chromosome 21 nondisjunction; however, the birth of a DS child seems to be the result of the interplay of several factors of genetic, epigenetic, environmental, and stochastic origin, making it difficult to discriminate the single contribution of each of them. My opinion is that it is now time for the design of a collaborative study large enough to have the power to separate trisomy 21 into all its component parts and to test for the contribution of folate/homocysteine gene polymorphisms to each of them. This study should be paralleled by in vitro and in vivo studies aimed at clarifying the contribution, if any, of folate/homocysteine metabolism to the methylation pattern of regions involved in recombination and segregation of chromosome 21. Further studies are also required to address the possible contribution of both the paternal diet and the maternal grandmother dietary habits to chromosome 21 nondisjunction events.
A broad range of nanomedicines is being developed to improve drug delivery for CNS disorders. The structure of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), the presence of efflux pumps and the expression of metabolic enzymes pose hurdles for drug-brain entry. Nanoformulations can circumvent the BBB to improve CNS-directed drug delivery by affecting such pumps and enzymes. Alternatively, they can be optimized to affect their size, shape, and protein and lipid coatings to facilitate drug uptake, release and ingress across the barrier. This is important as the brain is a sanctuary for a broad range of pathogens including HIV-1. Improved drug delivery to the CNS would affect pharmacokinetic and drug biodistribution properties. This article focuses on how nanotechnology can serve to improve the delivery of antiretroviral medicines, termed nanoART, across the BBB and affect the biodistribution and clinical benefit for HIV-1 disease.
Degenerative and inflammatory diseases of the CNS include, but are not limited to, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, stroke, multiple sclerosis and HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders. These are common, debilitating and, unfortunately, hold few therapeutic options. In recent years, the application of nanotechnologies as commonly used or developing medicines has served to improve pharmacokinetics and drug delivery specifically to CNS-diseased areas. In addition, nanomedical advances are leading to therapies that target CNS pathobiology and as such, can interrupt disordered protein aggregation, deliver functional neuroprotective proteins and alter the oxidant state of affected neural tissues. This article focuses on the pathobiology of common neurodegenerative disorders with a view towards how nanomedicine may be used to improve the clinical course of neurodegenerative disorders.
The 6th GCNN Annual meeting was held in the Hilton Hotel, Vienna, Austria, on 1-4 March, 2009. In this conference a special focus was given to 'Nanomedicine: Nanoneuropharmacology and Nanoneurotoxicity' on 2-3 March, 2009. The 'Nanomedicine Focus' was organized by M Robertson (London, UK) and H Shanker Sharma (Uppsala, Sweden) and was divided into three sessions on 2 March, followed by one session on 3 March. In total, 11 speakers participated in these sessions covering more than 5 h of intensive presentations intermingled with lively discussions from the audience.
Drosophila germ-band extension (GBE) is an example of the convergence and extension movements that elongate and narrow embryonic tissues. To understand the collective cell behaviours underlying tissue morphogenesis, we have continuously quantified cell intercalation and cell shape change during GBE. We show that the fast, early phase of GBE depends on cell shape change in addition to cell intercalation. In antero-posterior patterning mutants such as those for the gap gene Krppel, defective polarized cell intercalation is compensated for by an increase in antero-posterior cell elongation, such that the initial rate of extension remains the same. Spatio-temporal patterns of cell behaviours indicate that an antero-posterior tensile force deforms the germ band, causing the cells to change shape passively. The rate of antero-posterior cell elongation is reduced in twist mutant embryos, which lack mesoderm. We propose that cell shape change contributing to germ-band extension is a passive response to mechanical forces caused by the invaginating mesoderm.

Enterovirus 71 (EV71) belongs to human enterovirus species A of the genus Enterovirus within the family Picornaviridae. EV71, together with coxsackievirus A16 (CVA16), are most frequently associated with hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD). Although HFMD is considered a mild exanthematous infection, infections involving EV71, but not CVA16, can progress to severe neurological disease, including fatal encephalitis, aseptic meningitis and acute flaccid paralysis. In recent years, epidemic and sporadic outbreaks of neurovirulent EV71 infections have been reported in Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore, Japan and China. Here, we show that human scavenger receptor class B, member 2 (SCARB2, also known as lysosomal integral membrane protein II or CD36b like-2) is a receptor for EV71. EV71 binds soluble SCARB2 or cells expressing SCARB2, and the binding is inhibited by an antibody to SCARB2. Expression of human SCARB2 enables normally unsusceptible cell lines to support EV71 propagation and develop cytopathic effects. EV71 infection is hampered by the antibody to SCARB2 and soluble SCARB2. SCARB2 also supports the infection of the milder pathogen CVA16. The identification of SCARB2 as an EV71 and CVA16 receptor contributes to a better understanding of the pathogenicity of these viruses.
Humans learn to speak by a process of vocal imitation that requires the availability of auditory feedback. Similarly, young birds rely on auditory feedback when learning to imitate the songs of adult birds, providing one of the few examples of nonhuman vocal learning. However, although humans continue to use auditory feedback to correct vocal errors in adulthood, the mechanisms underlying the stability of adult birdsong are unknown. We found that, similar to human speech, adult birdsong is maintained by error correction. We perturbed the pitch (fundamental frequency) of auditory feedback in adult Bengalese finches using custom-designed headphones. Birds compensated for the imposed auditory error by adjusting the pitch of song. When the perturbation was removed, pitch returned to baseline. Our results indicate that adult birds correct vocal errors by comparing auditory feedback to a sensory target and suggest that lifelong error correction is a general principle of learned vocal behavior.
Hippocampal replay is thought to be essential for the consolidation of event memories in hippocampal-neocortical networks. Replay is present during both sleep and waking behavior, but although sleep replay involves the reactivation of stored representations in the absence of specific sensory inputs, awake replay is thought to depend on sensory input from the current environment. Here, we show that stored representations are reactivated during both waking and sleep replay. We found frequent awake replay of sequences of rat hippocampal place cells from a previous experience. This spatially remote replay was as common as local replay of the current environment and was more robust when the rat had recently been in motion than during extended periods of quiescence. Our results indicate that the hippocampus consistently replays past experiences during brief pauses in waking behavior, suggesting a role for waking replay in memory consolidation and retrieval.
We found that betaCaMKII, the predominant CaMKII isoform of the cerebellum, is important for controlling the direction of plasticity at the parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapse; a protocol that induced synaptic depression in wild-type mice resulted in synaptic potentiation in Camk2b knockout mice and vice versa. These findings provide us with unique experimental insight into the mechanisms that transduce graded calcium signals into either synaptic depression or potentiation.
Oligodendrocyte development is regulated by the interaction of repressors and activators in a complex transcriptional network. We found that two histone-modifying enzymes, HDAC1 and HDAC2, were required for oligodendrocyte formation. Genetic deletion of both Hdac1 and Hdac2 in oligodendrocyte lineage cells resulted in stabilization and nuclear translocation of beta-catenin, which negatively regulates oligodendrocyte development by repressing Olig2 expression. We further identified the oligodendrocyte-restricted transcription factor TCF7L2/TCF4 as a bipartite co-effector of beta-catenin for regulating oligodendrocyte differentiation. Targeted disruption of Tcf7l2 in mice led to severe defects in oligodendrocyte maturation, whereas expression of its dominant-repressive form promoted precocious oligodendrocyte specification in developing chick neural tube. Transcriptional co-repressors HDAC1 and HDAC2 compete with beta-catenin for TCF7L2 interaction to regulate downstream genes involved in oligodendrocyte differentiation. Thus, crosstalk between HDAC1/2 and the canonical Wnt signaling pathway mediated by TCF7L2 serves as a regulatory mechanism for oligodendrocyte differentiation.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease. We created a LRRK2 transgenic mouse model that recapitulates cardinal features of the disease: an age-dependent and levodopa-responsive slowness of movement associated with diminished dopamine release and axonal pathology of nigrostriatal dopaminergic projection. These mice provide a valid model of Parkinson's disease and are a resource for the investigation of pathogenesis and therapeutics.
The insertion of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) into the plasma membrane is an important step in the synaptic delivery of AMPARs during the expression of synaptic plasticity. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating AMPAR insertion remain elusive. By directly visualizing individual insertion events of the AMPAR subunit GluR1 in rodents, we found that the protein 4.1N was required for activity-dependent GluR1 insertion. Protein kinase C (PKC) phosphorylation of the serine 816 (S816) and S818 residues of GluR1 enhanced 4.1N binding to GluR1 and facilitated GluR1 insertion. In addition, palmitoylation of GluR1 C811 residue modulated PKC phosphorylation and GluR1 insertion. Finally, disrupting 4.1N-dependent GluR1 insertion decreased surface expression of GluR1 and the expression of long-term potentiation. Our study uncovers a previously unknown mechanism that governs activity-dependent GluR1 trafficking, reveals an interaction between AMPAR palmitoylation and phosphorylation, and underscores the functional importance of 4.1N in AMPAR trafficking and synaptic plasticity.
Electrical synaptic transmission through gap junctions underlies direct and rapid neuronal communication in the CNS. The diversity of functional roles that electrical synapses have is perhaps best exemplified in the vertebrate retina, in which gap junctions are formed by each of the five major neuron types. These junctions are dynamically regulated by ambient illumination and by circadian rhythms acting through light-activated neuromodulators such as dopamine and nitric oxide, which in turn activate intracellular signalling pathways in the retina.The networks formed by electrically coupled neurons are plastic and reconfigurable, and those in the retina are positioned to play key and diverse parts in the transmission and processing of visual information at every retinal level.
UP and DOWN states, the periodic fluctuations between increased and decreased spiking activity of a neuronal population, are a fundamental feature of cortical circuits. Understanding UP-DOWN state dynamics is important for understanding how these circuits represent and transmit information in the brain. To date, limited work has been done on characterizing the stochastic properties of UP-DOWN state dynamics. We present a set of Markov and semi-Markov discrete- and continuous-time probability models for estimating UP and DOWN states from multiunit neural spiking activity. We model multiunit neural spiking activity as a stochastic point process, modulated by the hidden (UP and DOWN) states and the ensemble spiking history. We estimate jointly the hidden states and the model parameters by maximum likelihood using an expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm and a Monte Carlo EM algorithm that uses reversible-jump Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling in the E-step. We apply our models and algorithms in the analysis of both simulated multiunit spiking activity and actual multi- unit spiking activity recorded from primary somatosensory cortex in a behaving rat during slow-wave sleep. Our approach provides a statistical characterization of UP-DOWN state dynamics that can serve as a basis for verifying and refining mechanistic descriptions of this process.
Signal-to-noise ratios in physical systems can be significantly degraded if the outputs of the systems are highly variable. Biological processes for which highly stereotyped signal generations are necessary features appear to have reduced their signal variabilities by employing multiple processing steps. To better understand why this multistep cascade structure might be desirable, we prove that the reliability of a signal generated by a multistate system with no memory (i.e., a Markov chain) is maximal if and only if the system topology is such that the process steps irreversibly through each state, with transition rates chosen such that an equal fraction of the total signal is generated in each state. Furthermore, our result indicates that by increasing the number of states, it is possible to arbitrarily increase the reliability of the system. In a physical system, however, an energy cost is associated with maintaining irreversible transitions, and this cost increases with the number of such transitions (i.e., the number of states). Thus, an infinite-length chain, which would be perfectly reliable, is infeasible. To model the effects of energy demands on the maximally reliable solution, we numerically optimize the topology under two distinct energy functions that penalize either irreversible transitions or incommunicability between states, respectively. In both cases, the solutions are essentially irreversible linear chains, but with upper bounds on the number of states set by the amount of available energy. We therefore conclude that a physical system for which signal reliability is important should employ a linear architecture, with the number of states (and thus the reliability) determined by the intrinsic energy constraints of the system.
The present Special Issue &quot;Advances in Neural Networks Research: IJCNN2009&quot; provides a state-of-art overview of the field of neural networks. It includes 39 papers from selected areas of the 2009 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN2009). IJCNN2009 took place on June 14-19, 2009 in Atlanta, Georgia, USA, and it represents an exemplary collaboration between the International Neural Networks Society and the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society. Topics in this issue include neuroscience and cognitive science, computational intelligence and machine learning, hybrid techniques, nonlinear dynamics and chaos, various soft computing technologies, intelligent signal processing and pattern recognition, bioinformatics and biomedicine, and engineering applications.
Since their introduction sixty years ago, cell assemblies have proved to be a powerful paradigm for brain information processing. After their introduction in artificial intelligence, cell assemblies became commonly used in computational neuroscience as a neural substrate for content addressable memories. However, the mechanisms underlying their formation are poorly understood and, so far, there is no biologically plausible algorithms which can explain how external stimuli can be online stored in cell assemblies. We addressed this question in a previous paper [Salihoglu, U., Bersini, H., Yamaguchi, Y., Molter, C., (2009). A model for the cognitive map formation: Application of the retroaxonal theory. In Proc. IEEE international joint conference on neural networks], were, based on biologically plausible mechanisms, a novel unsupervised algorithm for online cell assemblies' creation was developed. The procedure involved simultaneously, a fast Hebbian/anti-Hebbian learning of the network's recurrent connections for the creation of new cell assemblies, and a slower feedback signal which stabilized the cell assemblies by learning the feedforward input connections. Here, we first quantify the role played by the retroaxonal feedback mechanism. Then, we show how multiple cognitive maps, composed by a set of orthogonal input stimuli, can be encoded in the network. As a result, when facing a previously learned input, the system is able to retrieve the cognitive map it belongs to. As a consequence, ambiguous inputs which could belong to multiple cognitive maps can be disambiguated by the knowledge of the context, i.e. the cognitive map.
The question of how perception arises from neuronal activity in the visual cortex is of fundamental importance in cognitive neuroscience. To address this question, we adopt a unique experimental paradigm in which bistable structure-from-motion (SFM) stimuli are employed to dissociate the visual input from perception while monitoring the cortical neural activity called local field potential (LFP). Consequently, the stimulus-evoked activity of LFP is not related to perception but the oscillatory induced activity of LFP may be percept-related. In this paper we focus on extracting the percept-related features of the induced activity from LFP in a monkey's visual cortex for decoding its bistable structure-from-motion perception. We first estimate the stimulus-evoked activity via a wavelet-based method and remove it from the single-trial LFP. We then use the common spatial patterns (CSP) approach to design spatial filters to extract the percept-related features from the remaining induced activity. We exploit the linear discriminant analysis (LDA) classifier on the extracted features to decode the reported perception on a single-trial basis. We demonstrate that our approach has excellent performance in estimating the stimulus-evoked activity, outperforming the Wiener filter, least mean square (LMS), and a local regression method called the locally weighted scatterplot smoothing (LOWESS), and that our approach is effective in extracting the discriminative features of the percept-related induced activity from LFP, which leads to excellent decoding performance. We also discover that the enhanced gamma band synchronization and reduced alpha band desynchronization may be the underpinnings of the induced activity.
Levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) are increased in the brain in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The TNF-alpha/TNF-R signaling pathways involve complex interactions between several proteins, including TNF-receptor-associated factor-2 (TRAF-2). We have examined the distribution and levels of TRAF-2 in AD and control brains and also whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the TRAF-2 gene are associated with AD and influence TRAF-2 expression. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated TRAF-2 in AD and control cortex in neurons, within plaque-associated neurites and some neurofibrillary tangles. Western blots revealed a band of the expected apparent molecular mass (approximately 50kDa) for TRAF-2, in homogenates of AD and control cortex. RT-PCR showed the levels of TRAF-2 mRNA to be significantly higher in the frontal cortex of AD than control brains (p=0.015). TRAF-2 mRNA expression was not linked to any SNPs. The 3' UTR SNP (rs7852970) GG allele was significantly protective against AD (p=0.030). Our findings suggest that the TRAF-2 pathway is involved AD. The mechanisms are currently unclear and need further examination.
Presenilin-1 (PS1) mutations cause many cases of early-onset inherited Alzheimer's disease, in part, by increasing the production of neurotoxic forms of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta). However, Abeta-independent effects of mutant PS1 on neuronal Ca(2+) homeostasis and sensitivity to excitatory neurotransmitters have been reported. Here we show that cholinergic modulation of hippocampal synaptic plasticity is impaired in PS1 mutant knockin (PS1KI) mice. Whereas activation of muscarinic receptors enhances LTP at CA1 synapses of normal mice, it impairs LTP in PS1KI mice. Similarly, mutant PS1 impairs the ability of the cholinesterase inhibitor phenserine to enhance LTP. The NMDA current is decreased in CA1 neurons of PS1KI mice and is restored by intracellular Ca(2+)chelation. Similar alterations in acetylcholine and NMDA receptor-mediated components of synaptic plasticity are evident in 3xTgAD mice with PS1, amyloid precursor protein and tau mutations, suggesting that the adverse effects of mutant PS1 on synaptic plasticity can occur in the absence or presence of amyloid and tau pathologies.
Environmental factors (e.g. stress, exercise, enrichment) are thought to play a role in the development of Alzheimer's disease later in life. We investigated the influence of repeated novel cage exposure on the development of early Alzheimer's-like pathology in adult (4 months old) double transgenic mice over-expressing the amyloid precursor protein and presenilin-1 genes (TASTPM mouse line). The procedure involves the repeated placement of the animal into a novel clean cage, a manipulation which induces a stress response and exploratory activity and, as such, can also be seen as a mild form of enrichment. Before and after exposure to the novel cage procedure, separate groups of mice were evaluated for locomotor performance and short-term contextual memory in the fear-conditioning test. Repeated novel cage exposure prevented the onset of a short-term memory deficit that was apparent in 5.5- but not 4-month-old TASTPM mice, without reversing the deficit in extinction already evident at 4 months of age. Brain regional levels of soluble and insoluble amyloid and of endocannabinoids were quantified. Novel cage exposure attenuated soluble and insoluble amyloid accumulation in the hippocampus and frontal cortex, without affecting the age-related increases in regional brain endocannabinoids levels. These beneficial effects are likely to be the consequence of the increase in physical and exploratory activity induced by novel cage exposure and suggest that the impact of environmental factors on Alzheimer's-like changes may be dependent on the degree of activation of stress pathways.
Serotonin has been postulated to play a role in the transplant-induced involuntary movements that occur following intrastriatal grafts of ventral mesencephalic tissue in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Serotonin innervation of the striatum may be derived from either the donor graft tissue or the normal host projections from the midbrain. In two sets of experiments we study the impact of graft- versus host-derived serotonin innervation. All experiments were performed in l-DOPA treated rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. As expected, following intrastriatal transplantation of embryonic ventral mesencephalon all the transplanted rats exhibited pronounced contralateral rotation in response to amphetamine and some animals also showed severe abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs). In the first set of experiments, all types of AIMs (axial, limb, orolingual and locomotor) were markedly reduced when amphetamine was co-administered with either the D(2) dopamine receptor antagonist raclopride or the D(1) receptor antagonist SCH23390. Cotreatment with the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT significantly attenuated the amphetamine-induced axial and limb dyskinesias, whilst locomotor scores remained unchanged. These data point to a major role for dopamine receptors, and to a modulatory role for 5-HT(1A) receptors, in post-grafting dyskinesias. In the second experiment, grafted rats exhibiting amphetamine-induced dyskinesia were subjected to 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine injections into the midbrain in order to destroy the host serotonin innervation. This intervention had no effect on either amphetamine-induced AIMs or contralateral rotation. Histological examination of all grafted rats showed similar numbers of dopaminergic neurons and a very low number of serotonin neurons within the transplants, regardless of AIMs expression. Our results suggest that amphetamine-induced AIMs in grafted animals primarily depend on an activation of dopamine receptors, and that serotonin neurons within either the grafts or the host brain play a negligible role.
The receptor-associated protein of the synapse (rapsyn) is required for anchoring and stabilizing the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) in the postsynaptic membrane of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) during development. Here we studied the role of rapsyn in the maintenance of the adult NMJ by reducing rapsyn expression levels with short hairpin RNA (shRNA). Silencing rapsyn led to the average reduction of the protein levels of rapsyn (31% loss) and AChR (36% loss) at the NMJ within 2 weeks, corresponding to previously reported half life of these proteins. On the other hand, the sodium channel protein expression was augmented (66%) in rapsyn-silenced muscles. Unexpectedly, at the ultrastructural level a significant increase in the amount of secondary folds of the postsynaptic membrane in silenced muscles was observed. The neuromuscular transmission in rapsyn-silenced muscles was mildly impaired. The results suggest that the adult NMJ can rapidly produce postsynaptic folds to compensate for AChR and rapsyn loss.
Emotionally arousing stimuli are more memorable than neutral ones and arousal induced after learning enhances later retrieval. However, there is as yet little study of how stimulus qualities might interact with induced arousal and how individual differences might influence the modulation of memory. Thus, the present study examined the effect of arousal induced after learning on memory for words that varied in both arousal and valence quality, as well as the influence of three individual differences factors that are known to influence arousal response: emotional suppression, emotional reappraisal, and arousal predisposition. Seventy-six adults (57 female) viewed and rated 60 words that normatively ranged from high to low in arousal and valence. Ten minutes later, they viewed a 3-min comedic or neutral video clip. Arousal induced after learning enhanced 1-week delayed memory, spanning the lengthy task without preference for word type or serial position, contrasting with reports of arousal effects interacting with stimulus qualities. Importantly, being predisposed to arousal led to greater enhancement of long-term memory modulation, while the use of emotional reappraisal, which reduces arousal responding, inhibited the ability of arousal to induce memory enhancement. Thus, individual differences that influence arousal responding can contribute to or interfere with memory modulation.
Systemic administration of MK-801, an NMDA-receptor antagonist, impairs reversal learning in weanling rats [Chadman, K.K., Watson, D.J., &amp; Stanton, M.E. (2006). NMDA-receptor antagonism impairs reversal learning in developing rats. Behavioral Neuroscience, 120(5), 1071-1083]. The brain systems responsible for this effect are not known in either adult or young animals. This study tested the hypothesis that hippocampal NMDA receptors are engaged in weanling-age rats during spatial discrimination reversal training in a T-maze. In Experiment 1, 26-day-old Long-Evans rats (P26) showed a dose-related impairment on this task following bilateral intrahippocampal administration of either 2.5 or 5.0microg MK-801 or saline vehicle during the reversal training phase only. In Experiment 2, P26 rats were trained on the same task, but received intrahippocampal MK-801 (2.5microg) during acquisition, reversal, both, or neither. MK-801 failed to impair acquisition, ruling out nonspecific &quot;performance effects&quot; of the drug. MK-801 impaired reversal irrespective of drug treatment during acquisition. NMDA-receptor antagonism in the hippocampus is sufficient to account for the previously reported effects of systemic MK-801 on reversal of T-maze position discrimination.
After cellular injury many endogenous toxins are released from injured cells and result in secondary injury. To elucidate mechanisms of such injury many of these toxins have been studied individually. However, the data obtained is only useful for reference and does not accurately represent the multifactorial situation under pathophysiological conditions. Primary astrocytic cultures were treated individually and simultaneously with two well-studied toxins, glutamate (Glu) and arachidonic acid (AA). Both are simultaneously released from neural cells during injury. Measurements of cellular protein content, intracellular water space, lactate dehydrogenase release, and malondialdehyde formation indicated that Glu and AA act through different mechanisms. Glu+AA applied together had a synergistic effect on the levels of Caspase-3 gene expression, and Bcl-2 and Hsp70 protein. Atomic force microscopy observed that Glu caused cell membrane roughness and nuclear swelling, while AA induced pores in the cell membrane and nuclear shrinkage. Glu+AA accelerated nuclear shrinkage and resulted in more serious cell damage. This study not only distinguishes the different responses of astrocytes to Glu and AA, but also provides a new view into the synergistic effect of these biochemicals; highlighting the need to be cautious in applying single factor experimental data to interpret complex physiological and pathological conditions in animals. Two or more factors may act not only on different targets but also on the same target synergistically.
Encephalopathy and brain edema are serious complications of acute liver failure (ALF). The precise pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible have not been fully elucidated but it has been suggested that oxidative/nitrosative stress is involved. In the present study we evaluated the role of oxidative/nitrosative stress in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy and brain edema in rats with ALF resulting from hepatic devascularization. We also studied the effect of hypothermia, a treatment previously shown to delay the progression of encephalopathy and the onset of brain edema, on ALF-induced oxidative stress. ALF rats were sacrificed at precoma and coma stages of encephalopathy along with their appropriate sham-operated controls. Hypothermic ALF rats were sacrificed in parallel with normothermic comatose ALF rats. Nitric oxide production in plasma and brain was assessed indirectly by measuring the level of its stable end products, nitrite/nitrate (NOx), using the Griess reagent. Expression of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoforms and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) were measured using real-time quantitative PCR, Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry. Increased nitrite/nitrate levels were observed in the plasma and frontal cortex in ALF rats at coma stage of encephalopathy compared to sham-operated controls. Increased expression of HO-1 protein and mRNA was observed in the frontal cortex of ALF rats at both precoma and coma stages of encephalopathy. Significant increases in expression of endothelial and inducible NOS mRNA isoforms also occurred at precoma and coma stages of encephalopathy. Expression of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase isoform (nNOS) was not altered by ALF. Hypothermia normalized nitrite/nitrate levels in brain and significantly attenuated HO-1, eNOS and iNOS expression. These results suggest that, oxidative/nitrosative stress participates in the pathogenesis of brain edema and its complications in ALF and that the beneficial effect of hypothermia depends in part on its ability to inhibit oxidative/nitrosative stress-related mechanisms.

Baicalin is a major plant polyphenolic compound derived from the dried root of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, a Traditional Chinese Medicine material. The current study applied proteomics to investigate the different protein expression modes in mice brains after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) with or without administration of baicalin. Twenty-four proteins which had a 3-fold change in abundance compared to the sham control sample were selected to be identified. Statistical analysis demonstrated that there was no significant difference in expression between the twenty-four proteins baicalin-treated MCAO group and the sham-operation group (n=24, p=0.102). Gene Ontology analysis linked these proteins to fifteen biological processes, including cellular process, developmental process and biological regulation. Results indicated that baicalin performed well in regulating proteins in energy metabolism but had a relatively weak effect in the regulation of proteins in neurogenesis and apoptosis. In sum, our findings suggest baicalin may be a potential therapeutic agent in treating stroke and may also be a strong candidate for future research in its actions on individual proteins.
Kindling is a form of epileptogenesis that can be induced with pentylenetetrazol (PTZ). We undertook this study to evaluate the contribution of glutamate and GABA transporters to the process of PTZ kindling. Rats were injected i.p. three times per week with PTZ (40 mg/kg) until they were fully kindled. In rats who achieved full kindling, measurement of hippocampal glutamate and GABA transporters within 24 h by western blot showed that GLAST, GLT-1, and EAAC1 were elevated significantly. However, fully kindled rats at 30 days after their last seizure had no change in either glutamate or GABA transporters proteins. These sequential observations suggest that glutamate transporters may contribute to the occurrence of seizures, but were not associated with maintenance of epileptogenesis. During this experiment, we collected data from animals that had kindled easily and animals who were resistant to kindling. Easily-kindled rats reached full kindling with less than five injections of PTZ. Kindling resistant animals failed to achieve full kindling even after administration of 12 consecutive injections of PTZ. Levels of EAAC1 and GAT-1 in easily-kindled rats were decreased by 30% when compared to kindling resistant animals at 30 days after the last PTZ injection. Since decreased EAAC1 and GAT-1 would diminish GABA function, less quantity of these proteins would appear to be associated with the convulsive threshold at the beginning of kindling development. We wonder if glutamate and GABA transporters might be operant in a convulsion threshold set factor or as a pace factor for kindling.
Epilepsy is a serious neurological disorder with neuronal loss and spontaneous recurrent seizures, but the neurochemical basis remains largely unclear. We hypothesize that D-serine, a newly identified endogenous co-agonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, may trigger excitotoxicity and neuronal damage in epileptogenesis. By using a mouse pilocarpine model, immunohistochemistry, Fluoro-Jade staining and double-labeling, the present study revealed up-regulation of D-serine expression in a proportion (41%) of neurons in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. The D-serine-positive neurons occurred at 4 h, reached peak levels at 12-24 h, and gradually went down at 3-14 days. Moreover, most of D-serine-positive neurons were GABAergic (98%), underwent degenerating death (93%), and were accompanied enhancing phosphorylation of NMDA receptor subunit 1. This study has provided new evidence that up-regulation of D-serine production might induce GABAergic neuronal degeneration through excitotoxic mechanism in the pilocarpine model and may be involved in early pathogenesis and recurrent seizure of chronic epilepsy.
Bile acid malabsorption (BAM) is reported in up to 50% of patients with functional diarrhoea and irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhoea (IBS-D). Serum 7alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one (7alphaHCO or 7alphaC4), an indirect measurement of hepatic bile acid synthesis, has been validated as a measurement of BAM relative to the (75)SeHCAT retention test. Our aim was to develop a serum 7alphaC4 assay, normal values, and compare results from healthy controls, patients with ileal Crohn's disease or resection, and patients with IBS-D or IBS with constipation (IBS-C). Stored serum samples were used from adult men and women in the following groups: 111 normal healthy controls, 15 IBS-D, 15 IBS-C, 24 with distal ileal Crohn's disease and 20 with distal ileal resection for Crohn's disease. We adapted a published high pressure liquid chromatography, tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) assay. The HPLC-MS/MS assay showed good linearity in concentration range 0-200 ng mL(-1), sensitivity (lowest limit of detection 0.04 ng mL(-1)), and high analytical recovery (average 99%, range 93-107%). The 5th to 95th percentile for 111 normal healthy controls was 6-60.7 ng mL(-1). There were significant overall group differences (anovaon ranks, P &lt; 0.001), with significantly higher values for terminal ileal disease or resection. There were significant differences between health and IBS (anova, P = 0.043) with higher mean values in IBS-D relative to controls (rank sum test, P = 0.027). We have established a sensitive non-isotopic assay based on HPLC-MS/MS, determined normal 7alphaC4 values, and identified increased 7alphaC4 in IBS-D and in distal ileal resection and disease. This assay has potential as a non-invasive test for BAM in IBS.
Breath tests (BT) using 13C-substrates have been proposed for the measurement of gastric emptying (GE). The mathematical analysis of the breath 13CO2 excretion that most accurately predicts GE t(1/2) from simultaneous scintigraphy is unresolved. To compare five mathematical methods to estimate GE t(1/2) by BT with t(1/2) from simultaneous scintigraphy. Data acquired from a dual-labelled solid-liquid meal containing 99mTc sulphur colloid and 13C-Spirulina platensis from 57 healthy volunteers were used to compare four mathematical methods reported in the literature [Ghoos method; generalized linear regression (Viramontes); linear regression (Szarka); Wagner-Nelson method] and the total cumulative breath 13CO2 excretion with &gt; or =12 breath samples collected over at least 4 h. The concordance correlation coefficient (CCC) for the t(1/2) results obtained with each method using BT data was compared with the results obtained with scintigraphy. The linear regression and generalized linear regression methods used five samples at 45, 90, 120, 150 and 180 min. All methods, except for the Wagner-Nelson method, resulted in mean GE t(1/2) that approximated t(1/2) obtained with scintigraphy. The highest CCC was observed with the linear regression method. Simple cumulative excretion of breath 13CO2 provides a better CCC than the Ghoos method. The linear regression and generalized linear regression methods (which also require relatively few breath samples) provide the most accurate analyses of breath 13CO2 excretion in stable isotope GEBT.
The effect of age on the anatomy and function of the human colon is incompletely understood. The prevalence of disorders in adults such as constipation increase with age but it is unclear if this is due to confounding factors or age-related structural defects. The aim of this study was to determine number and subtypes of enteric neurons and neuronal volumes in the human colon of different ages. Normal colon (descending and sigmoid) from 16 patients (nine male) was studied; ages 33-99. Antibodies to HuC/D, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), and protein gene product 9.5 were used. Effect of age was determined by testing for linear trends using regression analysis. In the myenteric plexus, number of Hu-positive neurons declined with age (slope = -1.3 neurons/mm/10 years, P = 0.03). The number of ChAT-positive neurons also declined with age (slope = -1.1 neurons/mm/10 years of age, P = 0.02). The number of nNOS-positive neurons did not decline with age. As a result, the ratio of nNOS to Hu increased (slope = 0.03 per 10 years of age, P = 0.01). In the submucosal plexus, the number of neurons did not decline with age (slope = -0.3 neurons/mm/10 years, P = 0.09). Volume of nerve fibres in the circular muscle and volume of neuronal structures in the myenteric plexus did not change with age. In conclusion, the number of neurons in the human colon declines with age with sparing of nNOS-positive neurons. This change was not accompanied by changes in total volume of neuronal structures suggesting compensatory changes in the remaining neurons.
The aim of this study was to establish kinetic analysis of [5-(11)C-methoxy]donepezil ([(11)C]donepezil), which was developed for the in-vivo visualization of donepezil binding to acetylcholinesterase (AChE) using positron emission tomography (PET). Donepezil is an AChE inhibitor that is widely prescribed to ameliorate the cognitive impairment of patients with dementia. Six healthy subjects took part in a dynamic study involving a 60-min PET scan after intravenous injection of [(11)C]donepezil. The total distribution volume (tDV) of [(11)C]donepezil was quantified by compartmental kinetic analysis and Logan graphical analysis. A one-tissue compartment model (1TCM) and a two-tissue compartment model (2TCM) were applied in the kinetic analysis. Goodness of fit was assessed with chi(2) criterion and Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC). Compared with a 1TCM, goodness of fit was significantly improved by a 2TCM. The tDVs provided by Logan graphical analysis were slightly lower than those provided by a 2TCM. The rank order of the mean tDVs in 10 regions was in line with the AChE activity reported in a previous post-mortem study. Logan graphical analysis generated voxel-wise images of tDV, revealing the overall distribution pattern of AChE in individual brains. Significant correlation was observed between tDVs calculated with and without metabolite correction for plasma time-activity curves, indicating that metabolite correction could be omitted. In conclusion, this method enables quantitative analysis of AChE and direct investigation of the pharmacokinetics of donepezil in the human brain.
Both invasive and non-invasive electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings from the human brain have an increasingly important role in neuroscience research and are candidate modalities for medical brain-machine interfacing. It is often assumed that the major artifacts that compromise non-invasive EEG, such as caused by blinks and eye movement, are absent in invasive EEG recordings. Quantitative investigations on the signal quality of simultaneously recorded invasive and non-invasive EEG in terms of artifact contamination are, however, lacking. Here we compared blink related artifacts in non-invasive and invasive EEG, simultaneously recorded from prefrontal and motor cortical regions using an approach suitable for detection of small artifact contamination. As expected, we find blinks to cause pronounced artifacts in non-invasive EEG both above prefrontal and motor cortical regions. Unexpectedly, significant blink related artifacts were also found in the invasive recordings, in particular in the prefrontal region. Computing a ratio of artifact amplitude to the amplitude of ongoing brain activity, we find that the signal quality of invasive EEG is 20 to above 100 times better than that of simultaneously obtained non-invasive EEG. Thus, while our findings indicate that ocular artifacts do exist in invasive recordings, they also highlight the much better signal quality of invasive compared to non-invasive EEG data. Our findings suggest that blinks should be taken into account in the experimental design of ECoG studies, particularly when event related potentials in fronto-anterior brain regions are analyzed. Moreover, our results encourage the application of techniques for reducing ocular artifacts to further optimize the signal quality of invasive EEG.
All fields of neuroscience that employ brain imaging need to communicate their results with reference to anatomical regions. In particular, comparative morphometry and group analysis of functional and physiological data require coregistration of brains to establish correspondences across brain structures. It is well established that linear registration of one brain to another is inadequate for aligning brain structures, so numerous algorithms have emerged to nonlinearly register brains to one another. This study is the largest evaluation of nonlinear deformation algorithms applied to brain image registration ever conducted. Fourteen algorithms from laboratories around the world are evaluated using 8 different error measures. More than 45,000 registrations between 80 manually labeled brains were performed by algorithms including: AIR, ANIMAL, ART, Diffeomorphic Demons, FNIRT, IRTK, JRD-fluid, ROMEO, SICLE, SyN, and four different SPM5 algorithms (&quot;SPM2-type&quot; and regular Normalization, Unified Segmentation, and the DARTEL Toolbox). All of these registrations were preceded by linear registration between the same image pairs using FLIRT. One of the most significant findings of this study is that the relative performances of the registration methods under comparison appear to be little affected by the choice of subject population, labeling protocol, and type of overlap measure. This is important because it suggests that the findings are generalizable to new subject populations that are labeled or evaluated using different labeling protocols. Furthermore, we ranked the 14 methods according to three completely independent analyses (permutation tests, one-way ANOVA tests, and indifference-zone ranking) and derived three almost identical top rankings of the methods. ART, SyN, IRTK, and SPM's DARTEL Toolbox gave the best results according to overlap and distance measures, with ART and SyN delivering the most consistently high accuracy across subjects and label sets. Updates will be published on the http://www.mindboggle.info/papers/ website.
Spinal tuberculosis most commonly presents as a paradiscal lesion involving the disc space and adjacent vertebral bodies. Atypical forms of spinal tuberculosis have been described and are most often a result of posterior element involvement. The authors report a patient, who presented with complete posterior migration of an intact vertebral body, a complication of spinal tuberculosis that has not been reported till date. A 12-year-old girl with history of pulmonary tuberculosis presented with progressive paraparesis and back pain. Plain X-rays and MRI revealed that the L2 vertebral body had migrated posteriorly into the spinal canal, without significant movement of the posterior elements. The vertebral body was normal, with no erosion or bone loss. However, bilateral pedicle and facet joint involvement was seen. The neural elements were decompressed through an anterolateral retroperitoneal approach and the spine reconstructed. The authors present this rare manifestation of spinal tuberculosis and discuss the possible mechanisms of this presentation.
Isaacs syndrome or acquired neuromyotonia is a disorder of peripheral nerve hyperexcitability characterized by regular or irregular myokymia, muscle cramps and stiffness, delayed muscle relaxation after contraction, and hyperhidrosis. Herein, we report clinical and electrodiagnostic findings of a Persian man with Isaacs syndrome associated with chronic hepatitis B infection. In this patient hepatitis B virus might have contained an antigen (i.e. surface antigen) which has provoked the immune system and has resulted in the production of antibodies that could have affected voltage gate potassium channels leading to the excitation of muscle fibres as well as the generation of abnormal discharges. The improvement of the patient's symptoms after plasma exchange is also in favour of the immunological pathogenesis of the disease.




Humans' ability to recognize static images of self body-parts can be lost following a lesion of the right hemisphere [Frassinetti, F., Maini, M., Romualdi, S., Galante, E., &amp; Avanzi, S. (2008). Is it mine? Hemispheric asymmetries in corporeal self-recognition. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 20, 1507-1516]. Here we investigated whether the visual information provided by the movement of self body-parts may be separately processed by right brain-damaged (RBD) patients and constitute a valuable cue to reduce their deficit in self body-parts processing. To pursue these aims, neurological healthy subjects and RBD patients were submitted to a matching-task of a pair of subsequent visual stimuli, in two conditions. In the dynamic condition, participants were shown movies of moving body-parts (hand, foot, arm and leg); in the static condition, participants were shown still images of the same body-parts. In each condition, on half of the trials at least one stimulus in the pair was from the participant's own body ('Self' condition), whereas on the remaining half of the trials both stimuli were from another person ('Other' condition). Results showed that in healthy participants the self-advantage was present when processing both static and dynamic body-parts, but it was more important in the latter condition. In RBD patients, however, the self-advantage was absent in the static, but present in the dynamic body-parts condition. These findings suggest that visual information from self body-parts in motion may be processed independently in patients with impaired static self-processing, thus pointing to a modular organization of the mechanisms responsible for the self/other distinction.
Several theories of brain function emphasize distinctions between sensory and cognitive systems. We hypothesized, instead, that sensory and cognitive systems interact to instantiate the task at the neural level. We tested whether input modality interacts with working memory operations in that, despite similar cognitive demands, differences in the anatomical locations or temporal dynamics of activations following auditory or visual input would not be limited to the sensory cortices. We recorded event-related brain potentials (ERPs) while participants performed simple short-term memory tasks involving visually or auditorily presented bandpass-filtered noise stimuli. Our analyses suggested that working memory operations in each modality had a very similar spatial distribution of current sources outside the sensory cortices, but differed in terms of time course. Specifically, information for visual processing was updated and held online in a manner that was different from auditory processing, which was done mostly after the offset of the final stimulus. Our results suggest that the neural networks that support working memory operations have different temporal dynamics for auditory and visual material, even when the stimuli are matched in term of discriminability, and are designed to undergo very similar transformations when they are encoded and retrieved from memory.
Visual and verbal learning in a genetic metabolic disorder (cystinosis) were examined in the following three studies. The goal of Study I was to provide a normative database and establish the reliability and validity of a new test of visual learning and memory (Visual Learning and Memory Test; VLMT) that was modeled after a widely used test of verbal learning and memory (California Verbal Learning Test; CVLT). One hundred seventy-two neurologically intact individuals ages 5 years through 50 years were administered the VLMT and the CVLT. Normative data were collected and the results suggested that the VLMT is a reliable and valid new measure of visual learning and memory. The aim of Study II was to examine possible dissociations between verbal and visual learning and memory performances in individuals with cystinosis as well as to assess changes in performance as individuals with the disorder age. Thirty-seven individuals with cystinosis and 37 matched controls were administered a new test of visual learning and memory (Visual Learning and Memory Test; VLMT) and the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT). Individuals with cystinosis performed at a lower level than controls on almost all indices of visual learning and memory while no differences were found between the groups on the verbal measure. Examination of the results on the VLMT indicated that the visual learning and memory impairment in cystinosis may result from difficulty with processing visual information quickly. Study III aimed to remediate the observed visual learning and memory deficit by implementing an intervention that increased the exposure time for visual stimuli. Fifteen individuals with cystinosis were administered a version of the VLMT in which the stimuli were exposed for 3s rather than 1s. Fifteen matched controls were administered the 1-s version of the VLMT. The results of Study III indicated that by increasing the exposure time for each visual stimulus, individuals with cystinosis were able to perform at the same level as control subjects. This is the first study to demonstrate impaired visual learning and spared verbal learning in individuals with cystinosis. These results may provide the foundation for designing cognitive interventions, may lead to further hypotheses regarding the underlying mechanism of the observed visual learning and memory deficit, and have implications for a greater understanding of gene-behavior relationships.
The ability to grasp emotional messages in everyday gestures and respond to them is at the core of successful social communication. The hypothesis that abnormalities in socio-emotional behavior in people with autism are linked to a failure to grasp emotional significance conveyed by gestures was explored. We measured brain activity using fMRI during perception of fearful or neutral actions and showed that whereas similar activation of brain regions known to play a role in action perception was revealed in both autistics and controls, autistics failed to activate amygdala, inferior frontal gyrus and premotor cortex when viewing gestures expressing fear. Our results support the notion that dysfunctions in this network may contribute significantly to the characteristic communicative impairments documented in autism.
Dopamine neurons in the ventral midbrain contribute to learning and memory of natural and drug-related rewards. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), a stress-related peptide, is thought to be involved in aspects of relapse following drug withdrawal, but the cellular actions are poorly understood. This study investigates the action of CRF on G-protein-linked inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) mediated by GIRK (Kir3) channels in dopamine neurons. CRF enhanced the amplitude and slowed the kinetics of IPSCs following activation of D2-dopamine and GABA(B) receptors. This action was postsynaptic and dependent on the CRF(1) receptor. The enhancement induced by CRF was attenuated by repeated in vivo exposures to psychostimulants or restraint stress. The results indicate that CRF influences dopamine- and GABA-mediated inhibition in the midbrain, suggesting implications for the chronic actions of psychostimulants and stress on dopamine-mediated behaviors.
Earlier studies suggest that opioid receptors in the ventral tegmental area, but not the nucleus accumbens (NAc), play a role in relapse to drug-seeking behavior. However, environmental stimuli that elicit relapse also release the endogenous opioid beta-endorphin in the NAc. Using a within-session extinction/reinstatement paradigm in rats that self-administer cocaine, we found that NAc infusions of the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) agonist DAMGO moderately reinstated responding on the cocaine-paired lever at low doses (1.0-3.0 ng/side), whereas the delta-opioid receptor (DOR) agonist DPDPE induced greater responding at higher doses (300-3000 ng/side) that also enhanced inactive lever responding. Using doses of either agonist that induced responding on only the cocaine-paired lever, we found that DAMGO-induced responding was blocked selectively by pretreatment with the MOR antagonist, CTAP, whereas DPDPE-induced responding was selectively blocked by the DOR antagonist, naltrindole. Cocaine-primed reinstatement was blocked by intra-NAc CTAP but not naltrindole, indicating a role for endogenous MOR-acting peptides in cocaine-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. In this regard, intra-NAc infusions of beta-endorphin (100-1000 ng/side) induced marked cocaine-seeking behavior, an effect blocked by intra-NAc pretreatment with the MOR but not DOR antagonist. Conversely, cocaine seeking elicited by the enkephalinase inhibitor thiorphan (1-10 microg/side) was blocked by naltrindole but not CTAP. MOR stimulation in more dorsal caudate-putamen sites was ineffective, whereas DPDPE infusions induced cocaine seeking. Together, these findings establish distinct roles for MOR and DOR in cocaine relapse and suggest that NAc MOR could be an important therapeutic target to neutralize the effects of endogenous beta-endorphin release on cocaine relapse.
Phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors prevent the breakdown of the second messengers, cyclic AMP (cAMP) and cyclic GMP (cGMP), and are currently studied as possible targets for cognitive enhancement. Earlier studies indicated beneficial effects of PDE inhibitors in object recognition. In this study we tested the effects of three PDE inhibitors on spatial memory as assessed in a place and object recognition task. Furthermore, as both cAMP and cGMP are known vasodilators, the effects of PDE inhibition on cognitive functions could be explained by enhancement of cerebrovascular function. We examined this possibility by measuring the effects of PDE5 and PDE4 inhibitor treatment on local cerebral blood flow and glucose utilization in rats using [14C]-iodoantipyrine and [14C]-2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiography, respectively. In the spatial location task, PDE5 inhibition (cGMP) with vardenafil enhanced only early phase consolidation, PDE4 inhibition (cAMP) with rolipram enhanced only late phase consolidation, and PDE2 inhibition (cAMP and cGMP) with Bay 60-7550 enhanced both consolidation processes. Furthermore, PDE5 inhibition had no cerebrovascular effects in hippocampal or rhinal areas. PDE4 inhibition increased rhinal, but not hippocampal blood flow, whereas it decreased glucose utilization in both areas. In general, PDE5 inhibition decreased the ratio between blood flow and glucose utilization, indicative of general oligaemia; whereas PDE4 inhibition increased this ratio, indicative of general hyperemia. Both oligaemic and hyperemic conditions are detrimental for brain function and do not explain memory enhancement. These results underscore the specific effects of cAMP and cGMP on memory consolidation (object and spatial memory) and provide evidence that the underlying mechanisms of PDE inhibition on cognition are independent of cerebrovascular effects.
Cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) gene (CNR1) knockout mice are prone to develop anhedonic and helpless behavior after chronic mild stress. In humans, the CB1 antagonist rimonabant increases the risk of depressed mood disorders and anxiety. These studies suggest the hypothesis that genetic variation in CB1 receptor function influences the risk of depression in humans in response to stressful life events. In a population sample (n=1269), we obtained questionnaire measures of personality (Big Five Inventory), depression and anxiety (Brief Symptom Inventory), and life events. The CNR1 gene was covered by 10 SNPs located throughout the gene to determine haplotypic association. Variations in the CNR1 gene were significantly associated with a high neuroticism and low agreeableness phenotype (explained variance 1.5 and 2.5%, respectively). Epistasis analysis of the SNPs showed that the previously reported functional 5' end of the CNR1 gene significantly interacts with the 3' end in these phenotypes. Furthermore, current depression scores significantly associated with CNR1 haplotypes but this effect diminished after covariation for recent life events, suggesting a gene x environment interaction. Indeed, rs7766029 showed highly significant interaction between recent negative life events and depression scores. The results represent the first evidence in humans that the CNR1 gene is a risk factor for depression--and probably also for co-morbid psychiatric conditions such as substance use disorders--through a high neuroticism and low agreeableness phenotype. This study also suggests that the CNR1 gene influences vulnerability to recent psychosocial adversity to produce current symptoms of depression.

Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) has neuroprotective properties and plays an important role in neuroinflammation. PACAP38 interacts with its receptors, PAC1, and VPAC, on astrocytes at 10(-8) M to induce biphasic Ca2+ transients, which were reduced to a single transient by the PAC1-blocking PACAP antagonist PACAP6-38. At 10(-12) M even the single transient, corresponding to PAC1 was blocked. PACAP-induced Ca2+ transients were more pronounced in astrocytes cocultured with brain endothelial cells than in monocultured astrocytes, indicating that astrocytes that receive signals from microvessels develop more sensitive signal transduction systems for Ca. In this sensitive system, PACAP38 attenuated 5-HT, histamine, and ATP-evoked Ca2+ transients, showing the anti-inflammatory properties of PACAP.
Temporal processing is crucial to many cognitive and motor functions. Comparing different aspects of temporal processing is important for a fundamental understanding of its neural mechanisms. In this study, the neural substrates activated during duration discrimination tasks across different sensory modalities, audition and vision, and sensory structures, empty and filled interval, were examined using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The supplementary motor area and the basal ganglia are suggested as the common neural substrates for temporal processing across sensory modalities and sensory structures for explicit timing in the subsecond range.
Dichotic pitches and mistuned harmonics can each lead to the perception of one or two auditory objects. Comparison of event-related potentials for the perception of one versus two objects reveals an early negative and a late positive component. The relationship of these components with auditory segregation was further investigated using stimuli containing monaural spectral cues to pitch, binaural timing cues to pitch, or a combination of both, interleaved with control stimuli (no pitch). Stimuli containing timing cues or a combination of timing and spectral cues reliably elicited both components, which were of larger amplitude when both cues were present. For stimuli containing only spectral cues, the early component was attenuated in amplitude and no measurable late component was detected.
I examine evidence that the concentration of certain modulatory neurotransmitters varies across species, including differences between rodents and primates. Microdialysis studies indicate that the baseline concentration of serotonin, norepinephrine, dopamine, and acetylcholine, as measured in the prefrontal cortex of awake animals, may differ between rats and macaque monkeys. These differences may extend to mice and humans, as well. If there are differences in the tonic concentration of these neurotransmitters, this may affect the functioning of these transmitter systems in multiple ways, including potential effects on neuropsychiatric conditions such as the various mental illnesses and modeling of them in animals. Species differences in transmitter concentration may also have neuropharmacological implications, and may be relevant to the phenomenon of differences in speed of drug response between humans and rodents. This paper is divided into three sections that address related questions about the potential concentration differences: (1) Are there species differences in baseline neurotransmitter concentration? (2) Are the putative differences functional? (3) What might the functional differences be? Consideration of the existing evidence indicates that there may indeed be functional species differences in the modulatory transmitter systems.
Human faces and bodies provide important social cues, which contribute to the identification of other people, their age and gender as well as their intentions and affective states. The underlying neuropsychological mechanisms of face processing have been studied extensively and recent interest has also focused on the study of body shape perception. The present article aims to summarize and to critically evaluate the evidence for and against the specificity of body shape processing. Cognitive mechanisms, neurocognitive models and neuronal correlates of body processing will be compared with corresponding evidence related to human face processing. Clinical phenomena related to body shape perception will also be addressed. The available data base documents a range of similarities and differences between face and body perception with respect to the cognitive mechanisms, neuronal correlates and neuropsychological impairment patterns. The lack of a selective deficit in body perception is the most important difference between both categories. The sparse data base for human body shape perception does not yet allow any firm conclusions with respect to its underlying neuropsychological mechanisms.
Extreme environments requiring optimal cognitive and behavioral performance occur in a wide variety of situations ranging from complex combat operations to elite athletic competitions. Although a large literature characterizes psychological and other aspects of individual differences in performances in extreme environments, virtually nothing is known about the underlying neural basis for these differences. This review summarizes the cognitive, emotional, and behavioral consequences of exposure to extreme environments, discusses predictors of performance, and builds a case for the use of neuroscience approaches to quantify and understand optimal cognitive and behavioral performance. Extreme environments are defined as an external context that exposes individuals to demanding psychological and/or physical conditions, and which may have profound effects on cognitive and behavioral performance. Examples of these types of environments include combat situations, Olympic-level competition, and expeditions in extreme cold, at high altitudes, or in space. Optimal performance is defined as the degree to which individuals achieve a desired outcome when completing goal-oriented tasks. It is hypothesized that individual variability with respect to optimal performance in extreme environments depends on a well &quot;contextualized&quot; internal body state that is associated with an appropriate potential to act. This hypothesis can be translated into an experimental approach that may be useful for quantifying the degree to which individuals are particularly suited to performing optimally in demanding environments.
Chronic administration of antipsychotic drugs produces adaptive responses at the cellular and molecular levels that may be responsible for both the main therapeutic effects and rebound psychosis, which is often observed upon discontinuation of these drugs. Here we show that some antipsychotic drugs produce significant functional changes in serotonergic neurons that directly impact feeding behavior in the model organism, Caenorhabditis elegans. In particular, antipsychotic drugs acutely suppress pharyngeal pumping, which is regulated by serotonin from the NSM neurons. By contrast, withdrawal from food and drug is accompanied by a striking recovery and overshoot in the rate of pharyngeal pumping. This rebound response is absent or diminished in mutant strains that lack tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH-1) or the serotonin receptors SER-7 and SER-1, and is blocked by serotonin antagonists, which implicates serotonergic mechanisms in this adaptive response. Consistent with this, continuous drug exposure stimulates an increase in serotonin and the number of varicosities along the NSM processes. Cyclosporin A and calcineurin mutant strains mimic the effects of the antipsychotic drugs and reveal a potential role for the calmodulin-calcineurin signaling pathway in the response of serotonergic neurons. Similar molecular and cellular changes may contribute to the long-term adaptive response to antipsychotic drugs in patients.
Tactile information received by the whiskers of rodents is processed along several parallel pathways. A pathway that particularly includes the principal trigeminal nucleus (Pr5) and the thalamic ventral posterior medial nucleus (VPm) is called &quot;lemniscal&quot;, and a pathway that includes the spinal trigeminal subnucleus interpolaris (Sp5i) and the thalamic posterior medial nucleus (POm) is called &quot;paralemniscal&quot;. We trained rats to discriminate between two directions of stimulation applied to their single whiskers (forward or backward) to investigate how these pathways contributed to their perception of the direction of the single-whisker stimulation, and injected muscimol into either the lemniscal or paralemniscal nucleus while rats performed this task. The correct rate dropped significantly after muscimol injections into Pr5 or VPm, whereas we found no significant effects on discrimination after muscimol injections into Sp5i or POm. These results suggest that the lemniscal system is involved in enabling the direction of the single-whisker stimulus to be discriminated than the paralemniscal.











Tourette syndrome (TS) is a neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by multiple motor tics and one or more vocal tics. Attention deficit, obsessive-compulsive disorder, personality problems, and impulsivity may be associated with TS. Functional neuro-imaging studies indicate that the ventral striatum is the most affected brain area in TS. We report a case with TS who had cerebellar atrophy, cerebellar arachnoid cyst, bilateral congenital triangular alopecia, bilateral strabismus, and oxycephaly. The association among these symptoms and TS is rare, and the possible relationship of these symptoms should be investigated with further studies.
Ictal aphasia in adults is a rare phenomenon. Most reported cases manifest with non-fluent (Broca) aphasia. Ictal fluent (Wernicke) aphasia is less common. We report a 47-year-old, right-handed woman that presented with recurrent episodes of non-convulsive seizures in the form of Wernicke's aphasia for 2 weeks. An MRI of the brain showed an old cerebral infarction in the left parieto-occipital area. Scalp EEG revealed continuous periodic sharp waves at the left temporal regions with diffusion to the whole left hemisphere and at occasions to the right. This is followed by variable periods of post ictal slowing. Recurrence of the described ictal pattern was noted. Management of status epilepticus was started in the form of intravenous diazepam and a loading dose of phenytoin and phenobarbitone. After treatment, she improved clinically and the EEG improved with disappearance of the left temporal ictal rhythm and normalization of the EEG background. Thus, establishing the diagnosis of non-convulsive partial status epilepticus manifesting as ictal aphasia.
Neonatal cerebral infarction is a serious and disabling condition. It is extremely rare if it occurs in association with portal vein thrombosis. We are reporting 2 cases of neonatal cerebral infarction with this etiology. The unique mechanism of cerebral infarction will be discussed. We propose that in the absence of any identifiable cause for the cerebral infarction, portal vein thrombosis should be considered and a Doppler sonography for the portal system is worth carrying out to confirm the diagnosis.
Until now, cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) was principally an autopsy diagnosis; however, with the introduction of MRI and angiography, as well as enhanced clinical attentiveness, it is now reliably diagnosed during life. Herein, we describe a case of CVST accompanied by oligodendroglioma and pregnancy. In our patient, the following factors contributed to the formation of CVST: First, the pregnancy state, which is a known risk factor for developing venous thrombosis; and secondly, the oligodendroglioma could have changed the architecture of adjacent sinus (right lateral sinus) and provocation of the development of clot in the sinus.
Huntington's disease is caused by a trinucleotide repeat expansion (CAG)n in the gene coding for Huntingtin (Htt) and is one of the several polyglutamine diseases. Its physical symptoms occur in a large range of ages, with a mean occurrence in a person's late 40's and early 50's. Almost all references indicated that if the age of onset is below 20 years then it is known as juvenile HD. Our case was an Iranian family with 4 affected siblings (2 sisters and 2 brothers). In addition to 4 affected children, they had 5 normal male progenies. There was no any other case in their family history. The onset age of the disease in our case family was 20 to 25 years. Their parents were unaffected and nonconsanguineous. Analysis of the pathogenic (CAG)n repeat region of the HD gene for the affected members have showed an expansion allele with 46, 50, 46, and 44 repeats in 4 affected siblings. Our results indicated that the age of 20 years maybe is not a stable limit point for all cases of juvenile HD, and perhaps onset ages are related with the CAG repeat sizes in such individuals.








Depression is the most common psychiatric disorder in neurological disorders such as epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, stroke, and Parkinsons disease. It is associated with reduction of quality of life, functional impairment, and higher mortality. The diagnosis of depression in neurological disorders is difficult because of the overlapping symptoms. Neurological disorders are usually associated with sleep and appetite disturbances, fatigue, apathy, and lack of concentration, which is similar to those of depression. The etiology of depression with neurological disorders is unknown, but the interaction between biological, psychosocial, and neuropathological factors could be responsible for it. Few controlled trials have been carried out to investigate the efficacy of psychotherapeutic and pharmacological interventions in this population, and it seems that they are effective in improving depression, quality of life, and survival. Studies pertaining to prevention of depression in neurological disorders are promising.


Advances in understanding and controlling genes and their expression have set the stage to alter genetic material to fight or prevent disease with brain tumors being among one of the first human malignancies to be targeted by gene therapy. All proteins are coded for by DNA and most neoplastic diseases ultimately result from the expression or lack thereof with one or more proteins (e.g., coded by oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes, respectively). In theory, therefore, diseases could be treated by expression of the appropriate protein in the affected cells. Gene therapy is an experimental treatment that involves introducing genetic material (DNA or RNA) into cells, and it has made important advances in the past decade. Within this short time span, it has moved from the conceptual laboratory research stage to clinical translational trials for brain tumors. The most efficient approaches for gene delivery are based on viral vectors, which have been proven relatively safe in the CNS, despite occasional cases of morbidity and death in non-neurosurgical trials. However, the human response to various viral vectors can not be predicted in a reliable manner from animal experimentation, nor can size, consistency, and extent of experimental brain tumors in mouse models reflect the large, necrotic, infiltrative nature of malignant gliomas. Furthermore, the problem of delivering genetic vectors into solid brain tumors and the efficiency in situ gene transfer remains one of the most significant hurdles in gene therapy.
Cadmium, mercury and rotenone are environmental pollutants whose neurotoxic mechanisms are not fully understood. We have shown previously that exposure of nerve cells to these agents produces oxidative stress which reversibly blocks growth factor and cytokine-mediated Janus kinase (Jak)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling. Here we determined a critical role for mitochondrial dysfunction in inhibiting Jak/STAT activity in human BE(2)-C neuroblastoma cells. Exposure of BE(2)-C cells to the heavy metals CdCl(2) and HgCl(2) and to the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor rotenone inhibited interleukin-6, interferon-gamma and ciliary neurotrophic factor-mediated Jak/STAT signaling, reduced Jak1 and Jak2 auto-phosphorylation and induced Jak tyrosine nitration. However, identical exposure of HepG2 hepatoma cells produced no inhibition of these cytokine responses. In contrast, mitochondria in both BE(2)-C and HepG2 cells showed reduced mitochondrial membrane potential and increased superoxide production after exposure to CdCl(2), HgCl(2) and rotenone. Further, in an in vitro Jak auto-phosphorylation assay Jak2 isolated from either BE(2)-C or HepG2 cells was equally inhibited by mitochondria made dysfunctional by treatment with CdCl(2), HgCl(2) and rotenone. Each of these pro-oxidant effects was reversed by the mitochondrial antioxidant alpha-lipoic acid. The actions of cadmium were also blocked by the mitochondrial complex III bypass agent, 2,6-dichloroindophenol. Therefore, in BE(2)-C cells CdCl(2), HgCl(2) and rotenone disrupt mitochondria to increase intracellular ROS, which directly inhibits neuronal Jak tyrosine kinase activity. Non-neuronal cells such as HepG2 cells that are resistant to oxidative stress-mediated inhibition of cytokine signaling possess some as yet unknown mechanism that protects Jak kinases from oxidative insults. Pro-oxidant-induced mitochondrial dysfunction resulting in selective neuronal Jak inhibition provides a potential mechanism for environmental agents to promote neurodegeneration.
Sodium channel blocker insecticides (SCBIs), such as indoxacarb and metaflumizone, are a new class of insecticides with a mechanism of action different from those of other insecticides that target sodium channels. SCBIs block sodium channels in a manner similar to local anesthetics (LAs) such as lidocaine. Several residues, particularly F1579 and Y1586, in the sixth transmembrane segment (S6) of domain IV (IV) of rat Na(v)1.4 sodium channels are required for the action of LAs and SCBIs and may form part of overlapping receptor sites. However, the binding site for SCBIs in insect sodium channels remains undefined. We used site-directed mutagenesis, the Xenopus laevis oocyte expression system, and the two-electrode voltage clamp technique to study the effects on SCBI activity of mutating F1817 and Y1824 (analogous to those residues identified in mammalian sodium channels) to alanine, in the voltage-sensitive sodium channel of the German cockroach, Blattella germanica. The mutant channels showed no effect or a marked increase in channel sensitivity to both DCJW (the active metabolite of indoxacarb) and metaflumizone. Thus, it appeared that although the F1817 residue plays a role in the action of SCBIs and that both residues are involved in LA activity in mammalian sodium channels, neither F1817 nor Y1824 are integral determinants of SCBI binding on insect sodium channels. Our results suggest that the receptor site of SCBIs on insect sodium channels may be significantly different from that on mammalian sodium channels.
The landmarks in the use of chaos and related constructs in psychology were entwined with the growing use of other nonlinear dynamical constructs, especially catastrophes and self-organization. The growth in substantive applications of chaos in psychology is partially related to the development of methodologies that work within the constraints of psychological data. The psychological literature includes rigorous theory with testable propositions, lighter-weight metaphorical uses of the construct, and colloquial uses of &quot;chaos&quot; with no particular theoretical intent. The current state of the chaos construct and supporting empirical research in psychological theory is summarized in neuroscience, psychophysics, psychomotor skill and other learning phenomena, clinical and abnormal psychology, and group dynamics and organizational behavior. Trends indicate that human systems do not remain chaotic indefinitely; they eventually self-organize, and the concept of the complex adaptive system has become prominent. Chaotic turbulence is generally higher in healthy systems compared to unhealthy systems, although opposite appears true in mood disorders. Group dynamics research shows trends consistent with the complex adaptive system, whereas organizational behavior lags behind in empirical studies relative to the quantity of its theory. Future directions for research involving the chaos construct and other nonlinear dynamics are outlined.
RNA is ideally suited for in vitro evolution experiments, because a single RNA molecule possesses both genotypic (replicable sequence) and phenotypic (selectable shape) properties. Using systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment (SELEX), we found a single 58-nt aptamer sequence that assumes two structures with different functions, both of which are required to inhibit the GluR2 AMPA receptor channel. Yet, the two structures, once formed during transcription, appear to be incapable of interconverting through unfolding and refolding, presumably due to their extraordinary structural stability. Thus, our results suggest more broadly that natural RNA molecules can evolve to acquire alternative structures and associated functions. Such divergence of RNA phenotype may precede gene duplication at the genome level.
Head injury is a common occurrence that often leads to raised intracranial pressure (ICP). While the best care for patients with head injury might be in specialist neuroscience units, limited places mean that nurses working outside these units might also encounter patients with raised ICP. This article describes the pathophysiology of raised ICP in relation to vital observations and nursing interventions.

Increasing neuropeptide Y (NPY) signaling in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) by recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-mediated overexpression of NPY in rats, results in hyperphagia and obesity in rats. To determine the importance of hyperphagia in the observed obesity phenotype, we pair-fed a group of AAV-NPY-injected rats to AAV-control-injected rats and compared parameters of energy balance to ad libitum fed AAV-NPY-injected rats. For 3 weeks, AAV-NPY-injected rats, received the same amount of food as ad libitum-fed rats injected with control rAAV They did not gain more body weight than these controls. When allowed access to food ad libitum, these AAV-NPY-injected rats increased food intake, which subsequently decreased when rats reached the same body weight as AAV-NPY-injected rats that were fed ad libitum for the entire study. These data indicate that overexpression of NPY in the PVN results in obesity by increasing food intake until a certain body weight is achieved.


The sensitization of spinal dorsal horn neurones leads to prolonged enhancement of pain behaviour and can be evoked by intense C-fibre stimulation, tissue inflammation and peripheral nerve injury. Activation of central immune cells plays a key role in establishing pain hypersensitivity but the exact nature of the afferent input that triggers the activation of microglia and other glial cells within the CNS, remains unclear. Here intense but non-damaging, electrical stimulation of intact adult rat C-fibres for 5 min at 10 Hz induced central sensitization characterized by significant decreases in mechanical withdrawal thresholds 3, 24 and 48 h later. This maintained (&gt;3 h) hypersensitivity was not observed following topical skin application of capsaicin. C-fibre evoked sensitization was accompanied by significant microglial activation, shown by increased Iba-1 immunoreactivity throughout the dorsal horn at 24 and 48 h and significant upregulation of markers of microglial activation: IL-6 and Mcp-1 at 3h and Mmp3, CSF-1 and CD163 at 24 and 48 h. C-fibre stimulation caused no nerve damage at ultrastructural and molecular levels. Lower intensity stimulation that did not activate C-fibres or sham stimulation did not increase Iba-1 immunoreactivity or induce behavioural sensitivity. Pre-treatment with minocycline (40 mg/kg, i.p.) prevented the C-fibre evoked sensitization and microglial activation. Identical C-fibre stimulation in 10-day old rat pups failed to activate microglia or change behaviour. These results demonstrate that a brief period of low frequency C-fibre stimulation, in the absence of nerve damage, is sufficient to activate microglia resulting in behavioural hyperalgesia.
Although it has long been known that psychosocial factors play a crucial role in placebo responses, no attempt has been made to understand if social observation shapes the placebo analgesic effect. To address this question, we compared placebo analgesia induced through social observation (Group 1) with first-hand experience via a typical conditioning procedure (Group 2) and verbal suggestion alone (Group 3). In Group 1, subjects underwent painful stimuli and placebo treatment after they had observed a demonstrator (actually a simulator) showing analgesic effect when the painful stimuli were paired to a green light. In Group 2, subjects were conditioned according to previous studies, whereby a green light was associated to the surreptitious reduction of stimulus intensity, so as to make them believe that the treatment worked. In Group 3, subjects received painful stimuli and were verbally instructed to expect a benefit from a green light. Pain perception was assessed by means of a Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) ranging from 0=no pain to 10=maximum imaginable pain. Empathy trait and heart rate were also measured. We found that observing the beneficial effects in the demonstrator induced substantial placebo analgesic responses, which were positively correlated with empathy scores. Moreover, observational social learning produced placebo responses that were similar to those induced by directly experiencing the benefit through the conditioning procedure, whereas verbal suggestions alone produced significantly smaller effects. These findings show that placebo analgesia is finely tuned by social observation and suggest that different forms of learning take part in the placebo phenomenon.


Diclofenac is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug that is prescribed for treatment of rheumatic diseases and as an analgesic. Although the information about these side effects has been widely reported, little is know about the effect of diclofenac on the neural cells. In this study, we investigated the effects of diclofenac on the proliferation and differentiation of PC12 cells. The cell proliferation was evaluated by using XTT assay in the both free-serum neurobasal medium supplemented with B27 supplement and DMEM/F12 medium containing 10% FBS. The nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced differentiation was assessed by measuring the neurite length. The drug toxicity was exhibited at the concentrations more than 310 microM in the supplemented neurobasal medium. The treatment of cells in the DMEM/F12 medium increased their sensitivity to diclofenac, with 40% and 75% growth inhibition at the 155 and 310 microM concentrations, respectively. The NGF-induced differentiation was not reduced by toxic and subtoxic concentrations of diclofenac. The results of this study indicated that diclofenac may be able to exhibit its neurotoxic effects through growth inhibition, but not differentiation inhibition. Supplement of B27 has several antioxidant compounds. Therefore, the difference of diclofenac cytotoxic effects in two culture media suggest that drug cytotoxicity may be related to the oxidative stress.
The ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B, member 1 (ABCB1) gene encoding the protein P-glycoprotein (P-gp) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) due to its role in regulating transport of endogenous molecules and exogenous toxins. In the present study, we analyzed the ABCB1 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) 1236C/T (exon 12), 2677G/T/A (exon 21) and 3435C/T (exon 26) in 288 Swedish PD patients and 313 control subjects and found a significant association of SNP 1236C/T with disease (p=0.0159; chi(2)=8.28), whereas the distributions of wild-type and mutated alleles were similar for 2677G/T/A and 3435C/T in patients and controls. Haplotype analysis revealed significant association of the 1236C-2677G haplotype with PD (p=0.026; chi(2)=4.955) and a trend towards association with disease of the 1236C-2677G-3435C haplotype (p=0.072; chi(2)=3.229). Altered ABCB1 and/or P-pg expression was recently shown in PD patients, and impaired drug efflux across barriers such as the gastrointestinal and nasal mucosal linings or the blood-brain barrier, might result in accumulation of drugs and/or endogenous molecules in toxic amounts, possibly contributing to disease. ABCB1 polymorphisms thus constitute an example of how genetic predisposition and environmental influences may combine to increase risk of PD.
Collaborative pooled analyses demonstrated that allele length variability of the dinucleotide repeat sequence within the alpha-synuclein gene promoter (SNCA REP1) is associated with Parkinson disease (PD) worldwide. Other studies demonstrated that variability in the SNCA promoter is also associated with alcohol use disorders, but not consistently. Yet other studies demonstrated that alcohol use disorders are inversely associated with PD, but not consistently. The aim of this study was to clarify the patterns of association between REP1 genotype, alcohol use disorders, and PD. Cases were recruited from the Department of Neurology of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN. The controls included unaffected siblings and unrelated controls. We assessed alcohol use via a structured telephone interview and screened for alcohol use disorders using the CAGE questionnaire. REP1 genotyping was performed using an ABI 3730XL platform. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were determined using conditional logistic regression models. We recruited 893 case-control pairs. There was an increasing risk of PD with increasing SNCA REP1 allele length (OR 1.18 for each REP1 genotype score unit, 95% CI 1.02-1.35; p=0.02). There was a decreasing risk of PD with increasing CAGE score (p=0.01). The association of REP1 score with PD remained significant after adjusting for CAGE score, and the association of CAGE score with PD remained significant after adjusting for REP1 score. There were no pairwise interactions. Our findings suggest that SNCA REP1 genotype and alcohol use disorders are independently associated with PD.

The Roc domain of the Lrrk2 protein harbors two pathogenic mutations which cause autosomal dominant parkinsonism (R1441C and R1441G). A third putatively pathogenic variant (R1441H) has been identified in four probands of diverse ethnicity with parkinsonism. Herein we show that the R1441H substitutions lie on different haplotypes within our patients, confirming this codon as a mutational hotspot. The absence of this variant in control subjects and the presence of two other pathogenic variants at this amino acid position collectively support the contention that R1441H is a pathogenic substitution.
It has been proposed that there is an increased frequency of glucosidase-beta mutations in Lewy body disorders. Our comprehensive DNA sequencing approach found a small number of glucosidase-beta mutations in 101 neuropathologically defined Lewy body disease cases (3%) compared to 99 healthy post-mortem controls (1%); odds ratio 3.0 (95% CI: 0.3-29, p=0.3). All three affected carriers were classified as diffuse Lewy body disease (n=3/50; 6%). Our study suggests glucosidase-beta variants have a limited role in susceptibility to Lewy body disease in North America.
Variant late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis is one of the multiethnically prevalent types of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses. Reported here are three families representing the first cases from Saudi Arabia, one of them having a novel mutation in the CLN6 gene. The CLN6-related literature is reviewed.
Status epilepticus is defined as a seizure lasting beyond 30 minutes. Children with intractable epilepsy undergo frequent hospital admissions secondary to status epilepticus or because of acute exacerbation of seizures. Intravenous levetiracetam became available in August 2006 for use in patients aged above 16 years. There are insufficient data about the efficacy and safety of intravenous levetiracetam in children. We retrospectively analyzed data from children treated with intravenous levetiracetam for status epilepticus and acute exacerbation of seizures. We acquired data from our institution's electronic medical records concerning patients with status epilepticus and acute exacerbation of seizures who received intravenous levetiracetam. Thirty-two patients (age range, 2 months to 18 years) had received a levetiracetam load of 25-50 mg/kg for status epilepticus. There were 17 (53.1%) males and 15 (46.8%) females. Response to intravenous levetiracetam in all patients was favorable. Status epilepticus ceased clinically and electrographically. Eighteen patients (56.5%) received intravenous levetiracetam after receiving fosphenytoin and Ativan with no response. No serious side effects were evident. Fifteen patients (46.8%) were discharged on levetiracetam monotherapy, and 9 (28.1%) received levetiracetam as adjunctive therapy after discharge from the hospital. Intravenous levetiracetam can be used adjunctively or as monotherapy in children with status epilepticus and acute exacerbation of seizures.
The implicit appeal of temptations may vary by the social and self-regulatory contexts in which they are encountered. In each of four studies, participants were subliminally primed with the name of someone associated with either drug use or drug abstinence, after which their own motives toward drug use were assessed. Results indicate that the appeal of this temptation often depended on participants' chronicity of indulgence (Study 1), relationship closeness with the tempter (Study 2), self-regulatory effectiveness (Study 3), and goal disengagement tendencies (Study 4). Although the influence of tempters may be automatic, it is also a dynamic process and these findings suggest that the appeal of temptations varies both situationally and motivationally.

Escalation of drug self-administration is a consequence of extended drug access and is thought to be specifically related to addiction, but few studies have investigated whether intake of non-drug reinforcers may also escalate with extended-access. The goal of these studies was to determine the effects of limited and extended-access to food reinforcers on behavioral and pharmacological endpoints in mice. In distinct groups, responding on a lever was maintained by liquid reinforcement, or nose-poke responses were maintained by sucrose pellets or liquid food in sessions lasting 1 h (limited-access) or 10 h (extended-access). The reinforcing strength of each food, as well as reinforcer-associated cues, was tested before and after extended-access using a progressive ratio (PR) schedule, and locomotor activity in response to novelty and increasing doses of cocaine was assessed in an open field setting in all animals after access to food reinforcers. Escalation of lever-pressing behavior reinforced by liquid food, but not nose-poke behavior reinforced by liquid food or sucrose pellets, was observed across successive extended-access sessions. A concomitant increase in the reinforcing strength of liquid food and its associated cues was apparent in mice that escalated their responding, but not in mice that did not escalate. Finally, extended reinforcer access leading to behavioral escalation was accompanied by an increased sensitivity to the psychostimulant effects of cocaine compared to limited-access. These findings indicate that behavioral escalation can develop as a consequence of extended-access to a non-drug reinforcer, although both the nature of the reinforcer (liquid versus solid food) and the topography of the operant response (lever versus nose-poke) modulate its development. These data also suggest that some of the behavioral and pharmacological corrolaries of behavioral escalation observed following extended-access to drug self-administration may not be due to drug exposure, but rather, may result from basic behavioral processes which underlie operant responding maintained by appetitive stimuli.
As a result of innate immune system stimulation, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure produces a range of behavioral modifications referred to as &quot;sickness behaviors.&quot; This study assessed the effects of multiple doses of LPS on air-puff tactile startle reflex (Startle-Only trials) and acoustic prepulse inhibition (PPI) in adult male rats. Rats were injected intraperitoneally with LPS (300, 200, 100, or 50 microg/kg LPS, n=9, 10, 10, and 10 respectively) or saline vehicle (n=10) on 2 test days 72 h apart. Magnitude of the startle response was recorded following 15 psi air-puffs (Startle-Only trials) and auditory PPI of the tactile startle response (with prepulses at +3, +6 and +12 dB above background noise). Startle-Only trial analysis suggested a significant dose-dependent effect of LPS on Test Day 1 with the 300 and the 200 microg/kg LPS groups exhibiting significantly reduced startle responses. On the second test day, the control animals displayed significant habituation to the tactile startle stimulus while the LPS animals did not. On the PPI trials, LPS animals exhibited normal prepulse inhibition. The acoustic PPI of the tactile startle response was significantly greater on Test Day 2 than on the first test day, regardless of treatment. These results suggest that &quot;sickness behaviors&quot; induced by high doses of LPS may include decreased non-voluntary motor activity, as measured by the tactile startle response. They also show that sensory processing, as measured by PPI, is not impaired with sickness.

Synaptic inhibition plays a key role in regulating neuronal excitability and information processing in the brain. The strength of synaptic inhibition is therefore an important determinant of both cellular and network activity levels in the central nervous system (CNS). gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors are the major sites for fast inhibitory neurotransmission in the CNS and alterations in their trafficking, synaptic accumulation and function play a key role in regulating neuronal excitability. Synaptic receptor number is determined by the trafficking of GABA(A) receptors to and away from inhibitory synapses and by their stability and localization at the inhibitory postsynaptic domain. Here we discuss advances that have led to an improved understanding of the mechanisms that regulate the delivery and stabilization of GABA(A) receptors at inhibitory synapses and address the role of GABA(A) receptor trafficking, GABA(A) receptor associated proteins and post-translational modifications in regulating this process.
In computational models it has been shown that appropriate stimulation protocols may reshape the connectivity pattern of neural or oscillator networks with synaptic plasticity in a way that the network learns or unlearns strong synchronization. The underlying mechanism is that a network is shifted from one attractor to another, so that long-lasting stimulation effects are caused which persist after the cessation of stimulation. Here we study long-lasting effects of multisite electrical stimulation in a rat hippocampal slice rendered epileptic by magnesium withdrawal. We show that desynchronizing coordinated reset stimulation causes a long-lasting desynchronization between hippocampal neuronal populations together with a widespread decrease in the amplitude of the epileptiform activity. In contrast, periodic stimulation induces a long-lasting increase in both synchronization and amplitude.
In recent years, considerable progress has been achieved in the comprehension of the profound effects of pheromones on reproductive physiology and behavior. Pheromones have been classified as molecules released by individuals and responsible for the elicitation of specific behavioral expressions in members of the same species. These signaling molecules, often chemically unrelated, are contained in body fluids like urine, sweat, specialized exocrine glands, and mucous secretions of genitals. The standard view of pheromone sensing was based on the assumption that most mammals have two separated olfactory systems with different functional roles: the main olfactory system for recognizing conventional odorant molecules and the vomeronasal system specifically dedicated to the detection of pheromones. However, recent studies have reexamined this traditional interpretation showing that both the main olfactory and the vomeronasal systems are actively involved in pheromonal communication. The current knowledge on the behavioral, physiological, and molecular aspects of pheromone detection in mammals is discussed in this review.
Humans, like other animals, are exposed to a continuous stream of signals, which are dynamic, multimodal, extended, and time varying in nature. This complex input space must be transduced and sampled by our sensory systems and transmitted to the brain where it can guide the selection of appropriate actions. To simplify this process, it's been suggested that the brain exploits statistical regularities in the stimulus space. Tests of this idea have largely been confined to unimodal signals and natural scenes. One important class of multisensory signals for which a quantitative input space characterization is unavailable is human speech. We do not understand what signals our brain has to actively piece together from an audiovisual speech stream to arrive at a percept versus what is already embedded in the signal structure of the stream itself. In essence, we do not have a clear understanding of the natural statistics of audiovisual speech. In the present study, we identified the following major statistical features of audiovisual speech. First, we observed robust correlations and close temporal correspondence between the area of the mouth opening and the acoustic envelope. Second, we found the strongest correlation between the area of the mouth opening and vocal tract resonances. Third, we observed that both area of the mouth opening and the voice envelope are temporally modulated in the 2-7 Hz frequency range. Finally, we show that the timing of mouth movements relative to the onset of the voice is consistently between 100 and 300 ms. We interpret these data in the context of recent neural theories of speech which suggest that speech communication is a reciprocally coupled, multisensory event, whereby the outputs of the signaler are matched to the neural processes of the receiver.


Clinical encounters with patients are a form of social engagement. A critical and implicit component of meaningful engagement with patients is eye contact. Researchers in the rapidly growing, multidisciplinary field of social neuroscience have discovered a great deal about this &quot;first-contact&quot; aspect of human relating that is of direct and practical relevance to the practicing clinician. Findings reviewed in this article include aspects of the neurobiology of social attention, the role of certain neurochemicals (eg, serotonin, oxytocin) in eye contact, and the diagnostic importance of eye contact and gaze in various diagnostic entities. Clinically, these findings underscore the important role of eye contact in 1) establishing meaningful rapport; 2) supplying implicit information about a patient's emotional state; 3) providing diagnostic clues to common psychiatric disorders; 4) delivering impactful clinical messages; and 5) provisioning hope and embodied empathy. Current neuroscience research in this area highlights why mindful attention to this facet of social engagement is part of the repertoire of an effective, empathic clinician.
Insights into the molecular basis and the temporal evolution of neurotoxicity in prion disease are increasing, and recent work in mice leads to new avenues for targeting treatment of these disorders. Using lentivirally mediated RNA interference (RNAi) against native prion protein (PrP), White et al. report the first therapeutic intervention that results in neuronal rescue, prevents symptoms and increases survival in mice with established prion disease.(1) Both the target and the timing of treatment here are crucial to the effectiveness of this strategy: the formation of the neurotoxic prion agent is prevented at a point when diseased neurons can still be saved from death. But the data also give new insights into the timing of treatment in the context of the pattern of spread of prion infection throughout the brain, with implications for developing the most effective treatments.
For over 30 years, scientists have been investigating the phenomenon of pain suppression upon exposure to unconditioned or conditioned stressful stimuli, commonly known as stress-induced analgesia. These studies have revealed that individual sensitivity to stress-induced analgesia can vary greatly and that this sensitivity is coupled to many different phenotypes including the degree of opioid sensitivity and startle response. Furthermore, stress-induced analgesia is influenced by age, gender, and prior experience to stressful, painful, or other environmental stimuli. Stress-induced analgesia is mediated by activation of the descending inhibitory pain pathway. Pharmacological and neurochemical studies have demonstrated involvement of a large number of neurotransmitters and neuropeptides. In particular, there are key roles for the endogenous opioid, monoamine, cannabinoid, gamma-aminobutyric acid and glutamate systems. The study of stress-induced analgesia has enhanced our understanding of the fundamental physiology of pain and stress and can be a useful approach for uncovering new therapeutic targets for the treatment of pain and stress-related disorders.
The function of the retina is crucial, for it must encode visual signals so the brain can detect objects in the visual world. However, the biological mechanisms of the retina add noise to the visual signal and therefore reduce its quality and capacity to inform about the world. Because an organism's survival depends on its ability to unambiguously detect visual stimuli in the presence of noise, its retinal circuits must have evolved to maximize signal quality, suggesting that each retinal circuit has a specific functional role. Here we explain how an ideal observer can measure signal quality to determine the functional roles of retinal circuits. In a visual discrimination task the ideal observer can measure from a neural response the increment threshold, the number of distinguishable response levels, and the neural code, which are fundamental measures of signal quality relevant to behavior. It can compare the signal quality in stimulus and response to determine the optimal stimulus, and can measure the specific loss of signal quality by a neuron's receptive field for non-optimal stimuli. Taking into account noise correlations, the ideal observer can track the signal-to-noise ratio available from one stage to the next, allowing one to determine each stage's role in preserving signal quality. A comparison between the ideal performance of the photon flux absorbed from the stimulus and actual performance of a retinal ganglion cell shows that in daylight a ganglion cell and its presynaptic circuit loses a factor of approximately 10-fold in contrast sensitivity, suggesting specific signal-processing roles for synaptic connections and other neural circuit elements. The ideal observer is a powerful tool for characterizing signal processing in single neurons and arrays along a neural pathway.
Formation of delusions in the phase of acute psychosis is based on two subsequent processes. The first one is dopamine hyperactivity in mesolimbic neural pathways, the second one is a cognitive process of up-down attribution of meanings of this subjectively perceived state of mind by the higher levels of brain. After the successful antipsychotic treatment, the subjectivity of patients changes. When the state of acute psychosis resolves patients must re-interpret this new emerging subjective experience. These interpretations are often incorrect and bizarre. In most cases they are regarded as delusions (sometimes &quot;chronic delusions&quot;). The question asked in the presented paper is whether they are truly delusions. The essence of delusion must include in the same time an active neurobiological basis of delusion (hyperdopaminergic state) and its cognitive level. It's not clear what is the proper term for the phenomenon when only incorrect or bizarre cognitive convictions are present after successful treatment of psychosis, but without dopaminergic hyperactivity.
Perceived discrimination has been studied with regard to its impact on several types of health effects. This meta-analysis provides a comprehensive account of the relationships between multiple forms of perceived discrimination and both mental and physical health outcomes. In addition, this meta-analysis examines potential mechanisms by which perceiving discrimination may affect health, including through psychological and physiological stress responses and health behaviors. Analysis of 134 samples suggests that when weighting each study's contribution by sample size, perceived discrimination has a significant negative effect on both mental and physical health. Perceived discrimination also produces significantly heightened stress responses and is related to participation in unhealthy and nonparticipation in healthy behaviors. These findings suggest potential pathways linking perceived discrimination to negative health outcomes.

Recent findings in cognitive neuroscience shed light on the existence of a common neural mechanism that could account for action and intention to understand abilities in humans and non-human primates. Empirical evidence on the neural underpinnings of action goals and on their ontogeny and phylogeny is introduced and discussed. It is proposed that the properties of the mirror neuron system and the functional mechanism describing them, embodied simulation, enabled pre-linguistic forms of action and intention understanding. Basic aspects of social cognition appear to be primarily based on the motor cognition that underpins one's own capacity to act, here defined as motor abstraction. On the basis of this new account of the motor system, it is proposed that intersubjectivity is the best conceived of as intercorporeity.
We review recent neurophysiological data from macaques and humans suggesting that the use of tools extends the internal representation of the actor's hand, and relate it to our modeling of the visual control of grasping. We introduce the idea that, in addition to extending the body schema to incorporate the tool, tool use involves distalization of the end-effector from hand to tool. Different tools extend the body schema in different ways, with a displaced visual target and a novel, task-specific processing of haptic feedback to the hand. This distalization is critical in order to exploit the unique functional capacities engendered by complex tools.
Modern psychological theories of spatial cognition postulate the existence of a geometric module for reorientation. This concept is derived from experimental data showing that in rectangular arenas with distinct landmarks in the corners, disoriented rats often make diagonal errors, suggesting their preference for the geometric (arena shape) over the nongeometric (landmarks) cues. Moreover, sensitivity of hippocampal cell firing to changes in the environment layout was taken in support of the geometric module hypothesis. Using a computational model of rat navigation, the authors proposed and tested the alternative hypothesis that the influence of spatial geometry on both behavioral and neuronal levels can be explained by the properties of visual features that constitute local views of the environment. Their modeling results suggest that the pattern of diagonal errors observed in reorientation tasks can be understood by the analysis of sensory information processing that underlies the navigation strategy employed to solve the task. In particular, 2 navigation strategies were considered: (a) a place-based locale strategy that relies on a model of grid and place cells and (b) a stimulus-response taxon strategy that involves direct association of local views with action choices. The authors showed that the application of the 2 strategies in the reorientation tasks results in different patterns of diagonal errors, consistent with behavioral data. These results argue against the geometric module hypothesis by providing a simpler and biologically more plausible explanation for the related experimental data. Moreover, the same model also describes behavioral results in different types of water-maze tasks.
Gene-environment interactions involving exogenous environmental factors are known to shape behavior and personality development. Although gene-environment interactions involving endogenous environmental factors are hypothesized to play an equally important role, this conceptual approach has not been empirically applied in the study of early-developing temperament in humans. Here we report evidence for a gene-endoenvironment (i.e., resting frontal brain electroencephalogram, EEG, asymmetry) interaction in predicting child temperament. The dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) gene (long allele vs. short allele) moderated the relation between resting frontal EEG asymmetry (left vs. right) at 9 months and temperament at 48 months. Children who exhibited left frontal EEG asymmetry at 9 months and who possessed the DRD4 long allele were significantly more soothable at 48 months than other children. Among children with right frontal EEG asymmetry at 9 months, those with the DRD4 long allele had significantly more difficulties focusing and sustaining attention at 48 months than those with the DRD4 short allele. Resting frontal EEG asymmetry did not influence temperament in the absence of the DRD4 long allele. We discuss how the interaction of genetic and endoenvironmental factors may confer risk and protection for different behavioral styles in children.







Multistable perception occurs when a single physical stimulus leads to two or more distinct percepts that spontaneously switch (reverse). Previous ERP studies have reported reversal negativities and late positive components associated with perceptual reversals. The goal of the current study was to localize the neural generators of the reversal ERP components in order to evaluate their correspondence with previous fMRI results and to better understand their functional significance. A Necker-type stimulus was presented for brief intervals while subjects indicated their perceptions. Local auto-regressive average source analyses and dipole modeling indicated that sources for the reversal negativity were located in inferior occipital-temporal cortex. Generators of the late positive component were estimated to reside in inferior temporal and superior parietal regions.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has become an increasingly important methodology in the study of psychotherapy outcome and process. In this article, the authors offer a brief introduction to the use of fMRI in psychotherapy research aimed primarily at the informed clinician or investigator and with the goal of facilitating an understanding of study design and interpretation of research findings. After introducing the method and offering a rationale for its use in the study of psychotherapy, the authors outline major issues in fMRI data collection and analysis and emphasize the central role of the tasks used during the imaging session as critical to the interpretation of findings. They discuss how task selection influences the conclusions that can be drawn from fMRI studies of psychotherapeutic intervention and close with recommendations and caveats for the consumer of fMRI/psychotherapy research.
In one of the most common forms of synaesthesia, linguistic-colour synaesthesia, colour is induced by stimuli such as numbers, letters, days of the week, and months of the year. It is not clear, however, whether linguistic-colour synaesthesia is determined more by higher level semantic information--that is, word meaning--or by lower level grapheme or phoneme structure. To explore this issue, we tested whether colour is consistently induced by grapheme or phoneme form or word meaning in bilingual and trilingual linguistic-colour synaesthetes. We reasoned that if the induced colour was related to word meaning, rather than to the acoustic or visual properties of the words, then the induced colours would remain consistent across languages. We found that colours were not consistently related to word meaning across languages. Instead, induced colours were more related to form properties of the word across languages, particularly visual structure. However, the type of inducing stimulus influenced specific colour associations. For example, colours to months of the year were more consistent across languages than were colours to numbers or days of the week. Furthermore, the effect of inducing stimuli was also associated with the age of acquisition of additional languages. Our findings are discussed with reference to a critical period in language acquisition on synaesthesia.
The approach to epilepsy care has transformed in the last 30 years, with more and better anti-epileptic medications, improved cerebral imaging and increased surgical options. Alongside this, developments in neuroscience and molecular genetics have furthered the understanding of epileptogenesis. Future developments in pharmacogenomics hold the promise of antiepileptic drugs matched to specific genotypes. Despite this rapid progress, one-third of epilepsy patients remain refractory to medication, with their seizures impacting upon day-to-day activity, social well-being, independence, economic output and quality of life. International genome collaborations, such as HapMap and the Welcome Trust Case-Control Consortium single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) mapping project have identified common genetic variations in diseases of major public health importance. Such genetic signposts should help to identify at-risk populations with a view to producing more effective pharmaceutical treatments. Neurological disorders, despite comprising one-fifth of UK acute medical hospital admissions, are surprisingly under-represented in these projects. Epilepsy is the commonest serious neurological disorder worldwide. Although physically, psychologically, socially and financially disabling, it rarely receives deserved attention from physicians, scientists and governmental bodies. As outlined in this article, research into epilepsy genetics presents unique challenges. These help to explain why the identification of its complex genetic traits has lagged well behind other disciplines, particularly the efforts made in neuropsychiatric disorders. Clinical beginnings must underpin any genetic understanding in epilepsy. Success in identifying genetic traits in other disorders does not make the automatic case for genome-wide screening in epilepsy, but such is a desired goal. The essential clinical approach of accurately phenotyping, diagnosing and interpreting the dynamic nature of epilepsy remains fundamental to harvesting its potential translational outcomes.
Parabens, a class of preservatives routinely added to cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and foods, have estrogenic properties. Given that intrauterine implantation of fertilized ova in inseminated females can be disrupted by minute levels of exogenous estrogens, we assessed the impact of parabens upon early gestation. In Experiment 1, butylparaben was administered subcutaneously in several doses ranging from 0.05 to 35 mg/animal/day to inseminated CF-1 mice on days 1-4 of pregnancy. Butylparaben exposure did not affect litter size, the number of pups born, postnatal day 3 litter weights, or the number of pups surviving to postnatal day 5. In contrast, administration of 500 ng/animal/day 17beta-estradiol terminated all pregnancies. In Experiment 2, propylparaben was subcutaneously administered to inseminated CF-1 mice on gestational days 1-4. Dams were sacrificed on gestation day 6 and the number of implantation sites was counted. Propylparaben had no impact on the number of implantation sites observed. Since Experiments 1 and 2 did not yield the anticipated results, an uterotrophic assay was conducted in Experiment 3 to re-evaluate the in vivo estrogenicity of parabens. Ovariectomized CF-1 and CD-1 mice were administered butylparaben in doses ranging from 0.735 to 35 mg per animal for three consecutive days. Mice were sacrificed on the fourth day, and uterine mass was recorded. There was no effect of butylparaben on uterine wet or dry mass at any dose in either strain. In contrast, administration of 17beta-estradiol consistently increased uterine mass in both strains. These data indicate that the estrogen-sensitive period of implantation is not vulnerable to paraben exposure, and that the in vivo estrogenicity of parabens may not be as potent as previously reported.
Recent studies have demonstrated that neurotrophins (NTs) and their NTRK tyrosine kinase receptors, thought to be exclusively required for the development of the nervous system, are also involved in controlling ovarian development. Here, we show that primordial follicle formation is decreased in the absence of nerve growth factor (NGF) or its receptor NTRK1, and in the absence of NTRK2, the receptor for neurotrophin-4 (NTF4) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). This deficiency is not due to premature oocyte loss, because the ovaries of Ntrk1(-/-) and Ntrk2(-/-) mice do not show an increased rate of oocyte death antedating the initiation of folliculogenesis. Moreover, exposure of NGF-deficient ovaries to NGF rescues the defect in follicular assembly, if NTRK1 receptors are present, suggesting that the absence of NTs causes a delay, and not an irretrievable loss, of follicle formation. Both the number of secondary follicles and FSH receptor (FSHR) expression are diminished in Ntrk1- and Ntrk2-null ovaries, but not in ovaries lacking the common NT receptor NGFR. Transient exposure of wild-type ovaries to NTF4 increases Fshr gene expression and enhances the ability of the ovary to respond to FSH with formation of cyclin D2, a cell cycle protein mediating the proliferative actions of FSH in the ovary. These results indicate that both NTRK1 and NTRK2 receptors are necessary for the timely assembly of primordial follicles and for sustaining early follicular development. They also suggest that a mechanism by which NTRK2 receptors facilitate subsequent follicle development is by inducing the formation of functional FSHR.
Tobacco smoking is a major public health issue and a better understanding of tobacco addiction represents an important challenge. Many factors are involved in tobacco addiction, including genetic factors. Taking them into account in smoking cessation programs would allow to better adapt these programs to individual characteristics and improve their rate of success. Given enzymatic induction by tobacco smoke, smoking cessation can nevertheless have important consequences on the metabolism of some drugs, that have to be taken into consideration. Here we present different clinical and genetic aspects of smoking and of smoking cessation. A dose adjustment of drugs influenced by tobacco smoke is proposed when quitting smoking.
The control of mRNA decay is emerging as an important control point and a major contributor to gene expression in both immune and non-immune cells. The identification of protein factors and cis-acting elements responsible for transcript degradation has illuminated a comprehensive picture of precisely orchestrated events required to both regulate and establish the decay process. One gene that is highly regulated at the post-transcriptional level is CD40 ligand (CD154 or CD40L). CD154 on CD4(+) T cells is tightly controlled by an interacting network of transcriptional and post-transcriptional processes that result in precise surface levels of protein throughout an extended time course of antigen stimulation. The activation-induced stabilization of the CD154 transcript by a polypyrimidine tract-binding protein (PTB)-complex is a key event that corresponds to the temporal expression of CD154. In this review, we discuss known and potential roles of major mRNA decay pathways in lymphocytes and focus on the unique post-transcriptional mechanisms leading to CD154 expression by activated CD4(+) T cells.
This article reviewed the literature on the epidemiology, consumption, trade, control, prevention, and treatment of tobacco smoking in Saudi Arabia. The prevalence of current smoking in Saudi Arabia ranges from 2.4-52.3% (median = 17.5%). Among school students, the prevalence of current smoking ranges from 12-29.8% (median = 16.5%), among university students from 2.4-37% (median = 13.5%), and among adults from 11.6-52.3% (median = 22.6%). In elderly people, the prevalence of current smoking is 25%. The prevalence of smoking in males ranges from 13-38% (median = 26.5%), while in females it ranges from 1-16% (median = 9%). To conclude, smoking is prevalent in the Saudi population at different age groups. The prevalence of current smoking is much higher in males than in females at different ages. More research is needed in the area of prevention and treatment of smoking.
The earliest stages of delusion are characterized by an overabundance of meaningful coincidences impinging on the sufferer's existing worldview. Successive events are seen by him as pointing to, and then confirming, a fundamentally new reality that takes him over and engulfs his everyday life. Research over the last 4 decades has revealed the importance of dopamine (DA), D2 receptors, and the basal ganglia in psychotic thinking. Recent work has implicated the aberrant reward learning initiated by the excess release of striatal DA in the attribution of excessive importance or &quot;salience&quot; to insignificant stimuli and events. But our knowledge of what is happening beyond D2 receptors has remained scant. The gap is especially apparent at the cellular and microcircuit levels, encompassing the plastic changes, which are believed to be essential for new learning, and whose processes may go awry in major mental illness. Now new pharmacological findings are advancing our understanding of information processing and learning within the striatum. DA has an important role in setting the strength of individual striatal connections, but it does not act in isolation. Two other modulator systems are critical, the endocannabinoids and adenosine. Thus, at medium spiny neurons belonging to the indirect pathway, D2 stimulation evokes endocannabinoid-mediated depression of cortical inputs. Adenosine acting at A2A receptors elicits the opposite effect. Remarkably, drugs that target the endocannabinoid and purinergic systems also have pro- or antipsychotic properties. Here, we discuss how the 3 modulators regulate learning within the striatum and how their dysfunction may lead to delusional thinking.
Prenatal viral infection has been associated with the development of schizophrenia and autism. Our laboratory has previously shown that viral infection causes deleterious effects on brain structure and function in mouse offspring following late first trimester (E9) and late second trimester (E18) administration of influenza virus. We hypothesized that middle second trimester infection (E16) in mice may lead to a different pattern of brain gene expression and structural defects in the developing offspring. C57BL6 mice were infected on E16 with a sublethal dose of human influenza virus or sham-infected using vehicle solution. Male offspring of the infected mice were collected at P0, P14, P35, and P56, their brains removed and cerebella dissected and flash frozen. Microarray, DTI and MRI scanning, as well as qRT-PCR and SDS-PAGE and western blotting analyses were performed to detect differences in gene expression and brain atrophy. Expression of several genes associated with myelination, including Mbp, Mag, and Plp1 were found to be altered, as were protein levels of Mbp, Mag, and DM20. Brain imaging revealed significant atrophy in cerebellum at P14, reduced fractional anisotropy in white matter of the right internal capsule at P0, and increased fractional anisotropy in white matter in corpus callosum at P14 and right middle cerebellar peduncle at P56. We propose that maternal infection in mouse impacts myelination genes.




Limb regeneration is an excellent model for understanding organ reconstruction along PD, AP and DV axes. Re-expression of genes involved in axial pattern formation is essential for complete limb regeneration. The cellular positional information in the limb blastema has been thought to be a key factor for appropriate gene re-expression. Recently, it has been suggested that epigenetic mechanisms have an essential role in development and regeneration processes. In this review, we discuss how epigenetic mechanisms may be involved in the maintenance of positional information and the regulation of gene re-expression during limb regeneration.
Polyphosphate (poly P) has been widely identified in both inorganic environment and living organisms. Research shows that poly P in bacteria enhances their resistance to severe environment, triggers their protective responses, increases biofilm formation and involves in predation and bacterial virulence. In eukaryotes, poly P has been found to enhance the proliferation of fibroblast and many tumor cell lines, induce the calcification of osteoblast and be involved in calcium ion release. Based on the existing information, we attempt to discuss the possible functions of poly P in the nervous system.

The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) is part of the cholinergic arm of the reticular activating system, which is mostly active during waking and REM sleep. GABAergic modulation of this area appears to regulate sleep-wake cycles. Eszopiclone (ESZ), a nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic agent, appears to modulate GABAergic receptors. However, the action site of ESZ in the brain is still unresolved. We tested the hypothesis that ESZ acts by potentiating GABA(A) receptors on PPN neurons. Wholecell voltage clamp recordings were performed on PPN neurons in 7-15 day rat brainstem slices, and the potentiating effects of ESZ on the responses to the GABA(A) receptor agonist isoguvacine (IGV), and on GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory post-synaptic currents (IPSCs), were determined. In the presence of tetrodotoxin, ESZ (1) increased the amplitude of the outward current induced by IGV, (2) increased its duration, and (3) enhanced the IGV-induced decrease in input resistance (Rin). The GABA(A) receptor antagonist gabazine (GBZ) blocked these effects. ESZ alone did not induce detectable currents or change Rin at a holding potential of -60 mV, but when held at 0 mV, ESZ induced an outward current in 13/21 PPN cells, an effect blocked by GBZ. ESZ also increased the amplitude (n = 18/21), duration (n = 17/21), and frequency (n = 13/15) of IPSCs. ESZ may potentiate GABA(A) inhibition in the PPN via pre- and post-synaptic modulation, which may underlie the hypnotic effects of ESZ. The differential effects of ESZ on both pre- and post-synaptic sites may partially explain why it has less significant side effects compared to other hypnotic agents.

Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are of therapeutic interest in a variety of neurological diseases. In this study, we wished to determine whether human MSCs secrete factors which protect cultured rodent cortical neurons from death by trophic factor withdrawal or nitric oxide (NO) exposure. Medium conditioned by MSCs attenuated neuronal death under these conditions, a process which was dependent on intact PI(3)kinase/Akt pathway signaling. Trophic withdrawal and NO exposure in cultured cortical neurons led to reduction in Akt signaling pathways, whereas NO administration activated p38 MAPkinase in neuronal cultures. Addition of MSC-conditioned medium significantly activated the PI3kinase/Akt pathway and in neurons exposed to NO, MSC-conditioned medium reduced p38 signaling. We show that MSCs secrete brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and addition of anti-BDNF neutralising antibodies to MSC-conditioned medium attenuated its neuroprotective effect. Exposure of neurons to BDNF increased activation of Akt pathways and protected neurons from trophic factor withdrawal. These observations determine the mechanisms of neuroprotection offered by MSC-derived factors and suggest an important role for BDNF in neuronal protection.
Success of cell replacement therapies for neurological disorders will depend largely on the optimization of strategies to enhance viability and control the developmental fate of stem cells after transplantation. Once transplanted, stem/progenitor cells display a tendency to maintain an undifferentiated phenotype or differentiate into inappropriate cell types. Gain and loss of function experiments have revealed key transcription factors which drive differentiation of immature stem/progenitor cells toward more mature stages and eventually to full differentiation. An attractive course of action to promote survival and direct the differentiation of transplanted stem cells to a specific cell type would therefore be to force expression of regulatory differentiation molecules in already transplanted stem cells, using inducible gene expression systems which can be controlled from the outside. Here, we explore this hypothesis by employing a tetracycline gene regulating system (Tet-On) to drive the differentiation of boundary cap neural crest stem cells (bNCSCs) toward a sensory neuron fate after transplantation. We induced the expression of the key transcription factor Runx1 in Sox10-expressing bNCSCs. Forced expression of Runx1 strongly increased transplant survival in the enriched neurotrophic environment of the dorsal root ganglion cavity, and was sufficient to guide differentiation of bNCSCs toward a nonpeptidergic nociceptive sensory neuron phenotype both in vitro and in vivo after transplantation. These findings suggest that exogenous activation of transcription factors expression after transplantation in stem/progenitor cell grafts can be a constructive approach to control their survival as well as their differentiation to the desired type of cell and that the Tet-system is a useful tool to achieve this.
Genetic modification is critical for achieving the full potential of human embryonic stem (ES) cells as a tool for therapeutic development and for basic research. Targeted modifications in human ES cells have met with limited success because of the unique culture conditions for many human ES cell lines. The HUES lines of human ES cells were developed for ease of manipulation and are gaining increased utility in stem cell research. We tested conditions for gene targeting via electroporation in the HUES-9 human ES cell line and demonstrate here successful gene targeting at the gene encoding Fezf2 (also known as Fezl), a transcription factor involved in corticospinal neuron development. With a targeting strategy involving positive and negative selection that is applicable to all genes, we observed a gene targeting frequency of approximately 1.5% for Fezf2, a gene not expressed in human ES cells. We found that conditions developed for gene targeting in mouse ES cells can be readily adapted to HUES cells with few key modifications. HUES-9 cells exhibit an intrinsically high efficiency of clonal expansion and sustain electroporation-based gene targeting procedures without any significant loss of pluripotency marker expression or karyotypic stability. Thus, human ES cell lines adapted for enzymatic passage and efficient clonal expansion can be highly amenable to genetic modifications, which will facilitate their application in basic science and clinical development.
A major issue in the potential application of neural stem cell (NSC)-based cell replacement therapy for demyelinating diseases is the question of the survival, functional behavior, and stability of implanted NSC-derived oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) over an extended period. To address this issue, we employed bioluminescence imaging (BLI) as a noninvasive longitudinal in vivo monitoring technique and followed the fate of NSCs isolated from luciferase-green fluorescent protein-actin transgenic mice after stereotactic implantation in the demyelinated corpus callosum of cuprizone-fed mice. We compared normal NSCs with NSCs that were primed to become OPCs by the induction of Olig2 overexpression (Olig2-NSCs). BLI, validated by immunohistochemistry, revealed that, after a steep cell loss after implantation during the first 3 weeks, approximately 10% of the Olig2-NSCs stably survived for 2 months after implantation, in contrast to &lt;1% of the normal NSCs. Immunohistochemistry, at the light and electron microscopic levels, revealed that the majority of the surviving Olig2-NSCs had differentiated into an oligodendrocytic cell lineage and contributed to remyelination of axons in the corpus callosum. The number of axons remyelinated by the implanted cells, however, was a small fraction of the total number of axons remyelinated by endogenous oligodendrocytes. Apparently, most of the implanted NSCs did not survive the transition into an inappropriate non-neurogenic niche, compressed by surrounding host tissue, in hostile, inflammatory conditions created by activated microglia. Only the ones that managed to differentiate rapidly into a mature neural cell type and become functionally integrated survived.
Numerous studies have explored the potential of different stem and progenitor cells to replace at-risk neuronal populations in a variety of neurodegenerative disease models. This study presents data from a side-by-side approach of engrafting two different stem/progenitor cell populations within the postnatal cerebellum of the weaver neurological mutant mouse--cerebellar-derived multipotent astrocytic stem cells and embryonic stem cell-derived neural precursors--for comparative analysis. We show here that both donor populations survive, migrate, and appear to initiate differentiation into neurons within the granuloprival host environment. Neither of these disparate stem/progenitor cell populations adopted significant region-specific identities, despite earlier studies that suggested the potential of these cells to respond to in vivo cues when placed in a permissive/instructive milieu. However, data presented here suggest that molecular and cellular deficits present within weaver homozygous or heterozygous brains may promote a slightly more positive donor cell response toward acquisition of a neuronal phenotype. Hence, it is likely that a fine balance exists between a compromised host environment that is amenable to cell replacement and that of a degenerating cellular milieu where it is perhaps too deleterious to support extensive neuronal differentiation and functional cellular integration. These findings join a growing list of studies that show successful cell replacement depends largely on the interplay between the potentiality of the donor cells and the specific pathological conditions of the recipient environment, and that emergent therapies for neurological disorders involving the use of neural stem cells still require refinement.
The potential neuroprotective role of sex hormones in chronic neurodegenerative disorders and acute brain ischemia following cardiac arrest and stroke is of a great therapeutic interest. Long-term pretreatment with estradiol and other estrogens affords robust neuroprotection in male and female rodents subjected to focal and global ischemia. However, the receptors (e.g., cell surface or nuclear), intracellular signaling pathways and networks of estrogen-regulated genes that intervene in neuronal apoptosis are as yet unclear. We have shown that estradiol administered at physiological levels for two weeks before ischemia rescues neurons destined to die in the hippocampal CA1 and ameliorates ischemia-induced cognitive deficits in ovariectomized female rats. This regimen of estradiol treatment involves classical intracellular estrogen receptors, transactivation of IGF-1 receptors and stimulation of the ERK/MAPK signaling pathway, which in turn maintains CREB activity in the ischemic CA1. We also find that a single, acute injection of estradiol administrated into the brain ventricle immediately after an ischemic event reduces both neuronal death and cognitive deficits. Because these findings suggest that hormones could be used to treat patients when given after brain ischemia, it is critical to determine whether the same or different pathways mediate this form of neuroprotection. We find that an agonist of the membrane estrogen receptor GPR30 mimics short latency estradiol facilitation of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. Therefore, we are testing the hypothesis that GPR30 may act together with intracellular estrogen receptors to activate cell signaling pathways to promote neuron survival after global ischemia.
Until recently, the idea that estradiol could affect cellular processes independent of nuclear estrogen receptors was often dismissed as artifact. This in spite of a large number of carefully controlled studies performed both within and outside the nervous system demonstrating estrogens regulate various intracellular signaling pathways by acting at the membrane surface of cells and/or at biological rates incompatible with the time course of genomic-initiated events. The concept that estradiol can act on surface membrane receptors to regulate nervous system function is now far less controversial. However, there is evidence that there may be multiple types of estrogen receptors on the membrane surface of cells. Determining the physiological relevance of each of these receptors is currently underway. Two important membrane estrogen receptors are in fact the classical estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) and estrogen receptor-beta (ERbeta) proteins, which is somewhat surprising based upon their well-established role in nuclear gene transcription. This review will focus on the mechanism by which surface-localized ERalpha and ERbeta stimulate intracellular signaling events in cells of the nervous system through activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). This mechanism of estrogen receptor function also requires caveolin proteins, which provide the subcellular compartmentalization of the particular signaling components required for appropriate cell stimulation. The review will conclude with several examples of physiological processes under the apparent regulation of ER/mGluR signaling.
Stressful stimuli cause region-specific increases in c-fos expression within the rat brain. Early maternal separation (EMS) is a model of early life adversity that results in long lasting changes to stress and anxiety responses. This study examined the regional distribution of c-fos mRNA after exposure to the elevated plus-maze (EPM) and how EMS altered this pattern. On each of post-natal days 5-21 pups were separated from the dam for 6 h -- control rats remained undisturbed. At 70 days old, male offspring were either exposed to the EPM or left undisturbed in the home cage. After exposure to the EPM, c-fos mRNA expression was significantly increased in specific brain areas, including cingulate cortex, medial amygdala and hippocampus. EMS rats displayed greater anxiety behaviour on the EPM vs. controls. Although EMS caused no overall effect on basal c-fos mRNA, a significant interaction between treatment group and exposure to the EPM occurred in the dentate gyrus and piriform cortex, with lower EPM-induced mRNA levels in EMS rats. The region-specific increase in c-fos mRNA reflects activation of neural circuits associated with EPM-induced anxiety. The effect of EMS on this activation in the two regions suggests these areas may contribute to the differential response to the anxiogenic stress of the EPM.
Previous findings of decreased mental and perceptual motor performance during parabolic flights have been attributed mainly to the primary effects of weightlessness rather than the accompanying effects of stress and altered mood. Although recent studies have alluded to the possible negative effects of stress on performance, there has been no attempt to investigate this during parabolic flights. Over a period of 3 years, 27 human participants (male n = 18, mean age +/- SD 34.67 +/- 7.59 years; female n = 9, 36.22 +/- 9.92 years) were recruited with the aim to evaluate if, and to what extent, parabolic flights are accompanied by changes in mood. Furthermore, the relationships between mood and physiological markers of stress and arousal, namely circulating stress hormones (ACTH, cortisol, epinephrine, norepinephrine, prolactin and brain activity (EEG)) were investigated. A strong and significant correlation was found between circulating stress hormone concentrations and perceived physical state, motivational state (MOT) and psychological strain (PSYCHO), whereas no interaction between mood and EEG or EEG and stress hormone concentrations was observed. Therefore, two different stress responses appear to be present during parabolic flight. The first seems to be characterised by general cortical arousal, whereas the second seems to evolve from the adrenomedullary system. It is likely that both these mechanisms have different effects on mental and perceptual motor performance, which require further investigation and should to be taken into account when interpreting previous weightlessness research.

Cerebrovascular disease and Alzheimer disease are common diseases of aging and frequently coexist in the same brain. Accumulating evidence suggests that the presence of brain infarction, including silent infarction, influences the course of Alzheimer disease. Conversely, there is evidence that beta-amyloid can impair blood vessel function. Vascular beta-amyloid deposition, also known as cerebral amyloid angiopathy, is associated with vascular dysfunction in animal and human studies. Alzheimer disease is associated with morphological changes in capillary networks, and soluble beta-amyloid produces abnormal vascular responses to physiological and pharmacological stimuli. In this review, we discuss current evidence linking beta-amyloid metabolism with vascular function and morphological changes in animals and humans.


Convergent evidence indicates that in later stages of Parkinson's disease raphestriatal serotonin neurons compensate for the loss of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons by converting and releasing dopamine derived from exogenous administration of the pharmacotherapeutic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (L-dopa). Because the serotonin system is not equipped with dopamine autoregulatory mechanisms, it has been postulated that raphe-mediated striatal dopamine release may fluctuate dramatically. These fluctuations may portend the development of abnormal involuntary movements called L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID). As such, it has been hypothesized that reducing the activity of raphestriatal neurons could dampen supraphysiological stimulation of striatal dopamine receptors thereby alleviating LID. To directly address this, the current study employed the rodent model of LID to investigate the contribution of the rostral raphe nuclei (RRN) in the development, expression and treatment of LID. In the first study, dual serotonin/dopamine selective lesions of the RRN and medial forebrain bundle, respectively, verified that the RRN are essential for the development of LID. In a direct investigation into the neuroanatomical specificity of these effects, microinfusions of +/-8-OH-DPAT into the intact dorsal raphe nucleus dose-dependently attenuated the expression of LID without affecting the antiparkinsonian efficacy of L-dopa. These current findings reveal the integral contribution of the RRN in the development and expression of LID and implicate a prominent role for dorsal raphe 5-HT1AR in the efficacious properties of 5-HT1AR agonists.
Human cocaine addicts show altered function within the basal ganglia and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and altered glutamate function within these areas is postulated to be critical for cocaine addiction. The present project utilized a highly valid animal model of cocaine addiction, to test whether excessive use of cocaine alters glutamate function within these brain areas. Rats were trained to lever-press for i.v. saline vehicle or cocaine (0.25 mg/infusion) over seven 1-h daily sessions, after which, saline controls and half of cocaine self-administering animals (brief access condition) received 10 more 1-h daily sessions, whereas the remaining cocaine animals received 10 additional 6-h daily sessions (extended access condition). One, 14, or 60 days after the last self-administration session, animals were sacrificed. Tissue samples from the ventral tegmental area (VTA), nucleus accumbens (N.Acc) core and shell, and mPFC were analyzed by immunoblotting for expression of Homer1b/c, Homer2a/b, mGluR1, mGluR5, NR2a, and NR2b subunits of the NMDA receptor. Brief and extended access to cocaine failed to alter protein levels within the VTA, and produced transient and similar changes in N.Acc protein expression, which were more pronounced in the core subregion. In contrast, extended access to cocaine resulted in distinct and long lasting alterations of protein expression within the mPFC that included: increased levels of Homer1b/c at 1 day, NR2b at 14 days, and NR2a at 60 days, of withdrawal. These data support the notion that altered NMDA function within the mPFC may contribute, in part, to the transition to excessive uncontrolled consumption of cocaine.
Medical emergencies form a significant proportion of neurological and neurosurgical practice. The highly specialized nature of neurology and neurosurgery limits expertise to a small number of highly specialized centers; hence, many neurological emergencies will be managed in regional hospitals without comprehensive support. The common theme in neurological emergencies lies with prompt diagnosis, rapid access to scans, accurate scan interpretation, and quick institution of appropriate treatment. Failure in any one of these can result in devastating and permanent neurological deficits or death. The judicious use of information and communication technology can overcome some of the limitations imposed by scarce resources. Multimedia messaging service can be used to transmit important scan images to experienced staff to faciliate accurate and prompt diagnosis and commence optimal treatment. Telestroke based on the remote evaluation of acute ishemic stroke model can also be utilized so that selected stroke patients can be given intravenous tissue plasminogen activator in the emergency department of a regional hospital with the supervision of a stroke neurologist. We describe our experience with these technological initiatives to improve clinical care and outcome in our patients.

Neuroimaging can address activity across the entire brain in relation to cognition, but is typically correlative rather than causal. Brain stimulation can target a local brain area causally, but without revealing the entire network affected. Combining brain stimulation with concurrent neuroimaging allows a new causal approach to how interplay between extended networks of brain regions can support cognition. Brain stimulation does not affect only the targeted local region but also activity in remote interconnected regions. These remote effects depend on cognitive factors (e.g. task-condition), revealing dynamic changes in interplay between brain areas. We illustrate this with examples from top-down modulation of visual cortex, response-competition, inter-hemispheric rivalry and motor tasks; but the new approach should be applicable to many domains of cognition.
'If' is a puzzle. No consensus has existed about its meaning for over two thousand years. Here, we show how the main psychological theories deal with the seven crucial problems that it raises. These competing explanations treat 'if' as though it was a term in a formal logic, or as eliciting the construction of a mental model of the world, or as an instruction to suppose that a proposition holds. The solution to 'if' would be a major step towards understanding how people reason, and towards implementing a computer program that can reason in a human way. We argue that the mental model theory is closer to resolving the puzzle of 'if' than its competitors.
As functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has become a driving force in cognitive neuroscience, it is crucial to understand the neural basis of the fMRI signal. Here, we discuss a novel neurophysiological correlate of the fMRI signal, the slow cortical potential (SCP), which also seems to modulate the power of higher-frequency activity, the more established neurophysiological correlate of the fMRI signal. We further propose a hypothesis for the involvement of the SCP in the emergence of consciousness, and review existing data that lend support to our proposal. This hypothesis, unlike several previous theories of consciousness, is firmly rooted in physiology and as such is entirely amenable to empirical testing.
Synesthesia is a perceptual phenomenon in which stimuli can trigger experiences in non-stimulated sensory dimensions. The literature has focused on forms of synesthesia in which stimuli (e.g. music, touch or numbers) trigger experiences of color. Generally missing, however, is the observation that synesthetic colors are often accompanied by the experience of other surface properties such as texture (e.g. a visual experience of linen, metal, marble, velvet, etc). Current frameworks for synesthesia focus only upon the involvement of brain regions such as the V4 color complex. Here, we propose an expanded framework that includes brain regions involved in the encoding of material properties - specifically, larger regions of the medial ventral stream. The overlap of visual texture and color processing within ventral regions might explain why many experiences of synesthesia extend beyond color to other material properties.
In neurons multiple signaling pathways converge in the nucleus to regulate the expression of genes associated with long-term structural changes of synapto-dendritic input. Of pivotal importance for this type of transcriptional regulation is synapse-to-nucleus communication. Several studies suggest that the nuclear transport of proteins from synapses is involved in this signaling process, including evidence that synapses contain proteins with nuclear localization sequences and components of the nuclear import machinery. Here, we review the evidence for synapse-to-nucleus signaling by means of retrograde transport of proteins from distal processes. We discuss the mechanisms involved in their translocation and their role in the control of nuclear gene expression. Finally, we summarize the current thinking regarding the functional implications of nuclear signaling and address open questions in this evolving area of neuroscience.
The formation sites of the microbubbles that are routinely detected in the bloodstream at precordial level by Doppler after a decompression are reviewed and discussed here. First, microbubbles could form on the endothelium lumen wall of the capillaries, at specific nanometric sites, but the release mechanism of such small emerging entities remains puzzling. They could be also formed from pre-existing gas nuclei present in the blood when favorable local hydrodynamic/supersaturation conditions generate microcavitation and tribonucleation phenomena. Finally, tissues could represent large pools for microbubble formation and amplification. Nevertheless, it remains to explain what the potential pathways are to drive them to the blood. Knowing that the permeability of most of the blood capillary network is quite low, an alternative is proposed for such transport. The lymphatic system, which drains the interstitial fluid to guarantee the fluid balance of tissues, could allow the transfer of micrometric elements like stabilized microbubbles formed in tissues on long distances. A final rejection in the bloodstream at the termination of both right lymphatic and thoracic ducts can be expected. The characteristics of this slow transport, activated by the muscular pump, could explain the detection on long periods of massive venous gas emboli.
The zebrafish photopic electroretinogram (ERG) sums isolatable elements. In each element, red-, blue-, green-, and UV- (r, g, b, and u) cone signals combine in a way that reflects retinal organization. ERG responses to monochromatic stimuli of different wavelengths and irradiances were recorded on a white rod suppressing background using superfused eyecups. Onset elements were isolated with glutamatergic blockers and response subtractions. CNQX-blocked ionotropic (AMPA/kainate) glutamate receptors; l-AP4 or CPPG-blocked metabotropic (mGluR6) glutamate receptors; TBOA-blocked glutamate transporters; and l-aspartate inactivated all glutamatergic mechanisms. Seven elements emerged: photopic PIII, the l-aspartate-isolated cone response; b1, a CNQX-sensitive early b-wave element of inner retinal origin; PII, a photopic, CNQX-insensitive composite b-wave element from ON bipolar cells; PIIm, an l-AP4/CPPG-sensitive, CNQX-insensitive, metabotropic subelement of PII; PIInm, an l-AP4/CPPG/CNQX-insensitive nonmetabotropic subelement of PII; a1nm, a TBOA-sensitive, CNQX/l-AP4/CPPG-insensitive, nonmetabotropic, postphotoreceptor a-wave element; and a2, a CNQX-sensitive a-wave element linked to OFF bipolar cells. The first five elements were fit with a spectral model that demonstrates independence of cone-color pathways. From this, Vmax and half-saturation values (k) for the contributing r-, g-, b-, and u-cone signals were calculated. Two signal patterns emerged. For PIII or PIInm, the Vmax order was Vr &gt; Vg &gt; Vb approximately Vu. For b1, PII, and PIIm, the Vmax order was Vr approximately Vb &gt; Vg &gt; Vu. In either pattern, u-cone amplitude (Vu) was smallest, but u-cone sensitivity (ku362) was greatest, some 10-30 times greater than r cone (kr570). The spectra of b1/PII/PIIm elements peaked near b- and u-cone absorbance maxima regardless of criteria, but the spectra of PIII/PIInm elements shifted from b- toward r-cone absorbance maxima as criterion levels increased. The greatest gains in Vmax relative to PIII occurred for the b- and u-cone signals in the b1/PII/PIIm b-wave elements. This suggests a high-gain prolific metabotropic circuitry for b- and u-cone bipolar cells.
One of vision's most important functions is specification of the layout of objects in the 3D world. While the static optical geometry of retinal disparity explains the perception of depth from binocular stereopsis, we propose a new formula to link the pertinent dynamic geometry to the computation of depth from motion parallax. Mathematically, the ratio of retinal image motion (motion) and smooth pursuit of the eye (pursuit) provides the necessary information for the computation of relative depth from motion parallax. We show that this could have been obtained with the approaches of Nakayama and Loomis [Nakayama, K., &amp; Loomis, J. M. (1974). Optical velocity patterns, velocity-sensitive neurons, and space perception: A hypothesis. Perception, 3, 63-80] or Longuet-Higgens and Prazdny [Longuet-Higgens, H. C., &amp; Prazdny, K. (1980). The interpretation of a moving retinal image. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London Series B, 208, 385-397] by adding pursuit to their treatments. Results of a psychophysical experiment show that changes in the motion/pursuit ratio have a much better relationship to changes in the perception of depth from motion parallax than do changes in motion or pursuit alone. The theoretical framework provided by the motion/pursuit law provides the quantitative foundation necessary to study this fundamental visual depth perception ability.
Exogenous spatial attention can be automatically engaged by a cue presented in the visual periphery. To investigate the effects of exogenous attention, previous studies have generally used highly salient cues that reliably trigger attention. However, the cueing threshold of exogenous attention has been unexamined. We investigated whether the attentional effect varies with cue salience. We examined the magnitude of the attentional effect on apparent contrast [Carrasco, M., Ling, S., &amp; Read, S. (2004). Attention alters appearance. Nature Neuroscience, 7(3), 308-313.] elicited by cues with negative Weber contrast between 6% and 100%. Cue contrast modulated the attentional effect, even at cue contrasts above the level at which observers can perfectly localize the cue; hence, the result is not due to an increase in cue visibility. No attentional effect is observed when the 100% contrast cue is presented after the stimuli, ruling out cue bias or sensory interaction between cues and stimuli as alternative explanations. A second experiment, using the same paradigm with high contrast motion stimuli gave similar results, providing further evidence against a sensory interaction explanation, as the stimuli and task were defined on a visual dimension independent from cue contrast. Although exogenous attention is triggered automatically and involuntarily, the attentional effect is gradual.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is a water channel found at high concentrations around blood vessels in the brain and is organized into elaborate assemblies called square arrays. The natural functions of AQP4 and the square arrays remain unknown, but under pathophysiological conditions, AQP4 has been shown to influence brain edema, synapse function, and cellular migration. AQP4 was recently found to have six isoforms, where AQP4a (also known as M1), AQP4c (also known as M23), and AQP4e are functional water transport channels. Furthermore, by two-dimensional blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (BN-PAGE) analysis of the internal composition of square arrays, three distinct isoforms were visualized. Here we combine these advances in technique with mutational analysis to test a series of current hypotheses about AQP4 functional structure. We find that the square array destabilizing N-terminus of AQP4a is partly functional through the C13 and C17 amino acids, and not through R8 and R9. We find a discrepancy between our data and the proposed tetramer-tetramer binding site based on the in vitro AQP4 two-dimensional crystal structure. On the other hand, we find that isoforms AQP4a and AQP4e, while not being able to form square arrays alone, are able to interact with AQP4c and be incorporated into higher-order structures. Our results with the novel BN-PAGE analysis technique point toward a model in which the presence of accessory isoforms (AQP4a and AQP4e) regulates the square array assembly process of the main isoform, AQP4c.
This study was performed to understand the anatomical substrates of amygdaloid modulation of feeding-related peptides-containing neurons in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA). After biotinylated dextranamine (BDA) injection into the central amygdaloid nucleus (CeA) and immunostaining of melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH)- or orexin (ORX)-containing hypothalamic neurons in the mouse, the prominent overlap of the distribution field of the BDA-labeled fibers and that of the MCH-immunoreactive (ir) or ORX-ir neurons was found in the dorsolateral part of the LHA, and the labeled axon terminals made symmetrical synaptic contacts with somata and dendrites of the MCH-ir or ORX-ir neurons. It was further revealed that nearly all the BDA-labeled axon terminals in the dorsolateral part of LHA were immunoreactive for glutamic acid decarboxylase, an enzyme for conversion of glutamic acid to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The present data suggest that the CeA is involved in the regulation of feeding behavior by exerting its GABAergic inhibitory action upon the MCH- and ORX-containing LHA neurons.
Nicotine, the psychoactive ingredient in tobacco, can be neuroprotective but the mechanism is unknown. In the adult hippocampus, chronic nicotine can increase expression of growth factors which could contribute to nicotine's neuroprotective effects. During development, nicotine could also increase expression of neurotrophic factors. Therefore, we determined whether chronic neonatal nicotine (CNN) exposure increased mRNA expression levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve-growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2), and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). Nicotine (6 mg/kg/day in milk formula) or milk formula (controls) were delivered in three daily doses via oral gastric intubation to rat pups from postnatal day (P)1 to P8, and then sacrificed. Brains were processed for in situ hybridization using specific (35)S-labeled cRNA probes. At P8, CNN had a significant stimulant treatment effect on the expression of BDNF, FGF-2, NT-3 and IGF-1 [p&lt;0.01], but not NGF. Specifically, BDNF mRNA expression, detected in CA1, CA3 stratum (s.) pyramidal and granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus (DG), was increased by 27.4%, 23.26% and 27.3%, respectively. FGF-2 mRNA expression, detected in neurons and astrocytes in CA1 s. radiatum, CA2 and CA3 s. pyramidale, and molecular layer of the DG, was increased by 34.0%, 8.9%, 31.0% and 23.1%, respectively. NT-3 mRNA expression in CA2 s. pyramidale was increased by 80.0%, and CNN increased the number of IGF-1-expressing cells in CA1 (18.0%), CA3 (20.9%) and DG (17.7%). Thus, nicotine exposure during early postnatal development differentially up-regulated expression of neurotrophic factor mRNAs in the hippocampus, which could increase neurotrophic tone and alter developmental processes.
The tensor tympani is one of two middle ear muscles that regulates the transmission of sound through the middle ear. Contraction of the tensor tympani in response to both auditory and non-auditory stimulation is mediated by the tensor tympani motoneurons (TTMNs). There are interesting differences among species in the acoustic thresholds for contraction of the middle ear muscles, which may be a reflection of underlying anatomical differences such as the number of TTMNs. However anatomical data for mice are lacking, even though the mouse is becoming the most common animal model for auditory and neuroscience research. We investigated the number and morphology of TTMNs in mice using Fluorogold, a retrograde neuronal tracer. After injections of Fluorogold into the tensor tympani muscle, a column of labeled TTMNs was identified ventro-lateral to the ipsilateral trigeminal nucleus. The labeled TTMNs were classified according to their morphological characteristics into three subtypes: &quot;octopus-like&quot;, &quot;fusiform&quot; and &quot;stellate&quot;, suggesting underlying differences in function. All three subtypes formed sparsely branched and radiating dendrites, some longer than 600 microm. Dendrites were longest and most numerous in the dorso-medial direction. In 18 cases, the mean number of mouse TTMNs was 51; the largest numbers were 70, 74 and 90 (n=3 injections). The mean size of mouse TTMNs was 13.0 microm (minor axis) and 23.5 microm (major axis). Compared with studies of TTMNs in larger species (cats and rats), mouse TTMNs are both fewer in number and smaller in size.
Personality dimensions such as novelty seeking (NS), harm avoidance (HA), reward dependence (RD) and persistence (PER) are said to be heritable, stable across time and dependent on genetic and neurobiological factors. Recently a better understanding of the relationship between personality traits and brain structures/systems has become possible due to advances in neuroimaging techniques. This Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) study investigated if individual differences in these personality traits reflected structural variance in specific brain regions. A large sample of eighty five young adult participants completed the Three-dimensional Personality Questionnaire (TPQ) and had their brain imaged with MRI. A voxel-based correlation analysis was carried out between individuals' personality trait scores and grey matter volume values extracted from 3D brain scans. NS correlated positively with grey matter volume in frontal and posterior cingulate regions. HA showed a negative correlation with grey matter volume in orbito-frontal, occipital and parietal structures. RD was negatively correlated with grey matter volume in the caudate nucleus and in the rectal frontal gyrus. PER showed a positive correlation with grey matter volume in the precuneus, paracentral lobule and parahippocampal gyrus. These results indicate that individual differences in the main personality dimensions of NS, HA, RD and PER, may reflect structural variance in specific brain areas.
Cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in the development of topographic ordered connections in the central nervous system (CNS) constitute a key issue in neurobiology because neural connectivities are the base of the CNS normal function. We discuss the roles of the Eph/ephrin system in the establishment of retinotopic projections onto the tectum/colliculus, the most detailed studied model of topographic mapping. The expression patterns of Ephs and ephrins in opposing gradients both in the retina and the tectum/colliculus, label the local addresses on the target and give specific sensitivities to growth cones according to their topographic origin in the retina. We postulate that the highest levels of these gradients could signal both the entry as well as the limiting boundaries of the target. Since Ephs and ephrins are membrane-bound molecules, they may function as both receptors and ligands producing repulsive or attractant responses according to their microenvironment and play central roles in a variety of developmental events such as axon guidance, synapse formation and remodeling. Due to different experimental approaches and the inherent species-specific differences, some results appear contradictory and should be reanalyzed. Nevertheless, these studies about the roles of the Eph/ephrin system in retinotectal/collicular mapping support general principles in order to understand CNS development and could be useful to design regeneration therapies.
The GABA-A receptor plays a critical role in inhibitory neurotransmission in the brain. Quantitation of GABA-A receptor subunits in various brain regions is essential to understand their role in plasticity and brain disorders. However, conventional RNA assays are tedious and less sensitive for use in studies of subunit plasticity. Here we describe optimization of a sensitive assay of GABA-A receptor subunit gene expression by TaqMan real-time PCR. For each subunit gene, a set of primers and TaqMan fluorogenic probe were designed to specifically amplify the target template. The TaqMan methodology was optimized for quantification of mouse GABA-A receptor subunits (alpha(1-6), beta(1-3), gamma(2), and delta) and GAPDH. The TaqMan reaction detected very low levels of gene expression ( approximately 100 template copies of cDNA). A standard curve for GAPDH and one of the target genes, constructed using the cDNA, revealed slopes around -3.4 (r(2)=0.990), reflecting similar optimum PCR efficiencies. The methodology was utilized for quantification of the GABA-A receptor alpha(4)-subunit, which is known to upregulate following withdrawal from chronic progesterone or neurosteroids. Our results show that the alpha(4)-subunit expression increased threefold in the hippocampus following neurosteroid withdrawal in mice. The TaqMan PCR assay allows sensitive, high-throughput transcriptional profiling of complete GABA-A receptor subunit family, and thus provides specific tool for studies of GABA-A receptor subunit plasticity in neurological and psychiatric animal models.
Event-related oscillations (EROs) are rhythmic changes that are evoked by sensory and/or cognitive processes that influence the dynamics of the EEG. EROs are estimated by a decomposition of the EEG signal into phase and magnitude information for a range of frequencies and then changes in those frequencies are characterized over a millisecond time scale with respect to task events. EROs have been demonstrated to be sensitive measures of both normal and abnormal cognitive functioning in humans but have not been fully described in mice. The results of these studies demonstrate that EROs can be generated in cortical sites in mice in the delta, theta, alpha/beta frequency ranges in response to auditory stimuli. Oscillations in the 7.5-40 Hz frequencies were significantly affected in the 0-50 ms time range in response to differences in tone frequency. Whereas, changes in tone loudness produced changes in oscillations in the 7.5-40 Hz frequencies in the 350-800 ms range. No significant changes in EROs were found to differences in tone probability. These studies suggest that EROs are an electrophysiological assay sensitive to tone characteristics and as such may be suitable for the exploration of the effects of genetic or neuropharmacological manipulations on neurosensory processing in mice.
Mouse models have not paralleled rat models of stroke in advances in sensitive, species appropriate measures of neurological and behavioral recovery. Most available tests of mouse sensorimotor function are adaptations of those originally developed in rats and may not be as sensitive in detecting behavioral deficits after small cortical lesions in mice. Our purpose was to test the use of a vasoconstricting peptide, endothelin-1 (ET-1), to produce focal infarcts of the mouse sensorimotor cortex and to establish a behavioral test battery sensitive to resulting sensorimotor deficits. Young adult (3-5-month-old) male C57BL/6 mice received intracortical infusions of ET-1 that produced unilateral lesions of the forelimb region of the sensorimotor cortex, intracortical infusions of sterile saline, or sham surgeries. Pre-operatively and at various time points over 3 weeks post-surgery, they were administered a test battery that included measures of sensorimotor asymmetry (Corner and Bilateral Tactile Stimulation Tests), coordinated forepaw use (Cylinder and Ladder Rung Tests), and dexterous forepaw function (Pasta Matrix Reaching Test). ET-1 infusions resulted in consistently placed, focal cortical infarcts and forelimb impairments as measured with the Ladder Rung, Bilateral Tactile Stimulation, and Pasta Matrix Reaching Tests. On the Bilateral Tactile Stimulation and Pasta Matrix Reaching Tests, impairments persisted throughout the time span of observation (26 days). These results support ET-1 as a viable option for creating small, reproducible lesions of anatomical subregions in the mouse neocortex that result in lasting functional impairments in the forelimb, as observed with sufficiently sensitive measures.
Heterozygosity in diploid eukaryotes often makes genetic studies cumbersome. Methods that produce viable homozygous diploid offspring directly from heterozygous females allow F1 mutagenized females to be screened directly for deleterious mutations in an accelerated forward genetic screen. Streisinger et al. described methods for making gynogenetic (homozygous) diploid zebrafish by activating zebrafish eggs with ultraviolet light-inactivated sperm and preventing either the second meiotic or the first zygotic cell division using physical treatments (heat or pressure) that deploymerize microtubules. The &quot;early pressure&quot; (EP) method blocks the meiosis II, which occurs shortly after fertilization. The EP method produces a high percentage of viable embryos that can develop to fertile adults of either sex. The method generates embryos that are homozygous at all loci except those that were separated from their centromere by recombination during meiosis I. Homozygous mutations are detected in EP clutches at between 50% for centromeric loci and less than 1% for telomeric loci. This method is reproduced verbatim from the Zebrafish Book.

In the natural acoustic environment sounds frequently arrive at the two ears in quick succession. The responses of a cortical neuron to acoustic stimuli can be dramatically altered, usually suppressed, by a preceding sound. The purpose of this study was to determine if the binaural interaction evoked by a preceding sound is involved in subsequent suppressive interactions observed in auditory cortex neurons. Responses of neurons in the primary auditory cortex (AI) exhibiting binaural suppressive interactions (EO/I) were studied in barbiturate-anesthetized cats. For the majority (72.5%) of EO/I neurons studied, the response to a monaural contralateral stimulus was suppressed by a preceding monaural contralateral stimulus, but was not changed by a preceding monaural ipsilateral stimulus. For this subset of EO/I neurons, when a monaural contralateral stimulus was preceded by a binaural stimulus, the level of both the ipsilateral and the contralateral component of the binaural stimulus influenced the response to the subsequent monaural contralateral stimulus. When the contralateral level of the binaural stimulus was constant, increasing its ipsilateral level decreased the suppression of the response to the subsequent monaural contralateral stimulus. When the ipsilateral level of the binaural stimulus was constant, increasing its contralateral level increased the suppression of the response to the subsequent monaural contralateral stimulus. These results demonstrate that the sequential inhibition of responses of AI neurons is a function of the product of a preceding binaural interaction. The magnitude of the response to the contralateral stimulus is related to, but not determined by the magnitude of the response to the preceding binaural stimulus. Possible mechanisms of this sequential interaction are discussed.
An important factor that may influence addiction liability is exposure during the early life period. Exposure to ethanol, early in life, can have long-lasting implications on brain function and drugs of abuse response later in life. In the present study we investigated the behavioral responses to ethanol and to psychostimulants in Long Evans rats that have been exposed to pre- and postnatal ethanol. Since a relationship between heightened drug intake and susceptibility to drug-induced locomotor activity/sensitization has been demonstrated, we tested these behavioral responses, in control and early life ethanol-exposed animals. The young adult male and female progeny were tested for locomotor response to alcohol, cocaine and d-amphetamine. Sedative, rewarding effects of alcohol and alcohol consumption were measured. Our results show that early life ethanol exposure behaviorally sensitized animals to subsequent ethanol and psychostimulants exposure. Ethanol-exposed animals were also more sensitive to the hyperlocomotor effects of all drugs of abuse tested and to those of the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine. Locomotor sensitization to repeated injections of cocaine was facilitated in ethanol-exposed animals. Ethanol-induced conditioned place preference was also facilitated in ethanol-exposed animals. Ethanol consumption and preference were increased after early life ethanol exposure and this was associated with decreased sensitivity to the sedative effects of ethanol. The altered behavioral responses to drugs of abuse were associated with decreased striatal dopamine transporter and hippocampal NMDAR binding. Our results outline an increased vulnerability to rewarding and stimulant effects of ethanol and psychostimulants and support the epidemiological and clinical data that suggested that early chronic exposure to ethanol may increase the propensity for later self-administration of ethanol or other substances.
The relationship between age-related reductions in the binding potential for the striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) and age-related deficits in olfactory sensitivity was examined in 12 subjects ranging from 36 to 82 years of age. Positron emission tomography (PET) and the radioligand [(11)C]beta-CIT-FE were used to determine DAT binding in two striatal regions, the caudate and the putamen. The results showed age-related losses of DAT binding from early to late adulthood of similar size for caudate and putamen, and there was a pronounced age deterioration in olfactory sensitivity. Importantly, the age-related olfactory deficit was associated with reductions in DAT binding in putamen, but not caudate. Also, DAT binding in putamen added systematic variance in odor threshold after controlling for age. The findings indicate that DAT binding in putamen is related to age-related olfactory deficits, as well as to odor sensitivity independently of age.
Aftereffects are perceptual illusions caused by visual adaptation to one or more stimulus attribute, such as orientation, motion, or shape. Neurophysiological studies seeking to understand the basis of visual adaptation have observed firing rate reduction and changes in tuning of stimulus-selective neurons following periods of prolonged visual stimulation. In the domain of shape, recent psychophysical work has shown that adaptation to a convex pattern induces a subsequently seen rectangle to appear slightly concave. In the present study, we investigate the possible contribution of V4 neurons of rhesus monkeys, which are thought to be involved in the coding of convexity, to shape-specific adaptation. Visually responsive neurons were monitored during the brief presentation of simple shapes varying in their convexity level. Each test presentation was preceded by either a blank period or several seconds of adaptation to a convex or concave stimulus, presented in two different sizes. Adaptation consistently shifted the tuning of neurons away from the convex or concave adapter, including shifting response to the neutral rectangle in the direction of the opposite convexity. This repulsive shift resembled the known perceptual distortion associated with adaptation to such stimuli. In addition, adaptation caused a nonspecific response decrease, as well as a specific decrease for repeated stimuli. The latter effects were observed whether or not the adapting and test stimuli matched closely in their size. Taken together, these results provide evidence for shape-specific adaptation of neurons in area V4, which may contribute to the perception of the convexity aftereffect.
Numb is an evolutionarily conserved protein that controls the differentiation of neuronal progenitor cells by unknown mechanisms. Here we report that the neural cells expressing Numb isoforms with short phosphotyrosine-binding (SPTB) domain undergo extensive neurite outgrowth, an effect that can be blocked by voltage-gated Ca2+ channel (VGCC) inhibitor or by Ca2+ chelator. In contrast, tyrosine kinase inhibitor, genistein, and selective receptor tyrosine kinase (TrkA) inhibitor, K252alpha did not affect SPTB Numb-mediated neurite outgrowth. MAP kinase inhibitor, PD98059 partially reduced SPTB Numb-mediated neurite outgrowth. Cells expressing SPTB Numbs exhibit increased whole-cell Ca2+ current densities (ICa) which can be prevented by preincubation of either nifedipine or PD98095. Cells expressing LPTB Numbs expressed little ICa (density) and were not able to grow neurites. Our results indicate that Ca2+ influx through VGCC may be required for SPTB Numb-mediated neurite outgrowth, suggesting that Numb promotes neuronal differentiation by a mechanism involving PTB domain-specific regulation of Ca2+ influx and MAP kinase activation.
In most of the mammalian sensory systems there are massive cortical feedback projections to early processing stations. The mammalian accessory olfactory system is considered unique in several aspects. It is specialized for processing pheromonal signals and plays a critical role in regulating sociosexual behaviors. Furthermore, pheromonal signals are believed to bypass cortex and reach the hypothalamic behavioral centers after merely three forward projections. Because the organization of the feedback projections in the accessory olfactory system remains largely unclear, the importance of the feedback projections in the processing of pheromonal signals has been ignored. Here we show that in mice the feedback projections from the bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BST) and the vomeronasal amygdala to the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) are topographically organized and use different neurotransmitters. By retrograde and anterograde tracing, we find that the feedback projection from the BST terminates in the AOB mitral cell layer, whereas that from the amygdala terminates in the AOB granule cell layer. By combining tracing, genetic labeling of GABAergic neurons, and immunostaining against a marker of glutamatergic synapses, we observe that the BST-to-AOB projection is GABAergic whereas the amygdala-to-AOB projection is glutamatergic. In addition, a substantial number of feedback neurons in the amygdala and BST express estrogen receptors. Thus, the accessory olfactory system, like other sensory systems, possesses extensive feedback projections. Moreover, our results suggest that central hormonal cues may modulate the processing of pheromonal signals at early stations through the precisely organized feedback projections.
Previous studies have indicated that mu-opioid receptors in the thalamic nucleus submedius (Sm) are involved in descending antinociception in behavioral tests. The present study examined the effect of mu-opioid receptor activation in the Sm upon bee venom-evoked c-Fos expression in the spinal dorsal horn associated with flinching behavior, and determined whether the ATP-sensitive potassium channel (K-ATP channel) was involved in this effect in a rat model. A dilute bee venom solution, subcutaneously injected unilaterally into a rat hind paw pad, induced significant c-Fos expression in the lumbar spinal dorsal horn, which is associated with paw flinching behavior. This effect was depressed by microinjection of the mu-opioid receptor agonist [d-Ala2, N-MePhe4, Gly-ol5]-enkephalin (DAMGO) into the Sm, which was antagonized by pre-treatment with mu-receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine at the same Sm site. Further studies found that glibenclamide, a K-ATP channel inhibitor, also blocked DAMGO-induced inhibition. These results provide functional anatomic support for the involvement of Sm and mu-opioid receptors in the modulation of persistent inflammatory nociception, and suggest that these effects were produced by opening K-ATP channel and inhibiting neuronal activity. Together with previous studies, the inhibition of the neuronal activity induced by mu-opioid receptor activation may activate descending antinociceptive pathways through a GABAergic disinhibitory mechanism and depress the nociceptive information transmission at the level of the spinal cord.
Synaptic plasticity is considered a physiological substrate for learning and memory [Lynch MA (2004) Long-term potentiation and memory. Physiol Rev 84:87-136] that contributes to maladaptive learning in drug addiction [Schoenbaum G, Roesch MR, Stalnaker TA (2006) Orbitofrontal cortex, decision-making and drug addiction. Trends Neurosci 29:116-124]. Many studies have revealed that drug addiction has a strong hereditary component [Kosten TA, Ambrosio E (2002) HPA axis function and drug addictive behaviors: insights from studies with Lewis and Fischer 344 inbred rats. Psychoneuroendocrinology 27:35-69; Uhl GR (2004) Molecular genetic underpinnings of human substance abuse vulnerability: likely contributions to understanding addiction as a mnemonic process. Neuropharmacology 47 (Suppl 1):140-147], however the contribution of the genetic background to drug-induced changes in synaptic plasticity has been scarcely studied. The present study reports on an analysis of long-term potentiation (LTP) and depotentiation in Lewis (LEW) and Fischer-344 (F344) rats, two inbred rat strains that show different proneness to drugs of abuse and are considered an experimental model of genetic vulnerability to addiction [Kosten TA, Ambrosio E (2002) HPA axis function and drug addictive behaviors: insights from studies with Lewis and Fischer 344 inbred rats. Psychoneuroendocrinology 27:35-69]. The induction of saturated-LTP was similar in LEW and F344 rats treated with saline or cocaine. However, only slices from LEW saline-treated rats showed the reversal of LTP; thus, the depotentiation of saturated-LTP was not observed in cocaine-injected LEW rats and in F344 animals (treated either with cocaine or saline). These results suggest significant differences in hippocampal synaptic plasticity between Lewis and Fischer 344 rats.
Both the firing frequency of primary afferents and neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1R) internalization in dorsal horn neurons increase with the intensity of noxious stimulus. Accordingly, we studied how the pattern of firing of primary afferent influences NK1R internalization. In rat spinal cord slices, electrical stimulation of the dorsal root evoked NK1R internalization in lamina I neurons by inducing substance P release from primary afferents. The stimulation frequency had pronounced effects on NK1R internalization, which increased up to 100 Hz and then diminished abruptly at 200 Hz. Peptidase inhibitors increased NK1R internalization at frequencies below 30 Hz, indicating that peptidases limit the access of substance P to the receptor at moderate firing rates. NK1R internalization increased with number of pulses at all frequencies, but maximal internalization was substantially lower at 1-10 Hz than at 30 Hz. Pulses organized into bursts produced the same NK1R internalization as sustained 30 Hz stimulation. To determine whether substance P release induced at high stimulation frequencies was from C-fibers, we recorded compound action potentials in the sciatic nerve of anesthetized rats. We observed substantial NK1R internalization when stimulating at intensities evoking a C-elevation, but not at intensities evoking only an Adelta-elevation. Each pulse in trains at frequencies up to 100 Hz evoked a C-elevation, demonstrating that C-fibers can follow these high frequencies. C-elevation amplitudes declined progressively with increasing stimulation frequency, which was likely caused by a combination of factors including temporal dispersion. In conclusion, the instantaneous firing frequency in C-fibers determines the amount of substance P released by noxious stimuli.
Psychostimulant addicts often take high doses of drugs, and high doses of psychostimulants such as methamphetamine (METH) are neurotoxic to striatal dopamine (DA) terminals. Yet, the effects of high doses of METH on drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior have not been examined. In the present study, we found that single high doses of METH in rats (10-20 mg/kg) dose-dependently increased cocaine self-administration under fixed-ratio 2 (FR2) reinforcement conditions, while higher doses (40 mg/kgx1 or 10 mg/kg/2 hx4) caused high mortality among rats maintained on daily cocaine self-administration. The increased cocaine self-administration appeared to be a compensatory response to reduced cocaine reward after METH, because the same doses of METH caused a dose-dependent reduction both in &quot;break-point&quot; levels for cocaine self-administration under progressive-ratio reinforcement and in nucleus accumbens DA response to acute cocaine. Further, METH (10-20 mg/kg) produced large DA release (4000%-6000% over baseline), followed by a significant reduction in striatal DA and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) contents, but without significant changes in striatal DA transporter levels. These findings suggest that the present high doses of METH caused striatal DA depletion or hypofunction without severe damage in DA terminals, which may contribute to the increased cocaine-taking behavior observed in the present study. Provided that the present doses of METH may mimic METH overdose incidents in humans, the present findings suggest that METH-induced DA depletion or neurotoxicity may lead to an increase in subsequent drug-taking and drug-seeking behavior.
Converging evidence from pharmacological and molecular studies has led to the suggestion that inhibition of glycine transporter 1 (GlyT1) constitutes an effective means to boost N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) activity by increasing the extra-cellular concentration of glycine in the vicinity of glutamatergic synapses. However, the precise extent and limitation of this approach to alter cognitive function, and therefore its potential as a treatment strategy against psychiatric conditions marked by cognitive impairments, remain to be fully examined. Here, we generated mutant mice lacking GlyT1 in the entire forebrain including neurons and glia. This conditional knockout system allows a more precise examination of GlyT1 downregulation in the brain on behavior and cognition. The mutation was highly effective in attenuating the motor-stimulating effect of acute NMDAR blockade by phencyclidine, although no appreciable elevation in NMDAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSC) was observed in the hippocampus. Enhanced cognitive performance was observed in spatial working memory and object recognition memory while spatial reference memory and associative learning remained unaltered. These findings provide further credence for the potential cognitive enhancing effects of brain GlyT1 inhibition. At the same time, they indicated potential phenotypic differences when compared with other constitutive and conditional GlyT1 knockout lines, and highlighted the possibility of a functional divergence between the neuronal and glia subpopulations of GlyT1 in the regulation of learning and memory processes. The relevance of this distinction to the design of future GlyT1 blockers as therapeutic tools in the treatment of cognitive disorders remains to be further investigated.
We studied the effect of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) on angiogenesis in the ischemic boundary area after focal cerebral ischemia. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent middle cerebral artery occlusion for 2 h. A single dose of VIP was given via i.c.v. injection at the beginning of reperfusion. Immunohistochemistry and Western blotting were performed to assay angiogenesis and brain levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) protein, respectively. In addition, the expression of VEGF and its receptors (flt-1 and flk-1), as well as endothelial proliferation, was measured using rat brain microvascular endothelial cells. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed significant (P&lt;0.05) increases in the numbers of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) positive endothelial cells and microvessels at the boundary of the ischemic lesion in rats treated with VIP compared with rats treated with saline. Western blotting analysis showed that treatment with VIP significantly (P&lt;0.05) raised VEGF levels in the ischemic hemisphere. In addition, treatment with VIP increased flt-1 and flk-1 immunoreactivity in endothelial cells. In vitro, incubation with VIP significantly (P&lt;0.01) increased the proliferation of endothelial cells and induced the expression of VEGF, flt-1 and flk-1 in endothelial cells. The stimulatory effect of VIP on the proliferation of endothelial cells was significantly (P&lt;0.01) inhibited by SU5416, a selective inhibitor of VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase. Our data suggest that treatment with VIP enhances angiogenesis in the ischemic brain, and this effect may be mediated by increases in levels of VEGF and its receptors.
In the present study, we asked whether multiple intrathecal injections of deltorphin II, a selective delta opioid receptor (DOPR) agonist, induced DOPR tolerance in three behavioral assays. Unilateral inflammation caused by complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) injection into the rat or mouse hind paw (CFA model) induced thermal hyperalgesic response that was transiently and dose-dependently reduced by intrathecal administration of deltorphin II or morphine. In both rodent species, the effect of deltorphin II was not modified by a single prior administration of deltorphin II, suggesting an absence of acute tolerance in this paradigm. Repeated administration of intrathecal deltorphin II or s.c. SB-235863 (five consecutive injections over 60 h) also failed to impair the antihyperalgesic response to delta opioid receptor agonist, whereas repeated intrathecal or s.c. injections of morphine induced a significant decrease in the subsequent thermal antihyperalgesic response to morphine. In mice, deltorphin II also induced a rapid, transient motor incoordination/ataxia-like behavior as tested with the accelerating rotarod. In contrast to the antihyperalgesic responses, tolerance to the motoric effect of deltorphin II was evident in mice previously exposed to multiple intrathecal agonist injections, but not multiple saline administrations. Using the tail flick antinociceptive test, we found that DOPR-mediated analgesia was significantly reduced by repeated exposure to deltorphin II. Altogether, these observations suggest that repeated injections of DOPR agonists induce differential tolerance effects on antihyperalgesic, antinociceptive, and motor incoordination/ataxia-like behaviors related to DOPR activation by deltorphin II.
Trisomy of human chromosome 21 (Hsa 21) causes the pathological characteristics of Down syndrome (DS). Little is known about the mechanisms by which trisomy 21 affects the expression of genes on other chromosomes. Using a mouse model of DS, the Ts65Dn mouse, we have performed mRNA and protein measurements to identify genes on chromosomes not syntenic with Hsa 21 whose expression is affected by the presence of three copies of genes between loci Mrpl39 and Znf295 on mouse chromosome 16 (Mmu 16). We report the upregulation of beta-catenin, located on mouse chromosome 9 (Mmu 9) in Ts65Dn brain. Using immunocytochemistry on Ts65Dn and control mouse brain tissue, we observed a striking increase in beta-catenin expression specifically in the endothelial cells lining the cerebral blood vessels of the Ts65Dn mice. Since beta-catenin is involved in cell-cell adhesion, upregulation of this protein in DS may alter adherens protein interactions that are involved in the normal functions of endothelial cells. Elevated beta-catenin might be responsible for altered endothelial cell function/s leading to the impairment of brachial flow velocity observed in DS.
Our previous studies showed that the assembly of the GluR6-PSD95-mixed lineage kinase 3 (MLK3) signaling module played an important role in rat ischemic brain injury. In this study, we aimed to elucidate whether ischemic preconditioning could downregulate the assembly of the GluR6-PSD95-MLK3 signaling module and suppress the activation of MLK3, MKK4/7, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). As a result, ischemic preconditioning could not only inhibit the assembly of the GluR6-PSD95-MLK3 signaling module, diminish the phosphorylation of the transcription factor c-Jun, downregulate Fas ligand expression, attenuate the phosphorylation of 14-3-3 and Bcl-2 and the translocation of Bax to mitochondria, but also increase the release of cytochrome c and the activation of caspase-3. In contrast, both GluR6 antisense ODNs (oligodeoxynucleotides) and 6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-5-nitro-1 H-benz[g]indole-2,3-dione-3-oxime (NS102), an antagonist of GluR6 receptor, prevented the above effects of preconditioning, which shows that suppressing the expression of GluR6 or inhibiting GluR6 activity contributes negatively to preconditioning-induced ischemia tolerance. Taken together, our results indicate that preconditioning can inhibit the over-assembly of the GluR6-PSD95-MLK3 signaling module and the JNK3 activation. GluR6 subunit-containing kainite receptors play an important role in the preconditioning-induced neuronal survival and provide new insight into stroke therapy.
The central mechanism of fever induction is triggered by an action of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) on neurons in the preoptic area (POA) through the EP3 subtype of prostaglandin E receptor. EP3 receptor (EP3R)-expressing POA neurons project directly to the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) and to the rostral raphe pallidus nucleus (rRPa), key sites for the control of thermoregulatory effectors. Based on physiological findings, we hypothesize that the febrile responses in brown adipose tissue (BAT) and those in cutaneous vasoconstrictors are controlled independently by separate neuronal pathways: PGE(2) pyrogenic signaling is transmitted from EP3R-expressing POA neurons via a projection to the DMH to activate BAT thermogenesis and via another projection to the rRPa to increase cutaneous vasoconstriction. In this case, DMH-projecting and rRPa-projecting neurons would constitute segregated populations within the EP3R-expressing neuronal group in the POA. Here, we sought direct anatomical evidence to test this hypothesis with a double-tracing experiment in which two types of the retrograde tracer, cholera toxin b-subunit (CTb), conjugated with different fluorophores were injected into the DMH and the rRPa of rats and the resulting retrogradely labeled populations of EP3R-immunoreactive neurons in the POA were identified with confocal microscopy. We found substantial numbers of EP3R-immunoreactive neurons in both the DMH-projecting and the rRPa-projecting populations. However, very few EP3R-immunoreactive POA neurons were labeled with both the CTb from the DMH and that from the rRPa, although a substantial number of neurons that were not immunoreactive for EP3R were double-labeled with both CTbs. The paucity of the EP3R-expressing neurons that send collaterals to both the DMH and the rRPa suggests that pyrogenic signals are sent independently to these caudal brain regions from the POA and that such pyrogenic outputs from the POA reflect different control mechanisms for BAT thermogenesis and for cutaneous vasoconstriction by distinct sets of POA neurons.
Although the mouse is an experimental model with an increasing importance in various fields of neuroscience, the characteristics of its central gustatory pathways have not yet been well documented. Recent electrophysiological studies using the rat and hamster have revealed that taste processing in the brainstem gustatory relays is under the strong influence of inputs from forebrain gustatory structures. In the present study, we investigated the organization of afferent projections to the mouse parabrachial nucleus (PbN), which is located at a key site between the brainstem and gustatory, viscerosensory and autonomic centers in the forebrain. We made injections of the retrograde tracer fluorogold centered around the &quot;waist&quot; area of the PbN, whose neurons are known to be highly responsive to taste stimuli. Retrogradely labeled neurons were found in the infralimbic, dysgranular and agranular insular cortex as well as the claustrum; the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the substantia innominata; the central nucleus of the amygdala; the lateral and medial preoptic areas, the paraventricular, the dorsomedial, the ventromedial, the arcuate, and the lateral hypothalamic areas; the periaqueductal gray, the substantia nigra pars compacta, and the ventral tegmental area; the supratrigeminal nucleus, rostral and caudal nucleus of the solitary tract; the parvicellular intermediate and gigantocellular reticular nucleus; the caudal and interpolar divisions of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, dorsomedial spinal trigeminal nucleus, and the area postrema. Numbers of labeled neurons in the main components of the gustatory system including the insular cortex, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, central nucleus of the amygdala, lateral hypothalamus, and rostral nucleus of the solitary tract were quantified. These results are basically consistent with those of the previous rat and hamster studies, but some species differences were found. Functional implications of these afferent inputs are discussed with an emphasis on their role in taste.
Ocular dominance (OD) plasticity is a classic paradigm for studying the effect of experience and deprivation on cortical development, and is manifested as shifts in the relative strength of binocular inputs to primary visual cortex (V1). The mouse has become an increasingly popular model for mechanistic studies of OD plasticity and, consequently, it is important that we understand how binocularity is constructed in this species. One puzzling feature of the mouse visual system is the gross disparity between the physiological strength of each eye in V1 and their anatomical representation in the projection from retina to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN). While the contralateral-to-ipsilateral (C/I) ratio of visually evoked responses in binocular V1 is approximately 2:1, the ipsilateral retinal projection is weakly represented in terms of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) density where the C/I ratio is approximately 9:1. The structural basis for this relative amplification of ipsilateral eye responses between retina and V1 is not known. Here we employed neuroanatomical tracing and morphometric techniques to quantify the relative magnitude of each eye's input to and output from the binocular segment of dLGN. Our data are consistent with the previous suggestion that a point in space viewed by both eyes will activate 9 times as many RGCs in the contralateral retina as in the ipsilateral retina. Nonetheless, the volume of the dLGN binocular segment occupied by contralateral retinogeniculate inputs is only 2.4 times larger than the volume occupied by ipsilateral retinogeniculate inputs and recipient relay cells are evenly distributed among the input layers. The results from our morphometric analyses show that this reduction in input volume can be accounted for by a three-to-one convergence of contralateral eye RGC inputs to dLGN neurons. Together, our findings establish that the relative density of feed-forward dLGN inputs determines the C/I response ratio of mouse binocular V1.
Our previous finding, that the capsaicin- and KCl-induced Ca(2+)-dependent production of the intra- and intercellular signaling molecule N-arachidonoyl ethanolamine (anandamide) in cultured primary sensory neurons could be abolished and reduced by approximately 2/3 by capsaicin-induced degeneration of capsaicin-sensitive neurons, respectively suggests that a major sub-population of capsaicin-sensitive cells together with a group of non-capsaicin-sensitive cells should express enzymes involved in Ca(2+)-dependent anandamide synthesis. N-acyl phosphotidylethanolamine phospholipase D (NAPE-PLD) is known to be involved in Ca(2+)-dependent anandamide production. Hence, here, we used reverse transcriptase and quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction to study NAPE-PLD expression in dorsal root ganglia and to clarify the sub-population of cells expressing this enzyme. Cultures prepared from mouse dorsal root ganglia were grown either in the absence or presence of the neurotoxin, capsaicin (10 muM) overnight. We report, that NAPE-PLD is expressed both in dorsal root ganglia and cultures prepared from dorsal root ganglia and grown in the absence of capsaicin. Furthermore, we also report that capsaicin application downregulates the expression of NAPE-PLD as well as the capsaicin receptor, transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 ion channel, by about 70% in the cultures prepared from dorsal root ganglia. These findings indicate that a major sub-population of capsaicin-sensitive primary sensory neurons expresses NAPE-PLD, and suggest that NAPE-PLD is expressed predominantly by capsaicin-sensitive neurons in dorsal root ganglia. These data also suggest that NAPE-PLD might be a target to control the activity and excitability of a major sub-population of nociceptive primary sensory neurons.
Anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) are synthetic derivatives of testosterone that are illicitly self-administered for enhancement of performance and body image, but which also have significant effects on the brain and on behavior. While the stereotypical AAS user is an adult male, AAS abuse in women is rapidly increasing, yet few studies have examined AAS effects in female subjects. We have assessed the effects in female mice of a combination of commonly abused AAS on neuronal activity and neurotransmission mediated by GABA type A (GABA(A)) receptors in the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN); a nexus in the circuits of the hypothalamus and forebrain that are critical for the expression of social behaviors known to be altered in AAS abuse. Our data indicate that chronic exposure to AAS resulted in androgen receptor (AR)-dependent upregulation of alpha(5), beta(3) and delta subunit mRNAs. Acute application of the alpha(5) subunit-selective inverse agonist, L-655,708 (L6), indicated that a significant fraction of the synaptic current is carried by alpha(5)-containing receptors and that AAS treatment may enhance expression of alpha(5)-containing receptors contributing to synaptic, but not tonic, currents in the MPN. AAS treatment also resulted in a significant decrease in action potential frequency in MPN neurons that was also correlated with an increased sensitivity to L-655,708. Our data demonstrate that chronic exposure to multiple AAS elicits significant changes in GABAergic transmission and neuronal activity that are likely to reflect changes in the expression of alpha(5)-containing synaptic receptors within the MPN.
Chronic hypoxia is a common clinical event that induces adaptive responses and can result in behavioral deterioration. The reduction of metabolic rate during hypoxia may limit overall protein phosphorylation owing to the lack of high energy phosphate. However, the hypoxia-induced regulation of phosphoproteins is poorly understood. Here, we characterized the CNS phosphoproteome of Lymnaea stagnalis, a freshwater snail that has been used as a model to study chronic hypoxia-induced neural depression. After hypoxia treatment for 4 days, the motor behavior of the snail was suppressed. Electrophysiological measurements from Pedal A (PeA) interneurons showed that hypoxia increased the frequency of spontaneous postsynaptic excitatory potentials (sEPSPs), but reduced the firing frequency, the amplitude, and the half-width duration (APD(50)) of spontaneous action potentials. Imaging with a fluorescent phosphate label, Pro-Q Diamond, revealed that the neuronal phosphoprotein level was reduced after the hypoxia treatment. The hypoxia-induced changes in the phosphoproteome of the central ganglia were quantified using one-dimensional gel-electrophoresis by comparing the fluorescence intensity ratio of phospholabeled phosphoproteins versus total proteins between the hypoxia and control groups. We analyzed 16 protein bands: eight showed decreased phosphorylation levels after hypoxia treatment, and eight did not change. Using mass spectrometry analysis and protein database matching we found three phosphoproteins that may be associated with chronic hypoxia-induced neuronal adaptive response of the snail. This is the first proteomic screening for neural phosphoproteins in chronic hypoxia.
We examined intra-cranial electroencephalographic activity in a mouse model of global hypoxia in an attempt to explore the pathophysiology underlying hypoxic seizures. Mice between the ages of 22 and 41 days underwent repeated hypoxic challenges, and their behavioral and electroencephalographic activities were monitored continuously before, during and after the challenge. We found that the animals exhibited convulsive behaviors during the hypoxic challenge, but hippocampal/cortical electrographic ictal discharges were recognizable only after the repeated hypoxic challenge. When examined in hippocampal slices in vitro, the post-hypoxic hippocampal circuit was hyper-excitable and had a higher propensity than the control to generate repetitive excitatory field potentials. We postulate that an ictogenic process develops after an initial hypoxic challenge rendering an increase of seizure susceptibility to recurrent hypoxic insults.
Gastro-esophageal acid reflux can stimulate esophageal vagal sensory afferents by activating proton-sensitive ion channel transient receptor vanilloid one (TRPV1). The objective of this study was to investigate the response characteristics of vagal afferent fibers of rats to acid (0.1 N HCl) and capsaicin (CAP) following esophagitis and differential effects of two classes of TRPV1 antagonists on responses of vagal afferent fibers. The chronic reflux was induced by ligating the fundus of the stomach and partial constriction of pylorus. Extracellular single fiber recordings were made from the cervical vagal afferent fibers from naive control and fundus-ligated (FL) esophagitis rats. Innervations of fibers were identified to esophageal distension (ED) and subsequently tested to CAP and acid before and after injection of TRPV1 antagonist JYL1421 or AMG9810 (10 micromol/kg i.v.). Seventy-five vagal afferent fibers from 70 rats were identified to ED. Intra-esophageal CAP (0.1 ml of 1 mg/ml) excited 39.5% (17/43, 5/22 from naive and 12/21 from FL rats) fibers. In contrast, i.v. injection of CAP (0.03-0.3 micromol/kg) dose-dependently excited 72% (42/58) fibers. Responses to CAP were significantly greater for fibers from FL rats (n=32) than naive rats (n=25). TRPV1 antagonists JYL1421 and AMG9810 (10 micromol/kg) significantly blocked response to CAP. Intra-esophageal acid infusion stimulated 5/17 (29.4%) fibers from naive rats and 12/28 (42%) from FL rats. Effect of acid was significantly blocked by AMG9810, but not by JYL1421. Results indicate that following esophagitis the number of fibers responsive to CAP and acid is greater than noninflamed esophagus, which may contribute to esophageal hypersensitivity. Acid-induced excitation of vagal sensory afferents can be differentially attenuated by different classes of TRPV1 antagonists. Therefore, TRPV1 antagonists play a key role in attenuation of hypersensitivity following reflux-induced esophagitis. The use of TRPV1 antagonists could be an alternative to the traditional symptoms-based treatment of chronic acid reflux and esophageal hypersensitivity.
In the hamster brainstem estrogen receptor-alpha-immunoreactive neurons (ER-alpha-IR) are present in the nucleus para-retroambiguus (NPRA), located in the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM) ventrolaterally to the nucleus retroambiguus (NRA). NPRA neurons project mainly to the thoracic and upper lumbar cord and are probably involved in the autonomic adaptations during the estrous cycle. The periaqueductal gray (PAG), projecting to the CVLM, also contains ER-alpha-IR neurons. This raises the questions: how are these projections organized and are ER-alpha-IR neurons in PAG and NPRA linked directly? Combined retro- and anterograde tracing techniques, using wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP), were carried out to demonstrate neuronal relationships between PAG and NPRA and/or NRA. Finally, a double-label immunostaining was performed in ovariectomized hamsters combining anti-ER-alpha antibody immunocytochemistry with cholera toxin B injections into the CVLM, to differentiate between ER-alpha-IR projections from the PAG to either NRA or NPRA. The experiments showed that retrograde labeling from the NRA mainly occurred in the rostral and intermediate ipsilateral PAG, while injections involving both NRA and NPRA resulted in numerous labeled neurons in the ipsilateral rostral, intermediate and especially the caudal PAG. The anterograde tracing studies confirmed these projections: from the rostral PAG almost exclusively to the NRA and from the caudal PAG to the NPRA, while the intermediate lateral PAG projects to both NPRA and NRA. Our double-immunostudies revealed that ER-alpha-IR projections descend only towards the NPRA and mainly originate from the ipsilateral caudal PAG. Retrogradely labeled ER-alpha-IR neurons in the PAG were observed in two separate columns, laterally and ventrolaterally in the caudal half of the PAG. The results provide evidence for the existence of differentiated PAG-CVLM projections to NRA and NPRA, respectively, originating from discrete longitudinal &quot;PAG-columns.&quot; Only the projection to the NPRA is estrogen receptive, supporting the hypothesis that the NPRA is involved in the adaptive changes in autonomic control during successive phases of the estrous cycle.
Ketamine, a dissociative anesthetic agent, appears to have rapid antidepressant effects at sub-anesthetic doses in clinically depressed patients. Although promising, these results need to be replicated in double-blind placebo-controlled studies, a strategy thwarted by the psychoactive effects of ketamine, which are obvious to both patients and clinicians. Alternatively, demonstrations of the psychotherapeutic effects of ketamine in animal models are also complicated by ketamine's side-effects on general activity, which have not been routinely measured or taken into account in experimental studies. In this study we found that ketamine decreased &quot;behavioral despair&quot; in the forced swim test, a widely used rats model of antidepressant drug action. This effect was not confounded by side-effects on general activity, and was comparable to that of a standard antidepressant drug, fluoxetine. Interestingly, ketamine also produced anxiolytic-like effects in the elevated-plus-maze. Importantly, the effective dose of ketamine in the plus-maze did not affect general locomotion measures, in either the plus-maze or in the open field test. While the selective N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 also produced antidepressant-like and anxiolytic-like effects, these were mostly confounded by changes in general activity. Finally, in a neurophysiological model of anxiolytic drug action, ketamine reduced the frequency of reticularly-activated theta oscillations in the hippocampus, similar to the proven anxiolytic drug diazepam. This particular neurophysiological signature is common to all known classes of anxiolytic drugs (i.e. benzodiazepines, 5-HT1A agonists, antidepressants) and provides strong converging evidence for the anxiolytic-like effects of ketamine. Further studies are needed to understand the underlying pharmacological mechanisms of ketamine's effects in these experiments, since it is not clear they were mimicked by the selective NMDA antagonist MK-801.
Exposure to hypobaric hypoxia, a condition involving decreased availability of oxygen is known to be associated with oxidative stress, neurodegeneration and memory impairment. The multifactorial response of the brain and the complex signaling pathways involved therewith limits the therapeutic efficacy of several antioxidants in ameliorating hypobaric hypoxia-induced memory impairment. The present study was therefore aimed at investigating the potential of acetyl-l-carnitine (ALCAR), a known antioxidant that has been reported to augment neurotrophin-mediated survival mechanisms, in ameliorating hypoxia-induced neurodegeneration and memory impairment. Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a key transcription factor involved in the cellular defense mechanism against oxidative stress related to brain injury and neurological disorders. The study was designed to understand the mechanisms involving Nrf2 stabilization following exposure to hypobaric hypoxia. The results displayed reference memory impairment in Sprague-Dawley rats exposed to hypobaric hypoxia (7620 m) for 14 consecutive days which however improved on administration of ALCAR during hypoxic exposure. The study also revealed Nrf2 regulated augmented antioxidant response on administration of ALCAR which was through a novel tyrosine kinase A (TrkA) receptor-mediated mechanism. A decrease in free radical generation, lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation was also observed along with a concomitant increase in thioredoxin and reduced glutathione levels on administration of ALCAR during exposure to hypobaric hypoxia. The present study therefore reveals the therapeutic potential of ALCAR under conditions of hypobaric hypoxia and elucidates a novel mechanism of action of the drug.
Despite increasingly widespread use of recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) and lentiviral (LV) vectors for transduction of neurons in a wide range of brain structures and species, the diversity of cell types within a given brain structure is rarely considered. For example, the ability of a vector to transduce neurons within a brain structure is often assumed to indicate that all neuron types within the structure are transduced. We have characterized the transduction of mouse somatosensory cortical neuron types by recombinant AAV pseudotyped with serotype 1 capsid (rAAV2/1) and by recombinant lentivirus pseudotyped with the vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) glycoprotein. Both vectors used human synapsin (hSyn) promoter driving DsRed-Express. We demonstrate that high titer rAAV2/1-hSyn efficiently transduces both cortical excitatory and inhibitory neuronal populations, but use of lower titers exposes a strong preference for transduction of cortical inhibitory neurons and layer 5 pyramidal neurons. In contrast, we find that VSV-G-LV-hSyn principally labels excitatory cortical neurons at the highest viral titer generated. These findings demonstrate that endogenous tropism of rAAV2/1 and VSV-G-LV can be used to obtain preferential gene expression in mouse somatosensory cortical inhibitory and excitatory neuron populations, respectively.
In this experiment, we investigated whether the CNS uses internal forward models of inertial loads to maintain the stability of a precision grip when manipulating objects in the absence of gravity. The micro-gravity condition causes profound changes in the profile of tangential constraints at the finger-object interface. In order to assess the ability to predict the micro-gravity-specific variation of inertial loads, we analyzed the grip force adjustments that occurred when naive subjects held an object in a precision grip and performed point-to-point movements under the weightless condition induced by parabolic flight. Such movements typically presented static and dynamic phases, which permitted distinction between a static component of the grip force (measured before the movement) and a dynamic component of the grip force (measured during the movement). The static component tended to gradually decrease across the parabolas, whereas the dynamic component was rapidly modulated with the micro-gravity-specific inertial loads. In addition, the amplitude of the modulation significantly correlated with the amplitude of the tangential constraints for the dynamic component. These results strongly support the hypothesis that the internal representation of arm and object dynamics adapts to new gravitational contexts. In addition, the difference in time scales of adaptation of static and dynamic components suggests that they can be processed independently. The prediction of self-induced variation of inertial loads permits fine modulation of grip force, which ensures a stable grip during manipulation of an object in a new environment.
Migraine is a complex disorder of the brain whose mechanisms are only now being unraveled. It is common, disabling and economically costly. The pain suggests an important role of the nociceptive activation, or the perception of activation, of trigeminal cranial, particularly intracranial afferents. Moreover, the involvement of a multi-sensory disturbance that includes light, sound and smells, as well as nausea, suggests the problem may involve central modulation of afferent traffic more broadly. Brain imaging studies in migraine point to the importance of sub-cortical structures in the underlying pathophysiology of the disorder. Migraine may thus be considered an inherited dysfunction of sensory modulatory networks with the dominant disturbance affecting abnormal processing of essentially normal neural traffic.
In line with previous studies using fMRI and as is apparent from experimental results, cerebral blood flow (oxygenated hemoglobin (oxyHb) concentration) in the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) and orbital cortex (OFC) as is observed with fNIRS (functional near-infrared spectroscopy) is presumed to be closely related to reward prediction and risk prediction as part of decision-making under risk. Results of analysis using a predictive model with a three-layer perceptron revealed that changes in the oxyHb concentration in cerebral blood as indicated by fNIRS observation include information to effectively predict investment behavior. This paper indicates that adding oxyHb concentration at the aforementioned sites in the brain as a predictive factor allows prediction of subjects' investment behavior with a considerable degree of precision. This fact indicates that information provided by fNIRS allows valid analysis of investment behavior and it also suggests a wide-ranging practical applicability for this information like investment assistance using fNIRS.
This article has been withdrawn at the request of the authors. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.
The regulation of filopodia plays a crucial role during neuronal development and synaptogenesis. Axonal filopodia, which are known to originate presynaptic specializations, are regulated in response to neurotrophic factors. The structural components of filopodia are actin filaments, whose dynamics and organization are controlled by ensembles of actin-binding proteins. How neurotrophic factors regulate these latter proteins remains, however, poorly defined. Here, using a combination of mouse genetic, biochemical, and cell biological assays, we show that genetic removal of Eps8, an actin-binding and regulatory protein enriched in the growth cones and developing processes of neurons, significantly augments the number and density of vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP)-dependent axonal filopodia. The reintroduction of Eps8 wild type (WT), but not an Eps8 capping-defective mutant, into primary hippocampal neurons restored axonal filopodia to WT levels. We further show that the actin barbed-end capping activity of Eps8 is inhibited by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) treatment through MAPK-dependent phosphorylation of Eps8 residues S624 and T628. Additionally, an Eps8 mutant, impaired in the MAPK target sites (S624A/T628A), displays increased association to actin-rich structures, is resistant to BDNF-mediated release from microfilaments, and inhibits BDNF-induced filopodia. The opposite is observed for a phosphomimetic Eps8 (S624E/T628E) mutant. Thus, collectively, our data identify Eps8 as a critical capping protein in the regulation of axonal filopodia and delineate a molecular pathway by which BDNF, through MAPK-dependent phosphorylation of Eps8, stimulates axonal filopodia formation, a process with crucial impacts on neuronal development and synapse formation.
A key question in the analysis of hippocampal memory relates to how attention modulates the encoding and long-term retrieval of spatial and nonspatial representations in this region. To address this question, we recorded from single cells over a period of 5 days in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus while mice acquired one of two goal-oriented tasks. These tasks required the animals to find a hidden food reward by attending to either the visuospatial environment or a particular odor presented in shifting spatial locations. Attention to the visuospatial environment increased the stability of visuospatial representations and phase locking to gamma oscillations--a form of neuronal synchronization thought to underlie the attentional mechanism necessary for processing task-relevant information. Attention to a spatially shifting olfactory cue compromised the stability of place fields and increased the stability of reward-associated odor representations, which were most consistently retrieved during periods of sniffing and digging when animals were restricted to the cup locations. Together, these results suggest that attention selectively modulates the encoding and retrieval of hippocampal representations by enhancing physiological responses to task-relevant information.

Adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express a cAMP-activated guanine nucleotide exchange protein (Epac2) that may function in ACTH-stimulated cortisol synthesis. Experiments were done to determine whether cAMP analogs that selectively activate Epacs could induce cortisol synthesis and the expression of genes coding for steroidogenic proteins in bovine AZF cells. Treatment of AZF cells with the Epac-selective cAMP analog (ESCA) 8CPT-2'-OMe-cAMP induced large (&gt;100 fold), concentration-dependent, delayed increases in cortisol synthesis and the expression of mRNAs coding for the steroid hydroxylases CYP11a1, CYP17, CYP21, and the steroid acute regulatory protein (StAR). However, a non-hydrolyzable analog of this ESCA, Sp-8CPT-2'-OMe-cAMP, failed to stimulate cortisol production even at concentrations that activated Rap1, a downstream effector of Epac2. Accordingly, putative metabolites of 8CPT-2'-OMe-cAMP, including 8CPT-2'-OMe-5'AMP, 8CPT-2'-OMe-adenosine, and 8CPT-adenine all induced cortisol synthesis and steroid hydroxylase mRNA expression with a temporal pattern, potency, and effectiveness similar to the parent compound. At concentrations that markedly stimulated cortisol production, none of these metabolites significantly activated cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). These results show that one or more metabolites of the ESCA 8CPT-2'-OMe-cAMP induce cortico-steroidogenesis by activating a panel of genes that code for steroidogenic proteins. The remarkable increases in cortisol synthesis observed in this study appear to be mediated by a novel cAMP-, Epac- and PKA-independent signaling pathway.
The inner membrane of the nuclear envelope (NE) was previously shown to contain a Na/Ca exchanger (NCX) tightly linked to GM1 ganglioside that mediates transfer of nucleoplasmic Ca(2+) to the NE lumen and constitutes a cytoprotective mechanism. This transfer was initially observed with isolated nuclei and is now demonstrated in living cells in relation to subcellular Ca(2+) dynamics. Four cell lines with varying expression of NCX and GM1 in the NE were transfected with cameleon-fluorescent Ca(2+) indicators genetically targeted to NE/endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and nucleoplasm to monitor [Ca(2+)](ne/er) and [Ca(2+)](n) respectively. Cytosolic Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](cyt)) was indicated with fura-2. Thapsigargin caused progressive loss of [Ca(2+)](ne/er), which was rapidly replaced on addition of extrinsic Ca(2+) to those cells containing fully functional NCX/GM1: differentiated NG108-15 and C6 cells. Reduced elevation of [Ca(2+)](ne/er) following thapsigargin depletion occurred in cells containing little or no GM1 in the NE: undifferentiated NG108-15 and NG-CR72 cells. No change in [Ca(2+)](ne/er) due to applied Ca(2+) was seen in Jurkat cells, which entirely lack NCX. Ca(2+) entry to NE/ER was also blocked by KB-R7943, inhibitor of NCX. [Ca(2+)](n) and [Ca(2+)](cyt) were elevated independent of [Ca(2+)](ne/er) and remained in approximate equilibrium with each other. Ca(2+) rise in the ER originated in the NE region and extended to the entire ER network. These results indicate the nuclear NCX/GM1 complex acts to gate Ca(2+) transfer from cytosol to ER, an alternate route to the sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase pump. They also suggest a possible contributory mechanism for independent regulation of nuclear Ca(2+).
Adaptive behaviors are guided by motivation and memory. Motivational states specify goals, and memory can inform motivated behavior by providing detailed records of past experiences when goals were obtained. These 2 fundamental processes interact to guide animals to biologically relevant targets, but the neuronal mechanisms that integrate them remain unknown. To investigate these mechanisms, we recorded unit activity from the same population of hippocampal neurons as rats performed identical tasks while either food or water deprived. We compared the influence of motivational state (hunger and thirst), memory demand, and spatial behavior in 2 tasks: hippocampus-dependent contextual memory retrieval and hippocampus-independent random foraging. We found that: (i) hippocampal coding was most strongly influenced by motivational state during contextual memory retrieval, when motivational cues were required to select among remembered, goal-directed actions in the same places; (ii) the same neuronal populations were relatively unaffected by motivational state during random foraging, when hunger and thirst were incidental to behavior, and signals derived from deprivation states thus informed, but did not determine, hippocampal coding; and (iii) &quot;prospective coding&quot; in the contextual retrieval task was not influenced by allocentric spatial trajectory, but rather by the animal's deprivation state and the associated, non-spatial target, suggesting that hippocampal coding includes a wide range of predictive associations. The results show that beyond coding spatiotemporal context, hippocampal representations encode the relationships between internal states, the external environment, and action to provide a mechanism by which motivation and memory are coordinated to guide behavior.
We applied a covariance-based multivariate analysis to functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data to investigate abnormalities in working memory (WM) systems in patients with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Patients (n=13) and matched controls (n=12) were scanned with fMRI while updating or maintaining trauma-neutral verbal stimuli in WM. A multivariate statistical analysis was used to investigate large-scale brain networks associated with these experimental tasks. For the control group, the first network reflected brain activity associated with WM updating and principally involved bilateral prefrontal and bilateral parietal cortex. Controls' second network was associated with WM maintenance and involved regions typically activated during storage and rehearsal of verbal material, including lateral premotor and inferior parietal cortex. In contrast, PTSD patients appeared to activate a single fronto-parietal network for both updating and maintenance tasks. This is indicative of abnormally elevated activity during WM maintenance and suggests inefficient allocation of resources for differential task demands. A second network in PTSD, which was not activated in controls, showed regions differentially activated between WM tasks, including the anterior cingulate, medial prefrontal cortex, fusiform and supplementary motor area. These activations may be linked to hyperarousal and abnormal reactivity, which are characteristic of PTSD.
The neuronal mechanisms underlying the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder (BD) have not been fully characterized. The aim of this study was to compare metabolite levels in the hippocampus and the orbitofrontal cortex in a homogenous population of 12 euthymic patients with well-established BD and 12 age- and sex-matched healthy comparison subjects. Using a GE Signa, 3-Tesla scanner, we performed proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (H-MRS) to examine levels of N-acetyl aspartate, glutamate and choline-containing compounds. Choline-containing compounds were significantly increased in the hippocampus and the orbitofrontal cortex in BD patients relative to control subjects. Significant elevations of glycerophosphocholine+phosphocholine (GPC+PCh) were measured in the hippocampus and the orbitofrontal cortex of patients. As choline is a marker of membrane phospholipid metabolism, the elevated choline in patients may indicate increased membrane breakdown in the brain regions examined. Abnormal neuronal loss within the hippocampus and orbitofrontal cortex further supports previous work suggesting that these regions are involved in the pathophysiology of BD.
Recent studies indicate that carotid body (CB) could be a suitable cell source for cell therapy in Parkinson's disease. We have isolated and successfully expanded in culture as monolayer adult CB-derived cells using a modification of the culture medium employed for bone marrow multipotent adult progenitor cells (MAPCs). These cells express variable amounts of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), beta-III tubulin and Sox2. In addition, CB-derived cells showed high expression of Sox2 related to a high rate of proliferation and consistent with an undifferentiated state. Under culture conditions that reduced cell proliferation, Sox2 expression decreased while TH and beta-III tubulin expression was increased. This could indicate that the differentiation of some cells occurs in the culture, thus accounting for a certain neural differentiation potential of CB-derived cells.
Several studies have demonstrated that exposure to particulate matter (PM) of different size fractions is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). In this review, we have taken into consideration the possible correlation between the &quot;short term&quot; and &quot;long term&quot; effects of PM exposure and the onset of CVDs as well as the possible molecular mechanisms by which PM elicits the development of these events. Particularly, it is here underlined that these adverse health effects depend not only on the level of PM concentration in the air but also on its particular internal composition. Furthermore, we have also synthesized the findings gleaned from those few studies indicating that PM produced by tobacco smoke can give rise to cardiovascular injury.
In cells, stable microtubules (MTs) are covalently modified by a carboxypeptidase, which removes the C-terminal Tyr residue of alpha-tubulin. The significance of this selective detyrosination of MTs is not understood. In this study, we report that tubulin detyrosination in fibroblasts inhibits MT disassembly. This inhibition is relieved by overexpression of the depolymerizing motor mitotic centromere-associated kinesin (MCAK). Conversely, suppression of MCAK expression prevents disassembly of normal tyrosinated MTs in fibroblasts. Detyrosination of MTs suppresses the activity of MCAK in vitro, apparently as the result of a decreased affinity of the adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-inorganic phosphate- and ADP-bound forms of MCAK for the MT lattice. Detyrosination also impairs MT disassembly in neurons and inhibits the activity of the neuronal depolymerizing motor KIF2A in vitro. These results indicate that MT depolymerizing motors are directly inhibited by the detyrosination of tubulin, resulting in the stabilization of cellular MTs. Detyrosination of transiently stabilized MTs may give rise to persistent subpopulations of disassembly-resistant polymers to sustain subcellular cytoskeletal differentiation.
Background: Good writing skills are needed in almost every aspect of life today, and there is a growing interest in research into acquired writing difficulties. Most of the findings reported so far, however, are based on words produced in isolation. The present study deals with the production of entire texts. Aims: The aim was to characterize written narratives produced by a group of participants with aphasia. Methods &amp; Procedures: Eight persons aged 28-63 years with aphasia took part in the study. They were compared with a reference group consisting of ten participants aged 21-30 years. All participants were asked to write a personal narrative titled 'I have never been so afraid' and to perform a picture-based story-generation task called the 'Frog Story'. The texts were written on a computer. Outcome &amp; Results: The group could be divided into participants with low, moderate, and high general performance, respectively. The texts written by the participants in the group with moderate and high writing performance had comparatively good narrative structure despite indications of difficulties on other linguistic levels. Conclusions &amp; Implications: Aphasia appeared to influence text writing on different linguistic levels. The impact on overall structure and coherence was in line with earlier findings from the analysis of spoken and written discourse and the implication of this is that the written modality should also be included in language rehabilitation.
In mammalian circadian rhythms, the transcriptional-translational feedback loop (TTFL) consisting of a set of clock genes is believed to elicit the circadian clock oscillation. The TTFL model explains that the accumulation and degradation of mPER and mCRY proteins control the period-length (tau) of the circadian clock. Although recent studies revealed that the Casein Kinase I epsilon delta (CKI epsilon delta) regulates the phosphorylation of mPER proteins and the circadian period-length, other kinases are also likely to contribute the phosphorylation of mPER. Here, we performed small scale screening using 84 chemical compounds known as kinase inhibitors to identify candidates possibly affecting the circadian period-length in mammalian cells. Screening by this high-throughput real-time bioluminescence monitoring system revealed that the several chemical compounds apparently lengthened the cellular circadian clock oscillation. These compounds are known as inhibitors against kinases such as Casein Kinase II (CKII), PI3-kinase (PI3K) and c-Jun N-terminal Kinase (JNK) in addition to CKI epsilon delta. Although these kinase inhibitors may have some non-specific effects on other factors, our mini screening identified new candidates contributing to period-length control in mammalian cells.

The integrity of the retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cell is essential for the survival of rod and cone photoreceptor cells. Several stressors, including reactive oxygen species, trigger apoptotic damage in RPE cells preceded by an anti-inflammatory, pro-survival response, the formation of neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1), an oxygenation product derived from the essential omega-3 fatty acid family member docosahexaenoic acid. To define the ability of NPD1 and other endogenous novel lipid mediators in cell survival, we generated a stable knockdown human RPE (ARPE-19) cell line using short hairpin RNA to target 15-lipoxygenase-1. The 15-lipoxygenase-1-deficient cells exhibited 30% of the protein expression, and 15-lipoxygenase-2 remained unchanged, as compared with an ARPE-19 cell line control established using nonspecific short hairpin RNA transfected cells. NPD1 synthesis was stimulated by tumor necrosis factor alpha/H2O2-mediated oxidative stress in nonspecific cells (controls), whereas in silenced cells, negligible amounts of NPD1, 12(S)- and 15(S)-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid, and lipoxin A4 were found under these conditions. Neither control nor the deficient cells showed an increase in 15-lipoxygenase-1 protein content after 16 h of oxidative stress, suggesting that the increased activity of 15-lipoxygenase-1 is due to activation of pre-existing proteins. 15-Lipoxygenase-silenced cells also displayed an exacerbated sensitivity to oxidative stress-induced apoptosis when compared with the control cells. NPD1 selectively and potently rescued 15-lipoxygenase-silenced cells from oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. These results demonstrate that 15-lipoxygenase-1 is activated by oxidative stress in ARPE-19 cells and that NPD1 is part of an early survival signaling in RPE cells.
The endogenous ligands for free fatty acid receptor 1 (FFA1) are medium and longer chain free fatty acids. However, a range of selective, small molecule ligands have recently been developed as tool compounds to explore the therapeutic potential of this receptor, whereas clinically employed thiazolidinedione &quot;glitazone&quot; drugs are also agonists at FFA1. Each of these classes of agonist was able to promote phosphorylation of the ERK1/2 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases in cells able to express human FFA1 on demand. However, although both lauric acid and the synthetic agonist GW9508X produced rapid and transient ERK1/2 MAP kinase phosphorylation, the thiazolidinedione rosiglitazone produced responses that were sustained for a substantially longer period. Despite this difference, the effects of each ligand required FFA1 and were transduced in each case predominantly via G proteins of the Galphaq/Galpha11 family. Different glitazone drugs also displayed markedly different efficacy and kinetics of sustainability of ERK1/2 MAP kinase phosphorylation. A number of orthosteric binding site mutants of FFA1 were generated, and despite variations in the changes of potency and efficacy of the three ligand classes in different functional end point assays, these were consistent with rosiglitazone also binding at the orthosteric site. Four distinct polymorphic variants of human FFA1 have been described. Despite previous indications that these display differences in function and pharmacology, they all responded in entirely equivalent ways to lauric acid, rosiglitazone, and GW9508X in measures of ERK1/2 MAP kinase phosphorylation, enhancement of binding of [35S]GTPgammaS (guanosine 5'-O-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate) to Galphaq, and elevation of intracellular [Ca2+], suggesting that individuals expressing each variant are likely to respond equivalently to orthosteric agonists of FFA1.
Excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) are crucial in maintaining extracellular levels of glutamate, the most abundant excitatory neurotransmitter, below toxic levels. The recent three-dimensional crystal structure of GltPh, an archaeal homolog of the EAATs, provides elegant structural details of this family of proteins, yet we know little about the mechanism of the bacterial transporter. Conflicting reports in the literature have described GltPh as an aspartate transporter driven by Na+ or a glutamate transporter driven by either Na+ or H+. Here we use purified protein reconstituted into liposomes to thoroughly characterize the ion and substrate dependence of the GltPh transport. We confirm that GltPh is a Na+-dependent transporter that is highly selective for aspartate over other amino acids, and we show that transport is coupled to at least two Na+ ions. In contrast to the EAATs, transport via GltPh is independent of H+ and K+. We propose a kinetic model of transport in which at least two Na+ ions are coupled to the cotransport of each aspartate molecule by GltPh, and where an ion- and substrate-free transporter reorients to complete the transport cycle.
Human observers readily recognize emotions expressed in body movement. Their perceptual judgments are based on simple movement features, such as overall speed, but also on more intricate posture and dynamic cues. The systematic analysis of such features is complicated due to the difficulty of considering the large number of potentially relevant kinematic and dynamic parameters. To identify emotion-specific features we motion-captured the neutral and emotionally expressive (anger, happiness, sadness, fear) gaits of 25 individuals. Body posture was characterized by average flexion angles, and a low-dimensional parameterization of the spatio-temporal structure of joint trajectories was obtained by approximation with a nonlinear mixture model. Applying sparse regression, we extracted critical emotion-specific posture and movement features, which typically depended only on a small number of joints. The features we extracted from the motor behavior closely resembled features that were critical for the perception of emotion from gait, determined by a statistical analysis of classification and rating judgments of 21 observers presented with avatars animated with the recorded movements. The perceptual relevance of these features was further supported by another experiment showing that artificial walkers containing only the critical features induced high-level after-effects matching those induced by adaptation with natural emotional walkers.
Recent fMRI studies linked subgenual cingulate cortex (SCC) activity with feelings of guilt for acting counter to social values and altruistic donations towards societal causes. We hypothesized that SCC activity across those different tasks was driven by feelings of attachment. In order to investigate this further, we used fMRI to probe the association of empathic concern and strength of SCC activation in response to guilt- and compassion-evoking verbal descriptions of social behaviour. We were able to confirm our prediction that participants with higher empathic concern had increased activity in the SCC in the guilt condition, whereas there was no association for compassion. These results shed new light on the role of the SCC which shows abnormalities in clinical depression.

Stem cell tourism is criticized on grounds of consumer fraud, blatant lack of scientific justification, and patient safety. However, the issues are complex because they invoke questions concerning the limits of acceptable medical innovation and medical travel. Here we discuss these issues and articulate conditions under which &quot;unproven&quot; therapies may be offered to patients outside of regular clinical trials.
The structural and functional changes occurring into the brain is the hallmark of its tremendous capacity for dealing with the complexity that we are facing throughout life. It is also the hallmark of what neuroscientists refer as neuroplasticity. The continuous generation of cohorts of new neurons in some discrete regions of the adult brain, including the olfactory system, is a newly recognized form of neuroplasticity that has been recently the focus of neuroscience studies. Several lines of evidence indicate that this recruitment of newly-generated neurons is extremely sensitive to the overall neuronal activity of the host circuits. Therefore, adult neurogenesis represents, not only a constitutive replacement mechanism for lost neurons, but also a process supporting a capacity of neural plasticity in response to specific experience throughout life. The remarkable complexity of the social life offers a host of daily challenges that require a diversity of brain mechanism to make sense of the ever-changing social world. This review describes some recent findings which have begun to define reciprocal relationships between the production and integration of newborn neurons in the adult brain and social behavior. These studies demonstrate how this domain of research has the potential to address issues in the functional contribution of adult neurogenesis in the expression of some social traits as well in the role of some social contexts to finely regulate the production, survival and integration of adult newborn neurons.
There is increasing evidence for specialised processing of social cues in the brain. This review considers how the main olfactory system of mammals is designed to process social odours and the effects of learning in a social context. It focuses mainly on extensive research carried out on offspring, mate or conspecific learning carried out in sheep and rodents. Detailing the roles of the olfactory bulb and its projections, classical neurotransmitters, nitric oxide, oestrogen and neuropeptides such as oxytocin and vasopressin in mediating plasticity changes in the olfactory system arising from these different social learning contexts. The relative simplicity of the organisation of the olfactory system, the speed and robustness of these forms of social learning together with the similarity in brain regions and neurochemical contributions across the different learning paradigms make them important and useful models for investigating general principles of learning and memory in the brain.
Recognizing the individual and sexual identities of conspecifics is critical for adaptive social behavior and, in most mammals this information is communicated primarily by chemosensory cues. Due to its heavy reliance on odor cues, we have used the Syrian hamster as our model species for investigating the neural regulation of social recognition. Using lesion, electrophysiological and immunocytochemical techniques, separate neural pathways underlying recognition of individual odors and guidance of sex-typical responses to opposite-sex odors have been identified in both male and female hamsters. Specifically, we have found that recognition of individual odor identity requires olfactory bulb connections to entorhinal cortex (ENT) rather than other chemoreceptive brain regions. This kind of social memory does not appear to require the hippocampus and may, instead, depend on ENT connections with piriform cortex. In contrast, sexual recognition, through either differential investigation or scent marking toward opposite-sex odors, depends on both olfactory and vomeronasal system input to the corticomedial amygdala. Preference for investigating opposite-sex odors requires primarily olfactory input to the medial amygdala (ME) whereas appropriately targeted scent marking responses require vomeronasal input to ME as well as to other structures. Within the ME, the anterior section (MEa) appears important for evaluating or classifying social odors whereas the posterodorsal region (MEpd) may be more involved in generating approach to social odors. Evidence is presented that analysis of social odors may initially be done in MEa and then communicated to MEpd, perhaps through micro-circuits that separately process male and female odors.

Brain mechanisms of hypnosis are poorly known. Cognitive accounts proposed that executive attentional systems may cause selective inhibition or disconnection of some mental operations. To assess motor and inhibitory brain circuits during hypnotic paralysis, we designed a go-no-go task while volunteers underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in three conditions: normal state, hypnotic left-hand paralysis, and feigned paralysis. Preparatory activation arose in right motor cortex despite left hypnotic paralysis, indicating preserved motor intentions, but with concomitant increases in precuneus regions that normally mediate imagery and self-awareness. Precuneus also showed enhanced functional connectivity with right motor cortex. Right frontal areas subserving inhibition were activated by no-go trials in normal state and by feigned paralysis, but irrespective of motor blockade or execution during hypnosis. These results suggest that hypnosis may enhance self-monitoring processes to allow internal representations generated by the suggestion to guide behavior but does not act through direct motor inhibition.
The properties of cortical circuits underlying central representations of sensory stimuli are poorly understood. Here we use in vivo cell-attached and whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings to reveal how excitatory and inhibitory synaptic input govern odor representations in rat primary olfactory (piriform) cortex. We show that odors evoke spiking activity that is sparse across the cortical population. We find that unbalanced synaptic excitation and inhibition underlie sparse activity: inhibition is widespread and broadly tuned, while excitation is less common and odor-specific. &quot;Global&quot; inhibition can be explained by local interneurons that receive ubiquitous and nonselective odor-evoked excitation. In the temporal domain, while respiration imposes a slow rhythm to olfactory cortical responses, odors evoke fast (15-30 Hz) oscillations in synaptic activity. Oscillatory excitation precedes inhibition, generating brief time windows for precise and temporally sparse spike output. Together, our results reveal that global inhibition and oscillations are major synaptic mechanisms shaping odor representations in olfactory cortex.
Bursts of spikes triggered by sensory stimuli in midbrain dopamine neurons evoke phasic release of dopamine in target brain areas, driving reward-based reinforcement learning and goal-directed behavior. NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs) play a critical role in the generation of these bursts. Here we report LTP of NMDAR-mediated excitatory transmission onto dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra. Induction of LTP requires burst-evoked Ca2+ signals amplified by preceding metabotropic neurotransmitter inputs in addition to the activation of NMDARs themselves. PKA activity gates LTP induction by regulating the magnitude of Ca2+ signal amplification. This form of plasticity is associative, input specific, reversible, and depends on the relative timing of synaptic input and postsynaptic bursting in a manner analogous to the timing rule for cue-reward learning paradigms in behaving animals. NMDAR plasticity might thus represent a potential neural substrate for conditioned dopamine neuron burst responses to environmental stimuli acquired during reward-based learning.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-regulated (HCN) channels, which generate the I(h) current, mediate a number of important brain functions. The HCN1 isoform regulates dendritic integration in cortical pyramidal neurons and provides an inhibitory constraint on both working memory in prefrontal cortex and spatial learning and memory in the hippocampus. Altered expression of HCN1 following seizures may contribute to the development of temporal lobe epilepsy. Yet the regulatory networks and pathways governing HCN channel expression and function in the brain are largely unknown. Here, we report the presence of nine alternative N-terminal splice forms of the brain-specific cytoplasmic protein TRIP8b and demonstrate the differential effects of six isoforms to downregulate or upregulate HCN1 surface expression. Furthermore, we find that all TRIP8b isoforms inhibit channel opening by shifting activation to more negative potentials. TRIP8b thus functions as an auxiliary subunit that provides a mechanism for the dynamic regulation of HCN1 channel expression and function.
Architectural practice and neuroscience research use our brains and minds in much the same way. However, the link between neuroscience knowledge and architectural design--with rare exceptions--has yet to be made. The concept of linking these two fields is a challenge worth considering.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels regulate neuronal excitability, pacemaking, dendritic integration, and homeostatic plasticity and are culprits in aberrant neuronal activity in certain epilepsies. In this issue of Neuron two manuscripts (Santoro et al. and Zolles et al.) report that HCN channel gating and expression are controlled by Trip8b (Pex5R) but with a bidirectional spin.
The consolidation of memory is thought to occur via a hippocampal-neocortical dialog involving reactivation of memory patterns in the hippocampus during sharp-wave ripples. In this issue of Neuron, Nakashiba et al. demonstrate that CA3 output is required for consolidation of contextual fear memory. They also show that lack of CA3 output results in a decrease in ripple-related reactivation, providing additional evidence for a role of ripple-related reactivation in the consolidation process.
The development of peripheral to central neural connections within the auditory, visual, and olfactory systems of mice is reviewed to address whether peripheral signaling may play an instructive role during initial synapse formation. For each sensory system, developmental times of histogenesis and the earliest ages of innervation and function are considered for peripheral and selected central relays. For the auditory and visual system, anatomical and functional reports indicate that central connections may form prior to synapse formation in the periphery. However, evidence from the olfactory system suggests that the peripheral olfactory sensory neurons form synaptic connections before more central olfactory connections are established. We find that significant gaps in knowledge exist for embryonic development of these systems in mice and that genetic tools have not yet been systematically directed to address these issues.
It is well known that adenine-based purines exert multiple effects on pain transmission. Recently, we have demonstrated that intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administered guanine-based purines are antinociceptive against chemical and thermal pain models in mice. The present study was designed to further investigate the antinociceptive effects of guanosine in mice. Animals received an intrathecal (i.t.) injection of vehicle (0.1 mN NaOH) or guanosine (10 to 400 nmol). Measurements of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) purine levels and spinal cord glutamate uptake were performed. Guanosine produced dose-dependent antinociceptive effects against tail-flick, hot-plate, intraplantar (i.pl.) capsaicin, and i.pl. glutamate tests. Additionally, i.t. guanosine produced significant inhibition of the biting behavior induced by i.t. injection of glutamate (175 nmol/site), AMPA (135 pmol/site), kainate (110 pmol/site), trans-ACPD (50 nmol/site), and substance P (135 ng/site), with mean ID(50) values of 140 (103-190), 136 (100-185), 162 (133-196), 266 (153-461) and 28 (3-292) nmol, respectively. However, guanosine failed to affect the nociception induced by NMDA (450 pmol/site) and capsaicin (30 ng/site). Intrathecal administration of guanosine (200 nmol) induced an approximately 120-fold increase on CSF guanosine levels. Guanosine prevented the increase on spinal cord glutamate uptake induced by i.pl. capsaicin. This study provides new evidence on the mechanism of action of guanosine presenting antinociceptive effects at spinal sites. This effect seems to be at least partially associated with modulation of glutamatergic pathways by guanosine.
This study was conducted to characterize movement-induced pain in a rat model of knee joint osteoarthritis and validate this behavioral assessment by evaluating the effects of clinically used analgesic compounds. Unilateral intra-articular administration of a chondrocyte glycolytic inhibitor monoiodoacetate, was used to induce knee joint osteoarthritis in Sprague-Dawley rats. In this osteoarthritis model, histologically erosive disintegration of the articular surfaces of the ipsilateral joint are observed which closely mimic the clinical picture of osteoarthritis. Movement-induced pain behavior was measured using hind limb compressive grip force evaluation. The animals exhibited pain behaviors epitomized by a long-lasting decrement in bilateral compressive hind limb grip force following unilateral knee injury. The effects of clinically used reference analgesics were evaluated 20 days following i.a. injection of monoiodoacetate. Full analgesic activity was observed for tramadol, celecoxib and diclofenac; moderate effects for indomethacin, duloxetine and gabapentin but weak or no effects for acetaminophen, ibuprofen and lamotrigine. As morphine reduced grip force in nave rats, its analgesic effects could not be accurately evaluated in this model. Finally, the effects of celecoxib were maintained following chronic dosing. The results indicate that this in vivo model utilizing a movement-induced pain behavior spawned by knee joint osteoarthritis may provide a valuable tool in examining the role of potential analgesic targets in osteoarthritic pain. As the model is clinically relevant, it will further enhance the mechanistic understanding of chronic arthritic joint pain and help in developing newer and better therapeutic strategies to manage osteoarthritis pain.
The current study investigated the contribution of the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) to instrumental action selection. We found that cell body lesions of the dmPFC, centered on the medial agranular area, spared rats' ability to choose between actions based on either the value or the discriminative stimulus properties of an outcome. We next examined the effects of these lesions on action sequence learning using a concurrent bidirectional heterogeneous chain task in which the identity of the reward delivered was determined by the order in which the two lever press actions were performed. Although both lesioned rats and sham controls learned to perform the task, we found that they relied on different behavioral strategies to do so. In subsequent tests, rats in the sham group were able to withhold their performance of a sequence when either its associated outcome was devalued or the contingency between that sequence and its outcome was degraded by delivering the outcome noncontingently. Interestingly, lesioned rats failed to reorganize their performance at the action sequence level and, rather, were found to withhold their performance of the terminal response in the sequence that had earned the devalued outcome relative to the more distal response, suggesting that they represented the elements of the sequence as distinct behavioral units. These findings demonstrate that rats can use sequence-level representations, or action chunks, to organize their behavior in a goal-directed manner and indicate that the dmPFC plays a critical role in this process.
During neuronal development, neurons form elaborate dendritic arbors that receive signals from axons. Additional studies are needed to elucidate the factors regulating the establishment of dendritic patterns. Our work explored possible roles played by nitric oxide synthase 1 adaptor protein (NOS1AP; also known as C-terminal PDZ ligand of neuronal nitric oxide synthase or CAPON) in dendritic patterning of cultured hippocampal neurons. Here we report that the long isoform of NOS1AP (NOS1AP-L) plays a novel role in regulating dendrite outgrowth and branching. NOS1AP-L decreases dendrite number when overexpressed at any interval between day in vitro (DIV) 0 and DIV 12, and knockdown of NOS1AP-L results in increased dendrite number. In contrast, the short isoform of NOS1AP (NOS1AP-S) decreases dendrite number only when overexpressed during DIV 5-7. Using mutants of NOS1AP-L, we show that neither the PDZ-binding domain nor the PTB domain is necessary for the effects of NOS1AP-L. We have functionally narrowed the region of NOS1AP-L that mediates this effect to the middle amino acids 181-307, a region that is not present in NOS1AP-S. Furthermore, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen and identified carboxypeptidase E (CPE) as a binding partner for the middle region of NOS1AP-L. Biochemical and cellular studies reveal that CPE mediates the effects of NOS1AP on dendrite morphology. Together, our results suggest that NOS1AP-L plays an important role in the initiation, outgrowth, and maintenance of dendrites during development.
Recovery after stroke and other types of brain injury is restricted in part by the limited ability of undamaged neurons to form compensatory connections. Inosine, a naturally occurring purine nucleoside, stimulates neurons to extend axons in culture and, in vivo, enhances the ability of undamaged neurons to form axon collaterals after brain damage. The molecular changes induced by inosine are unknown, as is the ability of inosine to restore complex functions associated with a specific cortical area. Using a unilateral injury model limited to the sensorimotor cortex, we show that inosine triples the number of corticospinal tract axons that project from the unaffected hemisphere and form synaptic bouton-like structures in the denervated half of the spinal cord. These changes correlate with improved recovery in animals' ability to grasp and consume food pellets with the affected forepaw. Studies using laser-capture microdissection and microarray analysis show that inosine profoundly affects gene expression in corticospinal neurons contralateral to the injury. Inosine attenuates transcriptional changes caused by the stroke, while upregulating the expression of genes associated with axon growth and the complement cascade. Thus, inosine alters gene expression in neurons contralateral to a stroke, enhances the ability of these neurons to form connections on the denervated side of the spinal cord, and improves performance with the impaired limb.
Although the parietal cortex is traditionally associated with spatial perception and motor planning, recent evidence shows that neurons in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) carry both spatial and nonspatial signals. The functional significance of the nonspatial information in the parietal cortex is not understood. To address this question, we tested the effect of unilateral reversible inactivation of LIP on three behavioral tasks known to evoke nonspatial responses. Each task included a spatial component (target selection in the hemifield contralateral or ipsilateral to the inactivation) and a nonspatial component, namely limb motor planning, the estimation of elapsed time, and reward-based decisions. Although inactivation reliably impaired performance on all tasks, the deficits were spatially specific (restricted to contralateral target locations), and there were no effects on nonspatial aspects on performance. This suggests that modulatory nonspatial signals in LIP represent feedback about computations performed elsewhere rather than a primary role of LIP in these computations.
Dendritic spines are the postsynaptic sites of most excitatory synapses in the brain and are highly enriched in polymerized F-actin, which drives the formation and maintenance of mature dendritic spines and synapses. We propose that suppressing the activity of the actin-severing protein cofilin plays an important role in the stabilization of mature dendritic spines, and is accomplished through an EphB receptor-focal adhesion kinase (FAK) pathway. Our studies revealed that Cre-mediated knock-out of loxP-flanked fak prompted the reversion of mature dendritic spines to an immature filopodial-like phenotype in primary hippocampal cultures. The effects of FAK depletion on dendritic spine number, length, and morphology were rescued by the overexpression of the constitutively active FAK(Y397E), but not FAK(Y397F), indicating the significance of FAK activation by phosphorylation on tyrosine 397. Our studies demonstrate that FAK acts downstream of EphB receptors in hippocampal neurons and EphB2-FAK signaling controls the stability of mature dendritic spines by promoting cofilin phosphorylation, thereby inhibiting cofilin activity. While constitutively active nonphosphorylatable cofilin(S3A) induced an immature spine profile, phosphomimetic cofilin(S3D) restored mature spine morphology in neurons with disrupted EphB activity or lacking FAK. Further, we found that EphB-mediated regulation of cofilin activity at least partially depends on the activation of Rho-associated kinase (ROCK) and LIMK-1. These findings indicate that EphB2-mediated dendritic spine stabilization relies, in part, on the ability of FAK to activate the RhoA-ROCK-LIMK-1 pathway, which functions to suppress cofilin activity and inhibit cofilin-mediated dendritic spine remodeling.
Physiological evidence indicates that several brain regions, including the medial temporal lobes and prefrontal cortex (PFC), are involved in processing events that are novel or distinctive in their immediate context. However, behavioral studies that investigate whether these regions are critical for producing stimulus novelty advantages in memory are limited. For example, evidence from an animal lesion study indicated that the PFC is involved in stimulus novelty effects, but this has not been examined in humans. In the current study, we used a von Restorff novelty paradigm to test a large cohort of lateral PFC patients (n = 16). We found that patients with lateral PFC damage were impaired in recollection- and familiarity-based recognition, and they did not exhibit a normal memory advantage for novel compared with non-novel items. These results provide neuropsychological evidence supporting a key role for the lateral PFC in producing stimulus novelty advantages in memory.
Trace conditioning is considered a model of higher cognitive involvement in simple associative tasks. Studies of trace conditioning have shown that cortical areas and the hippocampal formation are required to associate events that occur at different times. However, the mechanisms that bridge the trace interval during the acquisition of trace conditioning remain unknown. In four experiments with fear conditioning in rats, we explored the involvement of the entorhinal cortex (EC) in the acquisition of fear under a trace-30 s protocol. We first determined that pretraining neurotoxic lesions of the EC selectively impaired trace-, but not delay-conditioned fear as evaluated by freezing behavior. A local cholinergic deafferentation of the EC using 192-IgG-saporin did not replicate this deficit, presumably because cholinergic interneurons were spared by the toxin. However, pretraining local blockade of EC muscarinic receptors with the M1 antagonist pirenzepine yielded a specific and dose-dependent deficit in trace-conditioned responses. The same microinjections performed after conditioning were without effect on trace fear responses. These effects of blocking M1 receptors are consistent with the notion that conditioned stimulus (CS)-elicited, acetylcholine-dependent persistent activities in the EC are needed to maintain a representation of a tone CS across the trace interval during the acquisition of trace conditioning. This function of the EC is consistent with recent views of this region as a short-term stimulus buffer.
The present study investigated the extent to which fear generalization in humans is determined by the amount of fear intensity in nonconditioned stimuli relative to a perceptually similar conditioned stimulus. Stimuli consisted of graded emotionally expressive faces of the same identity morphed between neutral and fearful endpoints. Two experimental groups underwent discriminative fear conditioning between a face stimulus of 55% fear intensity (conditioned stimulus, CS+), reinforced with an electric shock, and a second stimulus that was unreinforced (CS-). In Experiment 1 the CS- was a relatively neutral face stimulus, while in Experiment 2 the CS- was the most fear-intense stimulus. Before and following fear conditioning, skin conductance responses (SCR) were recorded to different morph values along the neutral-to-fear dimension. Both experimental groups showed gradients of generalization following fear conditioning that increased with the fear intensity of the stimulus. In Experiment 1 a peak shift in SCRs extended to the most fear-intense stimulus. In contrast, generalization to the most fear-intense stimulus was reduced in Experiment 2, suggesting that discriminative fear learning procedures can attenuate fear generalization. Together, the findings indicate that fear generalization is broadly tuned and sensitive to the amount of fear intensity in nonconditioned stimuli, but that fear generalization can come under stimulus control. These results reveal a novel form of fear generalization in humans that is not merely based on physical similarity to a conditioned exemplar, and may have implications for understanding generalization processes in anxiety disorders characterized by heightened sensitivity to nonthreatening stimuli.
Group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors are known to play an important role in both synaptic plasticity and memory. We show that activating these receptors prior to fear conditioning by infusing the group 1 mGluR agonist, (R.S.)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), into the basolateral region of the amygdala (BLA) of adult Sprague-Dawley rats enhances freezing normally supported by a weak footshock. This effect of DHPG was blocked when it was co-infused with either the general group 1 mGluR1 antagonist, (R,S)-1-aminoindan-1,5 dicarboxylic acid (AIDA), or with the selective mGluR5 antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP). These results support previous findings by Rodrigues and colleagues that mGluR5s in the lateral region of the amygdala make an import contribution to fear conditioning. More importantly, they support the general ideas embedded in the concept of metaplasticity, as per Abraham, and the synaptic-tagging hypothesis per Frey and Morris-that the processes that specify the content of experience can be experimentally separated from those needed to acquire the memory.



Introspection makes it clear that we do not see the visual motion generated by our saccadic eye movements. We refer to the lack of awareness of the motion across the retina that is generated by a saccade as saccadic omission [1]: the visual stimulus generated by the saccade is omitted from our subjective awareness. In the laboratory, saccadic omission is often studied by investigating saccadic suppression, the reduction in visual sensitivity before and during a saccade (see Ross et al. [2] and Wurtz [3] for reviews). We investigated whether perceptual stability requires that a mechanism like saccadic suppression removes perisaccadic stimuli from visual processing to prevent their presumed harmful effect on perceptual stability [4, 5]. Our results show that a stimulus that undergoes saccadic omission can nevertheless generate a shape contrast illusion. This illusion can be generated when the inducer and test stimulus are separated in space and is therefore thought to be generated at a later stage of visual processing [6]. This shows that perceptual stability is attained without removing stimuli from processing and suggests a conceptually new view of perceptual stability in which perisaccadic stimuli are processed by the early visual system, but these signals are prevented from reaching awareness at a later stage of processing.
The ability to correctly interpret emotional signals from others is crucial for successful social interaction. Previous neuroimaging studies showed that voice-sensitive auditory areas activate to a broad spectrum of vocally expressed emotions more than to neutral speech melody (prosody). However, this enhanced response occurs irrespective of the specific emotion category, making it impossible to distinguish different vocal emotions with conventional analyses. Here, we presented pseudowords spoken in five prosodic categories (anger, sadness, neutral, relief, joy) during event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), then employed multivariate pattern analysis to discriminate between these categories on the basis of the spatial response pattern within the auditory cortex. Our results demonstrate successful decoding of vocal emotions from fMRI responses in bilateral voice-sensitive areas, which could not be obtained by using averaged response amplitudes only. Pairwise comparisons showed that each category could be classified against all other alternatives, indicating for each emotion a specific spatial signature that generalized across speakers. These results demonstrate for the first time that emotional information is represented by distinct spatial patterns that can be decoded from brain activity in modality-specific cortical areas.
Increased pain sensitivity after opioid administration (opioid-induced hyperalgesia) and/or repeated painful stimuli is an individually varying and clinically important phenomenon. The functional polymorphism (val(158)met) of the Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene regulates the metabolism of dopamine/noradrenaline. Individuals homozygous for the met(158) allele have been reported to have increased pain sensitivity and there are findings of lower micro-opioid system activation during sustained pain. We hypothesized that met/met individuals would exhibit higher pain sensitization and opioid-induced hyperalgesia in response to repeated pain stimuli and an intravenous injection of an opioid drug. Participants were 43 healthy subjects who went through an experiment where five blocks of pain were induced to the hand using a heat probe. After each stimulus subjects rated the pain on a visual analogue scale (VAS) from 0 mm (no pain) to 100 mm (worst possible pain). Before the second stimulus there was an intravenous injection of a rapid and potent opioid drug. At baseline there was no difference in pain ratings between the COMTval(158)met genotypes, F(2, 39)&lt;1. However, a repeated measures ANOVA for all five stimuli revealed a main effect for COMTval(158)met genotype, F(2, 36) = 4.17, p = 0.024. Met/met individuals reported significantly more pain compared to val/val, p = 0.010. A pairwise comparison of baseline and the opioid intervention demonstrated that analgesia was induced in all groups (p = 0.042) without a separating effect for genotype (n.s). We suggest that the initial response of the descending pain system is not influenced by the COMTval(158)met polymorphism but when the system is challenged the difference is revealed. An important clinical implication of this may be that the COMTval(158)met related differences may be more expressed in individuals where the inhibitory system is already challenged and sensitive, e.g. chronic pain patients. This has to be proven in future studies where the impact of the COMTval(158)met polymorphism on opioid treatment in patients is addressed.
The family of ionotropic glutamate receptors includes 2 subunits, delta1 and delta2, the physiological relevance of which remains poorly understood. Both are nonfunctional in heterologous expression systems, although the isolated, crystallized ligand binding domain (LBD) of delta2 is capable of binding D-serine. To investigate these seemingly contradictory observations we tested whether delta receptors can be ligand gated at all. We used a strategy that replaced the native LBD of delta2 by a proven glutamate-binding LBD. Test transplantations between alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole propionate (AMPA) and kainate receptors (GluR1 and GluR6, respectively) showed that this approach can produce functional chimeras even if only one part of the bipartite LBD is swapped. Upon outfitting delta2 with the LBD of GluR6, the chimera formed glutamate-gated ion channels with low Ca(2+) permeability and unique rectification properties. Ligand-induced conformational changes can thus gate delta2, suggesting that the LBD of this receptor works fundamentally differently from that of other ionotropic glutamate receptors.
During the last decades, research on binary decision making elucidated some of the basic neural mechanisms underlying the decision-making process. Recently, the focus of experimental as well as modeling studies began to shift from simple binary choices to decision making with multiple alternatives. In this article, we address the question how different numbers of choice alternatives might be handled and encoded in the brain. We present a minimal, biophysically realistic spiking neuron model for decision making with multiple alternatives. Our model accounts for the relevant aspects of recent experimental data of a random-dot motion-discrimination task on both the cellular and behavioral level. Notably, all network parameters and inputs in our network are independent of the number of possible alternatives used in the tested experimental paradigms (2 and 4 alternatives and 2 alternatives with an angular separation of 90 degrees ). This avoids the use of extra top-down regulation mechanisms to adapt the network to the number of choices. Furthermore, we show that increasing the number of neurons encoding each choice alternative is positively related to the network's capacity of choice-number-independent decision making. Consequently, our results suggest a physiological advantage of a pooled, multineuron representation of choice alternatives.
A growing body of neuroimaging research has documented that, in the absence of an explicit task, the brain shows temporally coherent activity. This so-called &quot;resting state&quot; activity or, more explicitly, the default-mode network, has been associated with daydreaming, free association, stream of consciousness, or inner rehearsal in humans, but similar patterns have also been found under anesthesia and in monkeys. Spatiotemporal activity patterns in the default-mode network are both complex and consistent, which raises the question whether they are the expression of an interesting cognitive architecture or the consequence of intrinsic network constraints. In numerical simulation, we studied the dynamics of a simplified cortical network using 38 noise-driven (Wilson-Cowan) oscillators, which in isolation remain just below their oscillatory threshold. Time delay coupling based on lengths and strengths of primate corticocortical pathways leads to the emergence of 2 sets of 40-Hz oscillators. The sets showed synchronization that was anticorrelated at &lt;0.1 Hz across the sets in line with a wide range of recent experimental observations. Systematic variation of conduction velocity, coupling strength, and noise level indicate a high sensitivity of emerging synchrony as well as simulated blood flow blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) on the underlying parameter values. Optimal sensitivity was observed around conduction velocities of 1-2 m/s, with very weak coupling between oscillators. An additional finding was that the optimal noise level had a characteristic scale, indicating the presence of stochastic resonance, which allows the network dynamics to respond with high sensitivity to changes in diffuse feedback activity.
Here we present a review of the literature of influenza modeling studies, and discuss how these models can provide insights into the future of the currently circulating novel strain of influenza A (H1N1), formerly known as swine flu. We discuss how the feasibility of controlling an epidemic critically depends on the value of the Basic Reproduction Number (R0). The R0 for novel influenza A (H1N1) has recently been estimated to be between 1.4 and 1.6. This value is below values of R0 estimated for the 1918-1919 pandemic strain (mean R0 approximately 2: range 1.4 to 2.8) and is comparable to R0 values estimated for seasonal strains of influenza (mean R0 1.3: range 0.9 to 2.1). By reviewing results from previous modeling studies we conclude it is theoretically possible that a pandemic of H1N1 could be contained. However it may not be feasible, even in resource-rich countries, to achieve the necessary levels of vaccination and treatment for control. As a recent modeling study has shown, a global cooperative strategy will be essential in order to control a pandemic. This strategy will require resource-rich countries to share their vaccines and antivirals with resource-constrained and resource-poor countries. We conclude our review by discussing the necessity of developing new biologically complex models. We suggest that these models should simultaneously track the transmission dynamics of multiple strains of influenza in bird, pig and human populations. Such models could be critical for identifying effective new interventions, and informing pandemic preparedness planning. Finally, we show that by modeling cross-species transmission it may be possible to predict the emergence of pandemic strains of influenza.
Prion diseases share common features of neurodegenerative disorders, infectious diseases and pathologies linked to misfolded proteins. Whether these aspects are independently and fortuitously present in prion diseases or are somewhat linked together remains unsettled, but the contribution of genomic, proteomic, metabolomic and spectroscopic techniques might give insights into this puzzle, and likely give hope for therapy to patients. Although the prion protein gene (PRNP) governs most of the clinical and pathological features of prion diseases and plays a pivotal role in determining host susceptibility, there are still many uncertainties and unknown risk factors that need to be clarified and identified. Several genes, other than PRNP, have recently been found to be associated with a risk of developing sporadic or variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, but these novel data have been produced in a relatively small number of patients and controls and, therefore, need further confirmation. The same criticism applies to the identification of the over 20 new cerebrospinal fluid or plasma markers of disease. Some of these markers seem related to the massive brain damage that occurs, rather than being specific to prion infection. Nevertheless, genomic and post-genomic approaches have shown that these techniques are very powerful, and the best way to overcome the scantiness of samples would be to encourage strong collaboration between different centers of excellence in prion diseases. In this review, we describe the most recent and outstanding advances offered by genomics and post-genomics analyses in the field of human prion diseases.
In a variety of vertebrates, highly aggressive individuals tend to have high social status and low serotonergic function. In the sex changing fish Lythrypnus dalli, serotonin (5-HT) may be involved as a mediator between the social environment and the reproductive system because social status is a critical cue in regulating sex change. Subordination inhibits sex change in L. dalli, and it is associated with higher serotonergic activity in other species. We tested the hypothesis that high serotonergic activity has an inhibitory effect on sex change. In a social situation permissive to sex change, we administered to the dominant female implants containing the serotonin precursor 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP). In a social situation not conducive to sex change, we administered either the serotonin synthesis inhibitor p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) or the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist p-MPPI. After three weeks we used HPLC to measure brain levels of 5-HT and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). We also performed PCPA, p-MPPI and fluoxetine injections in size-matched pairs of females to assess its effect on dominance status. Males and newly sex changed fish showed a trend for higher levels of 5-HIAA and 5-HT/5-HIAA ratio than females. The different implants treatments did not affect the probability of sex change. Interestingly, this species does not seem to fit the pattern seen in other vertebrates where dominant individuals have lower serotonergic activity than subordinates.
Adolescence is associated with potentially stressful challenges, and adolescents may differ from adults in their stress responsivity. To investigate possible age-related differences in stress responsiveness, the consequences of repeated restraint stress (90 min/day for 5 days) on anxiety, as indexed using the elevated plus-maze (EPM) and modified social interaction (SI) tests, were assessed in adolescent and adult Sprague-Dawley male and female rats. Control groups at each age included non-stressed and socially deprived animals, with plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels also measured in another group of rats on days 1 and 5 of stress (sampled 0, 30, 60, 90, and 120 min following restraint onset). While repeatedly restrained animals exhibited similar anxiety levels compared to non-stressed controls in the EPM, restraint stress increased anxiety at both ages in the SI test (as indexed by reduced social investigation and social preference). Daily weight gain measurements, however, revealed more marked stress-related suppression of body weight in adolescents versus adults. Analysis of stress-induced increases in CORT likewise showed that adolescents demonstrated less habituation than adults, embedded within typical sex differences in CORT magnitude (females greater than males) and age differences in CORT recovery (adolescents slower than adults). Despite no observable age-related differences in the behavioral response to restraint, adolescents were more sensitive to the repeated stressor in terms of physiological indices of attenuated weight gain and habituation of stress-induced CORT.
Most people are exposed daily to some level and duration of environmental noise. The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of postnatal exposure to a moderate level of noise on sound level processing by neurons in the primary auditory cortex of rats in adulthood. The cortical neuron response to sound stimuli was investigated in three groups of rats. Two groups, either in the critical period of postnatal hearing development or in adulthood, were exposed to 80 dB SPL interrupted white noise for 8 h/day for 2 weeks. The control group consisted of adult rats that were not exposed to the white noise. Seven weeks later, the minimum threshold, the first spike latency, the dynamic range and the slope of the rate-level functions of cortical neuron response to a sound stimulus were determined. The cortical neurons in young rats exposed to the noise had a significantly higher minimum threshold, a longer first spike latency, a shorter dynamic range and a bigger slope in rate-level functions compared with the control group. The group in which adult rats were exposed to the white noise, however, did not have a significant change of sound level processing by the auditory cortical neurons. These results demonstrated that young rats were more susceptible to noise exposure affecting the cortical neuron processing of sound levels.
The probability distributions for changes in transverse plane fingertip speed are Lvy distributed in human pole balancing. Six subjects learned to balance a pole on their index finger over three sessions while sitting and standing. The Lvy or decay exponent decreased as a function of learning, showing reduced decay in the probability for large speed steps and was significantly smaller in the sitting condition. However, the probability distribution for changes in fingertip speed was truncated so that the probability for large steps was reduced in this condition. These results show a learning-induced tolerance for large speed step sizes and demonstrate that motor learning in continuous tasks may be characterized by changing distributions that reflect sensorimotor skill acquisition.
A growing body of evidence suggests HIV patients are at a greater risk for developing atherosclerosis. However, clinical investigations have generated conflicting results with regard to whether antiretrovirals are independently involved in the development of HIV-associated atherosclerosis. By administering antiretrovirals in an atherogenic mouse model, we determined whether two commonly prescribed antiretrovirals, the protease inhibitor indinavir and the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor AZT, can induce premature atherosclerosis. C57BL/6 mice were administered an atherogenic diet+/-AZT, indinavir, or AZT plus indinavir for 20 weeks. Aortic intima-media thickness (IMT) and cross-sectional area (CSA) were determined. Compared to controls, treatment with AZT, indinavir or AZT plus indinavir, significantly increased aortic IMT and CSA. This suggests that antiretrovirals can directly exacerbate atherogenesis, in the absence of interaction with a retroviral infection. To elucidate the role of oxidant injury in the drug-induced initiation of atherosclerosis, a separate group of mice were treated for 2 weeks with an atherogenic diet+/-AZT, indinavir or AZT plus indinavir. Aortic reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and glutathione/glutathione disulfide (GSH/GSSG) ratios, as well as plasma levels of 8-isoprostanes (8-iso-PGF(2alpha)) and lipids were determined. At 2 weeks, aortic ROS was increased and GSH/GSSG ratios were decreased in all antiretroviral treatment groups. Plasma 8-iso-PGF(2alpha) was increased in the AZT and AZT plus indinavir-treated groups. At 20 weeks, increased ROS production was maintained for the AZT and indinavir treatment groups, and increased 8-iso-PGF(2alpha) levels remained elevated in the AZT treatment group. Cholesterol levels were moderately elevated in the AZT and AZT plus indinavir-treated groups at 2 but not 20 weeks. Conversely, indinavir treatment increased plasma cholesterol at 20 but not 2 weeks. Thus, though effects on plasma lipid levels occurred, with effects of the individual antiretrovirals variable across the treatment period, there was consistent evidence of oxidant injury across both early and late time points. Together with the known metabolic abnormalities induced by antiretrovirals, drug-induced oxidant production may contribute to the development of antiretroviral-associated atherosclerosis.

Rap small GTPases regulate excitatory synaptic strength and morphological plasticity of dendritic spines. Changes in spine structure are mediated by the F-actin cytoskeleton, but the link between Rap activity and actin dynamics is unclear. Here, we report a novel interaction between SPAR, a postsynaptic inhibitor of Rap, and alpha-actinin, a family of actin-cross-linking proteins. SPAR and alpha-actinin engage in bidirectional structural plasticity of dendritic spines: SPAR promotes spine head enlargement, whereas increased alpha-actinin2 expression favors dendritic spine elongation and thinning. Surprisingly, SPAR and alpha-actinin2 can function in an additive rather than antagonistic fashion at the same dendritic spine, generating combination spine/filopodia hybrids. These data identify a molecular pathway bridging the actin cytoskeleton and Rap at synapses, and suggest that formation of spines and filopodia are not necessarily opposing forms of structural plasticity.
Neurofilaments (NFs), the major neuronal intermediate filaments, form networks in vitro that mimic the axonal NF bundles. This report presents evidence for previously unknown regulation of the interactions between NFs by NF-associated ATPases. Two opposite effects on NF gelation in vitro occur at low and high ATP concentration. These findings support the hypothesis that NF bundles in situ are dynamic structures, and raise the possibility that ATP-hydrolyzing mechanoenzymes regulate their organization.
The Remember/Know procedure is designed to easily measure two memory processes (recollection and familiarity) that are thought to serve as the basis for recognition memory decisions. This procedure is widely used in both neuroimaging studies and in studies involving amnesic patients in an effort to identify the brain structures that subserve these two memory processes. An alternative interpretation of this procedure, based on signal-detection theory, holds that Remember judgments and Know judgments are not &quot;process pure&quot; and are instead indicative of different degrees of memory strength (e.g., high degrees of recollection and familiarity vs. low degrees of recollection and familiarity, respectively). In the discipline of experimental psychology, the signal-detection view is widely regarded as a viable (or even preferable) alternative to the process-pure view. In the neuroscience literature, by contrast, the signal-detection interpretation is rarely given serious (or even any) consideration. Because conclusions about the neuroanatomical basis of recollection and familiarity are dependent on one specific interpretation of the Remember/Know procedure, ignoring a viable alternative interpretation may be counterproductive.
Recent hypotheses support the idea that disruption of normal neuronal plasticity mechanisms underlies depression and other psychiatric disorders, and that antidepressant treatment may counteract these changes. In a previous report we found that chronic fluoxetine treatment increases the expression of the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), a molecule involved in neuronal structural plasticity, in the somatosensory cortex. In the present study we intended to find whether, in fact, cell activation and neuronal structural remodeling occur in parallel to changes in the expression of this molecule. Using immunohistochemistry, we found that chronic fluoxetine treatment caused an increase in the expression of the early expression gene c-fos. Golgi staining revealed that this treatment also increased spine density in the principal apical dendrite of pyramidal neurons. These results indicate that, apart from the medial prefrontal cortex or the hippocampus, other cortical regions can respond to chronic antidepressant treatment undergoing neuronal structural plasticity.
Secondary cerebral damage after traumatic brain injury (TBI) occurs following processes partly initiated by gene expression alterations. DNA methylation in promoter regions is one of several epigenetic modifications, that affect the regulation of gene expression and which is a part of the pathophysiological pathway following TBI. We have investigated expression and cellular localization of DNA-methyltransferase (Dnmts) enzymes by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and confocal microscopy. Nuclear as well as cytoplasmic Dnmt1 was observed in astrocytes, in contrast to its normal neuronal nuclear localization. Interestingly, double staining with Dnmt1 and nestin showed co-localization in some reactive astrocytes in the nucleus alone, while in others this expression pattern was evident both in the nucleus and cytoplasm, in a brain region specific manner. In normal brains, and contralateral to the injury, the great majority of Dnmt1 positive cells were neurons. We also observed cytoplasmic Dnmt1 in peri-ventricular nestin expressing cells. Our findings may form the basis for further epigenetic studies following TBI and new therapeutic strategies to treat TBI patients.





Up- and down-regulation of synaptic strength (i.e., long-term potentiation, LTP, long-term depression) is thought to be the primary mechanism mediating experience-dependent plasticity of cortical networks. Recent evidence indicates that the expression of plastic changes at synapses itself is dynamic and regulated, at least in part, by the recent history of synaptic activity, a concept termed metaplasticity. Here, adult, urethane-anesthetized rats were exposed to light or dark conditions for various durations (1, 2, and 5 h) to influence activity levels in the retinal-dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN)-primary visual cortex (V1) pathway. Field potentials, recorded in layer IV of V1, were evoked by light flashes to the retina or single pulse electrical stimulation of the dLGN. Brief (60 s) periods of high frequency (50 Hz) retinal light stimulation results in an increase in visual evoked potential (VEP) amplitude in animals exposed to complete darkness for 2 h, while VEP amplitude failed to show potentiation in animals maintained in darkness for shorter periods. Similarly, weak theta burst stimulation of the dLGN failed to induce LTP in animals maintained under continuous light, but elicited robust LTP after 5 h of dark exposure. These data demonstrate that induction thresholds for sensory- and electrically-induced LTP in the retino-geniculo-cortical pathway of adult rats are dynamically regulated by levels of preceding sensory stimulation. Importantly, such metaplastic adjustments of plasticity in V1 can occur over time-scales significantly shorter than previously recognized.
A large body of evidence suggests that the motor system maintains a forward model that predicts the sensory outcome of movements. When sensory feedback does not match the predicted consequences, a compensatory response corrects for the motor error and the forward model is updated to prevent future errors. Like other motor behaviours, vocalization relies on sensory feedback for the maintenance of forward models. In this study, we used a frequency altered feedback (FAF) paradigm to study the role of auditory feedback in the control of vocal pitch (F0). We adapted subjects to a one semitone shift and induced a perturbation by briefly removing the altered feedback. This was compared to a control block in which a 1 semitone perturbation was introduced into an unshifted trial, or trials were randomly shifted up 1 semitone, and a perturbation was introduced by removing the feedback alteration. The compensation response to mid-utterance perturbations was identical in all conditions, and was always smaller than the compensation to a shift at utterance onset. These results are explained by a change in the control strategy at utterance onset and mid-utterance. At utterance onset, auditory feedback is compared to feedback predicted by a forward model to ensure the pitch goal is achieved. However, after utterance onset, the control strategy switches and stabilization is maintained by comparing feedback to previous F0 production.
Estrogen-mediated neuroprotection is observed in neurodegenerative disease and neurotrauma models; however, determining a mechanism for these effects has been difficult. We propose that estrogen may limit cell death in the nervous system tissue by inhibiting increases in intracellular free Ca(2+). Here, we present data using VSC 4.1 cell line, a ventral spinal motoneuron and neuroblastoma hybrid cell line. Treatment with 1 mM glutamate for 24 h induced apoptosis. When cells were pre-treated with 100 nM 17beta-estradiol (estrogen) for 1 h and then co-treated with glutamate, apoptotic death was significantly attenuated. Estrogen also prevented glutamate-mediated changes in resting membrane potential and membrane capacitance. Treatment with either 17 alpha-estradiol or cell impermeable estrogen did not mimic the findings seen with estrogen. Glutamate treatment significantly increased both intracellular free Ca(2+) and the activities of downstream proteases such as calpain and caspase-3. Estrogen attenuated both the increases in intracellular free Ca(2+) and protease activities. In order to determine the pathway responsible for estrogen-mediated inhibition of these increases in intracellular free Ca(2+), cells were treated with several Ca(2+) entry inhibitors, but only the L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker nifedipine demonstrated cytoprotective effects comparable to estrogen. To expand these findings, cells were treated with the L-type Ca(2+) channel agonist FPL 64176, which increased both cell death and intracellular free Ca(2+), and estrogen inhibited both effects. From these observations, we conclude that estrogen limits glutamate-induced cell death in VSC 4.1 cells through effects on L-type Ca(2+) channels, inhibiting Ca(2+) influx as well as activation of the pro-apoptotic proteases calpain and caspase-3.
Although habituation to stress is a widely observed adaptive mechanism in response to repeated homotypic challenge exposure, its brain location and mechanism of plasticity remains elusive. And while habituation-related plasticity has been suggested to take place in central limbic regions, recent evidence suggests that sensory sites may provide the underlying substrate for this function. For instance, several brainstem, midbrain, thalamic, and/or cortical auditory processing areas, among others, could support habituation-related plasticity to repeated loud noise exposures. In the present study, the auditory thalamus was tested for its putative role in habituation to repeated loud noise exposures, in rats. The auditory thalamus was inactivated reversibly by muscimol injections during repeated loud noise exposures to determine if brainstem or midbrain auditory nuclei would be sufficient to support habituation to this specific stressor, as measured during an additional and drug-free loud noise exposure test. Our results indicate that auditory thalamic inactivation by muscimol disrupts acute HPA axis response specifically to loud noise. Importantly, habituation to repeated loud noise exposures was also prevented by reversible auditory thalamic inactivation, suggesting that this form of plasticity is likely mediated at, or in targets of, the auditory thalamus.
Some existing models of hippocampal function simulate performance in classical conditioning tasks using the error backpropagation algorithm to guide learning (Gluck, M.A., and Myers, C.E., (1993). Hippocampal mediation of stimulus representation: a computational theory. Hippocampus, 3(4), 491-516.). This algorithm is not biologically plausible because it requires information to be passed backward through layers of nodes and assumes that the environment provides information to the brain about what correct outputs should be. Here, we show that the same information-processing function proposed for the hippocampal region in the Gluck and Myers (1993) model can also be implemented in a network without using the backpropagation algorithm. Instead, our newer instantiation of the theory uses only (a) Hebbian learning methods which match more closely with synaptic and associative learning mechanisms ascribed to the hippocampal region and (b) a more plausible representation of input stimuli. We demonstrate here that this new more biologically plausible model is able to simulate various behavioral effects, including latent inhibition, acquired equivalence, sensory preconditioning, negative patterning, and context shift effects. In addition, the newer model is able to address some new phenomena including the effect of the number of training trials on blocking and overshadowing.
Using a Cry11Ba toxin model, predicted loops in domain II were analyzed for their role in receptor binding and toxicity. Peptides corresponding to loops alpha8, 1 and 3, but not loop 2, competed with toxin binding to Aedes midgut membranes. Mutagenesis data reveal loops alpha8, 1 and 3 are involved in toxicity. Loops 1 and 3 are of greater significance in toxicity to Aedes and Culex larvae than to Anopheles. Cry11Ba binds the apical membrane of larval caecae and posterior midgut, and binding can be competed by loop 1 but not by loop 2 peptides. Cry11Ba binds the same regions to which anti-cadherin antibody binds, and this antibody competes with Cry11Ba binding suggesting a possible role of cadherin in toxication.


Fast excitatory neurotransmission is mediated largely by ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs), tetrameric, ligand-gated ion channel proteins comprised of three subfamilies, AMPA, kainate and NMDA receptors, with each subfamily sharing a common, modular-domain architecture. For all receptor subfamilies, active channels are exclusively formed by assemblages of subunits within the same subfamily, a molecular process principally encoded by the amino-terminal domain (ATD). However, the molecular basis by which the ATD guides subfamily-specific receptor assembly is not known. Here we show that AMPA receptor GluR1- and GluR2-ATDs form tightly associated dimers and, by the analysis of crystal structures of the GluR2-ATD, propose mechanisms by which the ATD guides subfamily-specific receptor assembly.
The use of radioisotopes has a long history in biomedical science, and the technique of accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS), an extremely sensitive nuclear physics technique for detection of very low-abundant, stable and long-lived isotopes, has now revolutionized high-sensitivity isotope detection in biomedical research, because it allows the direct determination of the amount of isotope in a sample rather than measuring its decay, and thus the quantitative analysis of the fate of the radiolabeled probes under the given conditions. Since AMS was first used in the early 90's for the analysis of biological samples containing enriched 14C for toxicology and cancer research, the biomedical applications of AMS to date range from in vitro to in vivo studies, including the studies of 1) toxicant and drug metabolism, 2) neuroscience, 3) pharmacokinetics, and 4) nutrition and metabolism of endogenous molecules such as vitamins. In addition, a new drug development concept that relies on the ultrasensitivity of AMS, known as human microdosing, is being used to obtain early human metabolism information of candidate drugs. These various aspects of AMS are reviewed and a perspective on future applications of AMS to biomedical research is provided.
Fiber tracts should use space and energy efficiently, because both resources constrain neural computation. We found for a myelinated tract (optic nerve) that astrocytes use nearly 30% of the space and &gt;70% of the mitochondria, establishing the significance of astrocytes for the brain's space and energy budgets. Axons are mostly thin with a skewed distribution peaking at 0.7 microm, near the lower limit set by channel noise. This distribution is matched closely by the distribution of mean firing rates measured under naturalistic conditions, suggesting that firing rate increases proportionally with axon diameter. In axons thicker than 0.7 microm, mitochondria occupy a constant fraction of axonal volume--thus, mitochondrial volumes rise as the diameter squared. These results imply a law of diminishing returns: twice the information rate requires more than twice the space and energy capacity. We conclude that the optic nerve conserves space and energy by sending most information at low rates over fine axons with small terminal arbors and sending some information at higher rates over thicker axons with larger terminal arbors but only where more bits per second are needed for a specific purpose. Thicker axons seem to be needed, not for their greater conduction velocity (nor other intrinsic electrophysiological purpose), but instead to support larger terminal arbors and more active zones that transfer information synaptically at higher rates.
Although it is a widely studied psychiatric syndrome, major depressive disorder remains a poorly understood illness, especially with regard to the disconnect between treatment initiation and the delayed onset of clinical improvement. We have recently validated chronic social defeat stress in mice as a model in which a depression-like phenotype is reversed by chronic, but not acute, antidepressant administration. Here, we use chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-chip assays--ChIP followed by genome wide promoter array analyses--to study the effects of chronic defeat stress on chromatin regulation in the mouse nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key brain reward region implicated in depression. Our results demonstrate that chronic defeat stress causes widespread and long-lasting changes in gene regulation, including alterations in repressive histone methylation and in phospho-CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein) binding, in the NAc. We then show similarities and differences in this regulation to that observed in another mouse model of depression, prolonged adult social isolation. In the social defeat model, we observed further that many of the stress-induced changes in gene expression are reversed by chronic imipramine treatment, and that resilient mice-those resistant to the deleterious effects of defeat stress-show patterns of chromatin regulation in the NAc that overlap dramatically with those seen with imipramine treatment. These findings provide new insight into the molecular basis of depression-like symptoms and the mechanisms by which antidepressants exert their delayed clinical efficacy. They also raise the novel idea that certain individuals resistant to stress may naturally mount antidepressant-like adaptations in response to chronic stress.
Pitch perception is critical for the perception of speech and music, for object identification, and for auditory scene analysis, whereby representations are derived for each sounding object in the environment from the complex sound wave that reaches the ears. The perceived pitch of a complex sound corresponds to its fundamental frequency. However, removal of energy at the fundamental does not alter the pitch because adults use the harmonics to derive the pitch (Bendor and Wang, 2005; Trainor, 2008). Although sound frequency is represented subcortically, the integration of harmonics into a representation of pitch does not occur until auditory cortex (Bendor and Wang, 2005). Given that auditory cortex is immature in young infants, we examined the development of cortical representations for pitch by measuring electrophysiological (EEG) responses to pitch changes that required processing the pitch of the missing fundamental. Adults and infants 4 months and older showed a mismatch negativity response to these pitch changes, but 3-month-old infants did not. Thus, cortical representations of the pitch of the missing fundamental emerge between 3 and 4 months of age, indicating that there is a profound change in auditory perception for pitch in early infancy.
Children with reading impairments have long been associated with impaired perception for rapidly presented acoustic stimuli and recently have shown deficits for slower features. It is not known whether impairments for low-frequency acoustic features negatively impact processing of speech in reading-impaired individuals. Here we provide neurophysiological evidence that poor readers have impaired representation of the speech envelope, the acoustical cue that provides syllable pattern information in speech. We measured cortical-evoked potentials in response to sentence stimuli and found that good readers indicated consistent right-hemisphere dominance in auditory cortex for all measures of speech envelope representation, including the precision, timing, and magnitude of cortical responses. Poor readers showed abnormal patterns of cerebral asymmetry for all measures of speech envelope representation. Moreover, cortical measures of speech envelope representation predicted up to 41% of the variability in standardized reading scores and 50% in measures of phonological processing across a wide range of abilities. Our findings strongly support a relationship between acoustic-level processing and higher-level language abilities, and are the first to link reading ability with cortical processing of low-frequency acoustic features in the speech signal. Our results also support the hypothesis that asymmetric routing between cerebral hemispheres represents an important mechanism for temporal encoding in the human auditory system, and the need for an expansion of the temporal processing hypothesis for reading disabilities to encompass impairments for a wider range of speech features than previously acknowledged.
We have identified a novel population of cells in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the mammalian brain that expresses beta4 tubulin (betaT4) and has properties of primitive neuroectodermal cells. betaT4 cells are scattered throughout the SVZ of the lateral ventricles in adult human brain and are significantly increased in the SVZs bordering demyelinated white matter in multiple sclerosis brains. In human fetal brain, betaT4 cell densities peak during the latter stages of gliogenesis, which occurs in the SVZ of the lateral ventricles. betaT4 cells represent &lt;2% of the cells present in neurospheres generated from postnatal rat brain but &gt;95% of cells in neurospheres treated with the anti-mitotic agent Ara C. betaT4 cells produce oligodendrocytes, neurons, and astrocytes in vitro. We compared the myelinating potential of betaT4-positive cells with A2B5-positive oligodendrocyte progenitor cells after transplantation (25,000 cells) into postnatal day 3 (P3) myelin-deficient rat brains. At P20, the progeny of betaT4 cells myelinated up to 4 mm of the external capsule, which significantly exceeded that of transplanted A2B5-positive progenitor cells. Such extensive and rapid mature CNS cell generation by a relatively small number of transplanted cells provides in vivo support for the therapeutic potential of betaT4 cells. We propose that betaT4 cells are an endogenous cell source that can be recruited to promote neural repair in the adult telencephalon.

Neural crest stem cells (NCSCs) migrate during embryonic development towards the endoderm-derived pancreas and the interaction between NCSCs and beta-cell progenitors is crucial for their mutual differentiation. In diabetes, loss of beta-cells or impaired beta-cell function is accompanied by nerve degeneration, which contributes to the progression of the disease. Here we show that adult pancreatic islets markedly promote differentiation of NCSCs towards neuronal phenotype in vitro and in vivo after transplantation and increase their migration towards islets. These findings indicate that pancreatic islets can be used to promote differentiation of NCSCs towards neuronal phenotype and that this in-vitro system may help elucidate interactions between NCSCs and healthy or diseased beta-cells.
Using a voltage-sensitive dye, the spatiotemporal dynamics of prefrontal neuronal activity evoked by electrical stimulation of the ventral tegmental area were visualized through optical imaging in anaesthetized rats. Even single-pulse stimulation of the ventral tegmental area elicited a widespread wave of depolarization followed by hyperpolarization in the dorsomedial shoulder region of the prefrontal cortex. We also examined the contribution of dopaminergic transmission to the optical signals by comparing normal and 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. The 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of ventral tegmental area resulted in a complete absence of depolarization in the prefrontal cortex, although hyperpolarization was preserved. These results indicate that dopaminergic neurons are needed to generate excitatory responses in the prefrontal cortex.
To better understand how individual genes and experience influence behavior, the role of a single homeotic unit, hoxb4a, was comprehensively analyzed in vivo by clonal and retrograde fluorescent labeling of caudal hindbrain neurons in a zebrafish enhancer-trap YFP line. A quantitative spatiotemporal neuronal atlas showed hoxb4a activity to be highly variable and mosaic in rhombomere 7-8 reticular, motoneuronal and precerebellar nuclei with expression decreasing differentially in all subgroups through juvenile stages. The extensive Hox mosaicism and widespread pleiotropism demonstrate that the same transcriptional protein plays a role in the development of circuits that drive behaviors from autonomic through motor function including cerebellar regulation. We propose that the continuous presence of hoxb4a positive neurons may provide a developmental plasticity for behavior-specific circuits to accommodate experience- and growth-related changes. Hence, the ubiquitous hoxb4a pleitropism and modularity likely offer an adaptable transcriptional element for circuit modification during both growth and evolution.

Cognitive and affective strategies are frequently used in clinical practice to modulate pain perception. They seem to rely on a descending neural system, which is able to inhibit the afferent nociceptive signal. Herein, we will review experiments on healthy volunteers, which explored the central mechanisms involved in the change in pain perception due to the modulation of attention, expectations or mood. A growing understanding of the cognitive and emotional modulation of pain perception has validated empirical practices in the acute pain context. This body of work, associated to the investigation of the dysfunction of this modualtion in chronic pain patients, could lead to developing new therapies, which would complement current treatments.


Prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) is expressed in nociceptive neurons and functions as an ectonucleotidase. Injection of the secretory isoform of PAP has potent antinociceptive effects in mouse models of chronic pain. These data suggested that a small molecule activator of PAP may have utility as a novel therapeutic for chronic pain, while inhibitors could be used to acutely inhibit PAP in vitro and in vivo. To identify small molecule modulators of PAP activity, we validated a high throughput, fluorescence-based biochemical assay and then used this assay to screen a compound library. We decreased the frequency of false positive activators by subtracting compound fluorescence from the final assay fluorescence. This approach significantly reduced the number of false positive activators found in the screen. While no activators were confirmed, seven novel inhibitors of PAP were identified. Our results suggest this high throughput assay could be used to identify small molecule modulators of PAP activity.
Functional imaging has revolutionized the neurosciences. In the pain field it has dramatically altered our understanding of how the brain undergoes significant functional, anatomical and chemical changes in patients with chronic pain. However, most studies have been performed in adults. Because functional imaging is non-invasive and can be performed in awake individuals, applications in children have become more prevalent, but only recently in the pain field. Measures of changes in the brains of children have important implications in understanding neural plasticity in response to acute and chronic pain in the developing brain. Such findings may have implications for treatments in children affected by chronic pain and provide novel insights into chronic pain syndromes in adults. In this review we summarize this potential and discuss specific concerns related to the imaging of pain in children.

Language is often perceived together with visual information. Recent experimental evidences indicated that, during spoken language comprehension, the brain can immediately integrate visual information with semantic or syntactic information from speech. Here we used the mismatch negativity to further investigate whether prosodic information from speech could be immediately integrated into a visual scene context or not, and especially the time course and automaticity of this integration process. Sixteen Chinese native speakers participated in the study. The materials included Chinese spoken sentences and picture pairs. In the audiovisual situation, relative to the concomitant pictures, the spoken sentence was appropriately accented in the standard stimuli, but inappropriately accented in the two kinds of deviant stimuli. In the purely auditory situation, the speech sentences were presented without pictures. It was found that the deviants evoked mismatch responses in both audiovisual and purely auditory situations; the mismatch negativity in the purely auditory situation peaked at the same time as, but was weaker than that evoked by the same deviant speech sounds in the audiovisual situation. This pattern of results suggested immediate integration of prosodic information from speech and visual information from pictures in the absence of focused attention.
In the CNS, juxtanodin (JN) is an actin-binding oligodendroglial protein that functions to promote differentiation of the host cells during postnatal development. In other tissues, JN expression and function remain unknown. We surveyed rat peripheral nerve, skeletal muscle and various epithelial tissues using immunoblotting and light-microscopic immunohistochemistry, and found prominent JN expression only in the olfactory epithelium (OE). Confocal and immunoelectron microscopy further revealed specific JN expression in the glia-like sustentacular cells and in the ductal cells of Bowman's glands. JN immunoreactivity was especially prominent in sustentacular cell apices extending superficially from the zone of terminal webs and associated adherens junctions, through the zone of tight junctions, to the roots of sustentacular microvilli. Moderate JN was also found in the supranuclear regions of sustentacular cells, whereas distal parts of sustentacular microvilli were devoid of JN. Distribution of JN in the OE differed from that of class III beta-tubulin or nestin, but partially overlapped with a zone of intense F-actin staining near the OE mucous surface. Together these results identify JN as a marker protein for OE sustentacular cells, and support the glia-like nature of OE sustentacular cells. Functionally, JN in the OE might help in the molecular specialization of distinct compartments of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), in the interaction of sustentacular cells with ORNs, and/or in maturation/maintenance of sustentacular cells.
In Drosophila, mushroom bodies are centers for higher order behavior. Mushroom body neurons consist of three distinct types of neuronal cells, alpha, alpha'/beta', and alpha/beta, which are all generated by the same neuroblasts. The mechanism by which a single neuroblast generates three different types of mushroom body neurons is a compelling area of research. Here, we report that bunched (bun) is expressed only in alpha/beta-type mushroom body neurons and that mutation of the bun gene only affects the development of alpha/beta neurons. Reduced bun expression causes decreased and premature arrest of neuroblast cell division, which results in reduced numbers of alpha/beta neurons and thin axon bundled formation. We propose that bun acts as a specific factor in regulating neuroblast mitotic activity during the development of alpha/beta neurons.
Stroke is the leading cause of disability in the industrialized world and it is estimated that up to 8% of stroke victims suffer from some form of central post-stroke pain (CPSP). Thalamic syndrome is form of central pain that typically results from stroke in the thalamus. In the present study, we describe the development and characterization of a rat model of thalamic CPSP. This model is based on a hemorrhagic stroke lesion in the ventral posterolateral nucleus of the thalamus, one of the reported causes of thalamic syndrome in humans. Behavioral analysis showed that animals displayed hyperesthesia in response to mechanical pinch stimulation, with sensitivity localized to the hind limb. This response appeared within 7 days of the intra-thalamic hemorrhage. Animals also showed increased thermal sensitivity in the contralateral hind limb. Histopathology indicated the presence of activated microglia adjacent to the core of hemorrhagic lesions in the thalamus. Neutrophils were confined to the hemorrhage core, indicating that they entered in the initial bleed. By 7 days, bands of activated microglia and astrocytes separated the hematoma from surviving neurons at the edge of the lesion. We did not observe any terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) positive neurons beyond the immediate hematoma at 1, 3, or 7 days after hemorrhage. Surviving neurons were located in the vicinity of activated microglia and astrocytes at the outer edge of the hematoma. Thus, thalamic hemorrhage produces a confined lesion that destroys the tissue within the initial bleed, with little or no neuron death beyond the hemorrhage core. Surviving neurons surrounded by activated glial cells likely contribute to neuropathic pain in this model. This thalamic hemorrhage model is useful for studying the neuropathology and physiology of thalamic syndrome, and developing therapeutics for central post-stroke pain.
Evidence from developmental and regeneration studies of the cochlea and other tissues gives reason to hypothesize a role for nonneural cells in the growth and regeneration of cochlear spiral ganglion nerve fibers. We examined the spontaneous associations of regrowing neurites and nonneural cells in mixed cultures of dissociated newborn mouse spiral ganglia. After 7 days in vitro, nonneural cells formed a confluent layer in the culture well. Regrowing neurites grew atop this layer, forming non-uniform patterns that were similar to those formed by endogenously expressed laminin-1, entactin and integrin beta4, but not fibronectin or tenascin. In cultures grown for 42 h and maintained in three different growth media, all regrowing neurites were preferentially associated with spindle-shaped nonneural cells. The spindle-shaped cells incorporated bromodeoxyuridine in culture and were immunoreactive for the proteins S100, laminin-1, laminin-2, SRY-related high-mobility-group box 10 transcription factor (Sox10), neurotrophin receptor (P75) and connexin29 but negative for fibronectin and glial fibrillary acidic protein. These cells existed in the culture within a much larger, general population of fibronectin positive cells. Immunolabeling of fixed cochleas from neonatal mice localized Sox10, P75 and connexin29, to peripheral nerve bundles. The observed expressions of protein markers and the bipolar, spindle shape of the neurite-associated cells indicate that they are derived in vitro from the original Schwann or satellite cells in the ganglion or spiral lamina. The spontaneous and preferential association of neurites in culture with mitotic Schwann cells highlights the potential contribution neurite-Schwann cell interactions may have in promoting the growth and regrowth of damaged spiral ganglion neurons in the cochlea.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been suggested to play a major role in aminoglycoside-induced hair cell (HC) loss, but are difficult to detect. Moreover, ROS can occur normally in cells where they have roles in metabolism, cell signaling and other processes. Two new probes, aminophenyl fluorescein (APF) and hydroxyphenyl fluorescein (HPF) are dyes which selectively detect highly-reactive oxygen species (hROS), those most associated with cellular damage. We assessed the presence of hROS in the neonatal rat organ of Corti during chronic exposure to 50 microM gentamicin in vitro, to examine the relationship between cell damage and hROS across HC type and across the three cochlear turns. hROS were initially detected at 48 hours (h), with an increase at 72 h and persistence until at least 96 h. At 48 h, hROS were restricted to outer HCs and occurred prior to loss of stereocilia. At 72 h, outer HCs showed both hROS and stereocilia loss, and hROS were noted in a few inner HCs. Basal turn HCs showed more hROS than middle turn HCs. Very little hROS accumulation or stereocilia loss was observed in the apical turn, even at 72 h. First row outer HCs were most vulnerable to gentamicin-induced hROS, followed by second and then third row outer HCs. Inner HCs behaved similarly to third row outer HCs. By 96 h stereocilia damage was extensive, but surviving HCs showed persisting fluorescence. APF consistently showed more fluorescence than HPF. The results suggest that hROS accumulation is an important initial step in gentamicin-induced HC damage, and that the differential sensitivity of HCs in the organ of Corti is closely related to differences in hROS accumulation.
Until recently it was generally accepted that the only neurotransmitter to be released at central synapses of somatic motoneurons was acetylcholine. However, studies on young mice (P0-10) have provided pharmacological evidence indicating that glutamate may act as a cotransmitter with acetylcholine at synapses between motoneurons and Renshaw cells. We performed a series of anatomical experiments on axon collaterals obtained from intracellularly labeled motoneurons from an adult cat and labeled by retrograde transport in adult rats to determine if glutamate is co-localized with acetylcholine by these terminals. We could find no evidence for the presence of vesicular glutamate transporters in motoneuron axon terminals of either species. In addition, we were unable to establish any obvious relationship between motoneuron terminals and the R2 subunit of the AMPA receptor (GluR2). However we did observe a population of cholinergic terminals in lamina VII which did not originate from motoneurons but were immunoreactive for the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 and formed appositions to GluR2 subunits. These were smaller than motoneuron terminals and, unlike them, formed no relationship with Renshaw cells. The evidence suggests that glutamate does not act as a cotransmitter with acetylcholine at central synapses of motoneurons in the adult cat and rat. However, glutamate is present in a population of cholinergic terminals which probably originate from interneurons where its action is via an AMPA receptor.
The cerebellar nuclei integrate inhibitory input from Purkinje cells with excitatory input from mossy and climbing fiber collaterals and are the sole cerebellar output. Numerous studies have shown that the cerebellar cortex is highly compartmentalized into hundreds of genetically determined, reproducible topographic units--transverse zones and parasagittal stripes--that can be identified through the expression patterns of numerous molecules. The Purkinje cell stripes project to the cerebellar nuclei. However, there is no known commensurate topographic complexity in the cerebellar nuclei. Rather, conventional anatomical descriptions identify four major subdivisions--the medial, anterior and posterior interposed, and lateral nuclei--together with a few intranuclear subdivisions. To begin to address the apparent complexity gap, we have used a panel of antigens and transgenes to reveal a reproducible molecular heterogeneity in the mouse cerebellar nuclei. Based on the differential expression patterns, singly and in combination, a new cerebellar nuclear topographic map has been constructed. This reveals the subdivision of the cerebellar nuclei into at least 12 reproducible expression domains. We hypothesize that such heterogeneity is the counterpart of the zones and stripes of the cerebellar cortex.
The role of chemokines in immune function is clearly established. Recent evidence suggests that these molecules also play an important role in the central nervous system as modulators of neuronal activity. The chemokine CXCL12 has been identified in several regions of the adult rat brain including the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area and caudate putamen. CXCR4, a receptor activated by CXCL12, is expressed by dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. The present study tested the effects of intracranial injections of CXCL12 on cocaine-induced locomotion and stereotypic activity in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Results demonstrate that intracerebral ventricular administration of CXCL12 (25 ng/4 microl) 15 min prior to cocaine (20 mg/kg intraperitoneal (i.p.)) produced a significant potentiation of both ambulatory and stereotypic activity as compared to cocaine alone. The effects of CXCL12 were blocked by administration of the selective CXCR4 antagonist, AMD 3100. Administration of CXCL12 into specific brain regions was performed to further understand the site of action of CXCL12. Bilateral administration of CXCL12 (25 ng/0.5 microl) into the ventral tegmental area 15 min prior to cocaine (20 mg/kg i.p.) significantly potentiated cocaine-induced ambulatory activity, whereas microinjections of CXCL12 into the caudate putamen selectively increased stereotypy. Conversely, administration of CXCL12 into the lateral shell of the nucleus accumbens resulted in an inhibition of cocaine-stimulated ambulatory activity. No alterations in ambulatory or stereotypic activity were observed following CXCL12 administration into the core of the nucleus accumbens. These results demonstrate that CXCL12 can modulate the behavioral effects produced by cocaine in a brain region-specific manner.
As part of our systematic exploration of chemical determinants for the olfactory potency of vapors towards humans, we measured concentration-detection functions for the odor of the homologous n-alkylbenzenes toluene, ethylbenzene, butylbenzene, hexylbenzene, and octylbenzene. A vapor delivery device based on dynamic olfactometry and calibrated by gas chromatography, served to test groups of 16 to 17 participants. Subjects were young adults from both genders, normosmics, and nonsmokers. Odor functions were tightly modeled by a sigmoid (logistic) function, both at the group and the individual level. Odor detection thresholds (ODTs), defined as the concentration producing a detectability halfway between chance and perfect detection, decreased with alkyl chain length from toluene (79 ppb) to butylbenzene (2.5 ppb), and then increased form butyl to octylbenzene (89 ppb). The &quot;U&quot;-shaped trend of ODTs as a function of alkyl chain length indicated a loss of odor potency beyond a certain molecular size, a phenomenon recently described for chemosensory irritation (chemesthesis) and that will need consideration in structure-activity models of chemosensory potency. Interindividual ODTs' variability for any single odorant amounted to one order of magnitude, in agreement with recent studies of other homologous series but quite smaller than commonly depicted.
Chemical-induced seizures up-regulated brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA expression. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of endogenous opioids preferentially activating mu opioid receptor (MOR) could also increase BDNF mRNA expression. The aim of this study was to determine to what extent i.c.v. administration of synthetic MOR-selective agonists in rats can modulate both seizure activity and up-regulation of BDNF mRNA expression. Effects and potencies of i.c.v. administration of morphine and [D-Ala(2), N-Me-Phe(4), Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO), were directly investigated by scoring behavioral seizures and measuring BDNF mRNA expression. In addition, effects of the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone and antiepileptic drugs, diazepam, phenobarbital, and valproate, on i.c.v. MOR agonist-induced behavioral seizures and up-regulation of BDNF mRNA expression were determined. A single i.c.v. administration of morphine (10-100 microg) or DAMGO (0.15-1.5 microg) dose-dependently elicited behavioral seizures and increased BDNF mRNA expression in the widespread brain regions. However, s.c. administration of MOR agonists neither produced behavioral seizures nor increased BDNF mRNA expression. Pretreatment with naloxone 1 mg/kg significantly reduced behavioral seizure scores and the up-regulation of BDNF mRNA expression elicited by i.c.v. morphine or DAMGO. Similarly, diazepam 10 mg/kg and phenobarbital 40 mg/kg significantly blocked i.c.v. MOR agonist-induced actions. Pretreatment with valproate 300 mg/kg only attenuated behavioral seizures, but it did not affect morphine-induced increase of BDNF mRNA expression. This study provides supporting evidence that seizure activity plays an important role in the up-regulation of BDNF mRNA expression elicited by central MOR activation and that decreased inhibitory action of GABAergic system through the modulation on GABA receptor synaptic function by central MOR activation is involved in its regulation of BDNF mRNA expression.
To investigate the effects of chronic diabetes on baroreflex control of renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA), OVE26 diabetic (transgenic mouse line which develops hyperglycemia within the first 3 weeks after birth) and FVB control mice 5-6 months old were studied. Under anesthesia, RSNA in response to sodium nitroprusside (SNP)- and phenylephrine (PE)-induced mean arterial pressure changes (DeltaMAP) were measured. Baroreflex-induced inhibition of RSNA during PE infusion was characterized using the sigmoid logistic function curve. Baroreflex-induced excitation of RSNA during SNP infusion was characterized by the RSNA vs. DeltaMAP relationship. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) responses to the left aortic depressor nerve (ADN) stimulation were evaluated. Compared to FVB control, we found in OVE26 mice that (1) RSNA in response to MAP increase during PE infusion was dramatically reduced, as characterized by the maximal gain of the RSNA sigmoid logistic function curve (FVB: -20.0+/-5.1; OVE26: -7.6+/-0.8%/mm Hg, P&lt;0.05); (2) RSNA in response to MAP decrease during SNP infusion was also attenuated (P&lt;0.05); (3) MAP responses to ADN stimulation were reduced (P&lt;0.05). We concluded that chronic diabetes impairs baroreflex control of RSNA in OVE26 diabetic mice. The use of the transgenic OVE26 diabetic mouse model may underlie a foundation for the further understanding of diabetes-induced autonomic neuropathy.
To investigate developmental changes in the neural responses to a biological motion stimulus, we measured event-related potentials (ERPs) in 50 children aged from 7 to 14 years, and 10 adults. Two kinds of visual stimuli were presented: a point-light walker (PLW) stimulus and a scrambled point-light walker (sPLW) stimulus as a control. The sPLW stimulus had the same number of point-lights and the same velocity vector of point-lights as the PLW stimulus, but the initial starting positions were randomized. Consistent with previous ERP studies, one positive peak (P1) and two negative peaks (N1 and N2) were observed at around 130, 200 and 330 ms, respectively, in bilateral occipitotemporal regions, in all age groups. The latency of the P1 component was significantly shorter for the PLW than sPLW stimulus in all age groups, whereas the amplitude was significantly larger for the PLW than sPLW stimulus only for the 7-year-old group. The P1 amplitude and N1 latency were linearly decreased with age. The negative amplitudes of both N1 and N2 components of the PLW stimulus were significantly larger than those of the sPLW stimulus in all age groups. P1-N1 amplitude was changed by development, but not N2 amplitude. These results suggest that the intensity (P1) and timing (N1) of early visual processing for the PLW stimulus changed linearly throughout childhood and P1-N1 amplitude at occipitotemporal electrodes and N1 latency in 10-year-olds, but not 11-year-olds, was significantly larger than that in adults. For the amplitudes of the N2 component in response to PLW and sPLW stimuli in 7-8-year-old subjects were not statistically different from those in adults at occipitotemporal electrodes. These results suggest that the neural response to the PLW stimulus has developed by 10 years of age at the occipitotemporal electrode.
Recent work has demonstrated that overt reading influences the excitability of the language-dominant hand motor cortex. However, this effect was related to speech output, whereas results on silent reading have been inconsistent, and have not allowed for systematic investigation of the different stages of word recognition. To investigate a possible modulation of the cortical excitability mediating hand movements through different stages of covert reading, motor evoked potentials (MEP) from hand muscles in right-handed subjects were recorded. We showed a significant increase of the excitability of the hand motor cortex of the dominant hemisphere during late stages of covert word reading, whereas processing of abstract shapes had no effect and covert articulation induced a decrease in hand motor cortex excitability. There was no significant change of MEP amplitudes during earlier stages of covert reading in the dominant hemisphere or in the non-dominant hemisphere. Our results demonstrate a functional connection between cortical networks mediating linguistic processing and hand movements without concurrent activation of the motor cortex through overt articulation at late stages of word reading, which have been shown to involve converging activation of classic left frontal language regions. We speculate that the effect reported here is related to a cortical network mediating gestures which are a part of verbal communication. This supports recent theories on language evolution which postulate that language emerged through manual gestures.
Fas-associated protein with death domain (FADD) is a multifunctional protein that can induce both apoptotic and non-apoptotic actions. Recently, FADD was found downregulated in the prefrontal cortex of opiate abusers, which suggested an attenuation of Fas death signals in human addicts. Phosphorylation of FADD (Ser194) has been reported to regulate its non-apoptotic activity, which might include the induction of neuroplastic effects in the brain. This postmortem brain study examined the status of phosphorylated (p)-Ser194 FADD and signaling pathways involved in neuroplasticity in the prefrontal cortex (BA 9) of short-term (ST) and long-term (LT) heroin or methadone abusers. In these subjects, the content of monomeric p-FADD was significantly increased when compared with that in age-, gender-, and postmortem delay-matched controls (all addicts: 65%, n=26; ST abuse: 51%; n=11; LT abuse: 75%, n=15). Oligomeric p-FADD forms were modestly increased (11%-23%). At the subcellular level, opiate addiction upregulated the expression of monomeric p-FADD in the nucleus (110%) and that of p-oligomers in the cytosol (66%). In LT opiate addicts (but not ST abusers), a pronounced downregulation of p-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 (52%) and p-c-Jun NH(2)-terminal protein kinase (JNK)1/2 (51%), but not p-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), was quantified in the prefrontal cortex (total homogenate and subcellular compartments). Similarly, the signaling pathway mediated by p-phosphoprotein enriched in astrocytes of 15 kDa (PEA-15) protein and its phosphorylating kinase p-Akt1 was also downregulated in cortical homogenate (43% and 41%, respectively) and cytosolic preparations of chronic opiate addicts. The results indicate that opiate addiction in humans is associated with an altered balance between p-Ser194 FADD (increased) and total FADD (decreased) in brain, which may favor its neuroplastic actions. The interaction between p-FADD (upregulated) and neuronal pathways (downregulated) could play a relevant role in mediating specific forms of structural and behavioral neuroplasticity.
Peptide 19 is a 7.6 kDa polypeptide which can bind to calmodulin and inhibit calcium-calmodulin signaling. In this study, peptide 19-immunoreactivity was examined in the rat superior cervical ganglion. In the ganglion, 54.8% of postganglionic sympathetic neuron profiles were immunoreactive for peptide 19. These neuron profiles were small- to medium-sized and measured 87-845 microm(2) (mean+/-SD = 343+/-111 microm(2)). Double immunofluorescence method revealed that 99.9% of peptide 19-containing neurons had neuropeptide Y in the superior cervical ganglion. Retrograde neuronal tracing and immunohistochemical studies also demonstrated that peptide 19 was common in postganglionic sympathetic neurons which innervated the facial skin and masseter but not the submandibular gland; 55.6% and 75.2% of cutaneous and muscular neuron profiles, respectively, contained peptide 19. Only 9.8% of glandular neurons were immunoreactive for peptide 19. These findings indicate that the content of peptide 19 in superior cervical ganglion neurons depends on their cell sizes and peripheral projections. On the other hand, colchicine injection into the superior cervical ganglion decreased the number of peptide 19-positive neurons (30.7%) compared to saline injection (53.3%). In contrast, the treatment induced nicotine adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase activity in 12.7% of postganglionic sympathetic neurons. Double stain demonstrated that 56.3% of nicotine adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase-positive neurons co-expressed peptide 19. These findings indicate that colchicine treatment causes decrease of peptide 19 expression and increase of nitric oxide synthase activity.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) water channels expressed on glia have been implicated in maintaining the volume of extracellular space (ECS). A previous diffusion study employing small cation tetramethylammonium and a real-time iontophoretic (RTI) method demonstrated an increase of about 25% in the ECS volume fraction (alpha) in the neocortex of AQP4(-/-) mice compared to AQP4(+/+) mice but no change in the hindrance imposed to diffusing molecules (tortuosity lambda). In contrast, other diffusion studies employing large molecules (dextran polymers) and a fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) method measured a decrease of about 10%-20% in lambda in the neocortex of AQP4(-/-) mice. These conflicting findings on lambda would imply that large molecules diffuse more readily in the enlarged ECS of AQP4(-/-) mice than in wild type but small molecules do not. To test this hypothesis, we used integrative optical imaging (IOI) to measure tortuosity with a small Alexa Fluor 488 (molecular weight [MW] 547, lambda(AF)) and two large dextran polymers (MW 3000, lambda(dex3) and MW 75,000, lambda(dex75)) in the in vitro neocortex of AQP4(+/+) and AQP4(-/-) mice. We found that lambda(AF)=1.59, lambda(dex3)=1.76 and lambda(dex75)=2.30 obtained in AQP4(-/-) mice were not significantly different from lambda(AF)=1.61, lambda(dex3)=1.76, and lambda(dex75)=2.33 in AQP4(+/+) mice. These IOI results demonstrate that lambda measured with small and large molecules each remain unchanged in the enlarged ECS of AQP4(-/-) mice compared to values in AQP4(+/+) mice. Further analysis suggests that the FRAP method yields diffusion parameters not directly comparable with those obtained by IOI or RTI methods. Our findings have implications for the role of glial AQP4 in maintaining the ECS structure.
The bio-active peptide, angiotensin II (Ang II), has been suggested to exert a neuromodulatory effect on inner retinal neurons. In this study, we examined the distribution of angiotensin receptors (ATRs) in the developing and mature rat retina and optic nerve using immunofluorescence immunocytochemistry. Double-labeling experiments were performed with established markers to identify different retinal cell populations. In adult retinae, ATRs were observed on neurons involved in &quot;ON&quot; pathways of neurotransmission. Angiotensin II type 1 receptors (AT(1)Rs) were expressed by a sub-population of &quot;ON&quot; cone bipolar cells that also labeled for G alpha(0) and islet-1. Extra-neuronal expression of AT(1)Rs was evident on retinal astrocytes, Mller cells and blood vessels. Immunoreactivity for the angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AT(2)R) was observed on conventional and displaced GABAergic amacrine cells. Co-localization studies showed that AT(2)R-expressing amacrine cells constituted at least two separate sub-populations. Cell counts revealed that all wide-field amacrine cells expressing protein kinase C-alpha were also AT(2)R-positive; a further subset of amacrine cells expressing AT(2)Rs and stratifying in sublamina &quot;b&quot; of the inner plexiform layer (IPL) was identified. Developmental expression of AT(1)Rs was dynamic, involving multiple inner neuronal classes. At postnatal day 8 (P8), AT(1)R immunoreactivity was observed on putative ganglion cells. The characteristic bipolar cell labeling observed in adults was not evident until P13. In contrast, AT(2)Rs were detected as early as P2 and localized specifically to amacrine cells from this age onward. These data provide further evidence for the potential role of angiotensin II in the modulation of retinal neurons and glia. The differential pattern of expression of these receptors across these cell types is similar to that observed in the brain and suggests that a similar functional role for Ang II may also exist within the retina.
Although epidermal growth factor (EGF) and neuregulin-1 are neurotrophic factors for mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons and implicated in schizophrenia, the cellular localization and developmental regulation of their receptors (ErbB1-4) remain to be characterized. Here we investigated the distributions of mRNA for ErbB1-4 in the midbrain of the developing mouse with in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The expression of ErbB1 and ErbB2 mRNAs was relatively high at the perinatal stage and frequently colocalized with mRNA for S100beta and Olig2, markers for immature astrocytes or oligodendrocyte precursors. Modest signal for ErbB1 mRNA was also detected in a subset of dopaminergic neurons. ErbB3 mRNA was detectable at postnatal day 10, peaked at postnatal day 18, and colocalized with 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase, a marker for oligodendrocytes. In contrast, ErbB4 mRNA was exclusively localized in neurons throughout development. Almost all of ErbB4 mRNA-expressing cells (94%-96%) were positive for tyrosine hydroxylase in the substantia nigra pars compacta but 66%-78% in the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra pars lateralis. Conversely, 92%-99% of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells expressed ErbB4 mRNA. The robust and restricted expression of ErbB4 mRNA in the midbrain dopaminergic neurons suggests that ErbB4 ligands, neuregulin-1 and other EGF-related molecules, contribute to development or maintenance of this neuronal population.
The objective of this study was to measure opioid release in the spinal cord during acute and long-term inflammation using mu-opioid receptor (MOR) internalization. In particular, we determined whether opioid release occurs in the segments receiving the noxious signals or in the entire spinal cord, and whether it involves supraspinal signals. Internalization of neurokinin 1 receptors (NK1Rs) was measured to track the intensity of the noxious stimulus. Rats received peptidase inhibitors intrathecally to protect opioids from degradation. Acute inflammation of the hind paw with formalin induced moderate MOR internalization in the L5 segment bilaterally, whereas NK1R internalization occurred only ipsilaterally. MOR internalization was restricted to the lumbar spinal cord, regardless of whether the peptidase inhibitors were injected in a lumbar or thoracic site. Formalin-induced MOR internalization was substantially reduced by isoflurane anesthesia. It was also markedly reduced by a lidocaine block of the cervical-thoracic spinal cord (which did not affect the evoked NK1R internalization) indicating that spinal opioid release is mediated supraspinally. In the absence of peptidase inhibitors, formalin and hind paw clamp induced a small amount of MOR internalization, which was significantly higher than in controls. To study spinal opioid release during chronic inflammation, we injected complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) in the hind paw and peptidase inhibitors intrathecally. Two days later, no MOR or NK1R internalization was detected. Furthermore, CFA inflammation decreased MOR internalization induced by clamping the inflamed hind paw. These results show that acute inflammation, but not chronic inflammation, induces segmental opioid release in the spinal cord that involves supraspinal signals.
While reward-dependent facilitation of phasic dopamine signaling is well documented at both the cell bodies and terminals, little is known regarding fast dopamine transmission under aversive conditions. Exposure to aggressive confrontation is extremely aversive and stressful for many species including rats. The present study used fast-scan cyclic voltammetry and multiunit recording to determine if aggressive encounters and subsequent social defeat affect burst firing of ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine neurons and accumbal dopamine transients in defeated rats. Significant increases in the frequency of transient dopamine release were observed during interactions with an aggressive rat but not with a familiar cage mate. In agreement with voltammetric results, significant increases in burst frequency were detected in the VTA dopamine firing patterns during an aggressive confrontation; however, the number of spikes per burst remained unchanged. We found that neurons with lower burst rates under home cage conditions did not switch from nonbursting to bursting types, while neurons with higher burst levels showed amplified increases in bursting. This study demonstrates for the first time that aggressive confrontations in defeated rats are associated with increases in phasic dopamine transmission in the mesolimbic pathway.
The dihydropyridines nifedipine, nimodipine and Bay K 8644 are widely used as pharmacological tools to assess the contribution of L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels to a variety of neuronal processes including synaptic transmission, excitability and second messenger signaling. These compounds are still used in neuronal preparations despite evidence from cardiac tissue and heterologous expression systems that they block several voltage-dependent K(+) (Kv) channels. Both because these compounds have been used to assess the relative contribution of L-type Ca(2+) channels to several different processes in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and because a relatively wide variety of Kv channels present in other neuronal populations is present in DRG neurons, we determined the extent to which dihydropyridines block Kv currents in these neurons. Standard whole cell patch clamp techniques were used to study acutely disassociated adult rat DRG neurons. All three dihydropyridines tested blocked Kv currents in DRG neurons; IC(50) values (concentration resulting in an inhibition that is 50% of maximum) for nifedipine and nimodipine-induced block of sustained Kv currents were 14.5 and 6.6 microM, respectively. The magnitude of sustained current block was 44+/-1.6%, 60+/-2%, and 56+/-2.9% with 10 microM nifedipine, nimodipine and Bay K 8644, respectively. Current block was occluded by neither 4-aminopyridine (5 mM) nor tetraethylammonium (135 mM). Dihydropyridine-induced block of Kv currents was not associated with a shift in the voltage-dependence of current activation or inactivation, the recovery from inactivation, or voltage dependent block. However, there was a small use-dependence to the dihydropyridine-induced block. Our results suggest that several types of Kv channels in DRG neurons are blocked by mechanisms distinct from those underlying block of Kv channels in cardiac myocytes. Importantly, our results suggest that if investigators wish to explore the contribution of L-type Ca(2+) channels to neuronal function, they should consider alternative strategies for the manipulation of these channels than the use of dihydropyridines.
Neuroinflammation has been linked to the pathologies of Alzheimer's disease (AD), however, its effects on beta-amyloid (Abeta) burden are unclear. This study investigated the role of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) in regulating neuroinflammation and Abeta deposition in a transgenic mouse model of AD. The APPswe/PS1dE9 mice and their wild-type controls received either the NF-kappaB inhibitor pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC, i.p. 50 mg/kg daily) or saline starting at 7 months of age for 5 months. Expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), tissue necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) precursor protein and microtubule-associated protein 2 was determined, and astrogliosis was assessed. Hippocampal and cortical levels of Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42) were measured using ELISA. PDTC treatment effectively suppressed NF-kappaB signaling in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice as evidenced by the abolishment of COX-2 and TNFalpha induction. Inhibition of NF-kappaB further attenuated astrogliosis in the transgenic AD mice, yet markedly increased cerebral Abeta(1-42) burden. Our findings suggest that NF-kappaB can mediate induction of COX-2, TNFalpha and astrogliosis in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice. Additionally, these results support the idea that neuroinflammation contributes to the clearance of Abeta.
We recorded 872 single units across the complete sleep-waking cycle in the mouse preoptic area (POA) and basal forebrain (BFB), which are deeply involved in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness (W). Of these, 552 were sleep-active, 96 were waking-active, 106 were active during both waking and paradoxical sleep (PS), and the remaining 118 were state-indifferent. Among the 872, we distinguished slow-wave sleep (SWS)-specific, SWS/PS-specific, PS-specific, W-specific, and W/PS-specific neurons, the last group being further divided into specific tonic type I slow (TI-Ss) and specific tonic type I rapid (TI-Rs) both discharging specifically in association with cortical activation during both W and PS. Both the SWS/PS-specific and PS-specific neurons were distributed throughout a wide region of the POA and BFB, whereas the SWS-specific neurons were mainly located in the middle and ventral half of the POA and adjacent BFB, as were the W-specific and W/PS-specific neurons. At the transition from waking to sleep, the majority of SWS-specific and all SWS/PS-specific neurons fired after the onset of cortical synchronization (deactivation), whereas all W-specific and W/PS-specific neurons showed a significant decrease in firing rate &gt;0.5 s before the onset. At the transition from SWS to W, the sleep-specific neurons showed a significant decrease in firing rate 0.1 s before the onset of cortical activation, while the W-specific and W/PS-specific neurons fired &gt;0.5 s before the onset. TI-Ss neurons were characterized by a triphasic broad action potential, slow single isolated firing, and an antidromic response to cortical stimulation, whereas TI-Rs neurons were characterized by a narrow action potential and high frequency burst discharge in association with theta waves in PS. These data suggest that the forebrain sleep/waking switch is regulated by opposing activities of sleep-promoting (SWS-specific and SWS/PS-specific) and waking-promoting (W-specific and W/PS-specific) neurons, that the initiation of sleep is caused by decreased activity of the waking-promoting neurons (disfacilitation), and that the W/PS-specific neurons are deeply involved in the processes of cortical activation/deactivation.
The glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family ligands (GFLs) are a group of peptides that have been implicated as important factors in inflammation, since they are released in increased amounts during inflammation and induce thermal hyperalgesia upon injection. Mouse isolated sensory neurons in culture and freshly dissociated spinal cord slices were used to examine the enhancement in stimulated-release of the neuropeptide, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), as a measure of sensitization. Exposure of isolated sensory neurons in culture to GDNF, neurturin, and artemin enhanced the capsaicin-stimulated release of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide (iCGRP) two- to threefold, but did not increase potassium-stimulated release of iCGRP. A similar profile of sensitization was observed in freshly dissociated spinal cord slices. Persephin, another member of the GFL family thought to be important in development, was unable to induce an enhancement in the release of iCGRP. These results demonstrate that specific GFLs are important mediators affecting sensory neuronal sensitivity, likely through modulation of the capsaicin receptor. The sensitization of sensory neurons during inflammation, and the pain and neurogenic inflammation resulting from this sensitization, may be due in part to the effects of these selected GFLs.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha is a proinflammatory cytokine acting on two distinct receptor subtypes, namely p55 and p75 receptors. TNF-alpha p55 and p75 receptor knockout mice were previously shown to display a decreased or enhanced susceptibility to seizures, respectively, suggesting intrinsic modifications in neuronal excitability. We investigated whether alterations in glutamate system function occur in these naive knockout mice with perturbed cytokine signaling that could explain their different propensity to develop seizures. Using Western blot analysis of hippocampal homogenates, we found that p55(-/-) mice have decreased levels of membrane GluR3 and NR1 glutamate receptor subunits while GluR1, GluR2, GluR6/7 and NR2A/B were unchanged as compared to wild-type mice. In p75(-/-) mice, GluR2, GluR3, GluR6/7 and NR2A/B glutamate receptor subunits were increased in the hippocampus while GluR1 and NR1 did not change. Extracellular single-cell recordings of the electrical activity of hippocampal neurons were carried out in anesthetized mice by standard electrophysiological techniques. Microiontophoretic application of glutamate increased the basal firing rate of hippocampal neurons in p75(-/-) mice versus wild-type mice, and this effect was blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphopentanoic acid and 6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline-2,3-dione denoting the involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid and AMPA receptors. In p55(-/-) mice, hippocampal neurons responses to glutamate were similar to wild-type mice. Spontaneous glutamate release measured by in vivo hippocampal microdialysis was significantly decreased only in p55(-/-) mice. No changes were observed in KCl-induced glutamate release in both receptor knockout mice strains versus wild-type mice. These findings highlight specific molecular and functional interactions between p55 and p75 receptor-mediated signaling and the glutamate system. These interactions may be relevant for controlling neuronal excitability in physiological and pathological conditions.
Seizures and status epilepticus induce an excessive production of reactive oxygen species leading to oxidative stress. Vitamin E, a classic antioxidant, has a neuroprotective effect on rats with seizures by regulating reactive oxygen species production. The activity of chaperone-mediated autophagy, a selective pathway for the degradation of cytosolic proteins in lysosomes, is enhanced during oxidative stress. Whether chaperone-mediated autophagy is induced during status epilepticus is not established. To address this problem, we used pilocarpine to elicit status epilepticus in rats. Lysosome-associated membrane protein 2a was used to estimate chaperone-mediated autophagy. We showed that compared to control animals, lysosome-associated membrane protein 2a at lysosomal membranes increased significantly in rats at 8 h, 16 h, and 24 h after induction of status epilepticus, which directly correlated with chaperone-mediated autophagy activity. Since reactive oxygen species are believed to be important in the pathogenesis of status epilepticus and are essential for the process of chaperone-mediated autophagy, we also sought to determine if pretreatment with vitamin E reduced chaperone-mediated autophagy. Pretreatment with vitamin E reduced oxidative stress and partially inhibited chaperone-mediated autophagy in brain at 24 h after status epilepticus versus vehicle. Taken together, these data show that chaperone-mediated autophagy is increased in rats with pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus through upregulation of de novo synthesis of lysosome-associated membrane protein 2a. Antioxidants such as vitamin E may partially inhibit activated chaperone-mediated autophagy.
Respiratory motor output in bilateral cranial nerves is synchronized, but the underlying synchronizing mechanisms are not clear. We used an in vitro slice preparation from newborn mice to investigate the effect of systematic transsections on respiratory activity in bilateral XII nerves. Complete transsection at the midline resulted in desynchronized rhythm with reduced XII burst amplitude and duration. Transsections in the ventral or dorsal 1/3 of the midline did not desynchronize rhythm. However, transsections in the ventral 2/3 of the midline desynchronized rhythm with characteristic amplitude correlations, where large-amplitude XII-bursts on one side was synchronized with small-amplitude XII-burst on the contralateral side. These characteristic amplitude correlations suggest that hypoglossal motoneurons receive respiratory drive from bilateral sources. Retrograde labeling confirmed that commissural fibers from the pre-Btzinger complex cross in the mid-1/3 of the midline, and that dendrites of hypoglossal motoneurons project into the contralateral XII nucleus. In conclusion, commissural fibers crossing in the mid-1/3 of the midline are required for synchronization of respiratory activity in bilateral XII nerves. Hypoglossal motoneurons receive respiratory drive from both sides of the medulla, possibly mediated by contralaterally projecting dendrites.
Lumbar intrathecal injection of neuropeptide Y (NPY) is antinociceptive, particularly in models of nerve injury and inflammation. Intrathecal NPY does not alter nociception in mice null for the Y1 neuropeptide Y receptor (Y1R) and these mice show enhanced nocifensive reflex responses to aversive thermal, mechanical, visceral and chemical stimuli. Y1R and NPY receptor type 2 (Y2R) are present in the spinal dorsal horn presynaptically on primary afferent, and possibly interneuron terminals, but only Y1R is found postsynaptically on dorsal horn neurons. In the present study, we sought to assess the anatomic effects of lumbar intrathecal disulfide conjugate of neuropeptide Y and saporin (NPY-sap) and to determine the role of Y1R-expressing dorsal horn neurons in nocifensive responses to aversive thermal and chemical stimulation. Lumbar intrathecal injection of NPY-sap was used to selectively destroy Y1R-expressing lumbar dorsal horn neurons followed by testing nocifensive reflex responses on the hotplate and after hind-paw formalin injection. NPY-saporin decreased superficial dorsal horn staining for Y1R, but not neurokinin-1 receptor, mu opiate receptor or NPY peptide, and had no effect on Y1R cell counts in fourth lumbar spinal segment dorsal root ganglia. Loss of Y1R-expressing dorsal horn neurons was associated with increased first response latencies on the 44 degrees C hotplate and reduced total time rats spent licking and guarding hind paws during 600 s trials at 44 degrees C or 200 s trials at 47 degrees C. First hind-paw response latencies to high intensity phasic stimulation at 52 degrees C were unaffected. NPY-sap also reduced formalin-induced nocifensive behaviors during both interphase and phase II. These data demonstrate that selective destruction of Y1R-expressing superficial dorsal horn neurons, probably excitatory interneurons and/or projection neurons, reduces nocifensive reflex responses, particularly to activation of C nociceptors, and suggest a possible role for Y1R-expressing dorsal horn neurons in pain.

Blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (BN-PAGE) is a powerful technique for separation and proteomics analysis of high-molecular-weight protein complexes. It is often performed on gradient gels and is widely used for studying mitochondrial membrane complexes involved in electron transportation and oxidative phosphorylation. In this article, we present an alternative BN-PAGE method that uses highly porous, nongradient polyacrylamide gels for separation of rat brain mitochondrial protein complexes. Results demonstrate that this method not only resolves mitochondrial complexes I to V, allowing subsequent analysis by in-gel activity staining and mass spectrometry peptide sequencing, but also identifies Hsp60 polymers and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLDH). Moreover, with this new method, it is shown for the first time that complex I and DLDH can be detected simultaneously on a single gel strip by in-gel activity staining. Overall, the method provides a simplified, nongradient gel electrophoretic approach that should be useful in functional proteomics studies.


Asymmetric cell division is a mechanism for generating cell diversity as well as maintaining stem cell homeostasis in both Drosophila and mammals. In Drosophila, larval neuroblasts are stem cell-like progenitors that divide asymmetrically to generate neurons of the adult brain. Mitotic neuroblasts localize atypical protein kinase C (aPKC) to their apical cortex. Cortical aPKC excludes cortical localization of Miranda and its cargo proteins Prospero and Brain tumor, resulting in their partitioning into the differentiating, smaller ganglion mother cell (GMC) where they are required for neuronal differentiation. In addition to aPKC, the kinases Aurora-A and Polo also regulate neuroblast self-renewal, but the phosphatases involved in neuroblast self-renewal have not been identified. Here we report that aPKC is in a protein complex in vivo with Twins, a Drosophila B-type protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) subunit, and that Twins and the catalytic subunit of PP2A, called Microtubule star (Mts), are detected in larval neuroblasts. Both Twins and Mts are required to exclude aPKC from the basal neuroblast cortex: twins mutant brains, twins mutant single neuroblast mutant clones, or mts dominant negative single neuroblast clones all show ectopic basal cortical localization of aPKC. Consistent with ectopic basal aPKC is the appearance of supernumerary neuroblasts in twins mutant brains or twins mutant clones. We conclude that Twins/PP2A is required to maintain aPKC at the apical cortex of mitotic neuroblasts, keeping it out of the differentiating GMC, and thereby maintaining neuroblast homeostasis.
Cadmium is a naturally occurring, highly toxic, metallic element. It pollutes the environment as a result of industrial activity and accumulates in human tissues with a long biological half-life. Cadmium content has been demonstrated to increase in human retinal tissues as a function of age and tobacco smokers have approximately twice as much cadmium in retinal tissues than non-smokers. Smoking is also a key environmental risk factor for the retinal disease age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Recent studies have shown that urinary cadmium levels (a measure of Cd body burden) are higher in smokers who have AMD. We now report the Cd measurements in human retinal tissues from eyes afflicted with AMD compared to non-diseased eyes (controls) from age-matched donors. Human donor eyes frozen under argon gas were assessed for AMD severity using color stereoscopic fundus photographs and the Minnesota Grading System. Cadmium, zinc and, copper levels were measured in retinal tissues (neural retina, retinal pigment epithelium and choroid) using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry and graphite furnace spectrophotometry and values were normalized to tissue protein levels. Higher Cd levels were found in the neural retina and RPE for eyes afflicted with AMD compared to controls in males, differences were not statistically significant in females. The results indicate that higher retinal cadmium burdens are associated with the presence of AMD at least in males and suggest possible gender differences in the metabolism of metals in the human retina.
Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is the most frequently observed human embryonic forebrain defect. Recent evidence indicates that the two major forms of HPE, classic HPE and midline interhemispheric (MIH) HPE, are elicited by two different mechanisms. The only gene known to be associated with both forms of HPE is Zic2. We used the zebrafish Danio rerio as a model system to study Zic knockdown during midline formation by looking at the close homolog Zic1, which is expressed in an overlapping fashion with Zic2. Zic1 knockdown in zebrafish leads to a strong midline defect including partial cyclopia due to attenuated Nodal and Hedgehog signaling in the anterior ventral diencephalon. Strikingly, we were able to show that Zic1 is also required for maintaining early forebrain expression of the retinoic acid (RA)-degrading enzyme cyp26a1. Zic1 LOF leads to increased RA levels in the forebrain, subsequent ventralization of the optic vesicle and down-regulation of genes involved in dorsal BMP signaling. Repression of BMP signaling in dorsal forebrain has been implicated in causing MIH HPE. This work provides a mechanistical explanation at the molecular level of why Zic factors are associated with both major forms of HPE.
Tauopathies are characterized by accumulation of filamentous tau aggregates. These aggregates can be recapitulated in transfectant M1C overproducing wild-type human brain tau 4R0N via the tetracycline off (TetOff) inducible expression mechanism. To determine the contribution of proteasomes to tau degradation and aggregation, we exposed M1C cells to epoxomicin (Epx; 2-50 nM) or MG132 (0.5 microM) on the 3(rd) or 4(th) day of a 5-day TetOff induction and demonstrated a reduction of proteasomal activity. Cultures treated with 2 nM Exp showed accumulation of full-length tau without affecting ubiquitin and beta-catenin immunoblotting profiles. In contrast, cells treated with 10, 50 nM Epx or MG132 displayed changes in ubiquitin or beta-catenin immunoblotting profiles and extensive tau degradation/truncation. The increase of tau degradation/truncation was accompanied with accumulation of oligomers and sarkosyl-insoluble aggregates of tau, augmented thioflavin-binding and activation of caspases and calpains. Truncated, oligomeric and sarkosyl-insoluble tau derivatives appeared with caspase-specific cleavage and their production was diminished when pretreated with a pan-caspase inhibitor. The results demonstrate (i) a dose-dependent, opposite effect of proteasome inhibition on tau processing, (ii) the participation of proteasome-dependent, ubiquitination-independent mechanisms in tau degradation and aggregation, and (iii) the promotion of tau aggregation by caspase-mediated tau degradation/truncation.
Dynamin is a fission protein that participates in endocytic vesicle formation. Although dynamin was originally identified as a microtubule-binding protein, the physiological relevance of this function was unclear. Recently, mutations in the ubiquitously expressed dynamin 2 (dyn2) protein were found in patients with Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease, which is an inherited peripheral neuropathy. In this study, we show that one of these mutations, 551Delta3, induces prominent decoration of microtubules with the mutant dyn2. Dyn2 was required for proper dynamic instability of microtubules, and this was impaired in cells expressing the 551Delta3 mutant, which showed a remarkable increase in microtubule acetylation, a marker of stable microtubules. Depletion of endogenous dyn2 with a small interfering RNA also resulted in the accumulation of stable microtubules. Furthermore, the formation of mature Golgi complexes, which depends on microtubule-dependent membrane transport, was impaired in both dyn2 knockdown cells and cells expressing the 551Delta3 mutant. Collectively, our results suggest that dyn2 regulates dynamic instability of microtubules, which is essential for organelle motility, and that this function may be impaired in CMT disease.

Proteomic studies offer enormous potential for gaining insight into cellular dynamics and disease processes. An immediate challenge for enhancing the utility of proteomics in translational research lies in methods of handling and interpreting the large datasets generated. Publications rarely extend beyond lists of proteins, putatively altered derived from basic statistics. Here we describe two additional distinct approaches (with particular strengths and limitations) that will enhance the analysis of proteomic datasets. Arithmetic and functional cluster analyses have been performed on proteins found differentially regulated in human glioma. These two approaches highlight (i) subgroups of proteins that may be co-regulated and play a role in glioma pathophysiology, and (ii) functional protein interactions that may improve comprehension of the biological mechanisms involved. A coherent proteomic strategy which involves both arithmetic and functional clustering, (together with careful consideration of conceptual limitations), is imperative for quantitative proteomics to deliver and advance the biological understanding of disease of the CNS. A strategy which combines arithmetic analysis and bioinformatics of protein-protein interactions is both generally applicable and will facilitate the interpretation of proteomic data.
This report describes experiments designed to (1) establish the specificity of dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT)-mediated plasmalemmal DA transport, vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT-2)-mediated vesicular DA transport, and K+-stimulated DA release in samples prepared from frozen rat striata, and (2) characterize the time-course of the effects of freezing on these processes. The procedure described herein uses a simple method of freezing brain tissue (first cooling in ice-cold buffer and then freezing at -80 degrees C) that allows for the storage of rat striata followed by the assay of DA transport and K+-stimulated DA release using rotating disk electrode voltammetry. Plasmalemmal DA transport into samples prepared from frozen striata was blocked by the DAT inhibitor, cocaine, and vesicular DA transport was blocked by the VMAT-2 inhibitor, dihydrotetrabenazine. Additionally, K+-stimulated DA release was Ca+2-dependent. Freezing decreases DAT-mediated DA transport, VMAT-2-mediated DA transport, and K+-stimulated DA release. However activity is still measurable even after 3 weeks of storage. These results suggest that rat striata retain some DA transport and DA release activity even when stored frozen for a few weeks. Frozen storage of rat striata may thus be valuable for experiments requiring lengthy assays, the accumulation of material, or the transport of samples from one laboratory to another for analysis. These results may also be applicable to the study of frozen human brain tissue.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an effective symptomatic treatment in Parkinson's disease. High frequency stimulation (HFS) of the subthalamic nucleus elicits neurotransmitter release in multiple nuclei. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that neurotransmitter release during HFS may be used to provide feedback control of the intensity and pattern of HFS. We studied the dynamic relationship between extracellular glutamate levels and HFS in and around the STN in anesthetized rats. We used a pseudorandom binary sequence (PRBS) of stimulation in the STN, the independent forcing function, while measuring extracellular glutamate in the same nucleus, the dependent variable. The PRBS consisted of 90 s periods during which stimulation (100 microA, 150Hz, 10% duty cycle) was either off or on. The stimulation and extracellular glutamate levels were fitted using an autoregressive exogenous model (ARX) to determine the transfer function between HFS and the extracellular glutamate concentration in the STN. The ARX model fit the dynamics of extracellular glutamate levels well (correlation coefficients ranged from 0.74 to 0.99; n=11). The transfer function accurately predicted extracellular glutamate levels in the STN even when the pattern of HFS was modified. We used the transfer function to develop a feedback controlled stimulation algorithm. Feedback controlled HFS maintained extracellular glutamate concentrations at any predefined level, but only intermittent HFS was required. We conclude that the transfer function between HFS and neurotransmitter levels in the brain can be used to design DBS protocols that generate specific temporal patterns of glutamate release in the STN.
Spontaneously jaundiced Gunn rats exposed to sulfadimethoxine develop bilirubin encephalopathy (kernicterus) with hearing loss and dystonia, closely resembling the human syndrome. We recently characterized the electromyographic activity in this animal model supporting our clinical impression of dystonia. The objective of this study was to develop a simple, non-invasive method to quantify the motor deficits in dystonic rodents. On postnatal day 16, Gunn rats were treated with 100mg/kg of sulfadimethoxine or saline. On postnatal day 31, the ventral view of the animals was videotaped while the animals walked inside a Plexiglas chamber. Individual video frames were reviewed and specific gait parameters including hindlimb spread, step length ratio variability, stance/swing ratio and walking speed were compared between dystonic and non-dystonic jaundiced and non-jaundiced littermates. Data analysis demonstrated statistically significant increases in hindlimb spread and step length ratio variability and decreases in walking speed in dystonic animals as compared to controls. This study demonstrates a valuable technique to objectively characterize dystonia in Gunn rats, which could have wide use for other experimental movement disorders as well.
An area of current research in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the biosynthetic pathway of amyloid beta peptides (Abeta) via consecutive proteolytic cleavages of the amyloid beta precursor protein (APP) by BACE and gamma-secretase enzymes. APP is first cleaved by BACE to form a C-terminal fragment APP-betaCTF, or also called C99, which then undergoes further cleavage by gamma-secretase to form Abeta. Inhibitors of gamma-secretase have been observed to yield a so-called 'Abeta rise' phenomenon whereby low inhibitor concentrations result in an increase in Abeta levels while high inhibitor concentrations result in lower Abeta levels. A previous report from our labs indicated that this phenomenon was related to ratios of APP-betaCTF substrate relative to gamma-secretase enzyme. A quantitative Western blot analysis was used with a recombinant C100 protein as calibration standards to assess the relationship of APP-betaCTF, gamma-secretase enzyme and various inhibitors resulting in the 'Abeta rise'. An on-line liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS) method employing the 'surrogate peptide' methodology was developed to accurately quantify the recombinant C100 used in the Western blot analyses. The surrogate peptide approach utilizes tryptic digestion of the protein to stoichiometrically yield a unique peptide fragment, in this case (C100)Abeta17-28 (LVFFAEDVGSNK) that can be readily detected by LC-MS. The absolute quantitative assessment of C100 was accomplished using synthetic Abeta17-28 to generate calibration curves over a 0.001-1 microM range and 15N isotopically labeled Abeta1-40 as the internal standard for enzymatic digestion and its proteolytic peptide [15N]-Abeta17-28 for the analysis.
We developed an inexpensive computer vision-based method utilizing an algorithm which differentiates drug-induced behavioral alterations. The mice were observed in an open-field arena and their activity was recorded for 100 min. For each animal the first 50 min of observation were regarded as the drug-free period. Each animal was exposed to only one drug and they were injected (i.p.) with either amphetamine or cocaine as the stimulant drugs or morphine or diazepam as the inhibitory agents. The software divided the arena into virtual grids and calculated the number of visits (sojourn counts) to the grids and instantaneous speeds within these grids by analyzing video data. These spatial distributions of sojourn counts and instantaneous speeds were used to construct feature vectors which were fed to the classifier algorithms for the final step of matching the animals and the drugs. The software decided which of the animals were drug-treated at a rate of 96%. The algorithm achieved 92% accuracy in sorting the data according to the increased or decreased activity and then determined which drug was delivered. The method differentiated the type of psychostimulant or inhibitory drugs with a success ratio of 70% and 80%, respectively. This method provides a new way to automatically evaluate and classify drug-induced behaviors in mice.
Collection and analysis of limb kinematic data are essential components of the study of biological motion, including research into biomechanics, kinesiology, neurophysiology and brain-machine interfaces (BMIs). In particular, BMI research requires advanced, real-time systems capable of sampling limb kinematics with minimal contact to the subject's body. To answer this demand, we have developed an automated video tracking system for real-time tracking of multiple body parts in freely behaving primates. The system employs high-contrast markers painted on the animal's joints to continuously track the three-dimensional positions of their limbs during activity. Two-dimensional coordinates captured by each video camera are combined and converted to three-dimensional coordinates using a quadratic fitting algorithm. Real-time operation of the system is accomplished using direct memory access (DMA). The system tracks the markers at a rate of 52 frames per second (fps) in real-time and up to 100fps if video recordings are captured to be later analyzed off-line. The system has been tested in several BMI primate experiments, in which limb position was sampled simultaneously with chronic recordings of the extracellular activity of hundreds of cortical cells. During these recordings, multiple computational models were employed to extract a series of kinematic parameters from neuronal ensemble activity in real-time. The system operated reliably under these experimental conditions and was able to compensate for marker occlusions that occurred during natural movements. We propose that this system could also be extended to applications that include other classes of biological motion.
A central problem facing studies of neural encoding in sensory systems is how to accurately quantify the extent of spatial and temporal responses. In this study, we take advantage of the relatively simple and stereotypic neural architecture found in invertebrates. We combine standard electrophysiological techniques, recently developed population analysis techniques, and novel anatomical methods to form an innovative 4-dimensional view of odor output representations in the antennal lobe of the moth Manduca sexta. This novel approach allows quantification of olfactory responses of characterized neurons with spike time resolution. Additionally, arbitrary integration windows can be used for comparisons with other methods such as imaging. By assigning statistical significance to changes in neuronal firing, this method can visualize activity across the entire antennal lobe. The resulting 4-dimensional representation of antennal lobe output complements imaging and multi-unit experiments yet provides a more comprehensive and accurate view of glomerular activation patterns in spike time resolution.
A significant barrier to the development of a retinal prosthesis that is capable of inducing spatially patterned visual percepts has been a lack of adequate models to assess the efficacy of various electrical stimulation algorithms. Toward this end, we developed an in vivo, normally sighted animal model that is based on primary visual cortex neurophysiological recordings of spiking and local-field potential activity. Here, we describe this model, and we present results related to the spatial spread and location of the induced retinal activation. Our findings demonstrate that a single epiretinally delivered electric pulse induces two temporally separated cortical responses whose latencies are similar to the previously reported double responses of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Furthermore, our model indicates that the short latency response originates in widespread retinal locations that extend well beyond the location of the activated electrodes, whereas the long latency response has a more focal origin which corresponds to the location of the activated electrodes. The present work demonstrates the applicability of our model for the evaluation and development of electrical retinal stimulation methods using cortical recordings.
Brain slice preparations are well-established models for a wide spectrum of in vitro investigations in the neuroscience discipline. However, these investigations are limited to acute preparations or thin organotypic culture preparations due to the lack of a successful method that allows culturing of thick organotypic brain slices. Thick brain slice cultures suffer necrosis due to ischemia deep in the tissue resulting from a destroyed circulatory system and subsequent diffusion-limited supply of nutrients and oxygen. Although thin organotypic brain slice cultures can be successfully cultured using a well-established roller-tube method (a monolayer organotypic culture) (Gahwiler B H. Organotypic monolayer cultures of nervous tissue. J Neurosci Methods. 1981; 4: 329-342) or a membrane-insert method (up to 1-4 cell layers, &lt;150 microm) (Stoppini L, Buchs PA, Muller D. A simple method for organotypic cultures of neural tissue. J Neurosci Methods 1991; 37: 173-182), these methods fail to support thick tissue preparations. A few perfusion methods (using submerged or interface/microfluidic chambers) have been reported to enhance the longevity (up to few hours) of acute slice preparations (up to 600 microm thick) (Hass HL, Schaerer B, Vosmansky M. A simple perfusion chamber for study of nervous tissue slices in vitro. J Neurosci Methods 1979; 1: 323-325; Nicoll RA, Alger BE. A simple chamber for recording from submerged brain slices. J Neurosci Methods 1981; 4: 153-156; Passeraub PA, Almeida AC, Thakor NV. Design, microfabrication and characterization of a microfluidic chamber for the perfusion of brain tissue slices. J Biomed Dev 2003; 5: 147-155). Here, we report a unique interstitial microfluidic perfusion technique to culture thick (700 microm) organotypic brain slices. The design of the custom-made microperfusion chamber facilitates laminar, interstitial perfusion of oxygenated nutrient medium throughout the tissue thickness with concomitant removal of depleted medium and catabolites. We examined the utility of this perfusion method to enhance the viability of the thick organotypic brain slice cultures after 2 days and 5 days in vitro (DIV). We investigated the range of amenable flow rates that enhance the viability of 700 microm thick organotypic brain slices compared to the unperfused control cultures. Our perfusion method allows up to 84.6% viability (p&lt;0.01) and up to 700 microm thickness, even after 5 DIV. Our results also confirm that these cultures are functionally active and have their in vivo cyto-architecture preserved. Prolonged viability of thick organotypic brain slice cultures will benefit scientists investigating network properties of intact organotypic neuronal networks in a reliable and repeatable manner.
Subcortical white matter stroke is a common stroke subtype but has had limited pre-clinical modeling. Recapitulating this disease process in mice has been impeded by the relative inaccessibility of the subcortical white matter arterial supply to induce white matter ischemia in isolation. In this report, we detail a subcortical white matter stroke model developed in the mouse and its characterization with a comprehensive set of MRI, immunohistochemical, neuronal tract tracing and electron microscopic studies. Focal injection of the vasoconstrictor endothelin-1 into the subcortical white matter produces an infarct core that develops a maximal MRI signal by day 2, which is comparable in relative size and location to human subcortical stroke. Immunohistochemical studies indicate that oligodendrocyte apoptosis is maximal at day 1 and apoptotic cells extend away from the stroke core into the peri-infarct white matter. The amount of myelin loss exceeds axonal fiber loss in this peri-infarct region. Activation of microglia/macrophages takes place at 1 day after injection near injured axons. Neuronal tract tracing demonstrates that subcortical white matter stroke disconnects a large region of bilateral sensorimotor cortex. There is a robust glial response after stroke by BrdU pulse-labeling, and oligodendrocyte precursor cells are initiated to proliferate and differentiate within the first week of injury. These results demonstrate the utility of the endothelin-1 mediated subcortical stroke in the mouse to study post-stroke repair mechanisms, as the infarct core extends through the partially damaged peri-infarct white matter and induces an early glial progenitor response.
Electrophysiological recordings from a single or population of neurons are currently the standard method for investigating neural mechanisms with high spatio-temporal resolution. It is often difficult or even impossible to obtain stable recordings because of brain movements generated by the cardiac and respiratory functions and/or motor activity. An alternative approach to extensive surgical procedures aimed to reduce these movements would be to develop a control system capable of compensating the relative movement between the recording site and the electrode. As a first step towards such a system, an accurate method capable of measuring brain micromotion, preferably in 3D, in a non-invasive manner is required. A wide variety of technical solutions exist for displacement measurement. However, increased sensitivity in the measurement is often accompanied by strict limitations to sensor handling, implementation and external environment. In addition, majority of the current methods are limited to measurement along only one axis. We present a novel, minimally invasive, 3D displacement sensor with displacement resolution exceeding 70 nm along each axis. The sensor is based on optoelectronic detection of movements of a spring-like element with three degrees of freedom. It is remarkably compact with needle-like probe and can be packaged to withstand considerable mishandling, which allow easy implementation to existing measurement systems. We quantify the sensor performance and demonstrate its capabilities with an in vivo measurement of blowfly brain micromotion in a preparation commonly used for electrophysiology.
'To determine orientation we occasionally used a PDP-12 computer to produce a graph of average response vs orientation, generating the slit electronically on a television screen. This method took much longer, and the usual minute-to-minute variations in responsiveness of the cell tended to make the curves broader and noisier. We concluded that for both speed and for precision it is hard to beat judgments based on the human ear. Certainly [our curves] could not have been obtained with computer averaging methods before the authors reached the age of mandatory retirement.' (Hubel &amp; Wiesel, 1974).
David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel provided a quantum step in our understanding of the visual system. In this commemoration of the 50th year of their initial publication, I would like to examine two aspects of the impact of their work. First, from the viewpoint of those interested in the relation of brain to behaviour, I recount why their initial experiments produced such an immediate impact. Hubel and Wiesel's work appeared against a background of substantial behavioural knowledge about visual perception, a growing desire to know the underlying brain mechanisms for this perception, and an abysmal lack of physiological information about the neurons in visual cortex that might underlie these mechanisms. Their initial results showed both the transformations that occur from one level of processing to the next and how a sequence of these transformations might lead to at least the elements of pattern perception. Their experiments immediately provided a structure for conceptualizing how cortical neurons could be organized to produce perception. A second impact of Hubel and Wiesel's work has been the multiple paths of research they blazed. I comment here on just one of these paths, the analysis of visual cortex in the monkey, particularly in the awake monkey. This direction has led to an explosion in the number of investigations of cortical areas beyond striate cortex and has addressed more complex behavioural questions, but it has evolved from the approach to neuronal processing pioneered by Hubel and Wiesel.
The first paper of Hubel and Wiesel in The Journal of Physiology in 1959 marked the beginning of an exciting chapter in the history of visual neuroscience. Through a collaboration that lasted 25 years, Hubel and Wiesel described the main response properties of visual cortical neurons, the functional architecture of visual cortex and the role of visual experience in shaping cortical architecture. The work of Hubel and Wiesel transformed the field not only through scientific discovery but also by touching the life and scientific careers of many students. Here, I describe my personal experience as a postdoctoral student with Torsten Wiesel and how this experience influenced my own work.
Functional architecture of the striate cortex is known mostly at the tissue level--how neurons of different function distribute across its depth and surface on a scale of millimetres. But explanations for its design--why it is just so--need to be addressed at the synaptic level, a much finer scale where the basic description is still lacking. Functional architecture of the retina is known from the scale of millimetres down to nanometres, so we have sought explanations for various aspects of its design. Here we review several aspects of the retina's functional architecture and find that all seem governed by a single principle: represent the most information for the least cost in space and energy. Specifically: (i) why are OFF ganglion cells more numerous than ON cells? Because natural scenes contain more negative than positive contrasts, and the retina matches its neural resources to represent them equally well; (ii) why do ganglion cells of a given type overlap their dendrites to achieve 3-fold coverage? Because this maximizes total information represented by the array--balancing signal-to-noise improvement against increased redundancy; (iii) why do ganglion cells form multiple arrays? Because this allows most information to be sent at lower rates, decreasing the space and energy costs for sending a given amount of information. This broad principle, operating at higher levels, probably contributes to the brain's immense computational efficiency.

As a tool for investigating vestibulo-motor function, stochastic vestibular stimulation (SVS) has some advantages over galvanic vestibular stimulation. However, there is no technique currently available for extracting direction information from SVS-evoked motor responses. It is essential to be able to measure the direction of response if one wishes to investigate the operation of key spatial transformation processes in the brain. Here we describe and validate a technique for determining the direction of SVS-evoked balance responses based on the correlation between a random waveform of stimulating current and ground-reaction shear force.
Brainstem-spinal cord connections play an essential role in adult pain processing, and the modulation of spinal pain network excitability by brainstem nuclei is known to contribute to hyperalgesia and chronic pain. Less well understood is the role of descending brainstem pathways in young animals when pain networks are more excitable and exposure to injury and stress can lead to permanent modulation of pain processing. Here we show that up to postnatal day 21 (P21) in the rat, the rostroventral medulla of the brainstem (RVM) exclusively facilitates spinal pain transmission but that after this age (P28 to adult), the influence of the RVM shifts to biphasic facilitation and inhibition. Graded electrical microstimulation of the RVM at different postnatal ages revealed a robust shift in the balance of descending control of both spinal nociceptive flexion reflex EMG activity and individual dorsal horn neuron firing properties, from excitation to inhibition, beginning after P21. The shift in polarity of descending control was also observed following excitotoxic lesions of the RVM in adult and P21 rats. In adults, RVM lesions decreased behavioural mechanical sensory reflex thresholds, whereas the same lesion in P21 rats increased thresholds. These data demonstrate, for the first time, the changing postnatal influence of the RVM in spinal nociception and highlight the central role of descending brainstem control in the maturation of pain processing.
The inhibitory effect of androgens on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in basal and stress conditions in adult male rats is well documented. Major sex-related neuroendocrine changes take place during puberty. There is a robust rise in production and secretion of gonadal steroids, which is thought to underlie numerous neural and behavioural changes brought on after puberty. The present study investigated the effect of the pubertal rise in gonadal steroid levels on the subsequent adult corticosterone profile, particularly the sensitivity of the adult HPA axis to testosterone. Animals were castrated either prepubertally (28 days) or in adulthood (11 weeks) and adult animals were subsequently treated with subcutaneous implants containing either testosterone or cholesterol. Using an automated blood sampling system, blood was collected from each freely moving, conscious rat every 10 min (i) over a 24 h period; (ii) in response to 10 min of noise stress, and (iii) following an immunological challenge with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Analysis revealed that testosterone treatment did not significantly affect overall corticosterone release over the 24 h period in adult animals castrated before puberty in contrast to animals castrated in adulthood in which testosterone significantly suppressed corticosterone secretion. Following either a noise stress or LPS injection, testosterone treatment did not affect the hypothalamic or adrenal stress response in animals castrated prepubertally. Testosterone significantly suppressed the corticotrophin-releasing hormone and arginine vasopressin mRNA as well as the corticosterone response to LPS in castrated animals that had had their testes intact over puberty. These data provide evidence that puberty is a critical organizational period during which rising levels of gonadal steroids programme the sensitivity of the adult HPA axis to gonadal steroids in adulthood.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 1 (mGluR1) contributes importantly to the activity of the spinal locomotor network. For example, it potentiates NMDA current and inhibits leak conductance in lamprey spinal cord neurons. In this study we examined the signalling pathways underlying the mGluR1 modulation of NMDA receptors and leak channels, respectively. Our results show that mGluR1-induced potentiation of NMDA current required activation of phospholipase C (PLC) and was independent of the increase in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration because it was unaffected by the Ca2+ chelator BAPTA and by depletion of the internal Ca2+ stores with thapsigargin. We also show that the mGluR1-mediated inhibition of leak channels is mediated by activation of G-proteins. Finally, we show that blockade of protein kinase C (PKC) abolished the mGluR1-induced inhibition of leak current without affecting the potentiation of NMDA receptors. The contribution of mGluR1-mediated modulation of leak channels to the potentiation of the locomotor cycle frequency was assessed during fictive locomotion. Blockade of PKC significantly decreased the short-term potentiation of locomotor cycle frequency by mGluR1. These results show that the effects of mGluR1 activation on the two cellular targets, the NMDA receptor and leak channels, are mediated through separate signalling pathways.
The synaptic vesicles are organized in distinct populations or 'pools': the readily releasable pool (the first vesicles released upon stimulation), the recycling pool (which maintains release under moderate stimulation) and the reserve pool (which is called into action only upon strong, often unphysiological stimulation). A major question in the field is whether the pools consist of biochemically different vesicles or whether the pool tag is a spatial one (with the recycling vesicles found next to the release sites, and the reserve ones farther away). A strong and stable spatial segregation has been proposed in the last decade in the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction--albeit based solely on light microscopy experiments. We have tested here this hypothesis using electron microscopy (EM) photoconversion. We found the recycling and reserve pools to be thoroughly intermixed at the EM level, indicating that spatial location is irrelevant for the functional properties of the vesicle.
The pioneering work of Torsten Wiesel and David Hubel on the development and deprivation of the visual system will be summarised, together with some comments on their influence, and some personal reminiscences by the author.
Adverse events of dopamine-blocking agents include acute dystonic reactions and oculogyric crises (OGCs). OGCs may be recurrent on maintenance of or re-exposure to the drug. Thus, complete withdrawal is recommended. Recurrent episodes of acute dystonia despite withdrawal and the lack of further exposure to antidopaminergic agents are usually not seen. Here, we report three cases with recurrent OGCs despite complete withdrawal of neuroleptics. Triggering or priming factors were a single dose of haloperidol in two cases and a single dose of metoclopramide in one case. Episodes reoccurred spontaneously, but responded to anticholinergics. The pathomechanisms of acute dystonic reactions and OGCs remain unclear. Parallels to levodopa-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease, as well as to dopa-responsive dystonia, paroxysmal dyskinesias, and channelopathies are discussed here. Whether there is a genetic susceptibility or some other reason for only some patients developing this phenomenon remains unclear.
Although apathy is among the most frequent behavioral changes in Parkinson's disease (PD), its diagnosis is still problematic, and the overlap with depression and dementia poorly studied. Aim of the study was validate specific criteria to diagnose apathy in PD, and to examine its association with subsyndromes of depression and dementia. A series of 164 patients with PD, 44 patients with &quot;primary&quot; depression and no PD, 23 patients with Alzheimer's disease, and 26 age-comparable healthy controls underwent a comprehensive psychiatric assessment that included a structured psychiatric interview and the Apathy Scale. A set of seven diagnostic criteria showed high sensitivity and specificity for clinically diagnosed apathy. Fifty-two of the 164 patients with PD (32%) met diagnostic criteria for apathy. Eighty-three percent of patients with apathy had comorbid depression and 56% had dementia. Only 5 of the 40 PD patients (13%) with neither depression nor dementia had apathy. We validated a set of standardized criteria for the diagnosis of apathy in PD. About one third of a series of patients attending a Movement Disorders Clinic showed apathy. Both depression and dementia were the most frequent comorbid conditions of apathy in PD.
A dysfunction of multiple neurotransmitter systems is assumed as a neurochemical basis of the akinetic-rigid syndrome of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). In vitro studies have produced conflicting results on the serotoninergic system in PSP. We, therefore, studied the binding potential of the serotonin 2A (5-HT(2A)) receptor ligand [18F]altanserin in 8 patients with clinically probable PSP and 13 healthy controls using positron emission tomography. We found an up-regulation of 5-HT(2A) receptors in the substantia nigra and, to a lower degree, in the striatum, while neocortical 5- HT(2A) receptor densities showed no changes upon partial-volume correction. Nigral and striatal receptor changes were significantly correlated with patients' scores of motor dysfunction (UPDRS III, PSP-rating scale) pointing to a functional relevance of the described findings.





Parkinson's disease is a common progressive bradykinetic disorder that can be accurately diagnosed. It is characterised by the presence of severe pars-compacta nigral-cell loss, and accumulation of aggregated alpha-synuclein in specific brain stem, spinal cord, and cortical regions. The main known risk factor is age. Susceptibility genes including alpha-synuclein, leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK-2), and glucocerebrosidase (GBA) have shown that genetic predisposition is another important causal factor. Dopamine replacement therapy considerably reduces motor handicap, and effective treatment of associated depression, pain, constipation, and nocturnal difficulties can improve quality of life. Embryonic stem cells and gene therapy are promising research therapeutic approaches.

The aim of this study was to provide a computational system model of effective connectivity in the human brain underlying overt speech production. Meta-analysis of neuroimaging studies and functional magnetic resonance imaging data acquired during a verbal fluency task revealed a core network consisting of Brodmann's area (BA) 44 in Broca's region, anterior insula, basal ganglia, cerebellum, premotor cortex (PMC, BA 6) and primary motor cortex (M1, areas 4a/4p). Dynamic causal modelling (DCM) indicated the highest evidence for a system architecture featuring the insula in a serial position between BA 44 and two parallel nodes (cerebellum/basal ganglia), from which information converges onto the PMC and finally M1. Parameter inference revealed that effective connectivity from the insular relay into the cerebellum/basal ganglia is primarily task driven (preparation) while the output into the cortical motor system strongly depends on the actual word production rate (execution). DCM hence allowed not only a quantitative characterization of the human speech production network, but also the distinction of a preparatory and an executive subsystem within it. The proposed model of physiological integration during speech production may now serve as a reference for investigations into the neurobiology of pathological states such as dysarthria and apraxia of speech.
Endothelin (ET), which is known as a vasoconstrictive peptide, is associated with a lot of biological functions. Although endothelin receptors are expressed in the central nervous system (CNS), little is known about the effects of endothelin on neuronal function. In this study, we reported that endothelins elongate cortical neurites via the endothelin A receptor. All the endothelin isoforms tested, endothelin-1, endothelin-2, and endothelin-3, promoted neurite elongation. ET-1-induced neurite elongation was specifically inhibited by treatment with BQ123, an antagonist for the endothelin A receptor. In addition, inhibition of ET-1-induced c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation by treatment with SP600125, a JNK inhibitor, also prevented the ET-1-mediated promotion of neurite elongation. Thus, endothelin induces cortical neurite elongation through the endothelin A receptor by a mechanism dependent on JNK.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Although the precise mechanism remains unclear, mounting evidence suggests that oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of PD. DJ-1 gene is associated with oxidative stress and mutations in DJ-1 are involved in an autosomal recessive, early onset familial form of PD. The ERK1/2 signaling pathway contributes to neuroprotection during oxidative stress. However, the correlation between DJ-1 and the ERK1/2 signaling pathway remains unknown. To test for an association of DJ-1 with the ERK1/2 signaling pathway, we transfected wild-type and L166P mutated DJ-1 into COS-7 and MN9D cells. The results showed that over-expression of WT-DJ-1 dramatically enhanced the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and its upstream kinase MEK1/2. Meanwhile, WT-DJ-1, but not L166P-DJ-1 inhibited the expression of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), an inhibitor of the ERK1/2 signaling pathway. Moreover, over-expression of WT-DJ-1 increased cell viability and decreased cell sensitivity to H2O2-induced neurotoxicity. Inhibition of the ERK1/2 signaling pathway with a MEK1/2 inhibitor reversed these changes. We conclude that DJ-1 does affect the ERK1/2 signaling pathway and change the susceptibility of cells to oxidative stress.
The lack of productive infection of neurons by HIV-1 suggests that the neuronal damage seen in AIDS patients with cognitive disorders is caused indirectly via viral and cellular proteins with neurotoxic activity. Among HIV-1 proteins, Vpr has been shown to deregulate expression of various important cytokines and inflammatory proteins in infected and uninfected cells. However, the mechanisms underlying these changes remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that neurons can take up Vpr that is released into the supernatant of HIV-infected microglia. We also found that administration of recombinant Vpr (rVpr) to human neurons resulted in a slow but sustained elevation of intracellular calcium [Ca(2+)]i. Interestingly, our data also show that [Ca(2+)]i elevation by Vpr leads to ROS production and impairs glutamate signaling in neuronal cells. Vpr disturbs calcium homeostasis through downregulation of endogenous PMCA. Finally, we found that the permeability of the plasma membrane increases in neurons treated with Vpr. Therefore, we conclude that soluble Vpr is a major viral factor that causes a disturbance in neuronal communication leading to neuronal dysfunction. The outcome of these studies will advance the understanding of HIV-1 pathogenesis and will help in the development of new therapeutic approaches.
Delta and mu opioid receptors (DORs and MORs) are inhibitory G protein-coupled receptors that reportedly cooperatively regulate the transmission of pain messages by substance P and TRPV1-expressing pain fibers. Using a DOReGFP reporter mouse we now show that the DOR and MOR are, in fact, expressed by different subsets of primary afferents. The MOR is expressed in peptidergic pain fibers, the DOR in myelinated and nonpeptidergic afferents. Contrary to the prevailing view, we demonstrate that the DOR is trafficked to the cell surface under resting conditions, independently of substance P, and internalized following activation by DOR agonists. Finally, we show that the segregated DOR and MOR distribution is paralleled by a remarkably selective functional contribution of the two receptors to the control of mechanical and heat pain, respectively. These results demonstrate that behaviorally relevant pain modalities can be selectively regulated through the targeting of distinct subsets of primary afferent pain fibers.
Beta-arrestin plays a key role in regulating beta2-adrenoreceptor signaling by interdicting activation of adenylyl cyclase and selectively sequestering cAMP phosphodiesterase-4D5 (PDE4D5) for delivery of an active cAMP degrading system to the site of cAMP synthesis. Here we show that the beta-agonist, isoprenaline, triggers the rapid and transient ubiquitination of PDE4D5 in primary cardiomyocytes, mouse embryo fibroblasts, and HEK293B2 cells constitutively expressing beta2-adrenoceptors. Reconstitution analyses in beta-arrestin1/2 double knockout cells plus small interference RNA knockdown studies indicate that a beta-arrestin-scaffolded pool of the E3-ubiquitin ligase, Mdm2, mediates PDE4D5 ubiquitination. Critical for this is the ubiquitin-interacting motif located in the extreme C terminus of PDE4D5, which is specific to the PDE4D sub-family. In vitro ubiquitination [corrected] of a PDE4D5 spot-immobilized peptide array, followed by a mutagenesis strategy, showed that PDE4D5 ubiquitination occurs at Lys-48, Lys-53, and Lys-78, which are located within its isoform-specific N-terminal region, as well as at Lys-140 located within its regulatory UCR1 module. We suggest that mono-ubiquitination at Lys-140 primes PDE4D5 for a subsequent cascade of polyubiquitination occurring within its isoform-specific N-terminal region at Lys-48, Lys-53, and Lys-78. PDE4D5 interacts with a non-ubiquitinated beta-arrestin sub-population that is likely to be protected from Mdm2-mediated ubiquitination due to steric hindrance caused by sequestered PDE4D5. Ubiquitination of PDE4D5 elicits an increase in the fraction of PDE4D5 sequestered by beta-arrestin in cells, thereby contributing to the fidelity of PDE4D5-beta-arrestin interaction, as well as decreasing the fraction of PDE4D5 sequestered by the scaffolding protein, RACK1.
Parasitic protozoa are unable to synthesize purines de novo and must import preformed purine nucleobases or nucleosides from their hosts. Leishmania major expresses two purine nucleobase transporters, LmaNT3 and LmaNT4. Previous studies revealed that at neutral pH, LmaNT3 is a broad specificity, high affinity nucleobase transporter, whereas LmaNT4 mediates the uptake of only adenine. Because LmaNT4 is required for optimal viability of the amastigote stage of the parasite that lives within acidified phagolysomal vesicles of mammalian macrophages, the function of this permease was examined under acidic pH conditions. At acidic pH, LmaNT4 acquires the ability to transport adenine, hypoxanthine, guanine, and xanthine with Km values in the micromolar range, indicating that this transporter is activated at low pH. Thus, LmaNT4 is an acid-activated purine nucleobase transporter that functions optimally under the physiological conditions the parasite is exposed to in the macrophage phagolysosome. In contrast, LmaNT3 functions optimally at neutral pH. Two-electrode voltage clamp experiments performed on LmaNT3 and LmaNT4 expressed in Xenopus oocytes revealed substrate-induced inward directed currents at acidic pH, and application of substrates induced acidification of the oocyte cytosol. These observations imply that LmaNT3 and LmaNT4 are nucleobase/proton symporters.
Progress in the development of animal models for/stroke, spinal cord injury, and other neurodegenerative disease requires tests of high sensitivity to elaborate distinct aspects of motor function and to determine even subtle loss of movement capacity. To enhance efficacy and resolution of testing, tests should permit qualitative and quantitative measures of motor function and be sensitive to changes in performance during recovery periods. The present study describes a new task to assess skilled walking in the rat to measure both forelimb and hindlimb function at the same time. Animals are required to walk along a horizontal ladder on which the spacing of the rungs is variable and is periodically changed. Changes in rung spacing prevent animals from learning the absolute and relative location of the rungs and so minimize the ability of the animals to compensate for impairments through learning. In addition, changing the spacing between the rungs allows the test to be used repeatedly in long-term studies. Methods are described for both quantitative and qualitative description of both fore- and hindlimb performance, including limb placing, stepping, co-ordination. Furthermore, use of compensatory strategies is indicated by missteps or compensatory steps in response to another limb's misplacement.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) are Schwann cell-like glial cells of the olfactory system that have been shown to promote axonal regeneration and remyelination in a variety of different lesion paradigms. It is still a matter of debate in how far OECs differ from Schwann cells regarding their regenerative potential and molecular setup. The fact that OECs have been already used for transplantation in humans may imply that the need of the hour is the fine-tuning of clinical application details rather than to cross the bridge between laboratory animal and man. Considering the therapeutic transplantation of OECs, however, the basic question to date is not 'how' to translate but rather 'what' to translate into clinical practice. The aim of the present article is to provide a summary of the current literature and to define the open issues relevant for translating basic research on OECs into clinical practice.
During human development, cells of the blastocyst inner cell mass proliferate and give rise to each cell in the human body. It is that potential which focuses intense interest on these stem cells as a substrate for cell-based regenerative medicine. An increased understanding of the interrelation of processes that govern the formation of various cell types will allow for the directed differentiation of stem cells into specified cells or tissues that can ameliorate the effects of disease or damage. Perhaps the most difficult cells and tissues to derive for use in cell replacement strategies are the diverse neurons, glia and complex networks of the central nervous system (CNS). Here we present emerging perspectives on the development of neuronal and glial cells from stem cells for clinical application to CNS diseases and injury.
The development of potent gamma-secretase inhibitors having substituted heterocycles attached to a benzobicyclo[4.2.1]nonane core is described. This work led to the identification of [6S,9R,11R]-2',3',4',5,5',6,7,8,9,10-decahydro-2-(5-(4-fluorophenyl)-1-methylpyrazol-3-yl)-5'-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)spiro[6,9-methanobenzocyclooctene-11,3'-[1,2,5]thiadiazole] 1',1'-dioxide (16), which has excellent in vitro potency (0.06 nM) and which reduced amyloid-beta in APP-YAC mice with an ED(50) of 1 mg/kg (po). 16 had a good pharmacokinetic profile in three preclinical species.
In this issue of Neuron, Boorman and colleagues shed new light on the roles of lateral frontopolar and ventromedial prefrontal cortices in task switching and decision making.
For neurotransmitter release to occur, proteins and lipids have to work together. The classical view of this process is that a variety of proteins work hard to force the unwilling, fusion-aversive lipids into merging. In this issue of Neuron, a study by Darios et al. paints the opposite picture: a lipid metabolite stimulates the reluctant vSNARE synaptobrevin to engage in fusogenic protein complexes.

We are interested in the rat as an animal model for infant-mother attachment. In the first experiment we tried to distinguish between a preference for familiar animals (attachment theory) and a preference for genetically related animals (kin selection theory) with the use of an early cross-fostering procedure. Genetic relationships did not influence preferences in cross-fostered pups on postnatal day 17, only familiarity did. Subsequently we investigated if peptides known to influence affiliative behaviors were also effective in the present paradigm. Injection of oxytocin into the cisterna magna did not yield significant effects on preference, while vasopressin and desglycinamide-[Arg8]vasopressin reduced the preference in a dose dependent manner. The effect of vasopressin was completely blocked by pretreatment with the vasopressin V(1A) receptor antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)(2),Arg(8)-vasopressin. We discuss the explanatory power of attachment theory and kin selection theory with regard to preference experiments in rats and the usefulness of the rat as an animal model for infant-mother attachment.
Here we provide the first pharmacological exploration of the impact of acute central nervous system exposure to three recently developed ghrelin receptor (GHS-R1A) ligands on food intake and on the electrical activity of the target cells for ghrelin in the hypothalamus. Central (i.c.v) injection of GHS-R1A antagonists to rats suppressed food intake induced by i.c.v ghrelin injection (1 microg) in a dose-dependent manner with a total blockade at concentrations of 0.4 microg and 8 microg for JMV 3002 and JMV 2959 respectively. JMV 2810, a partial agonist, also suppressed ghrelin-induced food intake (range: 0.02-2 microg). Moreover all three compounds reduced fasting-induced food intake in rats (i.e. the amount of food eaten during the first hour of food exposure after a 16 h fast). At the single cell level we also explored the effects of the compounds to suppress ghrelin (0.5 microM)-induced changes in electrical activity of arcuate nucleus cells recorded extracellularly in a slice preparation. Preincubation followed by perfusion with the GHS-R1A ligands suppressed the responsiveness of arcuate cells to ghrelin. Thus, the recently developed GHS-R1A ligands (JMV 3002, 2959 and 2810) suppress ghrelin-induced and fasting-induced food intake at the level of the central nervous system. This appears to be mediated, at least in part, by a modulation of the activity of ghrelin-responsive arcuate nucleus cells. As the central ghrelin signalling system has emerged as an important pro-obesity target, it will be important to establish the efficacy of these GHS-R1A ligands to reduce fat mass in clinical studies.
High-resolution 3D reconstruction and morphometric analysis of striosomes was carried out in macaque monkeys by using immunocytochemistry for the Kv4 potassium channel subunit potassium channel interacting protein 1 (KChIP1), a novel marker. The striosomes form a connected reticulum made up of two distinct planar sheets spanning several millimeters in the putamen, and long finger-like branches in the caudate nucleus and putamen. Although their spatial organization is variable, morphometric analysis of the striosomes, utilizing skeletonizations, reveals several quantitative invariant measures of striosome organization, including the following findings: 1) individual bifurcation-free striosome branches are 355 +/- 108.5 microm in diameter and 1,013 +/- 751 microm in length, and are both lognormally distributed; and 2) striosome branches exhibit three pronounced orientation preferences that are approximately orthogonal. The former finding suggests a fundamental anatomical and functional component of the striatum, whereas the latter indicates that striosomes are more lattice-like than their spatial variability suggests. The perceived variable spatial organization of the striosomes in primates belies many invariant features that may reflect striatal function, development, and pathophysiology.
The proportion of sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) showing nitric oxide synthase (NOS) immunoreactivity appears to vary with innervation target and blood pressure level. For normotensive Sprague-Dawley rats (SD), we evaluated peroxidase immunolabelling for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) plus NOS in spinal cord segments T1-L2 and assessed NOS immunofluorescence in SPN retrogradely labelled with cholera toxin B subunit from the adrenal medulla (AM) or superior cervical (SCG), coeliac (CG), or major pelvic (MPG) ganglia. We also compared the distributions and numbers of NOS-positive and NOS-negative/ChAT-positive lateral horn neurons in SD with those in normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). In SD, WKY, and SHR, rostrocaudal, dorsoventral, and mediolateral differences occurred in the distributions of NOS-positive and NOS-negative/ChAT-positive neurons in the intermediolateral cell column (IML), whereas the two groups were similarly distributed throughout the central autonomic area (CAA). Among the four retrogradely labelled populations of SPN, the percentages showing NOS immunoreactivity differed (CG-projecting, 54.8% +/- 0.7%; SCG-projecting, 75.3% +/- 1.2%; MPG-projecting, 89% +/- 1.1% and AM-projecting, 98.6% +/- 0.2%). Within each retrogradely labelled group of SPN, the NOS-positive proportion also varied with subnuclear location (e.g., 25.5% +/- 4.0% of CG-projecting SPN in the CAA vs. 82.7% +/- 7.6% of CG-projecting SPN in the dorsolateral funiculus). The numbers of NOS-positive and NOS-negative/ChAT-positive neurons in T9-T11 were the same in SD and SHR but differed in WKY. Our results show that the expression of NOS within SPN varies depending on the target that they innervate and also on their subnuclear location. Our data indicate that there are no anatomical differences between nitric oxide-synthesizing SPN in normotensive SD and hypertensive SHR.
Periviscerokinins (PVKs) and pyrokinins (PKs) are neuropeptides known in several arthropod species. Sequence homology of these peptides with the molluscan small cardioactive peptides reveals that the occurrence of PVKs and PKs is not restricted to arthropods. Our study focuses on the biochemical and immunocytochemical identification of neuropeptides with sequence homology to PVKs and PKs in the central and peripheral nervous system of the earthworm Eisenia fetida. By means of affinity chromatography, nanoflow liquid chromatography, and high accuracy mass spectrometry, six peptides, SPFPR(L/I)amide, APFPR(L/I)amide, SPLPR(L/I)amide, SFVR(L/I)amide, AFVR(L/I)amide, and SPAFVR(L/I)amide, were identified in the central nervous system with the common -XR(L/I)amide C-terminal sequence. The exact anatomical position of 13 labeled XR(I/L)amide expressing neuron groups and numerous peptide-containing fibers were determined by means of immunocytochemistry and confocal laser scanning microscopy in whole-mount preparations of ventral nerve cord ganglia. The majority of the stained neurons were interneurons with processes joining the distinct fine-fibered polysegmental tracts in the central neuropil. Some stained fibers were seen running in each segmental nerve that innervated metanephridia and body wall. Distinct groups of neurosecretory cells characterized by small round soma and short processes were also identified. Based on immunoelectron microscopy six different types of labeled cells were described showing morphological heterogeneity of earthworm peptides containing elements. Our findings confirm that the sequence of the identified earthworm neuropeptides homologous to the insect PVKs and PKs suggesting that these peptides are phylogenetically conservative molecules and are expressed in sister-groups of animals such as annelids, mollusks, and insects.
Our brain is a complex network in which information is continuously processed and transported between spatially distributed but functionally linked regions. Recent studies have shown that the functional connections of the brain network are organized in a highly efficient small-world manner, indicating a high level of local neighborhood clustering, together with the existence of more long-distance connections that ensure a high level of global communication efficiency within the overall network. Such an efficient network architecture of our functional brain raises the question of a possible association between how efficiently the regions of our brain are functionally connected and our level of intelligence. Examining the overall organization of the brain network using graph analysis, we show a strong negative association between the normalized characteristic path length lambda of the resting-state brain network and intelligence quotient (IQ). This suggests that human intellectual performance is likely to be related to how efficiently our brain integrates information between multiple brain regions. Most pronounced effects between normalized path length and IQ were found in frontal and parietal regions. Our findings indicate a strong positive association between the global efficiency of functional brain networks and intellectual performance.
Medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) and lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) both contribute to goal-directed behavior, but their precise role remains unclear. Several lines of evidence suggest that MPFC is more important than LPFC for outcome-guided response selection. To examine this, we trained two subjects to perform a task that required them to monitor the specific outcome associated with a specific response on a trial-by-trial basis. While the subjects performed this task, we recorded the electrical activity of single neurons simultaneously from MPFC and LPFC. There were marked differences in the neuronal properties of these two areas. Neurons encoding the response were present in both areas, but in MPFC, there were also neurons that encoded the outcome. In particular, neurons encoded the subject's intended response and how preferable the received outcome was. Thus, only in MPFC was all the information necessary to solve the task encoded. In addition, largely separate populations of MPFC neurons encoded the response and the outcome. Neurons encoding the outcome were in the anterior parts of MPFC: posterior to the corpus callosum, there was a marked drop in their incidence. Our results suggest differences in the contribution of MPFC and LPFC to action control. MPFC neurons encode the desirability of the outcome produced by a specific response on a trial-by-trial basis. This capability may contribute to several of the functions of MPFC, such as action valuation, error detection, and decision making.
Grid cells in the rat medial entorhinal cortex fire (periodically) over the entire environment. These cells provide input to hippocampal granule cells whose output is characterized by one or more small place fields. We sought to understand how this input-output transformation occurs. Available information allows simulation of this process with no freely adjustable parameters. We first examined the spatial distribution of excitation in granule cells produced by the convergence of excitatory inputs from randomly chosen grid cells. Because the resulting summation depends on the number of inputs, it is necessary to use a realistic number (approximately 1200) and to take into consideration their 20-fold variation in strength. The resulting excitation maps have only modest peaks and valleys. To analyze how this excitation interacts with inhibition, we used an E%-max (percentage of maximal suprathreshold excitation) winner-take-all rule that describes how gamma-frequency inhibition affects firing. We found that simulated granule cells have firing maps that have one or more place fields whose size and number approximates those observed experimentally. A substantial fraction of granule cells have no place fields, as observed experimentally. Because the input firing rates and synaptic properties are known, the excitatory charge into granule cells could be calculated (2-3 pC) and was found to be only somewhat larger than required to fire granule cells (1 pC). We conclude that the input-output transformation of dentate granule does not depend strongly on synaptic modification; place field formation can be understood in terms of simple summation of randomly chosen excitatory inputs, in conjunction with a winner-take-all network mechanism.
The role of gamma oscillations in producing synchronized firing of groups of principal cells is well known. Here, we argue that gamma oscillations have a second function: they select which principal cells fire. This selection process occurs through the interaction of excitation with gamma frequency feedback inhibition. We sought to understand the rules that govern this process. One possibility is that a constant fraction of cells fire. Our analysis shows, however, that the fraction is not robust because it depends on the distribution of excitation to different cells. A robust description is termed E%-max: cells fire if they have suprathreshold excitation (E) within E% of the cell that has maximum excitation. The value of E%-max is approximated by the ratio of the delay of feedback inhibition to the membrane time constant. From measured values, we estimate that E%-max is 5-15%. Thus, an E%-max winner-take-all process can discriminate between groups of cells that have only small differences in excitation. To test the utility of this framework, we analyzed the role of oscillations in V1, one of the few systems in which both spiking and intracellular excitation have been directly measured. We show that an E%-max winner-take-all process provides a simple explanation for why the orientation tuning of firing is narrower than that of the excitatory input and why this difference is not affected by increasing excitation. Because gamma oscillations occur in many brain regions, the framework we have developed for understanding the second function of gamma is likely to have wide applicability.
Astrocytes in different brain regions display variable functional properties. In the hippocampus, astrocytes predominantly express time- and voltage-independent currents, but the underlying ion channels are not well defined. This ignorance is partly attributable to abundant intercellular coupling of these cells through gap junctions, impeding quantitative analyses of intrinsic membrane properties. Moreover, distinct types of cells with astroglial properties coexist in a given brain area, a finding that confused previous analyses. In the present study, we investigated expression of inwardly rectifying (Kir) and two-pore-domain (K2P) K+ channels in astrocytes, which are thought to be instrumental in the regulation of K+ homeostasis. Freshly isolated astrocytes were used to improve space-clamp conditions and allow for quantitative assessment of functional parameters. Patch-clamp recordings were combined with immunocytochemistry, Western blot analysis, and semiquantitative transcript analysis. Comparative measurements were performed in different CA1 subregions of astrocyte-targeted transgenic mice. While confirming weak Ba2+ sensitivity in situ, our data demonstrate that in freshly isolated astrocytes, the main proportion of membrane currents is sensitive to micromolar Ba2+ concentrations. Upregulation of Kir4.1 transcripts and protein during the first 10 postnatal days was accompanied by a fourfold increase in astrocyte inward current density. Hippocampal astrocytes from Kir4.1-/- mice lacked Ba2+-sensitive currents. In addition, we report functional expression of K2P channels of the TREK subfamily (TREK1, TREK2), which mediate astroglial outward currents. Together, our findings demonstrate that Kir4.1 constitutes the pivotal K+ channel subunit and that superposition of currents through Kir4.1 and TREK channels underlies the &quot;passive&quot; current pattern of hippocampal astrocytes.
The processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) to Abeta is an important event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, but the physiological function of APP is not well understood. Our previous work has shown that APP processing and Abeta production are regulated by the extracellular matrix protein Reelin. In the present study, we examined whether Reelin interacts with APP, and the functional consequences of that interaction in vitro. Using coimmunoprecipitation, we found that Reelin interacted with APP through the central domain of Reelin (repeats 3-6) and the E1 extracellular domain of APP. Reelin increased cell surface levels of APP and decreased endocytosis of APP in hippocampal neurons in vitro. In vivo, Reelin levels were increased in brains of APP knock-out mice and decreased in APP-overexpressing mice. RNA interference knockdown of APP decreased neurite outgrowth in vitro and prevented Reelin from increasing neurite outgrowth. Knock-out of APP or Reelin decreased dendritic arborization in cortical neurons in vivo, and APP overexpression increased dendritic arborization. APP and Reelin have previously been shown to promote neurite outgrowth through interactions with integrins. We confirmed that APP interacted with alpha3beta1 integrin, and alpha3beta1 integrin altered APP trafficking and processing. Addition of an alpha3beta1 integrin antibody prevented APP and Reelin-induced neurite outgrowth. These findings demonstrate that Reelin interacts with APP, potentially having important effects on neurite development.
Recent studies have shown the existence of a form of visual memory that lies intermediate of iconic memory and visual short-term memory (VSTM), in terms of both capacity (up to 15 items) and the duration of the memory trace (up to 4 s). Because new visual objects readily overwrite this intermediate visual store, we believe that it reflects a weak form of VSTM with high capacity that exists alongside a strong but capacity-limited form of VSTM. In the present study, we isolated brain activity related to weak and strong VSTM representations using functional magnetic resonance imaging. We found that activity in visual cortical area V4 predicted the strength of VSTM representations; activity was low when there was no VSTM, medium when there was a weak VSTM representation regardless of whether this weak representation was available for report or not, and high when there was a strong VSTM representation. Altogether, this study suggests that the high capacity yet weak VSTM store is represented in visual parts of the brain. Allegedly, only some of these VSTM traces are amplified by parietal and frontal regions and as a consequence reside in traditional or strong VSTM. The additional weak VSTM representations remain available for conscious access and report when attention is redirected to them yet are overwritten as soon as new visual stimuli hit the eyes.
Neural progenitor cells in the ventricular zone of the developing mammalian cerebral cortex give rise to specialized cortical cell types via consecutive rounds of proliferation and differentiation, but the mechanisms by which progenitor cell self-renewal and differentiation are regulated during cortical development are not well understood. Here, we show that zinc-finger and homeodomain protein 2 (ZHX2) is specifically expressed in neural progenitor cells during cortical neurogenesis. ZHX2 binds to the cytoplasmic domain of ephrin-B1, which is expressed in cortical neural progenitors and plays a role in neural progenitor cell maintenance. ZHX2 acts as a transcriptional repressor in cell, and its repressor activity is enhanced by coexpression of an ephrin-B1 intracellular domain. Blocking ZHX2 function in cultured neural progenitor cells or in the embryonic cortex causes neuronal differentiation, whereas overexpression of ZHX2 and an ephrin-B1 intracellular domain disrupts the normal differentiation of cortical neural progenitor cells. This study identifies ZHX2 as a novel regulator of neural progenitor cell maintenance and suggests a potential nuclear mechanism of the ephrin-B function in the cortex.


This article discusses intuition as a legitimate form of knowledge rather than solely as an expert trait. It also describes the possibility of interdisciplinary research using theories and frameworks from psychology, computer science, physics and neuroscience to provide empirical evidence for intuitive knowledge to be considered a legitimate form of knowledge.
The mammalian CNS is usually not capable of regeneration. However, conditioning dorsal root ganglion neurons by first lesioning their peripheral axons allows for regeneration of their central axons later on within the spinal cord. New work shows that, even if the sequence of lesioning is reversed, regeneration through the CNS lesion can rapidly occur under certain conditions.
ATP is a cotransmitter with classical transmitters in most nerves in the peripheral nervous system and central nervous system, although the proportions vary between species and tissues and in different developmental, physiological and pathophysiological conditions. ATP is released together with noradrenaline and neuropeptide Y from sympathetic nerves. It is released as a cotransmitter with acetylcholine from parasympathetic nerves supplying the bladder, developing skeletal neuromuscular junctions and some neurons in the brain. It is also released with nitric oxide and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide from non-adrenergic inhibitory enteric nerves, with glutamate from primary afferent sensory nerves and in the hypothalamus, and with dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine from some neurons in the central nervous system. Cotransmission offers subtle, local variations in neurotransmission and neuromodulation mechanisms.



Macaques, like humans, rapidly orient their attention in the direction other individuals are looking. Both cortical and subcortical pathways have been proposed as neural mediators of social gaze following, but neither pathway has been characterized electrophysiologically in behaving animals. To address this gap, we recorded the activity of single neurons in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) of rhesus macaques to determine whether and how this area might contribute to gaze following. A subset of LIP neurons mirrored observed attention by firing both when the subject looked in the preferred direction of the neuron, and when observed monkeys looked in the preferred direction of the neuron, despite the irrelevance of the monkey images to the task. Importantly, the timing of these modulations matched the time course of gaze-following behavior. A second population of neurons was suppressed by social gaze cues, possibly subserving task demands by maintaining fixation on the observed face. These observations suggest that LIP contributes to sharing of observed attention and link mirror representations in parietal cortex to a well studied imitative behavior.
We used functional MRI (fMRI) to investigate human mental processes in a competitive interactive setting--the &quot;beauty contest&quot; game. This game is well-suited for investigating whether and how a player's mental processing incorporates the thinking process of others in strategic reasoning. We apply a cognitive hierarchy model to classify subject's choices in the experimental game according to the degree of strategic reasoning so that we can identify the neural substrates of different levels of strategizing. According to this model, high-level reasoners expect the others to behave strategically, whereas low-level reasoners choose based on the expectation that others will choose randomly. The data show that high-level reasoning and a measure of strategic IQ (related to winning in the game) correlate with the neural activity in the medial prefrontal cortex, demonstrating its crucial role in successful mentalizing. This supports a cognitive hierarchy model of human brain and behavior.
Zebrafish is gaining popularity in behavioral neuroscience in general and in alcohol research in particular. Alcohol is known to affect numerous molecular mechanisms depending on dose and administration regimen. Prominent among these mechanisms are several neurotransmitter systems. Here we analyze the responses of the dopaminergic and serotoninergic neurotransmitter systems of zebrafish to acute alcohol treatment (1 h long exposure of adult fish to 0.00%, 0.25%, 0.50%, or 1.00% ethyl alcohol) by testing the concentration of dopamine, its metabolite DOPAC, and serotonin and its metabolite 5-HIAA from whole brain extracts. We utilize a sensitive HPLC method and describe significant alcohol induced changes in zebrafish for the first time. We show that dopamine significantly increased in a quasi-linear dose dependent manner, DOPAC showed a smaller apparent increase which was non-significant, while both serotonin and 5-HIAA showed a significant increase only in the highest acute dose group. We discuss the methodological novelty of our work and theorize about the implications of the neurotransmitter level changes from a behavioral perspective.
Levels of prepulse inhibition (PPI) depend on the interval between the startling and prepulse stimuli. Brown Norway rats show less PPI of the acoustic startle response than Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats when the interval between the prepulse and startling stimulus is 100 ms. Central administration of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) decreases PPI at this inter-stimulus interval. Here, the effect of CRF on PPI over a range of inter-stimulus intervals was examined in WKY and BN rats, and in the F1 generation of a cross between them. Rats received an intracerebroventricular infusion of either saline or CRF 30 min prior to testing PPI. Test trials included startle stimulus alone trials, and trials on which a prepulse stimulus of either 6, 12, or 15 dB above background preceded the startling stimulus by either 20, 75, 100, 500 or 2000 ms. CRF decreased PPI in WKY rats at all inter-stimulus intervals and all prepulse intensities, while the effect of CRF on PPI in BN rats only occurred at intermediate intervals. BN and WKY rats showed different levels of PPI only at the intermediate intervals. Baseline PPI in the F1 rats resembled the WKY phenotype. The CRF-induced change in PPI in the F1 generation has some qualities of the effects in each of the progenitor strains. These results suggest that both the effect of rats strain and of CRF on PPI depend on the inter-stimulus interval, and that there is an interaction between prepulse stimulus intensity and the inter-stimulus interval.
The role of neuroscience for the understanding of cognitive processes is a matter of controversial discussions. While it is widely accepted that neuroscientific data do contribute to theories on cognition in some way, their specific value is most often not explicitly described. One central issue is the validity of the inference from neuroscientific data to underlying cognitive processes, which depends on the characteristic properties of the respective neuroscientific method. In the first part of this review, we discuss the conditions under which data from functional MRI (fMRI), surface EEG, and intracranial EEG recordings may be interpreted with respect to associated cognitive processes. We will show that due to the different signal characteristics in each domain, cognitive processes at different levels can be captured. In the second part, we address the specific contribution made by neuroscientific data to the understanding of cognition. We show that neuroscientific findings may move beyond psychological theories based on purely behavioral data in several respects, which again depend on the imaging modality. Taken together, we suggest that neuroscientific data contribute to the understanding of cognition by adding specific biological constraints and by extending the explanatory potential of psychological theories.
Schizophrenia is a chronic disorder generally considered to encompass positive symptoms, negative symptoms and cognitive deficits. Increasing attention has been paid to the social cognitive deficits of the disorder as these dysfunctions are particularly handicapping, predictive of functional outcome and show poor treatment response. Phencyclidine (PCP) is a psychotomimetic drug used to model the different aspects of schizophrenia in experimental animal models. PCP-induced cognitive deficits and hyperlocomotion may be blocked by pretreatment with nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitors in rodents. The present study was carried out to evaluate the acute effects of PCP and NO synthase inhibition on social interaction in male Sprague-Dawley rats. The NO synthase inhibitor, L-NAME (10mg/kg) and PCP (2mg/kg) was injected subcutaneously to rats, which were then tested in pairs for social interactive behaviour. Twenty-four hours after the initial test a drug-free social interaction test was carried out to assess the rats' memory of the previous social interaction. The results showed that PCP reduced the time of social interaction on Day 1 compared to controls, and that pretreatment with the NO synthase inhibitor, L-NAME, attenuated this reduction towards control levels. Neither locomotor activity, nor frequency of social interactions were affected by the PCP treatment, suggesting that the PCP-induced effects observed were not due to drug-induced stereotypies. In combination with increasing clinical evidence for the involvement of NO in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, the present results indicate that NO synthase inhibition may be a potentially new treatment strategy for alleviating social dysfunction in schizophrenia.
The Tg2576 transgenic mouse is an extensively characterized animal model for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Similar to AD, these mice suffer from progressive decline in several forms of declarative memory including contextual fear conditioning and novel object recognition (NOR). Recent work on this and other AD animal models suggests that initial cognitive deficits are due to synaptic dysfunction that, with the correct intervention, are fully treatable. We recently reported that acute calcineurin (CaN) inhibition with FK506 ameliorates one form of declarative memory (contextual fear conditioning) impairment in 5 months old Tg2576. This study tested whether acute CaN inhibition rescues deficits in an additional form of declarative memory, spontaneous object recognition, by employing the NOR paradigm. Furthermore, we determined whether FK506 rescue of NOR deficits depends on the retention interval employed and therefore is restricted to short-term, intermediate-term, or long-term memory (STM, ITM or LTM, respectively). In object recognition, Tg2576 are unimpaired when NOR is tested as a STM task and CaN inhibition with FK506 does not influence NOR STM performance in Tg2576 or WT mice. Tg2576 were impaired in NOR compared to WT mice when a 4 or 24h retention interval was employed to model ITM and LTM, respectively. Acute CaN inhibition prior to and during the training session reversed these deficits in Tg2576 mice with no effect on WT performance. Our findings demonstrate that aberrant CaN activity mediates object recognition deficits in 5 months old Tg2576 when NOR is employed as a test for ITM and LTM. In human AD, CaN inhibition may lead the way for therapeutics to improve declarative memory performance as demonstrated in a mouse model for AD.
In the amyloid over-expressing TASTPM mouse model of Alzheimer's disease, impaired contextual fear memory occurs early, and is preceded, at 4 months of age, by a deficit in extinction of contextual fear that is resistant to improvement by repeated mild novel cage stress. The first aim of this study was thus to establish whether the extinction deficit could be prevented if the novel cage procedure was applied prior to its onset. The second aim was to establish whether the occurrence of the extinction deficit was dependent on the robustness of the conditioning protocol. We first compared 3-month-old wild-type and TASTPM mice for acquisition, retention and extinction of contextual fear and then, looked at the impact of 5 weeks of novel cage stress (4 x 1 h/week) applied from 3 months onwards, on age-related changes in these behaviours evaluated at 4.5 months of age. In another experiment, we compared 4-month-old TASTPM and wild-type mice for the impact of a 2 and 5-pairing conditioning procedure on the three phases of contextual fear conditioning. In 4.5-month-old TASTPM mice, the deficit in extinction was alleviated by repeated novel cage stress, applied from prior to its onset at 3 months. At 4 months of age, the occurrence of an extinction deficit was independent of the strength of the conditioning procedure, in TASTPM mice, which even showed an increase in aversive memory under the 2-pairing condition. The robust early impairment in the extinction of contextual fear seen in adult TASTPM mice suggests that a deficit in cognitive flexibility is the first sign of behavioural pathology in this model of Alzheimer's disease.
The striatal dopamine signal has multiple facets; tonic level, phasic rise and fall, and variation of the phasic rise/fall depending on the expectation of reward/punishment. We have developed a network model of the striatal direct pathway using an ionic current level model of the medium spiny neuron that incorporates currents sensitive to changes in the tonic level of dopamine. The model neurons in the network learn action selection based on a novel set of mathematical rules that incorporate the phasic change in the dopamine signal. This network model is capable of learning to perform a sequence learning task that in humans is thought to be dependent on the basal ganglia. When both tonic and phasic levels of dopamine are decreased, as would be expected in unmedicated Parkinson's disease (PD), the model reproduces the deficits seen in a human PD group off medication. When the tonic level is increased to normal, but with reduced phasic increases and decreases in response to reward and punishment, respectively, as would be expected in PD medicated with L-Dopa, the model again reproduces the human data. These findings support the view that the cognitive dysfunctions seen in Parkinson's disease are not solely either due to the decreased tonic level of dopamine or to the decreased responsiveness of the phasic dopamine signal to reward and punishment, but to a combination of the two factors that varies dependent on disease stage and medication status.
The CB(1) cannabinoid receptor has been implicated in the control of fear and anxiety. We investigated the effects of genetic and pharmacological blockade of the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor on the behaviour of CD1 mice using three different ethological models of fear and anxiety (elevated T-maze and plus-maze and open field test of emotionality). Furthermore, we measured tissue levels of noradrenalin (NA), dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT) and their metabolites in several forebrain regions, i.e. prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, septum, dorsal and ventral striatum to examine the relationship between CB(1) receptor manipulation and monoaminergic neurotransmission. The major findings can be summarized as follows: the CB(1) receptor antagonist SR141617A (rimonabant) modulated anxiety in a dose-dependent manner. At a dose of 3 mg/kg i.p., the compound consistently increased anxiety parameters in all of the three different anxiety tests applied, while a lower dosage of 1mg/kg had no such effect. The neurochemical evaluation of the mice administered 3mg/kg SR141617A revealed increases in the concentrations of DOPAC and 5-HIAA in the dorsal striatum, elevated DA levels in the hippocampus and reduced dopamine turnover in the septum. Furthermore, these animals had a higher HVA/DA turnover in the frontal cortex. CB(1) receptor knockout mice as well as mice treated with the selective CB(1) receptor antagonist AM251 (3 mg/kg; i.p.) did not display any significant alterations in anxiety-related behaviour as measured with the elevated plus-maze and open field test of emotionality, respectively. Our findings support the general idea of a SR141617A-sensitive receptive site that is different from the 'classical' CB(1) receptor and that has a pivotal role in the regulation of different psychological functions. However, with regard to its functional significance in terms of anxiety our findings suggest that under physiological conditions this receptive site seems to be involved in the control of anxiolysis rather than anxiogenesis as suggested previously.
Propionic acid (PPA) is a dietary short chain fatty acid and a metabolic end-product of enteric bacteria. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) injections of PPA can result in brain and behavioral abnormalities in rats similar to those seen in humans suffering from autism. To evaluate cognition and sensorimotor ability in the PPA model, male Long-Evans hooded rats received ICV injection of PPA or control compounds prior to behavioral testing in water maze and beam tasks. Compared to controls, PPA-treated rats were impaired in the water maze task as indicated by an unusual pattern of mild or no impairment during spatial acquisition training, but marked impairment during spatial reversal training. PPA-treated rats were also impaired on the beam task. Neuropathological analysis from PPA-treated rats revealed an innate neuroinflammatory response. These findings add to evidence that PPA can change the brain and behavior in the laboratory rat consistent with symptoms of human autism.
The hippocampus is especially vulnerable to damage caused by metabolic dysregulation. However distinct sub-regions within the hippocampus differ by their relative susceptibility to such damage. Region CA1 pyramidal neurons are most sensitive to metabolic perturbations while region CA3 pyramidal neurons show more resistance, and these unique profiles of susceptibility are but one example that differentiates CA1/CA3 neurons. We present here a hypothesis that inextricably links the unique biochemistries of learning and memory in region CA1, to that of cell survival signaling, and in so doing, suggest an explanation for region CA1 susceptibility to metabolic dysfunction. Further, we propose a signaling mechanism to explain how both pathways can be simultaneously regulated. Critical to this process is the protein phosphatase PHLPP1. Finally we discuss the implications of this hypothesis and the inherent challenges it poses for treatment of neurological disorders resulting in reduced hippocampal function by increased neuron death.
An approach towards heterogeneous neuroscience dataset integration is proposed that uses Natural Language Processing (NLP) and a knowledge-based phenotype organizer system (PhenOS) to link ontology-anchored terms to underlying data from each database, and then maps these terms based on a computable model of disease (SNOMED CT(R)). The approach was implemented using sample datasets from fMRIDC, GEO, The Whole Brain Atlas and Neuronames and allowed for complex queries such as &quot;List all disorders with a finding site of brain region X, and then find the semantically related references in all participating databases based on the ontological model of the disease or its anatomical and morphological attributes&quot;. Precision of the NLP-derived coding of the unstructured phenotypes in each dataset was 88% (n=50), and precision of the semantic mapping between these terms across datasets was 98% (n=100). To our knowledge, this is the first example of the use of both semantic decomposition of disease relationships and hierarchical information found in ontologies to integrate heterogeneous phenotypes across clinical and molecular datasets.
When integrating signals from vision and haptics the brain must solve a &quot;correspondence problem&quot; so that it only combines information referring to the same object. An invariant spatial rule could be used when grasping with the hand: here the two signals should only be integrated when the estimate of hand and object position coincide. Tools complicate this relationship, however, because visual information about the object, and the location of the hand, are separated spatially. We show that when a simple tool is used to estimate size, the brain integrates visual and haptic information in a near-optimal fashion, even with a large spatial offset between the signals. Moreover, we show that an offset between the tool-tip and the object results in similar reductions in cross-modal integration as when the felt and seen positions of an object are offset in normal grasping. This suggests that during tool use the haptic signal is treated as coming from the tool-tip, not the hand. The brain therefore appears to combine visual and haptic information, not based on the spatial proximity of sensory stimuli, but based on the proximity of the distal causes of stimuli, taking into account the dynamics and geometry of tools.




Accumulated evidence indicates that astroglial cells actively participate in neuronal synaptic transmission and plasticity. However, it is still not clear whether astrocytes are able to undergo plasticity in response to synaptic inputs. Here we demonstrate that a long-term potentiation (LTP)-like response could be detected at perforant path-dentate astrocyte synapses following high-frequency stimulation (HFS) in hippocampal slices of GFAP-GFP transgenic mice. The potentiation was not dependent on the glutamate transporters nor the group I metabotropic glutamate receptors. However, the induction of LTP requires activation of the NMDA receptor (NMDAR). The presence of functional NMDAR was supported by isolating the NMDAR-gated current and by identifying mRNAs of NMDAR subunits in astrocytes. Our results suggest that astrocytes in the hippocampal dentate gyrus are able to undergo plasticity in response to presynaptic inputs.
Microglial-related factors have been implicated in the signaling cascades that contribute to neuronal cell death in various neurodegenerative disorders. Thus, strategies that reduce microglial activation and associated neurotoxicity may have therapeutic benefit. Group II and III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are expressed in microglia and can modulate microglial activity in primary cell cultures. We demonstrate that the group I receptor member mGluR5 is highly expressed in primary microglial cultures and the BV2 microglial cell line. Activation of mGluR5 using the selective agonist (RS)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) significantly attenuates microglial activation in response to lipopolysaccharide and interferon-gamma, as indicated by a reduction in the expression of inducible nitric-oxide synthase, production of nitric oxide and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and intracellular generation of reactive oxygen species. In addition, microglial-induced neurotoxicity is also markedly reduced by CHPG treatment. The anti-inflammatory effects of CHPG are mediated by the mGluR5 receptor, because either a selective mGluR5 antagonist or small interference RNA knockdown attenuated the actions of this drug. CHPG blocked the lipopolysaccharide-induced increase in expression and enzymatic activity of NADPH oxidase. Moreover, the protective effects of CHPG were significantly reduced when the NADPH oxidase subunits p22(phox) or gp91(phox) were knocked down by small interference RNA. These data suggest that mGluR5 represents a novel target for modulating microglial-dependent neuroinflammation, and may have therapeutic relevance for neurological disorders that exhibit microglial-mediated neurodegeneration.
LINGO-1 is a component of the tripartite receptor complexes, which act as a convergent mediator of the intracellular signaling in response to myelin-associated inhibitors and lead to collapse of growth cone and inhibition of neurite extension. Although the function of LINGO-1 has been intensively studied, its downstream signaling remains elusive. In the present study, a novel interaction between LINGO-1 and a serine-threonine kinase WNK1 was identified by yeast two-hybrid screen. The interaction was further validated by fluorescence resonance energy transfer and co-immunoprecipitation, and this interaction was intensified by Nogo66 treatment. Morphological evidences showed that WNK1 and LINGO-1 were co-localized in cortical neurons. Furthermore, either suppressing WNK1 expression by RNA interference or overexpression of WNK1-(123-510) attenuated Nogo66-induced inhibition of neurite extension and inhibited the activation of RhoA. Moreover, WNK1 was identified to interact with Rho-GDI1, and this interaction was attenuated by Nogo66 treatment, further indicating its regulatory effect on RhoA activation. Taken together, our results suggest that WNK1 is a novel signaling molecule involved in regulation of LINGO-1 mediated inhibition of neurite extension.
Stathmin is an important regulator of microtubule polymerization and dynamics. When unphosphorylated it destabilizes microtubules in two ways, by reducing the microtubule polymer mass through sequestration of soluble tubulin into an assembly-incompetent T2S complex (two alpha:beta tubulin dimers per molecule of stathmin), and by increasing the switching frequency (catastrophe frequency) from growth to shortening at plus and minus ends by binding directly to the microtubules. Phosphorylation of stathmin on one or more of its four serine residues (Ser(16), Ser(25), Ser(38), and Ser(63)) reduces its microtubule-destabilizing activity. However, the effects of phosphorylation of the individual serine residues of stathmin on microtubule dynamic instability have not been investigated systematically. Here we analyzed the effects of stathmin singly phosphorylated at Ser(16) or Ser(63), and doubly phosphorylated at Ser(25) and Ser(38), on its ability to modulate microtubule dynamic instability at steady-state in vitro. Phosphorylation at either Ser(16) or Ser(63) strongly reduced or abolished the ability of stathmin to bind to and sequester soluble tubulin and its ability to act as a catastrophe factor by directly binding to the microtubules. In contrast, double phosphorylation of Ser(25) and Ser(38) did not affect the binding of stathmin to tubulin or microtubules or its catastrophe-promoting activity. Our results indicate that the effects of stathmin on dynamic instability are strongly but differently attenuated by phosphorylation at Ser(16) and Ser(63) and support the hypothesis that selective targeting by Ser(16)-specific or Ser(63)-specific kinases provides complimentary mechanisms for regulating microtubule function.
Ingestion of a poisonous mushroom, Clitocybe acromelalga, results in strong and long-lasting allodynia, burning pain, redness and swelling in the periphery of the body. Acromelic acid (ACRO), a kainate analogue isolated from the mushroom, is assumed to be involved in the poisoning. ACRO has two isomers, ACRO-A and ACRO-B. The potency of ACRO-A is a million times higher than that of ACRO-B for induction of allodynia when intrathecally administered in mice. The effect of ACRO on the primary afferents of somatic tissues remains largely unknown. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of ACRO-A on the response behavior of unmyelinated afferents in the skeletal muscle. For this purpose single fiber recordings of C-afferents were made from rat extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscle-common peroneal nerve preparations in vitro. Intramuscular injections of ACRO-A at three different concentrations (10(-12), 10(-10) and 10(-8)M, 5 microl over 5s) near the receptive field in the EDL muscle elicited excitation of C-afferents (12%, 50% and 44%, respectively). ACRO-A at the concentration of 10(-10)M induced the strongest excitation. The incidence of ACRO-A responsive fibers at the concentration of 10(-10) and 10(-8)M was significantly higher than that at 10(-12)M. The responses to mechanical and heat stimulations did not differ between ACRO-A sensitive and insensitive fibers. These results clearly demonstrated the powerful excitatory action of ACRO-A on mechanosensitive unmyelinated afferents in the rat skeletal muscle.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by a polyglutamine repeat in the protein huntingtin (Htt) with mutant Htt (mHtt) expressed throughout the body and similarly in all brain regions. Yet, HD neuropathology is largely restricted to the corpus striatum. We report that the small guanine nucleotide-binding protein Rhes, which is localized very selectively to the striatum, binds physiologically to mHtt. Using cultured cells, we found Rhes induces sumoylation of mHtt, which leads to cytotoxicity. Thus, Rhes-mHtt interactions can account for the localized neuropathology of HD.



Proneurotrophins mediate neuronal apoptosis using a dual receptor complex of sortilin and p75(NTR). Although p75(NTR) is highly expressed on the plasma membrane and accessible to proneurotrophin ligands, sortilin is primarily localized to intracellular membranes, limiting the formation of a cell surface co-receptor complex. Here, we show that the mammalian p75(NTR) homologue NRH2 critically regulates the expression of sortilin on the neuronal cell surface and promotes p75(NTR) and sortilin receptor complex formation, rendering cells responsive to proneurotrophins. This is accomplished by interactions between the cytoplasmic domains of NRH2 and sortilin that impair lysosomal degradation of sortilin. In proneurotrophin-responsive neurons, acute silencing of endogenous NRH2 significantly reduces cell surface-expressed sortilin and abolishes proneurotrophin-induced neuronal death. Thus, these data suggest that NRH2 acts as a trafficking switch to impair lysosomal-dependant sortilin degradation and to redistribute sortilin to the cell surface, rendering p75(NTR)-expressing cells susceptible to proneurotrophin-induced death.
Functional connectivity (FC) analyses of resting-state fMRI data allow for the mapping of large-scale functional networks, and provide a novel means of examining the impact of dopaminergic challenge. Here, using a double-blind, placebo-controlled design, we examined the effect of L-dopa, a dopamine precursor, on striatal resting-state FC in 19 healthy young adults. We examined the FC of 6 striatal regions of interest (ROIs) previously shown to elicit networks known to be associated with motivational, cognitive and motor subdivisions of the caudate and putamen (Di Martino et al., 2008). In addition to replicating the previously demonstrated patterns of striatal FC, we observed robust effects of L-dopa. Specifically, L-dopa increased FC in motor pathways connecting the putamen ROIs with the cerebellum and brainstem. Although L-dopa also increased FC between the inferior ventral striatum and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, it disrupted ventral striatal and dorsal caudate FC with the default mode network. These alterations in FC are consistent with studies that have demonstrated dopaminergic modulation of cognitive and motor striatal networks in healthy participants. Recent studies have demonstrated altered resting state FC in several conditions believed to be characterized by abnormal dopaminergic neurotransmission. Our findings suggest that the application of similar experimental pharmacological manipulations in such populations may further our understanding of the role of dopaminergic neurotransmission in those conditions.
One of the characteristics of animals in hibernation is reduced behavioral activity. The Caenorhabditis elegans dauer state is a hibernation-like state of diapause that displays a dramatic reduction in spontaneous locomotion. A similar dauer-like quiescent state is produced in adults by relatively strong mutations in the insulin/IGF-1 receptor homolog daf-2. In this study, we show that mutations affecting the neurotransmitter dopamine, which regulates voluntary movement in many organisms, can stimulate movement in dauers and dauer-like quiescent adults. Surprisingly, the movement of quiescent animals is stimulated by conditions that reduce dopamine signaling and also by conditions predicted to increase dopamine signaling. Reducing dopamine signaling is likely to stimulate movement by activating a foraging response also seen in nondauers after withdrawal of food. In contrast, the stimulation of movement by increased dopamine is much more pronounced in quiescent daf-2(-) dauer and dauer-like adult animals than in nondauaer animals. This altered response to dopamine is primarily attributable to activity of the FOXO (forkhead box O) transcription factor DAF-16 in neurons. We suggest that dauers and dauer-like quiescent adults may have underlying changes in the dopamine system that enable them to respond differently to environmental stimulation.
Multiple memory systems are distinguished by different sets of neuronal circuits and operating principles optimized to solve different problems across mammalian species (Tulving and Schacter, 1994). When a rat selects an arm in a plus maze, for example, the choice can be guided by distinct neural systems (White and Wise, 1999) that encode different relationships among perceived stimuli, actions, and reward. Thus, egocentric or stimulus-response associations require striatal circuits, whereas spatial or episodic learning requires hippocampal circuits (Packard et al., 1989). Although these memory systems function in parallel (Packard and McGaugh, 1996), they can also interact competitively or synergistically (Kim and Ragozzino, 2005). The neuronal mechanisms that coordinate these multiple memory systems are not fully known, but converging evidence suggests that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is central. The PFC is crucial for abstract, rule-guided behavior in primates and for switching rapidly between memory strategies in rats. We now report that rat medial PFC neuronal activity predicts switching between hippocampus- and caudate-dependent memory strategies. Prelimbic (PL) and infralimbic (IL) neuronal activity changed as rats switched memory strategies even as the rats performed identical behaviors but did not change when rats learned new contingencies using the same strategy. PL dynamics anticipated learning performance whereas IL lagged, suggesting that the two regions help initiate and establish new strategies, respectively. These neuronal dynamics suggest that the PFC contributes to the coordination of memory strategies by integrating the predictive relationships among stimuli, actions, and reward.
The cerci of the cockroach are covered with identified sensory hairs that detect air movements. The sensory neurons that innervate these hairs synapse with giant interneurons in the terminal ganglion that in turn synapse with interneurons and leg motor neurons in thoracic ganglia. This neural circuit mediates the animal's escape behavior. The transcription factor Engrailed (En) is expressed only in the medially born sensory neurons, which suggested that it could work as a positional determinant of sensory neuron identity. Previously, we used double-stranded RNA interference to abolish En expression and found that the axonal arborization and synaptic outputs of an identified En-positive sensory neuron changed so that it came to resemble a nearby En-negative cell, which was itself unaffected. We thus demonstrated directly that En controls synaptic choice, as well as axon projections. Is escape behavior affected as a result of this miswiring? We showed recently that adult cockroaches keep each escape unpredictable by running along one of a set of preferred escape trajectories (ETs) at fixed angles from the direction of the threatening stimulus. The probability of selecting a particular ET is influenced by wind direction. In this present study, we show that early instar juvenile cockroaches also use those same ETs. En knock-out significantly perturbs the animals' perception of posterior wind, altering the choice of ETs to one more appropriate for anterior wind. This is the first time that it has been shown that knock-out of a transcription factor controlling synaptic connectivity can alter the perception of a directional stimulus.
Although tactile spatial acuity tests are used in both neuroscience research and clinical assessment, few automated devices exist for delivering controlled spatially structured stimuli to the skin. Consequently, investigators often apply tactile stimuli manually. Manual stimulus application is time consuming, requires great care and concentration on the part of the investigator, and leaves many stimulus parameters uncontrolled. We describe here a computer-controlled tactile stimulus system, the Tactile Automated Passive-finger Stimulator (TAPS), that applies spatially structured stimuli to the skin, controlling for onset velocity, contact force, and contact duration. TAPS is a versatile, programmable system, capable of efficiently conducting a variety of psychophysical procedures. We describe the components of TAPS, and show how TAPS is used to administer a two-interval forced-choice tactile grating orientation test.
A scientific consensus is emerging that the origins of adult disease are often found among developmental and biological disruptions occurring during the early years of life. These early experiences can affect adult health in 2 ways--either by cumulative damage over time or by the biological embedding of adversities during sensitive developmental periods. In both cases, there can be a lag of many years, even decades, before early adverse experiences are expressed in the form of disease. From both basic research and policy perspectives, confronting the origins of disparities in physical and mental health early in life may produce greater effects than attempting to modify health-related behaviors or improve access to health care in adulthood.
Inspired by the dynamic clamp of cellular neuroscience, this paper introduces VPI -- Virtual Partner Interaction -- a coupled dynamical system for studying real time interaction between a human and a machine. In this proof of concept study, human subjects coordinate hand movements with a virtual partner, an avatar of a hand whose movements are driven by a computerized version of the Haken-Kelso-Bunz (HKB) equations that have been shown to govern basic forms of human coordination. As a surrogate system for human social coordination, VPI allows one to examine regions of the parameter space not typically explored during live interactions. A number of novel behaviors never previously observed are uncovered and accounted for. Having its basis in an empirically derived theory of human coordination, VPI offers a principled approach to human-machine interaction and opens up new ways to understand how humans interact with human-like machines including identification of underlying neural mechanisms.
Corticostriatal projections constitute the major inputs to basal ganglia, an ensemble of sub-cortical nuclei involved in the learning of cognitive-motor sequences in response to environmental stimuli. Besides striatal output neurons (medium-sized spiny neurons, MSNs) in charge of the detection of cortical activity, three main classes of interneurons (GABAergic, cholinergic and nitric oxide (NO)-synthase interneurons) tightly regulate the corticostriatal information transfer. Despite the crucial role of NO on neuronal signaling and synaptic plasticity, little is known about corticostriatal synaptic transmission and plasticity at the level of striatal neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) interneurons. Using a corticostriatal rat brain slice preserving the connections between the somatosensory cortex and the striatal cells, we have explored the synaptic transmission between the cerebral cortex and striatal nNOS interneurons and their capability to develop activity-dependent long-term plasticity based on the quasi-coincident cortical and striatal activities (spike-timing dependent plasticity, STDP). We have observed that cortical pyramidal cells activate monosynaptically and very efficiently the striatal nNOS interneurons. In addition, nNOS interneurons are able to develop strong bidirectional long-term plasticity, following STDP protocols. Indeed, the strength of cortically-evoked response at nNOS interneurons varied as a function of time interval between pre- and postsynaptic activations (Deltat=t(post)-t(pre)). For Deltat&lt;0, excitatory post-synaptic currents (EPSCs) were depressed, peaking at a delay of -25 ms. For Deltat&gt;0, EPSCs depressed for 0&lt;Deltat&lt;+30 ms (peaking at +23 ms) and potentiated for +30&lt;Deltat&lt;+65 ms (peaking at +42 ms). The present study reports a direct connection between the striatal nNOS interneurons and the cerebral cortex, and the existence of long-term synaptic plasticity. In addition, this constitutes the first report of an asymmetric bidirectional STDP, with long-term depression (LTD) induced for Deltat&lt;0 and &quot;early&quot; Deltat&gt;0 and long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by &quot;late&quot; Deltat&gt;0.
Prostaglandin E(1) is frequently used for the clinical treatment of acute sensorineural hearing loss. However, the mechanisms underlying the effects of prostaglandin E(1) on the inner ear have not yet been elucidated. The physiological effects of prostaglandin E(1) are mediated by the prostanoid receptors prostaglandin I receptor and the prostaglandin E receptor subtypes EP1, EP2, EP3, and EP4, the respective agonists for which have been purified. In the current study, we examined the efficacy of a local EP4 agonist application for the treatment of sensorineural hearing loss. We examined EP4 expression in the mouse cochlea using the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. The protective effects of local EP4 agonist treatment before or after noise exposure were tested in guinea pigs using measurements of auditory brain-stem responses and histological analysis. The results demonstrated EP4 expression in the cochlea, and showed that pre- and post-treatment with an EP4 agonist significantly attenuated threshold shifts of auditory brain stem responses, and significant attenuation in the loss of outer hair cells was found in local EP4 agonist treatment before noise exposure. These findings indicate that EP4 is involved in mechanisms for prostaglandin E(1) actions on the cochlea, and local EP4 agonist treatment could attenuate acute sensorineural hearing loss.
Satellite glial cells in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG), like the better-studied glia cells in the spinal cord, react to peripheral nerve injury or inflammation by activation, proliferation, and release of messengers that contribute importantly to pathological pain. It is not known how information about nerve injury or peripheral inflammation is conveyed to the satellite glial cells. Abnormal spontaneous activity of sensory neurons, observed in the very early phase of many pain models, is one plausible mechanism by which injured sensory neurons could activate neighboring satellite glial cells. We tested effects of locally inhibiting sensory neuron activity with sodium channel blockers on satellite glial cell activation in a rat spinal nerve ligation (SNL) model. SNL caused extensive satellite glial cell activation (as defined by glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP] immunoreactivity) which peaked on day 1 and was still observed on day 10. Perfusion of the axotomized DRG with the Na channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX) significantly reduced this activation at all time points. Similar findings were made with a more distal injury (spared nerve injury model), using a different sodium channel blocker (bupivacaine depot) at the injury site. Local DRG perfusion with TTX also reduced levels of nerve growth factor (NGF) in the SNL model on day 3 (when activated glia are an important source of NGF), without affecting the initial drop of NGF on day 1 (which has been attributed to loss of transport from target tissues). Local perfusion in the SNL model also significantly reduced microglia activation (OX-42 immunoreactivity) on day 3 and astrocyte activation (GFAP immunoreactivity) on day 10 in the corresponding dorsal spinal cord. The results indicate that early spontaneous activity in injured sensory neurons may play important roles in glia activation and pathological pain.
Established memories can be strengthened by additional learning and rehearsal. However, the brain processes enabling memories to be updated by further information is unclear. We found that blockade of retrieval of a stabilized memory by inhibition of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway in the hippocampus prevented memory enhancement induced by an additional learning trial in rats. The findings indicate that retrieval is critical for memory strengthening.
Previously, we have demonstrated that EphB2 activity is required for proper development of the posterior branch of the anterior commissure (ACpp) within the mammalian forebrain. In the present study, using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), immunohistochemistry, and in vivo stereotactic fluorescence tracing of EphB2, B3, A4 and combinatorial Eph receptor mutants, we have developed a detailed three-dimensional model of how EphB-class receptors interact to regulate commissural formation within the forebrain. The results demonstrate that EphB2 and EphA4 each regulate distinct aspects of axon guidance within the ACpp. Specifically, while EphB2 is required to retard ACpp axons from projecting aberrantly into the ventral forebrain, EphA4 is required to restrict axons from entering the anterior branch of the anterior commissure (ACpa). Together, EphB2 and EphA4 act synergistically to prevent a subpopulation of axons within the anterior branch of the AC from mis-projecting caudally. Analysis of EphA4 null mice using high resolution MRI reveals for the first time that, in addition to errors in midline guidance, loss of EphA4 results in aberrant lateral and ventral displacement of the ACpa tract. In addition, tracing studies in alpha-chimerin null mice reveal that EphA4-mediated effects are not regulated through this pathway. Taken together, the results demonstrate that each of the principal guidance decisions within both anterior and posterior tracts of the anterior commissure can be accounted for by the individual and combinatorial actions of EphB2/A4 receptors.
Astrocytes express purinergic receptors that are involved in glial-neuronal cell communication. Experiments were conducted to characterize the expression of functional P2X/P2Y nucleotide receptors in glial cells of mixed cortical cell cultures of the rat. The vast majority of these cells was immunopositive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and was considered therefore astrocyte-like; for the sake of simplicity they were termed &quot;astroglia&quot; throughout. Astroglia expressed predominantly P2X(4,6,7) as well as P2Y(1,2) receptor-subtypes. Less intensive immunostaining was also found for P2X(5) and P2Y(4,6,13,14) receptors. Pressure application of ATP and a range of agonists selective for certain P2X or P2Y receptor-subtypes caused a concentration-dependent increase of intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)). Of the agonists tested, only the P2X(1,3) receptor-selective alpha,beta-methylene ATP was ineffective. Experiments with Ca(2+)-free solution and cyclopiazonic acid, an inhibitor of the endoplasmic Ca(2+)-ATPase, indicated that the [Ca(2+)](i) response to most nucleotides, except for ATP and 2',3'-O-(benzoyl-4-benzoyl)-ATP, was due primarily to the release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores. A Gprotein-mediated release of Ca(2+) is the typical signaling mechanism of various P2Y receptor-subtypes, whose presence was confirmed also by cross-desensitization experiments and by using selective antagonists. Thus, our results provide direct evidence that astroglia in mixed cortical cell cultures express functional P2Y (P2Y(1,2,6,14) and probably also P2Y(4)) receptors. Several unidentified P2X receptors, including P2X(7), may also be present, although they appear to only moderately participate in the regulation of [Ca(2+)](i). The rise of [Ca(2+)](i) is due in this case to the transmembrane flux of Ca(2+) via the P2X receptor-channel. In conclusion, P2Y rather than P2X receptor-subtypes are involved in modulating [Ca(2+)](i) of cultured astroglia and thereby may play an important role in cell-to-cell signaling.
We performed a combined neurochemical and behavioral study to determine the effects of 1-benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (1-BnTIQ) on the extracellular dopamine concentrations in the striatum. Single dose administration of 1-BnTIQ (20, 40, and 80 mg/kg i.p.) increased striatal dopamine extracellular levels in a dose-dependent manner when an in vivo microdialysis technique was used to assess dopamine levels in the striatum of rats. Enhancement of striatal dopamine levels by systemic administration of a single dose of 1-BnTIQ was suppressed by perfusion of tetrodotoxin and a calcium ion-free solution into the striatum. This 1-BnTIQ-induced increase in extracellular dopamine concentration was also inhibited by pre-treatment with a dopamine uptake inhibitor, GBR12909 (1-(2-[bis(4-Fluorophenyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine dihydrochloride). Local application of 1-BnTIQ into the striatum via a dialysis probe failed to enhance the extracellular concentration of dopamine. However, microinjection of 1-BnTIQ into the substantia nigra pars compacta increased the extracellular dopamine levels in the striatum. Locomotor activity was increased by systemic administration of a single dose of 1-BnTIQ in a dose-dependent manner. This 1-BnTIQ-induced locomotor activity was attenuated by pre-treatment with SCH23390 (R(+)-7-Chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochlodride) and raclopride, D(1) and D(2) dopaminergic receptor antagonists, respectively. Moreover, 1-BnTIQ induced ipsilateral rotational behavior in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. These results suggest that systemic administration of a single dose of 1-BnTIQ increases striatal extracellular dopamine concentration through activation of dopaminergic nigra striatal neurons via the dopamine transporter.
The hypothesis of an early vulnerability of the serotonergic system to prion infection was investigated in a murine model of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). Behavioral tests targeted to 5-HT functions were performed in the course of infection to evaluate circadian activity, anxiety-like behavior, pain sensitivity and the 5-HT syndrome. The first behavioral change was a decrease in nocturnal activity detected at 30% of incubation time. Further behavioral alterations including nocturnal hyperactivity, reduced anxiety, hyperalgesia and exaggerated 5-HT syndrome were observed at 60%-70% of incubation time, before the onset of clinical signs. The same tests performed in 5-HT-depleted mice and in prion protein-deficient mice revealed behavioral abnormalities similar in many aspects to those of BSE-infected mice. Histological and biochemical analysis showed alterations of the serotonergic system in BSE-infected and prion protein-deficient mice. These results indicate that BSE infection affects the homeostasis of serotonergic neurons and suggest that the disruption of prion protein normal function contributes to the early pathological changes in our mouse model of BSE. A similar process may occur in the human variant Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease, as suggested by the early symptoms of alterations in mood, sleep and pain sensitivity.
The postural, ocular motor, perceptive and neurovegetative syndromes resulting from unilateral vestibular neurectomy (UVN) symptoms could generate a stress and thereby activate the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. This study was aimed at determining whether UVN causes changes in the activity of the HPA axis, and if so, evaluating the time course of changes associated with UVN syndrome. At the cellular level, corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) immunoreactivity (Ir) were analyzed and quantified in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and the vestibular nuclei (VN) complex of cats killed early (1 and 7 days) or late (30 and 90 days) after UVN. Dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH), the enzyme synthesizing noradrenaline was examined in the locus coeruleus (LC) in these same cats. At the behavioral level, the time course of recovery of the postural and locomotor functions was quantified at the same postoperative delays in another group of UVN cats. Results showed a significant bilateral increase in the number of both AVP-Ir and CRF-Ir neurons in the PVN and an increase of DbetaH-Ir neurons in the LC at 1, 7 and 30 days after UVN. This increased number of neurons was no longer observed at 90 days. Conversely, a significant bilateral decrease of CRF-Ir neurons was observed in the VN at these same postlesion times, with a similar return to control values at 90 days. Our behavioral observations showed strong posturo-locomotor functional deficits early after UVN (1 and 7 days), which had recovered partially at 30 days and completely by 90 days postlesion. We demonstrate a long-lasting activation of the HPA axis, which likely reflects a chronic stress, experienced by the animals, which corresponds to the time course of full vestibular compensation, and which is no longer present when the animals are completely free of posturo-locomotor symptoms at 90 days.
The basal forebrain (BF) contains a diffuse array of cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons that project to the cerebral cortex and basolateral nuclear complex of the amygdala (BLC). Previous studies have shown that the GABAergic subpopulation of non-cholinergic corticopetal BF neurons selectively innervates cortical interneurons. Although several investigations in both rodents and primates have indicated that some BF neurons projecting to the BLC are non-cholinergic, there have been no studies that have attempted to identify the neurochemical phenotype(s) of these neurons. The present study combined Fluorogold retrograde tract tracing with immunohistochemistry for two markers of BF GABAergic neurons, parvalbumin (PV) or glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), to determine if a subpopulation of BF GABAergic cells projects to the BLC. Injections of Fluorogold confined to the rat BLC, and centered in the basolateral nucleus, produced extensive retrograde labeling in the ventral pallidum and substantia innominata regions of the BF. Although the great majority of retrogradely labeled neurons were not double-labeled, about 10% of these neurons, located mainly along the ventral aspects of the fundus striati and globus pallidus, exhibited immunoreactivity for PV or GAD. The results of this investigation contradict the long-held belief that there is no extra-amygdalar source of GABAergic inputs to the BLC, and indicate that the cortex-like BLC, in addition to the cortex proper, receives inhibitory inputs from the basal forebrain.
Excessive discomfort after exposure to bright light often occurs after ocular injury and during headache. Although the trigeminal nerve is necessary for light-evoked discomfort, the mechanisms underlying this phenomenon, often referred to generally as photophobia, are not well defined. Quantitative Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) was used to determine the pattern of neuronal activation in the caudal brainstem after bright light stimulation and, secondly, whether a neurovascular mechanism within the eye contributes to this response. Under barbiturate anesthesia, male rats were exposed to low (1 x 10(4) lx) or high intensity (2 x 10(4) lx) light delivered from a thermal neutral source for 30 min (30 s ON, 30 s OFF) and allowed to survive for 90 min. Intensity-dependent increases in Fos-LI were seen in laminae I-II at the trigeminal caudalis/cervical cord junction region (Vc/C1) and nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). Fos-LI also increased at the trigeminal interpolaris/caudalis transition (Vi/Vc(vl)) and dorsal paratrigeminal (dPa5) regions independent of intensity. Intravitreal injection of norepinephrine greatly reduced light-evoked Fos-LI at the Vc/C1, dPa5 and NTS, but not at the Vi/Vc transition. Lidocaine applied to the ocular surface had no effect on Fos-LI produced in trigeminal brainstem regions. These results suggested that multiple regions of the caudal trigeminal brainstem complex integrate light-related sensory information. Fos-LI produced at the dPa5 and NTS, coupled with norepinephrine-induced inhibition, was consistent with the hypothesis that light-evoked activation of trigeminal brainstem neurons involves an intraocular neurovascular mechanism with little contribution from neurons that supply the ocular surface.
Recent studies revealed that vasopressinergic neurons have a high content of cys-leukotriene C(4) (LTC(4)) synthase, a critical enzyme in cys-leukotriene synthesis that may play a role in regulating vasopressin secretion. This study investigates the role of this enzyme in arginine vasopressin (AVP) release during experimentally induced sepsis. Male Wistar rats received an i.c.v. injection of 3-[1-(p-chlorobenzyl)-5-(isopropyl)-3-tert-butylthioindol-2-yl]-2, 2-dimethylpropanoic acid (MK-886) (1.0 microg/kg), a leukotrienes (LTs) synthesis inhibitor, or vehicle, 1 h before cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) or sham operation. In one group of animals the survival rate was monitored for 3 days. In another group, the animals were decapitated at 0, 4, 6, 18 and 24 h after CLP or sham operation, and blood was collected for hematocrit, serum sodium and nitrate, plasma osmolality, protein and AVP determination. A third group was used for blood pressure measurements. The neurohypophysis was removed for quantification of AVP content, and the hypothalamus was dissected for LTC(4) synthase analysis by Western blot. Mortality after CLP was reduced by the central administration of MK-886. The increase in plasma AVP levels and hypothalamus LTC(4) synthase content in the initial phase of sepsis was blocked, whereas the decrease in neurohypophyseal AVP content was partially reversed. Also the blood pressure drop was abolished in this phase. The increase of serum nitric oxide and hematocrit was reduced, and the decrease in plasma protein and osmolality was not affected by the LTs blocker. In the final phase of sepsis, the plasma AVP level and the hypothalamic LTC(4) synthase content were at basal levels. The central administration of MK-886 increased the hypothalamic LTC(4) synthase content but did not alter the plasma and neurohypophysis AVP levels observed, or the blood pressure during this phase. These results suggest that the central LTs are involved in the vasopressin release observed during sepsis.
Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies are very frequent neurological disorders of the elderly. Mutations in the alpha-synuclein (alphaSYN) gene cause Parkinson's disease, often associated with dementia. Neuropathologically these diseases are characterized by the presence of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites, intraneuronal inclusions mostly composed of alphaSYN protein fibrils. Moreover, alphaSYN is phosphorylated at S129 (phospho-serine-129 [PSer129]) in neuropathological lesions. Using our (Thy1)-[A30P]alphaSYN transgenic mouse model that develops age-dependent impairment in fear conditioning behavior, we investigated PSer129 immunostaining in the brain. We found distinct staining patterns using new, sensitive monoclonal antibodies. Somal and nuclear PSer129 immunoreactivity increased with age in hippocampal and cortical areas as well as the lateral/basolateral amygdalar nuclei and was present also in young, pre-symptomatic mice, but not wild-type controls. The tendency of PSer129 immunostaining to accumulate in the nucleus was confirmed in cell culture. (Thy1)-[A30P]alphaSYN transgenic mice further developed age-dependent, specific neuritic/terminal alphaSYN pathology in the medial parts of the central amygdalar nucleus and one of its projection areas, the lateral hypothalamus. Interestingly, this type of PSer129 neuropathology was thioflavine S negative, unlike the Lewy-like neuropathology present in the brain stem of (Thy1)-[A30P]alphaSYN mice. Thus, alphaSYN becomes phosphorylated in distinct parts of the brain in this alpha-synucleinopathy mouse model, showing age-dependent increases of nuclear PSer129 in cortical brain areas and the formation of neuritic/terminal PSer129 neuropathology with variable amyloid quality within the fear conditioning circuitry and the brain stem.
Perinatal hypoxia-ischemia (H-I) often manifests as cognitive and/or motor disturbances that appear early in development. Growing evidence indicates that neuroinflammation may exacerbate H-I injury. Resident microglia release proinflammatory cytokines and proteases in response to ischemia. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), in particular, activate cytokines and degrade basement membrane proteins. These actions ultimately permit entry of peripheral leukocytes into the CNS neuropil, enhancing neuroinflammation and cell death. Currently, the relative contributions of resident and peripheral immune cells to ischemic brain injury are unclear. The present study employed an ex vivo model of H-I through oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD) to identify the cellular localization of MMP-9 in organotypic hippocampal slices from rat, and to determine whether inhibiting gelatin-degrading MMPs affords neuroprotection in the absence of peripheral immune cells. Immunohistochemistry revealed ubiquitous neuronal MMP-9 expression in both normoxic and hypoxic slices. Increased MMP-9 expression was detected in CD11b-positive microglia after 48 h exposure to OGD relative to normoxic controls. Consistent with these data, in situ zymography showed increased gelatinolytic activity after OGD. Gelatin-cleaved fluorescence localized to astrocytic processes and somata of various cellular morphologies. Treatment with either the MMP inhibitor AG3340 (prinomastat) or minocycline dampened OGD-induced gelatinolytic activity and neural injury, as measured by Fluoro-Jade staining, relative to vehicle controls. These results show that resident microglia, in the absence of peripheral immune cells, were sufficient to enhance neural injury after OGD in the organotypic hippocampal slice. Additionally, these effects were associated with upregulation or secretion of MMP-9, and were blocked after treatment with either the gelatinase-selective compound AG3340 or the anti-inflammatory compound minocycline. These data, coupled with the effectiveness of these compounds previously shown in vivo, support the selective targeting of gelatin-degrading MMPs and activated microglia as potential therapeutic approaches to combat neonatal H-I injury.
The neuropeptide galanin has been shown to play a role in psychiatric disorders as well as in other biological processes including regulation of pain threshold through interactions with three G-protein coupled receptors, galanin receptor subtypes 1-3 (GalR1-3). While most of the pharmacological studies on galanin in stress-related disorders have been done with rats, the continuous development of genetically engineered mice involving galanin or its receptor subtype(s) validates the importance of mouse pharmacological studies. The present study on mice examined the homeostatic, endocrinological and neuroanatomical effects of the galanin, injected intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.), in regulation of stress responses after restraint stress. Furthermore, the roles of GalR1 on these effects were studied using GalR1 knockout (KO) mice. The core body temperature and the locomotor activity were monitored with radio telemetry devices. Galanin (i.c.v.) decreased locomotor activity and exerted a bidirectional effect on the restraint stress-induced hyperthermia; a high dose of galanin significantly attenuated the stress-induced hyperthermic response, while a low dose of galanin moderately enhanced this response. The bidirectional effect of galanin was correlated with changes in stress hormone levels (adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosterone). To neuroanatomically localize the effects of galanin on stress response, cFos immunoreactivity was assessed in galanin receptor rich areas; paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and the locus coeruleus (LC), respectively. A high dose of galanin significantly induced cFos activity in the LC but not in the PVN. In GalR1KO mice, a high dose of galanin failed to induce any of the above effects, suggesting the pivotal role of GalR1 in decreased locomotor activity and stress-resistant effects caused by galanin i.c.v. injection studied here.
Rac1 and Cdc42 are small G-proteins that regulate actin dynamics and affect plasma membrane protrusion and vesicle traffic. We used conditional mutagenesis in mice to demonstrate that Rac1 and Cdc42 are essential for myoblast fusion in vivo and in vitro. The deficit in fusion of Rac1 or Cdc42 mutant myoblasts correlates with a deficit in the recruitment of actin fibers and vinculin to myoblast contact sites. Comparison of the changes observed in mutant myogenic cells indicates that Rac1 and Cdc42 function in a nonredundant and not completely overlapping manner during the fusion process. Our genetic analysis demonstrates thus that the function of Rac in myoblast fusion is evolutionarily conserved from insects to mammals and that Cdc42, a molecule hitherto not implicated in myoblast fusion, is essential for the fusion of murine myoblasts.
The spinal cord is a very rare location for extra-ventricular neurocytomas. Composed of small round cells with neuronal differentiation, neurocytoma has a particularly favourable prognosis. Long disease-free intervals have been observed in patients who received sub-total removal and radiotherapy. A careful intra-operative frozen section examination is helpful in avoiding excessive surgical tissue disturbance and to identify the best treatment option. To date, eight cases of neurocytoma of the spinal cord have been described. We report three more patients; one with very long survival, and review the published literature for this condition.

Spontaneous spinal epidural haematoma (SSEH) is a rare clinical entity that generally requires an urgent surgical evacuation. The combination of Brown-Squard syndrome (BSS) and Horner's syndrome (HS) as the presenting symptoms of a traumatic spinal epidural haematoma is very unusual, but it has never been observed in cases of spontaneous haematoma. We herein describe a case of SSEH presenting with simultaneous BSS and HS. The possibility of a conservative management in similar cases is discussed.



Bloody CSF in the lumbar puncture study is not uncommon. The etiology of bloody CSF is complex and needs to be carefully evaluated. This article will focus on (1) differentiation between causes from pathological conditions and traumatic puncture; (2) to ensure if the blooding has stopped or not, and if there is a rebleeding; (3) to estimate the amount of bleeding; and (4) to evaluate the number of white blood cells in the bloody CSF The above attempts may help clinicians to obtain an accurate picture of bloody CSF.
When 22 members of the BrainNet Europe (BNE) consortium assessed 31 cases with alpha-synuclein (alphaS) immunoreactive (IR) pathology applying the consensus protocol described by McKeith and colleagues in 2005, the inter-observer agreement was 80%, being lowest in the limbic category (73%). When applying the staging protocol described by Braak and colleagues in 2003, agreement was only 65%, and in some cases as low as 36%. When modifications of these strategies, i.e., McKeith's protocol by Leverenz and colleagues from 2009, Braak's staging by Mller and colleagues from 2005 were applied then the agreement increased to 78 and 82%, respectively. In both of these modifications, a reduced number of anatomical regions/blocks are assessed and still in a substantial number of cases, the inter-observer agreement differed significantly. Over 80% agreement in both typing and staging of alphaS pathology could be achieved when applying a new protocol, jointly designed by the BNE consortium. The BNE-protocol assessing alphaS-IR lesions in nine blocks offered advantages over the previous modified protocols because the agreement between the 22 observers was over 80% in most cases. Furthermore, in the BNE-protocol, the alphaS pathology is assessed as being present or absent and thus the quality of staining and the assessment of the severity of alphaS-IR pathology do not alter the inter-observer agreement, contrary to other assessment strategies. To reach these high agreement rates an entity of amygdala-predominant category was incorporated. In conclusion, here we report a protocol for assessing alphaS pathology that can achieve a high inter-observer agreement for both the assignment to brainstem, limbic, neocortical and amygdala-predominant categories of synucleinopathy and the Braak stages.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) continues to be the most common cause of cognitive and motor alterations in the aging population. Accumulation of amyloid beta (Abeta)-protein oligomers and the microtubule associated protein-TAU might be responsible for the neurological damage. We have previously shown that Cerebrolysin (CBL) reduces the synaptic and behavioral deficits in amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic (tg) mice by decreasing APP phosphorylation via modulation of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3beta) and cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (CDK5) activity. These kinases also regulate TAU phosphorylation and are involved in promoting neurofibrillary pathology. In order to investigate the neuroprotective effects of CBL on TAU pathology, a new model for neurofibrillary alterations was developed using somatic gene transfer with adeno-associated virus (AAV2)-mutant (mut) TAU (P301L). The Thy1-APP tg mice (3 m/o) received bilateral injections of AAV2-mutTAU or AAV2-GFP, into the hippocampus. After 3 months, compared to non-tg controls, in APP tg mice intra-hippocampal injections with AAV2-mutTAU resulted in localized increased accumulation of phosphorylated TAU and neurodegeneration. Compared with vehicle controls, treatment with CBL in APP tg injected with AAV2-mutTAU resulted in a significant decrease in the levels of TAU phosphorylation at critical sites dependent on GSK3beta and CDK5 activity. This was accompanied by amelioration of the neurodegenerative alterations in the hippocampus. This study supports the concept that the neuroprotective effects of CBL may involve the reduction of TAU phosphorylation by regulating kinase activity.
OBJECTIVE: Olfactory identification deficits (OIDs) are seen in schizophrenia, but it is unclear whether they are state- or trait-related. METHODS: We examined the prevalence of OIDs, as assessed by the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT), and their correlations with prodromal symptoms in young relatives at risk for schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder (HR-S). RESULTS: UPSIT scores were lower in HR- S than in healthy controls, but were non-significant after covarying the effects of age, gender and IQ. OID deficits in HR-S were correlated, after covarying out the effects of age and IQ, with prodromal disorganisation. CONCLUSION: The potential value of OID deficits as markers of psychopathological vulnerability in young relatives at risk for schizophrenia deserves further investigation.

Neuromodulator action has received increasing attention in theoretical neuroscience. Yet models involving both neuronal populations dynamics at the circuit level and detailed receptor properties are only now being developed. Here we review recent computational approaches to neuromodulation, focusing specifically on acetylcholine (ACh) and nicotine. We discuss illustrative examples of models ranging from functional top-down to neurodynamical bottom-up. In the top-down approach, a computational theory views ACh as encoding the uncertainty expected in an environment. A different line of models accounts for neural population dynamics treating ACh as toggling neuronal networks between read-in of information and recall of memory. Building on the neurodynamics idea we discuss two models of nicotine's action with increasing degree of biological realism. Both consider explicitly receptor-level mechanisms but with different scales of detail. The first is a large-scale model of nicotine-dependent modulation of dopaminergic signaling that is capable of simulating nicotine self-administration. The second is a novel approach where circuit-level neurodynamics of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) are combined with explicit models of the dynamics of specific nicotinic ACh receptor subtypes. We show how the model is constructed based on local anatomy, electrophysiology and receptor properties and provide an illustration of its potential. In particular, we show how the model can shed light on the specific mechanisms by which nicotine controls dopaminergic neurotransmission in the VTA. This model serves us to conclude that detailed accounts for neuromodulator action at the basis of behavioral and cognitive models are crucial to understand how neuromodulators mediate their functional properties.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are expressed throughout the hippocampus, and nicotinic signaling plays an important role in neuronal function. In the context of learning and memory related behaviors associated with hippocampal function, a potentially significant feature of nAChR activity is the impact it has on synaptic plasticity. Synaptic plasticity in hippocampal neurons has long been considered a contributing cellular mechanism of learning and memory. These same kinds of cellular mechanisms are a factor in the development of nicotine addiction. Nicotinic signaling has been demonstrated by in vitro studies to affect synaptic plasticity in hippocampal neurons via multiple steps, and the signaling has also been shown to evoke synaptic plasticity in vivo. This review focuses on the nAChRs subtypes that contribute to hippocampal synaptic plasticity at the cellular and circuit level. It also considers nicotinic influences over long-term changes in the hippocampus that may contribute to addiction.
This study provides a new perspective on both the cognitive processes actually implemented and the effect of a simple experimental control - the recall constraint - in Sternberg's memory scanning task. These findings were highlighted by adopting a new approach based on the comparison of qualitative and quantitative results. The analysis of individual processing, on 72 adults, each participating in one of two experimental conditions (with or without sequence recall), highlighted a large variability in quantitative results as well as qualitative procedures. Based on the participants' retrospective verbalisations, two categories of strategies were identified: (1) the procedures used to memorize the sequence of digits, and (2) the procedures used to compare this sequence with the test digit, which includes strategies for coding the items and processes for searching them in memory. The analysis of the strategies shows that their frequencies of use depend not only on the experimental condition, but also on the participants, the level of task difficulty and the interaction between participants and level of difficulty. This variability questions the accuracy of Sternberg's mean model. Furthermore, this approach suggests some answers to the old debate concerning the exhaustive search pattern for the yes response. Indeed, our results show three types of strategies that can be identified according to the different models of search suggested in the literature. The &quot;exhaustive&quot; search, that would only be involved in the recall condition and only for some of the participants, the &quot;self-terminating&quot; search and the &quot;immediate&quot; strategy, which can be identified with a model of parallel search with limited resources. Thus our study suggests that the different search models are appropriate but depend on both the specific experimental conditions and participant's strategy. Our results should help to improve the interpretation of data collected with this paradigm in cognitive and neuroscientific studies of memory.
Studies have found funding source, whether public or private, is associated with treatment and services offered in community-based agencies. However, the association of criminal justice funding with community-based treatment and services is unknown. Using a mixed method case study approach with 34 agencies within one state we assessed administrators' perspectives of the most important funding source, treatment and services offered. We found that agencies rely on multiple funding sources and the source rated most important was associated with treatment and services offered in the agency. Those agencies citing a criminal justice entity as the most important funder were more likely to offer specific ancillary services and adopt motivational interviewing than those citing private funds. Although client characteristics or training opportunities may determine these services and practices, the agency's most important funding source may have implications for services offered.
This study examines gender differences in the association of lifetime mental and substance use disorders among individuals with opioid use disorders in the United States. The sample (N=578) is from the National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions (NESARC), which is a representative household survey. Bivariate analyses and logistic regression modeling were conducted. About 70% of the sample had a lifetime non-substance use Axis I disorder; women were about twice as likely as men to have either a mood or anxiety disorder. About half of the sample had a personality disorder, with women more likely to have paranoid disorder and men more likely to have antisocial personality disorder. Individuals with a lifetime mental disorder were about three times more likely than others to be dependent on other substances, independent of gender. The study demonstrated an inverse relationship between lifetime mental and other substance use disorders, with women having significantly higher odds for several of the mental disorders and men having greater odds of other substance use disorders.

The transcription rate of interleukin-6 (IL-6) can be reduced by the C-allele of a polymorphism (rs1800795) located in the 5'-flanking region of the IL-6 gene (NM_000600), and IL-6 plasma levels increase with age. We assembled an elderly Italian population [&quot;The Treviso Longeva (Trelong) study&quot;, age range 70-106 years, n = 668 subjects] and assessed rs1800795 genotype and plasma IL-6 concentrations. The rs1800795 genotype was also assessed in an independent Italian study (&quot;Milan&quot; study, age range 70-96, n = 245 subjects). To verify an age- or sex-specific effect of rs1800795 genotype we compared people younger (70-85) and older (85+) than 85 years of age. We found a significant reduction in the frequency of rs1800795 C/C genotype in 85+ men from the Trelong study, while in the Milan study this data did not reach significance. However, considering the two studies together, the frequency of the rs1800795 C/C genotype was significantly lower in 85+ than in 70-85 males (4.0% and 10.7%, respectively), while it remained unchanged in females. As for IL-6 plasma levels, after a multivariate analysis to control for confounders, a correlation between age and plasma IL-6 concentrations was revealed (P &lt; 0.0001). An increase in circulating IL-6 levels in the entire 85+ group compared to the 70-85 group (P &lt; 0.05, Tukey's test) was also noticed. We suggest a sex-specific pattern for genetic variability linked to inflammatory response and longevity, consistent with the age-related increase in IL-6.
Each interpersonally delivered, evidence-based (EB) program for HIV prevention shares common features that aim to shift HIV risk behaviors. We used qualitative research methods to examine manuals from five EB programs for adolescents and identified 10 core principles embedded in each program's activities. Principles reflect the stated goals and anticipated lessons in an activity. The principles were: Believe in your own worth and your right to a happy future; Commit to change; Distinguish fact from myth; Plan ahead and be prepared; Practice self-control; Know pleasurable alternatives to high risk activities; Negotiate verbally, not nonverbally; Evaluate options and consequences; Show concern for others; Choose to limit your own freedom; and Act to help others protect themselves. Focusing on common features rather than the unique properties of each EB program may allow community providers to have more flexibility and ownership in adapting EB programs, and may also facilitate development of new EB program.
We propose a set of common factors in evidence-based interventions (EBI) for HIV prevention, which cut across theoretical models of behavior change. Three existing literatures support this agenda: (1) Common factors in psychotherapy; (2) core elements from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention EBIs; and (3) component analyses of EBI. To stimulate discussion among prevention researchers, we propose a set of common factors at the highest level of abstraction that describe what all effective programs do: (1) establish a framework to understand behavior change; (2) convey issue-specific and population-specific information necessary for healthy actions; (3) build cognitive, affective, and behavioral self-management skills; (4) address environmental barriers to implementing health behaviors; and (5) provide tools to develop ongoing social and community support for healthy actions. A focus on common factors will enhance research on new HIV prevention interventions, encourage collaboration among researchers, provide guidelines for adapting EBI, and simplify and speed the adoption of EBI for providers.
A recent report of detection of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) in living human brain by using in vivo proton MR spectroscopy ((1)H-MR spectroscopy) has sparked great excitement in the field of biomedicine because of its potential influence and utility in clinical neuroscience research. On the other hand, the method used and the findings described in the report also caused heated debate and controversy. In this article, we will briefly detail the reasons for the debate and controversy from the point of view of the in vivo (1)H-MR spectroscopy methodology and will propose some technical strategies in both data acquisition and data processing to improve the feasibility of detecting NPCs in future studies by using in vivo (1)H-MR spectroscopy.
The present study tested the hypotheses that vulnerability to ethanol depends upon (1) population-based characteristics of the neuronal progenitors and (2) the maturation of that population by examining the effects of prenatal exposure to ethanol on brainstem nuclei derived from different rhombomeres and from the alar and basal plates. Macaca nemestrina received an ethanol-containing solution 1 day per week during the first 6 (Et6) or 24 (Et24) weeks of gestation. Control animals received an equivalent volume of saline. The treatment regime for some animals included early gastrulation (gestational day [G] 19 or G20), whereas others were treated later (on G21 or G24). Brainstems were cryosectioned and stained with cresyl violet. Stereological methods were used to determine the numbers of neurons in six different nuclei: the abducens, vagal, and hypoglossal motor nuclei and sensory components of the trigeminal brainstem nuclear complex (the principal, oral, and interpolar subnuclei). There were no differences in the numbers of neurons in any of the nuclei between controls and Et6-, or controls and Et24-treated monkeys. In contrast, the number of trigeminal sensory neurons was significantly (P&lt;.05) lower in animals treated on G19/G20 than in control. No differences between controls and monkeys treated on G21/G24 were detected. No motor nuclei exhibited an ethanol-induced change. These data together with data on the trigeminal motor nucleus show that vulnerability to ethanol (1) is greater in sensory nuclei than in motor nuclei and (2) is temporally restricted to the time of gastrulation.


The electroneurodiagnostics of the future will unfold from key factors that contribute to the growth and maturation of specialized diagnostic technologies in health care. Our unique business portfolio is the collection of services that make up electroneurodiagnostic technology. More than 100 years after Hans Berger first described EEG, electroencephalography may recapture the attention and imagination of research fourfold. And the attention that our profession directs toward education, professional growth, utilization of the technology, relating to the transdisciplinary team, and research will be our stake in the ground to become the pre-eminent diagnostic technology in the future. There is clear strategic direction for the American Society of Electroneurodiagnostic Technologists, Inc. (ASET) because the society is fundamentally interlaced with the architecture of electroneurodiagnostic technology and neuroscience.



Recent evidence suggests that interleukin-17-producing CD4(+) T cells (Th17 cells) are the dominant pathogenic cellular component in autoimmune inflammatory diseases, including multiple sclerosis. It has recently been demonstrated that all-trans retinoic acid can suppress Th17 differentiation and promote the generation of Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells via retinoic acid receptor signals. Here, we investigated the effects of AM80, a synthetic retinoid with enhanced biological properties to all-trans retinoic acid, on Th17 differentiation and function and evaluated its therapeutic potential in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis. AM80 treatment was more effective than all-trans retinoic acid in inhibiting Th17 differentiation in vitro. Oral administration of AM80 was protective for the early development of EAE and the down-modulation of Th17 differentiation and effector functions in vivo. Moreover, AM80 inhibited interleukin-17 production by splenic memory T cells, in vitro-differentiated Th17 cells, and central nervous system-infiltrating effector T cells. Accordingly, AM80 was effective when administered therapeutically after the onset of EAE. Continuous AM80 treatment, however, was ineffective at inhibiting late EAE symptoms despite the maintained suppression of RORgammat and interleukin-17 expression levels by central nervous system-infiltrating T cells. We reveal that continuous AM80 treatment also led to the suppression of interleukin-10 production by a distinct T cell subset that expressed both Foxp3 and RORgammat. These findings suggest that retinoid signaling regulates both inflammatory Th17 cells and Th17-like regulatory cells.

The increase of plasma arginin-vasopressin (AVP) release, which translates hypothalamic AVP neuron activation in response to immune challenge, appears to occur independently of plasma osmolality or blood pressure changes. Many studies have shown that major inflammatory mediators produced in response to peripheral inflammation, such as prostaglandin (PG)-E(2) and interleukin (IL)-1beta, excite AVP neurons. However, in vivo electrical activation of AVP neurons was still not assessed in relation to plasma AVP release, osmolality, or blood pressure or to the expression and role of inflammatory molecules like PG-E(2), IL-1beta, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha). This study aims at elucidating those factors that underlie the activation of AVP neurons in response to immune stimulation mimicked by an intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in male Wistar rats. LPS treatment concomittanlty decreased diuresis and increased plasma AVP as well as AVP neuron activity in vivo, and these effects occurred as early as 30 min. Activation was sustained for more than 6 h. Plasma osmolality did not change, whereas blood pressure only transiently increased during the first hour post-LPS. PG-E(2), IL-1beta, and TNFalpha mRNA expression were raised 3 h after LPS, whereas IL-6 mRNA level increased 30 min post-LPS. In vivo electrophysiological recordings showed that brain IL-6 injection increased AVP neuron activity similarly to peripheral LPS treatment. In contrast, brain injection of anti-IL-6 antibodies prevented the LPS induced-activation of AVP neurons. Taken together, these results suggest that the early activation of AVP neurons in response to LPS injection is induced by brain IL-6.
Populations of interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) are altered in several gastrointestinal neuromuscular disorders. ICC are identified typically by ultrastructure and expression of Kit (CD117), a protein that is also expressed on mast cells. No other molecular marker currently exists to independently identify ICC. The expression of ANO1 (DOG1, TMEM16A), a Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) channel, in gastrointestinal stromal tumors suggests it may be useful as an ICC marker. The aims of this study were therefore to determine the distribution of Ano1 immunoreactivity compared with Kit and to establish whether Ano1 is a reliable marker for human and mouse ICC. Expression of Ano1 in human and mouse stomach, small intestine, and colon was investigated by immunofluorescence labeling using antibodies to Ano1 alone and in combination with antibodies to Kit. Colocalization of immunoreactivity was demonstrated by epifluorescence and confocal microscopy. In the muscularis propria, Ano1 immunoreactivity was restricted to cells with the morphology and distribution of ICC. All Ano1-positive cells in the muscularis propria were also Kit positive. Kit-expressing mast cells were not Ano1 positive. Some non-ICC in the mucosa and submucosa of human tissues were Ano1 positive but Kit negative. A few (3.2%) Ano1-positive cells in the human gastric muscularis propria were labeled weakly for Kit. Ano1 labels all classes of ICC and represents a highly specific marker for studying the distribution of ICC in mouse and human tissues with an advantage over Kit since it does not label mast cells.
Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF), a mediator of stress response, alters gastrointestinal (GI) functions. Stress-related changes in colonic motility are blocked by selective CRF(1) receptor antagonists. Our aim was to assess whether modulation of central and peripheral CRF(1) receptors affects colonic transit and bowel function in female patients with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (D-IBS). This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-wk study evaluated the effects of oral pexacerfont (BMS-562086), a selective CRF(1) receptor antagonist, 25 and 100 mg qd, on GI and colonic transit of solids [by validated scintigraphy with primary end point colonic geometric center (GC) at 24 h] and bowel function (by validated daily diaries) in 39 women with D-IBS. The 100-mg dose was comparable to a dose that inhibited colonic motility in stressed rats. Treatment effects were compared by analysis of covariance with baseline colonic transit as covariate. The study had 80% power (alpha = 0.05) to detect clinically meaningful (26%) differences in colonic transit. Thirty-nine of 55 patients fulfilled eligibility criteria (9 screen failures, 5 baseline GC24 outside prespecified range). At baseline, three treatment groups had comparable age, body mass index, and GC 24 h. Significant effects of pexacerfont relative to placebo were not detected on colonic GC24 (P = 0.53), gastric emptying, orocecal transit, ascending colon emptying half-time, and stool frequency, consistency, and ease of passage. No safety issues were identified. We conclude that in women with D-IBS, pexacerfont, 25 or 100 mg qd, does not significantly alter colonic or other regional transit or bowel function. The role of central and peripheral CRF(1) receptors in bowel function in D-IBS requires further study.
Few HIV prevention interventions have been developed for African American men who have sex with men or who have sex with both men and women. Many interventions neglect the historical, structural or institutional, and sociocultural factors that hinder or support risk reduction in this high-risk group. We examined ways to incorporate these factors into Men of African American Legacy Empowering Self, a culturally congruent HIV intervention targeting African American men who have sex with men and women. We also studied how to apply key elements from successful interventions to future efforts. These elements include having gender specificity, a target population, a theoretical foundation, cultural and historical congruence, skill-building components, and well-defined goals.

Breeding success generally increases with environmental productivity, but little is known about underlying mechanisms, and such relationships are not quantitatively understood. We studied female mice reproducing across an experimental environmental-quality gradient defined by the amount of wheel running required to obtain a food reward. Measuring energy metabolism with doubly labeled water, we quantified how mice made two key decisions: how much food to earn and how to allocate the energy earned between self and offspring. As environmental quality declined, female foraging effort increased, but not sufficiently to compensate for the increase in foraging costs. In absolute terms, energy allocated to both self and offspring was lower in a poor-quality environment. Moreover, the proportion of gained energy that was allocated to offspring declined with decreasing environmental quality. Environmental effects on reproductive output (total litter mass produced) could be fully explained by energy allocated to milk. Thus, the efficiency with which offspring converted milk energy to tissue growth was independent of environmental quality. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to provide a quantitative explanation, via maternal energy allocation, of the link between foraging costs and reproductive output.

In the field, phenotypic determinants of competitive success are not always absolute. For example, contest experience may alter future competitive performance. As future contests are not determined solely on phenotypic attributes, prior experience could also potentially alter phenotype-fitness associations. In this study, we examined the influence of single and multiple experiences on contest outcomes in the jumping spider Phidippus clarus. We also examined whether phenotype-fitness associations altered as individuals gained more experience. Using both size-matched contests and a tournament design, we found that both winning and losing experience affected future contest success; males with prior winning experience were more likely to win subsequent contests. Although experience was a significant determinant of success in future contests, male weight was approximately 1.3 times more important than experience in predicting contest outcomes. Despite the importance of experience in determining contest outcomes, patterns of selection did not change between rounds. Overall, our results show that experience can be an important determinant in contest outcomes, even in short-lived invertebrates, and that experience alone is unlikely to alter phenotype-fitness associations.
Most bioelectric signals are not only functions of time but also exhibit a variation in spatial distribution. Surface EMG signals are often &quot;summarized&quot; by a large electrode. The effect of such an electrode is interpreted as averaging the potential at the surface of the skin beneath the electrode. We first introduce an electrical equivalent model to delineate this principle of averaging. Next, in a realistic finite element model of EMG generation, two outcome variables are evaluated to assess the validity of the averaging principle. One is the change in voltage distribution in the volume conductor after electrode application. The other is the change in voltage across the high impedance double layer between tissue and electrode. We found that the principle of averaging is valid, once the impedance of the double layer is sufficiently high. The simulations also revealed that skin conductivity plays a role. High-density surface EMG provided experimental evidence consistent with the simulation results. A grid with 120 small electrodes was placed over the thenar muscles of the hand. Electrical nerve stimulation assured a reproducible compound muscle response. The averaged grid response was compared with a single electrode matching the surface of the high-density electrodes. The experimental results showed relatively small errors indicating that averaging of the surface potential by the electrode is a valid principle under most practical conditions.
We use agent-based Monte Carlo simulations to address the problem of language choice dynamics in a tripartite community that is linguistically homogeneous but politically divided. We observe the process of nonlocal pattern formation that causes populations to self-organize into stable antagonistic groups as a result of the local dynamics of attraction and influence between individual computational agents. Our findings uncover some of the unique properties of opinion formation in social groups when the process is affected by asymmetric noise distribution, unstable intergroup boundaries, and different migratory behaviors. Although we focus on one particular study, the proposed stochastic dynamic models can be easily generalized and applied to investigate the evolution of other complex and nonlinear features of human collective behavior.
Social cognitive neuroscience is beginning to unravel a neuroanatomy of social cognition, networks of brain regions especially involved in social cognition and social functioning. It is widely acknowledged that social functioning and social cognition are impaired in attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Although an impressive amount of neuroscientific research has been conducted in ADHD, little effort has been made to link those deficits in social cognition and functioning to the well-known brain abnormalities detected in structural and functional neuroimaging studies. We review seven functional and magnetic resonance studies conducted at our laboratory in ADHD samples during the last 5 years in order to scrutinize whether the putative neuroanatomic regions underpinning social cognition are affected in ADHD. The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), the caudate nucleus, the ventral striatum, and the cerebellum are among those regions that displayed functional or morphometric abnormalities in our ADHD samples. The OFC is clearly involved in social cognition, and several features of OFC dysfunction may be related to the social cognition and function impairment in ADHD. In contrast to the OFC, the role of the caudate nucleus, the ventral striatum, and the cerebellum is elusive. However, on one hand, there is converging evidence from human and animal neuropsychology, neuroscience, and psychiatry that support the role of such areas in social cognition, mainly through its involvement in emotional processing. On the other hand, the morphometric and functional ADHD abnormalities in these regions could account for the impoverished social functioning and the deficient social cognition skills of ADHD children.
A fundamental way that individuals differ is in the degree to which they prefer social dominance hierarchy over egalitarianism as a guiding principle of societal structure, a phenomenon known as social dominance orientation. Here we show that preference for hierarchical rather than egalitarian social relations varies as a function of neural responses within left anterior insula and anterior cingulate cortices. Our findings provide novel evidence that preference for social dominance hierarchy is associated with neural functioning within brain regions that are associated with the ability to share and feel concern for the pain of others; this suggests a neurobiological basis for social and political attitudes. Implications of these findings for research on the social neuroscience of fairness, justice, and intergroup relations are discussed.
Decades of research have linked the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) to prosocial behavior. However, the precise mechanisms through which 5-HT influences social interactions remain unclear. A neuroeconomics approach may help clarify these mechanisms. In a recent study, lowering 5-HT levels in healthy volunteers enhanced their reactions to unfair treatment in the ultimatum game. Other studies investigating the neural mechanisms of social decision making have implicated brain regions that are modulated by 5-HT. Here, I review the evidence for the role of 5-HT in modulating social decision making and discuss the implications for understanding how prosocial behavior varies between individuals and across social contexts.
Adolescence has long been considered a turbulent time; beginning with large changes in hormonal levels and consequent bodily changes, as well as changes in behavior. Recently, neuroscience studies have contributed to this picture of turbulence. We now know that the brain undergoes profound transformation during the teenage years. This paper focuses on how the social brain--the network of brain regions involved in understanding other people and self-awareness--develops during adolescence.
Social neuroscience offers a window into the mental origins of empathy. People must appreciate another mind in order to empathize. People first categorize the other as human, assuming a mind, and then differentiate among social categories according to universal dimensions of perceived traits: warmth and competence. The least warm and competent groups (poor people, homeless, drug addicts) may even be denied humanity and a meaningful mind, according to both neural and behavioral responses to allegedly disgusting outcasts. Other groups may be instead envied and viewed as tools or automatons, that is, objectified. The patterns can reverse when perceivers must consider the other's preferences, that is, appreciate the other's mind.
Understanding the minds of others is one of the great challenges humans face. Accordingly, much work in cognitive neuroscience has explored the brain systems engaged when perceivers share and make inferences about the internal states of social targets. These studies, however, typically use divergent and highly simplified stimuli and methods and as a consequence have produced largely non-overlapping sets of results and artificially constrained theories about the processes involved in perceivers' abilities to understand targets. Here we suggest that these difficulties may stem from two main sources: the lack of meaningful behavioral data about the brain bases of perceivers' accuracy in inferring target states and qualitative differences between the social stimuli used in neuroimaging paradigms and the social information perceivers encounter in the real world. We advocate more focus on studies of naturalistic social cognition, which could overcome these limitations and complement current approaches, and discuss work in our laboratory that has demonstrated the feasibility and utility of such a focus. Finally, we discuss the relevance of naturalistic social cognition to diagnosing and treating autism spectrum disorder. Overall, using naturalistic paradigms in neuroimaging will be critical to modeling the way the brain actually understands other minds.

Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are transmembrane proteins that detect a variety of molecular components mostly derived from microorganisms. TLR2 and TLR4 are amongst others present in liver, adipose tissue, and skeletal muscle. Extracellular long-chain fatty acids bind TLR2 and 4 and induce downstream signalling cascades implicated in cellular stress and inflammatory processes. Evidence indicates that TLR activation by non-esterified fatty acids (NEFAs) may participate in the development of insulin resistance. Exercise seems to induce a downregulation of TLR expression in various tissues, a mechanism that may take part in the protective effect of exercise against insulin resistance. Moreover, TLRs seem to mediate the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase p38 and Jun-amino-terminal kinase by extracellular NEFAs during endurance exercise. During this type of exercise, circulating NEFAs are known to regulate the expression of various genes including pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4, uncoupling protein 3, carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1 alpha. Whether these events are initiated by a TLR-dependent signal transduction remains to be investigated.






The aim of this study was to examine the characteristics of transsexuals from Spain. A total of 252 consecutive applicants for sex reassignment were evaluated using a standardized semistructured clinical interview and the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (Spanish Version 5.0.0) to record demographic, clinical, and psychiatric data. Transsexualism was diagnosed in 230 patients, with a male to female (MF)/female to male (FM) ratio of 2.2:1. Transsexual patients frequently had low employment status, lived with their parents, and mainly had a sexual orientation toward same-sex partners. The most frequent psychiatric diagnoses were adjustment disorder and social phobia in both groups, and alcohol and substance-related disorders in the MF group. MF transsexuals were older than FM transsexuals when requesting sex reassignment, but did not differ in age when starting hormonal therapy (often on their own); fewer MFs were in employment requiring high educational qualification, more were non-Spanish natives, and more had previous and current histories of alcohol and substance abuse or dependence. The basic characteristics of transsexuals from Spain were similar to those of other European countries, except for the higher proportion of patients living with their parents and the higher proportion of MFs who reported same-sex sexual orientation compared with previous studies.
The Hospcio de Juquery, near the city of So Paulo (Brazil) was founded in 1896 and after few years it was decided that the institution should have the best possible facilities to study neuropathology. In 1921, a young psychiatrist, Antonio Carlos Pacheco e Silva was sent to the Hpital de la Salptrire (Paris) to study neuropathology. There, Pacheco e Silva (later Prof.Pacheco e Silva) befriended Konstantin N. Tretiakoff accepted an invitation to become the first Chairman of the newly created neuropathology department of the Hospcio de Juquery. During his stay in this institution, from 1922 to 1924 or early 1925, he worked very hard and produced many publications. Here we present and comment some of the papers he published in a Journal (Memrias do Hospcio de Juquery - 'Memoirs de l'Hspice de Juquery'), which had been recently created and present some information of this poorly known period of his life.


Elder depressives approach physicians for their medical problems, but the detection of their depression is poor. This study aimed to explore the screening for depressive symptoms using a 15-item Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) in medical clinics. The study was carried out in outpatient setting of geriatric clinic of tertiary care hospital using the Hindi version of GDS-15. Out of 100 eligible older medical clinic patients, 22% of participants scored high on the GDS (5) and 18% were definitely having a depressive disorder as per ICD10. The sensitivity of the GDS instrument was 100% and specificity 94%. This study confirmed that a brief screening instrument like the GDS helps physicians to identify and diagnose depression in the medical settings. The need of the hour is to train health personnel involved in geriatric care regarding identifying, diagnosing and managing depression in medical clinics.

The executive function (EF) theory of autism has received much support recently from a growing number of studies. However, executive impairments have not always been easy to identify consistently and so novel &quot;ecologically valid&quot; tests have been designed which tap into real-life scenarios that are relevant to and representative of everyday behavior. One characteristic of many of these tasks is that they present the participant with an &quot;ill-structured&quot; or &quot;open-ended&quot; situation. Here, we investigated the possibility that tasks with greater degrees of open-endedness might prove more sensitive to detecting executive impairment in autism. Forty-five children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) were compared to 27 age- and IQ-matched control children on a range of cognitive tests of EF. Group differences were found on half of the tasks, with the greatest degree of impairment detected on the more open-ended tasks. The ASD group also performed more poorly on a simple control condition of a task. Detailed consideration of task performance suggested that the ASD group tended to create fewer spontaneous strategies and exhibit more idiosyncratic behavior, which particularly disadvantaged them on the more open-ended tasks. These kinds of behaviors have been reported in studies of neurological patients with frontal lobe involvement, prima facie suggesting a link between the scientific fields. However, we suggest that this behavior might equally result from a poor understanding of the implicit demands made by the experimenter in open-ended test situations, due to the socio-communicative difficulties of these children.
A poor vitamin D status has been associated with several autoimmune diseases, including multiple sclerosis (MS). The receptor for the biologically active metabolite of vitamin D appears to be a key player in these associations, not only as a mediator of the biological effects of vitamin D, but also as a mediator of the regulation of vitamin D metabolism itself. In this concise review, we will discuss the mostly investigated genetic polymorphisms of the vitamin D receptor (VDR), and their consequences for VDR functionality and immune regulation. Next, we will discuss the association of these polymorphisms with MS, and their relation with vitamin D metabolism. We conclude that polymorphisms of the VDR have major effects on vitamin D function and metabolism, and should therefore be assessed in studies on vitamin D and MS.
Theories of cerebellar learning propose that alterations in synaptic plasticity resulting in decreases in cerebellar cortical inhibition and increases in sensory activation of interpositus nuclei underlie the development of adaptively timed conditioned motor responses. The authors found that with concurrent pharmacological disconnection of the cerebellar cortex and intense sensory stimulation in the untrained rabbit, eyeblink responses were generated. Neither sensory stimulation nor disconnection alone generated significant eyeblink responses. These results are consistent with dual plasticity models of cerebellar learning and strongly support the general hypothesis that conditioned responses are the result of strengthening of preexisting connections in the nervous system.
In adult male hamsters, individual differences in offensive aggression are correlated with differences in impulsive choice and decreased serotonin (5-HT) innervation. As serotonin 1A (5-HT1A) receptors participate in the inhibition of aggression, whereas 5-HT3 receptor activation facilitates aggression, the authors hypothesized that differences in their expression are associated with differences in behavior. The authors confirmed previous behavioral associations, using a delay-discounting paradigm with various delays, as high-aggression (H-Agg) hamsters preferred the immediate-reward lever over the delayed-reward lever under most delays, compared with low-aggression (L-Agg) hamsters. Although the authors observed a greater density of 5-HT1A receptor immunoreactivity in H-Agg hamsters within several areas, it appears to be related to a lack of serotonin release, as supported by further observations of decreased immunoreactive perikarya and 5-HT1A receptors in fluoxetine-treated hamsters. Also, 5-HT3 receptor density was greater in H-Agg hamsters within select areas. The data indicate a convergence of impulsive and aggressive characteristics to one phenotype that is associated with various aspects of serotonin function, such as serotonin release and differential expression of 5-HT1A and 5-HT3 receptors.
We previously demonstrated that lesions of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) core enhanced locomotion and locomotor sensitization to repeated injections of nicotine in rats (Kelsey &amp; Willmore, 2006). In this study, we compared the effects of separate lesions of the NAc core, NAc medial shell, and basolateral amygdala on context-specific locomotor sensitization to repeated injections of 0.4 mg/kg nicotine. Electrolytic lesions of the NAc core increased locomotion, and lesions of the core (but not the shell) and the basolateral amygdala enhanced context-specific locomotor sensitization by enhancing the development of sensitization in paired rats and decreasing expression in unpaired rats relative to sham-operated rats when challenged with an injection of 0.4 mg/kg nicotine in the locomotor chambers. These data are consistent with findings that the NAc core and the basolateral amygdala share a variety of behavioral functions and anatomical connections. The findings that lesions of these structures enhance context-specific locomotor sensitization while typically impairing other reward-related behaviors also indicate that the processes underlying locomotor sensitization and reward are not identical.
Social stress in adolescence is correlated with emergence of psychopathologies during early adulthood. In this study, the authors investigated the impact of social defeat stress during mid-adolescence on adult male brain and behavior. Adolescent male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to repeated social defeat for 5 days while controls were placed in a novel empty cage. When exposed to defeat-associated cues as adults, previously defeated rats showed increased risk assessment and behavioral inhibition, demonstrating long-term memory for the defeat context. However, previously defeated rats exhibited increased locomotion in both elevated plus-maze and open field tests, suggesting heightened novelty-induced behavior. Adolescent defeat also affected adult monoamine levels in stress-responsive limbic regions, causing decreased medial prefrontal cortex dopamine, increased norepinephrine and serotonin in the ventral dentate gyrus, and decreased norepinephrine in the dorsal raphe. Our results suggest that adolescent social defeat produces both deficits in anxiety responses and altered monoaminergic function in adulthood. This model offers potential for identifying specific mechanisms induced by severe adolescent social stress that may contribute to increased adult male vulnerability to psychopathology.
Experiments were designed to determine the role of the interpeduncular nucleus (IPN) in 3 forms of navigation: beacon, landmark, and path integration. In beacon navigation, animals reach goals using cues directly associated with them, whereas in landmark navigation animals use external cues to determine a direction and distance to goals. Path integration refers to the use of self-movement cues to obtain a trajectory to a goal. IPN-lesioned rats were tested in a food-carrying task in which they searched for food in an open field, and returned to a refuge after finding the food. Landmark navigation was evaluated during trials performed under lighted conditions and path integration was tested under darkened conditions, thus eliminating external cues. We report that IPN lesions increased the number of errors and reduced heading accuracy under both lighted and darkened conditions. Tests using a Morris water maze procedure indicated that IPN lesions produced moderate impairments in the landmark version of the water task, but left beacon navigation intact. These findings suggest that the IPN plays a fundamental role in landmark navigation and path integration.
A paradox of memory research is that repeated checking results in a decrease in memory certainty, memory vividness and confidence [van den Hout, M. A., &amp; Kindt, M. (2003a). Phenomenological validity of an OCD-memory model and the remember/know distinction. Behaviour Research and Therapy, 41, 369-378; van den Hout, M. A., &amp; Kindt, M. (2003b). Repeated checking causes memory distrust. Behaviour Research and Therapy, 41, 301-316]. Although these findings have been mainly attributed to changes in episodic long-term memory, it has been suggested [Shimamura, A. P. (2000). Toward a cognitive neuroscience of metacognition. Consciousness and Cognition, 9, 313-323] that representations in working memory could already suffer from detrimental checking. In two experiments we set out to test this hypothesis by employing a delayed-match-to-sample working memory task. Letters had to be remembered in their correct locations, a task that was designed to engage the episodic short-term buffer of working memory [Baddeley, A. D. (2000). The episodic buffer: a new component in working memory? Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 4, 417-423]. Of most importance, we introduced an intermediate distractor question that was prone to induce frustrating and unnecessary checking on trials where no correct answer was possible. Reaction times and confidence ratings on the actual memory test of these trials confirmed the success of this manipulation. Most importantly, high checkers [cf. VOCI; Thordarson, D. S., Radomsky, A. S., Rachman, S., Shafran, R, Sawchuk, C. N., &amp; Hakstian, A. R. (2004). The Vancouver obsessional compulsive inventory (VOCI). Behaviour Research and Therapy, 42(11), 1289-1314] were less accurate than low checkers when frustrating checking was induced, especially if the experimental context actually emphasized the irrelevance of the misleading question. The clinical relevance of this result was substantiated by means of an extreme groups comparison across the two studies. The findings are discussed in the context of detrimental checking and lack of distractor inhibition as a way of weakening fragile bindings within the episodic short-term buffer of Baddeley's (2000) model. Clinical implications, limitations and future research are considered.
In the last years small RNA molecules, i.e. microRNA (miRNA) encoded by miR genes, have been found to play a crucial role in regulating gene expression of a considerable part of plant's and animal's genome. Here, we report the essential information on biogenesis of miRNAs and recent evidence on their important role in human diseases. Emphasis has been given to miR-155, since this molecule represents a typical multifunctional miRNA. Recent data indicate that miR-155 has distinct expression profiles and plays a crucial role in various physiological and pathological processes such as haematopoietic lineage differentiation, immunity, inflammation, cancer, and cardiovascular diseases. Moreover, miR-155 has been found to be implicated in viral infections, particularly in those caused by DNA viruses. The available experimental evidence indicating that miR-155 is over expressed in a variety of malignant tumors allows us to include this miRNA in the list of genes of paramount importance in cancer diagnosis and prognosis. Exogenous molecular control in vivo of miR-155 expression could open up new ways to restrain malignant growth and viral infections, or to attenuate the progression of cardiovascular diseases.
Ca2+ is the most widely used second messenger in cell biology and fulfills a plethora of essential cell functions. One of the most exciting findings of the last decades was the involvement of Ca2+ in the regulation of long-term cell adaptation through its ability to control gene expression. This finding provided a link between cell excitation and gene expression. In this review, we chose to focus on the role of voltage-dependent calcium channels in mediating gene expression in response to membrane depolarization. We illustrate the different pathways by which these channels are involved in excitation-transcription coupling, including the most recent Ca2+ ion-independent strategies that highlight the transcription factor role of calcium channels.



Spike-frequency adaptation is the reduction of a neuron's firing rate to a stimulus of constant intensity. In the locust, the Lobula Giant Movement Detector (LGMD) is a visual interneuron that exhibits rapid adaptation to both current injection and visual stimuli. Here, a reduced compartmental model of the LGMD is employed to explore adaptation's role in selectivity for stimuli whose intensity changes with time. We show that supralinearly increasing current injection stimuli are best at driving a high spike count in the response, while linearly increasing current injection stimuli (i.e., ramps) are best at attaining large firing rate changes in an adapting neuron. This result is extended with in vivo experiments showing that the LGMD's response to translating stimuli having a supralinear velocity profile is larger than the response to constant or linearly increasing velocity translation. Furthermore, we show that the LGMD's preference for approaching versus receding stimuli can partly be accounted for by adaptation. Finally, we show that the LGMD's adaptation mechanism appears well tuned to minimize sensitivity for the level of basal input.
We develop and study two neural network models of perceptual alternations. Both models have a star-like architecture of connections with a central element connected to a set of peripheral elements. A particular perception is simulated in terms of partial synchronization between the central element and some sub-group of peripheral elements. The first model is constructed from phase oscillators and the mechanism of perceptual alternations is based on chaotic intermittency under fixed parameter values. Similar to experimental evidence, the distribution of times between perceptual alternations is represented by the gamma distribution. The second model is built of spiking neurons of the Hodgkin-Huxley type. The mechanism of perceptual alternations is based on plasticity of inhibitory synapses which increases the inhibition from the central unit to the neural assembly representing the current percept. As a result another perception is formed. Simulations show that the second model is in good agreement with behavioural data on switching times between percepts of ambiguous figures and with experimental results on binocular rivalry of two and four percepts.
A fundamental problem in neuroscience, to which Prof. Segundo has made seminal contributions, is to understand how action potentials represent events in the external world. The aim of this paper is to review the issue of neural coding in the context of the rodent whiskers, an increasingly popular model system. Key issues we consider are: the role of spike timing; mechanisms of spike timing; decoding and context-dependence. Significant insight has come from the development of rigorous, information theoretic frameworks for tackling these questions, in conjunction with suitably designed experiments. We review both the theory and experimental studies. In contrast to the classical view that neurons are noisy and unreliable, it is becoming clear that many neurons in the subcortical whisker pathway are remarkably reliable and, by virtue of spike timing with millisecond-precision, have high bandwidth for conveying sensory information. In this way, even small (approximately 200 neuron) subcortical modules are able to support the sensory processing underlying sophisticated whisker-dependent behaviours. Future work on neural coding in cortex will need to consider new findings that responses are highly dependent on context, including behavioural and internal states.
An important problem in neuroscience is to obtain quantitative knowledge of how information is represented, or encoded, in the signals that nerve cells process and transmit. Sensory receptors have provided important models for the study of neural coding because their inputs can often be relatively easily controlled and measured, while the resultant activity is recorded. A variety of engineering concepts have been successfully applied to physiological sciences, particularly those related to control of dynamic systems. Linear systems analysis was one of the earliest methods used to probe sensory coding, and measurements such as step responses and frequency responses have become standard tools for describing sensory functions. Modern systems analysis has evolved to provide accurate and efficient linear identification of encoding in sensory receptors that use either graded potentials or action potentials. It has also led to nonlinear systems analysis, the creation of parametric nonlinear models, and measures of information coding by sensory neurons. These methods promise to provide important new knowledge about sensory systems in the future, especially when complemented with parallel biophysical and molecular studies of sensory neurons. Mechanoreceptors provided some of the earliest preparations for the investigation of neural coding, and both the linear and nonlinear properties of wide variety of vertebrate and invertebrate mechanoreceptors continue to be explored.
A previous study showed that macelignan extracted from Myristica fragrans has anti-inflammatory properties using hippocampal neuronal and primary microglial cells. Subsequently, a study using animals with chronic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) infusion into the brain showed that oral treatments of macelignan reduced the hippocampal microglial activation and hippocampal-dependent spatial memory impairments induced by LPS. However, the molecular mechanisms responsible for the anti-inflammatory activity of macelignan have not been elucidated in the microglia. Therefore, the present study was conducted to determine if mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) activities are related to the anti-inflammatory effects of macelignan on LPS-stimulated BV-2 microglial cells. The results show that macelignan suppresses both the phosphorylations of MAPKs and the degradation of inhibitory-kappa B (IkappaBalpha) and increases of nuclear NF-kappaB in LPS-stimulated BV-2 microglial cells. These results suggest that macelignan has an anti-inflammatory effect on the affected brain through regulation of the inflammation through the MAPK signal pathway.



In this study, it was hypothesized that progesterone (P4) acts as a survival factor primarily by actions of the classic nuclear progesterone receptor (PGR) signaling pathway in rat periovulatory granulosa cells. Granulosa cells were isolated from immature female rats primed with equine chorionic gonadotropin/human chorionic gonadotropin and treated in vitro with PGR antagonists. As little as 10 nM of two different PGR antagonists (Org 31710 and RU 486) increased apoptosis measured as caspase 3/7 activity, which was reversed by cotreatment with the progestin R5020. Concurrently, P4 synthesis was decreased. Inhibition of P4 synthesis by cyanoketone similarly induced apoptosis but required greater inhibition of P4 synthesis than that seen after treatment with PGR antagonists. Therefore, the induction of apoptosis by PGR antagonists cannot be explained by decreased P4 synthesis alone. Low concentrations of R5020 also completely reversed the effects of cyanoketone. Inhibition of P4 synthesis was more effective in inducing apoptosis than treatment with PGR antagonists. However, cotreatment with PGR antagonists protected cells from the additional effects of cyanoketone, indicating partial agonist effects of the antagonists and a dominating role for PGR in P4-mediated regulation of apoptosis. Progesterone receptor membrane component 1 (PGRMC1) was expressed in granulosa cells; however, an anti-PGRMC1 antibody did not induce apoptosis in periovulatory granulosa cells. Neither anti-PGRMC1 nor P4 or cyanoketone affected apoptosis of immature granulosa cells. In conclusion, we show that P4 regulates apoptosis in periovulatory granulosa cells by acting via the classic nuclear receptor.
A surge of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release from the brain triggers the luteinizing hormone (LH) surge that causes ovulation. The GnRH surge is initiated by a switch in estradiol action from negative to positive feedback. Estradiol signals critical for the surge are likely transmitted to GnRH neurons at least in part via estradiol-sensitive afferents. Using an ovariectomized estradiol-treated (OVX+E) mouse model that exhibits daily LH surges, we examined changes in glutamate transmission to GnRH neurons during negative feedback and positive feedback. Spontaneous glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid/kainate receptors (AMPA/KA Rs) or N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) were recorded in GnRH neurons from OVX+E and OVX mice. There were no diurnal changes in the percentage of GnRH neurons from OVX mice exhibiting EPSCs. In cells from OVX+E mice, the profile of AMPA/KA R-mediated and NMDAR-mediated EPSCs showed changes dependent on time of day. Comparison of AMPA/KA R-mediated EPSC frequency in OVX+E and OVX cells showed that estradiol suppressed transmission during negative feedback but had no effect during positive feedback. Tetrodotoxin treatment to block action potential firing did not affect AMPA/KA R-mediated EPSC frequency in OVX cells during negative feedback or in OVX+E cells during positive feedback, suggesting that estradiol-induced suppression of glutamate transmission may be primarily due to activity-independent changes. The diurnal removal of estradiol-induced suppression of AMPA/KA R-mediated glutamate transmission to GnRH neurons during positive feedback suggests that the primary role for estradiol-induced changes in glutamate transmission may be in mediating negative feedback.
Stroke causes extensive cellular loss that leads to a disintegration of the afflicted brain tissue. Although transplanted neural stem cells can recover some of the function lost after stroke, recovery is incomplete and restoration of lost tissue is minimal. The challenge therefore is to provide transplanted cells with matrix support in order to optimise their ability to engraft the damaged tissue. We here demonstrate that plasma polymerised allylamine (ppAAm)-treated poly(D,L-lactic acid-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) scaffold particles can act as a structural support for neural stem cells injected directly through a needle into the lesion cavity using magnetic resonance imaging-derived co-ordinates. Upon implantation, the neuro-scaffolds integrate efficiently within host tissue forming a primitive neural tissue. These neuro-scaffolds could therefore be a more advanced method to enhance brain repair. This study provides a substantial step in the technology development required for the translation of this approach.
Among the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the deposition of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides, primarily Abeta (1-40) and Abeta (1-42), in the brain as senile plaques. A large body of evidence suggests that cognitive decline and dementia in AD patients arise from the formation of various aggregated forms of Abeta, including oligomers, protofibrils and fibrils. Hence, there is increasing interest in designing molecular agents that can impede the aggregation process and that can lead to the development of therapeutically viable compounds. Here, we demonstrate the ability of the specifically designed alpha,beta-dehydroalanine (DeltaAla)-containing peptides P1 (K-L-V-F-DeltaA-I-DeltaA) and P2 (K-F-DeltaA-DeltaA-DeltaA-F) to inhibit Abeta (1-42) aggregation. The mechanism of interaction of the two peptides with Abeta (1-42) seemed to be different and distinct. Overall, the data reveal a novel application of DeltaAla-containing peptides as tools to disrupt Abeta aggregation that may lead to the development of anti-amyloid therapies not only for AD but also for many other protein misfolding diseases. (c) 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Biopolymers 91: 456-465, 2009.
Recent theories in cognitive neuroscience suggest that semantic memory is a distributed process, which involves many cortical areas and is based on a multimodal representation of objects. The aim of this work is to extend a previous model of object representation to realize a semantic memory, in which sensory-motor representations of objects are linked with words. The model assumes that each object is described as a collection of features, coded in different cortical areas via a topological organization. Features in different objects are segmented via gamma-band synchronization of neural oscillators. The feature areas are further connected with a lexical area, devoted to the representation of words. Synapses among the feature areas, and among the lexical area and the feature areas are trained via a time-dependent Hebbian rule, during a period in which individual objects are presented together with the corresponding words. Simulation results demonstrate that, during the retrieval phase, the network can deal with the simultaneous presence of objects (from sensory-motor inputs) and words (from acoustic inputs), can correctly associate objects with words and segment objects even in the presence of incomplete information. Moreover, the network can realize some semantic links among words representing objects with shared features. These results support the idea that semantic memory can be described as an integrated process, whose content is retrieved by the co-activation of different multimodal regions. In perspective, extended versions of this model may be used to test conceptual theories, and to provide a quantitative assessment of existing data (for instance concerning patients with neural deficits).




Sporadic inclusion-body myositis (sIBM) is the most common disabling, adult-onset, inflammatory myopathy histologically characterized by intense inflammation and vacuolar degeneration. In spite of T cell-mediated cytotoxicity and persistent, clonally expanded and antigen-driven endomysial T cells, the disease is resistant to immunotherapies. Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that causes an immediate depletion or severe reduction of peripheral blood lymphocytes, lasting at least 6 months. We designed a proof-of-principle study to examine if one series of Alemtuzumab infusions in sIBM patients depletes not only peripheral blood lymphocytes but also endomysial T cells and alters the natural course of the disease. Thirteen sIBM patients with established 12-month natural history data received 0.3 mg/kg/day Alemtuzumab for 4 days. The study was powered to capture &gt; or =10% increase strength 6 months after treatment. The primary end-point was disease stabilization compared to natural history, assessed by bi-monthly Quantitative Muscle Strength Testing and Medical Research Council strength measurements. Lymphocytes and T cell subsets were monitored concurrently in the blood and the repeated muscle biopsies. Alterations in the mRNA expression of inflammatory, stressor and degeneration-associated molecules were examined in the repeated biopsies. During a 12-month observation period, the patients' total strength had declined by a mean of 14.9% based on Quantitative Muscle Strength Testing. Six months after therapy, the overall decline was only 1.9% (P &lt; 0.002), corresponding to a 13% differential gain. Among those patients, four improved by a mean of 10% and six reported improved performance of daily activities. The benefit was more evident by the Medical Research Council scales, which demonstrated a decline in the total scores by 13.8% during the observation period but an improvement by 11.4% (P &lt; 0.001) after 6 months, reaching the level of strength recorded 12 months earlier. Depletion of peripheral blood lymphocytes, including the naive and memory CD8+ cells, was noted 2 weeks after treatment and persisted up to 6 months. The effector CD45RA(+)CD62L(-) cells, however, started to increase 2 months after therapy and peaked by the 4th month. Repeated muscle biopsies showed reduction of CD3 lymphocytes by a mean of 50% (P &lt; 0.008), most prominent in the improved patients, and reduced mRNA expression of stressor molecules Fas, Mip-1a and alphaB-crystallin; the mRNA of desmin, a regeneration-associated molecule, increased. This proof-of-principle study provides insights into the pathogenesis of inclusion-body myositis and concludes that in sIBM one series of Alemtuzumab infusions can slow down disease progression up to 6 months, improve the strength of some patients, and reduce endomysial inflammation and stressor molecules. These encouraging results, the first in sIBM, warrant a future study with repeated infusions
Neuroimaging analysis using structural data has begun to provide insights into the pathophysiology of headache syndromes. Several independent studies have suggested a decrease in grey matter in pain-transmitting areas in migraine patients. Most of these data are discussed as damage or loss of brain grey matter, reinforcing the idea of migraine as a progressive disease. However, given what we know about the nature of morphometric changes detectable by the methods we have to date, this interpretation is highly speculative and not supported by the data. It is likely that these changes are the consequence and not the cause of the respective headache syndromes, as they are probably not irreversible and only mirror the proportion or duration of pain suffered. Moreover, structural changes are not headache specific and have to be seen in the light of a wealth of pain studies using these methods. The studies in cluster headache patients prompted the use of stereotactic stimulation of the hypothalamic target point identified by functional and structural neuroimaging. Due to the nature of the methods used and due to a high anatomical variance it is more than questionable to use this point as a definite answer to the source of the headache in clusters and even more so when it is uncritically used in individuals. We need a way to study each patient individually using the functional imaging method with the highest spatial and temporal resolution available to enable us to target the seed point for deep brain stimulation on this individual basis. One of the major future challenges is to understand the behavioural consequences and cellular mechanisms underlying neuroanatomic changes in pain and headache.

Roberts Bartholow's 1874 experiment on Mary Rafferty is widely cited as the first demonstration, by direct application of stimulating electrodes, of the motor excitability of the human cerebral cortex. The many accounts of the experiment, however, leave certain questions and details unexamined or unresolved, especially about Bartholow's goals, the nature and quality of the evidence, and the experiment's role in the history of theory and research on localisation of function. In this article, we try to fill these gaps and to tell the full story. We describe Bartholow's career up to 1874, review the theoretical and empirical background for the experiment, and present Bartholow's own account of the experiment as well as those of his supporters and critics. We then present our own analysis, assess the experiment's influence on contemporaneous scientific opinion about cortical excitability, and trace its citation record into our own time. We also review and assess ethical criticisms of Bartholow and their effects on his career, and we close by discussing the role we think the experiment deserves to play in the history of theory and research on cortical excitability.
Developmental cognitive neuroscience is a rapidly growing field that examines the relationships between biological development and cognitive ability. In the past decade, there has been ongoing refinement of concepts and methodology related to the study of 'functional connectivity' among distributed brain regions believed to underlie cognition and behavioral control. Due to the recent availability of relatively easy-to-use tools for functional connectivity analysis, there has been a sharp upsurge of studies that seek to characterize normal and psychopathologically abnormal brain functional integration. However, relatively few studies have applied functional and effective connectivity analysis techniques to developmental cognitive neuroscience. Functional and effective connectivity analysis methods are ideally suited to advance our understanding of the neural substrates of cognitive development, particularly in understanding how and why changes in the functional 'wiring' of neural networks promotes optimal cognitive control throughout development. The purpose of this review is to summarize the central concepts, methods, and findings of functional integration neuroimaging research to discuss key questions in the field of developmental cognitive neuroscience. These ideas will be presented within a context that merges relevant concepts and proposals from different developmental theorists. The review will outline a few general predictions about likely relationships between typical 'executive' cognitive maturation and changes in brain network functional integration during adolescence. Although not exhaustive, this conceptual review also will showcase some of recent findings that have emerged to support these predictions.
We studied the role of the frontal lobes in orienting spatial attention and inhibiting attentional capture by goal-irrelevant stimuli, using a spatial cueing method in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Two blocks of trials were presented, one with non-predictive cues and the other with counter-predictive cues. FTD patients showed a global orienting deficit, with a greater difference between invalid and valid trials than age-matched controls. However, they were able to use the (counter-) predictiveness of the cue to reduce the invalid/valid difference when targets occurred most often in the location opposite the cue. Thus, endogenous control of attention in our FTD patients was sufficient to reorient attention on the basis of the probability of events, but not to resist the capture of attention by goal-irrelevant stimuli. These results confirm the role of frontal lobes in the inhibition of attentional capture.
We report a patient harboring a novel homozygous mutation of c.604T&gt;G (p.F202V) in POMT2. He showed delayed psychomotor development but acquired the ability to walk at the age of 3 years and 10 months. His brain MRI was normal. No ocular abnormalities were seen. Biopsied skeletal muscle revealed markedly decreased but still detectable glycosylated forms of alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG). Our results indicate that mutations in POMT2 can cause a wide spectrum of clinical phenotypes as observed in other genes associated with alpha-dystroglycanopathy. Presence of small amounts of partly glycosylated alpha-DG may have a role in reducing the clinical symptoms of alpha-dystroglycanopathy.

On the occasion of the author's retirement from the Neurochirurgische Universittsklinik Zrich, our scientific achievement was presented with some mention on the recently developed organization for the coordination of scientific research, Zentrum fr Neurowissenschaften Zrich NZN. They are consisting of followings (see text literatures in English); gene alteration or mutation in the neoplasm of the central nervous system, particularly glioma (with Dr. Ohgaki, Prof. Kleihues of IARC), GABAA receptor subunit of hippocampus in temporal lobe epilepsy (with Dr. Loup Prof. Fritschy, Pharmacology, UZH), role of apoptosis in the treatment of glioblastoma using Taurolin (Prof. Frei, Pharmacology, UZH), neurointensive medicine (PD Dr. Keller with Prof. Nadler, ETH), epilepsy surgery, particularly by selective amygdalohippocampectomy (SAHE), which was pioneered in Zrich (with Prof. Wieser, Neurology). He has also participated in clinical studies on modified neurosurgical approaches, which are based on traditional approaches and positionings such as selective extradural anterior clinoidectomy (SEAC), supracerebellar transtentorial (SCTT), intraoperative monitoring of patients, including intraoperative MRI and various neurovascular disorders such as aneurysms, AVMs and Moyamoya angiopathy. The key developments in the field of neuroscience in Switzerland and their short history, of which the author himself was a part, are mentioned herein. Prof. Akert's booklet entitled &quot;Vierhundert Jahre Hirnforschung in der Schweiz--von der Renaissance bis zur Gegenwart (1997)&quot; has been referred to here. This booklet contains up-to-date, detailed records of the various of the publications, of Swiss neuroscientists to date such as Prof. von Monakow, the founder of Hirnanatomisches Institut (Brain Research Institute) and Prof. WR Hess, who was awarded with the Nobel prize. Information exchange and a widely based interdisciplinary coordination are extremely essential for managing the several day-to-day complexities of the current scientific projects. It has therefore been reiterated that modern neuroscientific research, especially in the clinical field, necessitates interdisciplinary collaboration, as seen in NZN connecting the UZH and ETH, beyond a single unit Hirn Anatomisches Institut alone, where many Japanese neuroscientists have been trained and have accomplished many noteworthy research projects.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal, dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by chorea, involuntary movements, and cognitive impairments. Tremendous progress has been made since the discovery of HD gene in 1993, in terms of developing animal models to study the disease process, unraveling the expression and function of wild-type and mutant huntingtin (Htt) proteins in the central and peripheral nervous systems, and understanding expanded CAG repeat containing mutant Htt protein interactions with CNS proteins in the disease process. HD progression has been found to involve several pathomechanisms, including expanded CAG repeat protein interaction with other CNS proteins, transcriptional dysregulation, calcium dyshomeostasis, abnormal vesicle trafficking, and defective mitochondrial bioenergetics. Recent studies have found that mutant Htt is associated with mitochondria and causes mitochondrial structural changes, decreases mitochondrial trafficking, and impairs mitochondrial dynamics in the neurons affected by HD. This article discusses recent developments in HD research, with a particular focus on intracellular and intramitochondrial calcium influx, mitochondrial DNA defects, and mitochondrial structural and functional abnormalities in HD development and progression. Further, this article outlines the current status of mitochondrial therapeutics with a special reference to Dimebon.
Muscle or electromyogenic (EMG) artifact poses a serious risk to inferential validity for any electroencephalography (EEG) investigation in the frequency-domain owing to its high amplitude, broad spectrum, and sensitivity to psychological processes of interest. Even weak EMG is detectable across the scalp in frequencies as low as the alpha band. Given these hazards, there is substantial interest in developing EMG correction tools. Unfortunately, most published techniques are subjected to only modest validation attempts, rendering their utility questionable. We review recent work by our laboratory quantitatively investigating the validity of two popular EMG correction techniques, one using the general linear model (GLM), the other using temporal independent component analysis (ICA). We show that intra-individual GLM-based methods represent a sensitive and specific tool for correcting on-going or induced, but not evoked (phase-locked) or source-localized, spectral changes. Preliminary work with ICA shows that it may not represent a panacea for EMG contamination, although further scrutiny is strongly warranted. We conclude by describing emerging methodological trends in this area that are likely to have substantial benefits for basic and applied EEG research.
The idea that gamma enhancement reflects a state of high neuronal excitability and synchrony, critical for active brain operations, sets gamma up as a &quot;master&quot; or executor process that determines whether an input is effectively integrated and an effective output is generated. However, gamma amplitude is often coupled to the phase of lower frequency delta or theta oscillations, which would make gamma a &quot;slave&quot; to lower frequency activity. Gamma enslavement is productive and typical during rhythmic mode brain operations; when a predictable rhythm is in play, low and mid-frequency oscillations can be entrained and their excitability fluctuations of put to work in sensory and motor functions. When there is no task relevant rhythm that the system can entrain to, low frequency oscillations become detrimental to processing. Then, a continuous (vigilance) mode of operation is implemented; the system's sensitivity is maximized by suppressing lower frequency oscillations and exploiting continuous gamma band oscillations. Each mode has costs and benefits, and the brain shifts dynamically between them in accord with task demands.
Quantification of epileptiform activity in EEG has been applied for decades. This has mainly been done by visual inspection of the recorded EEG. There have been many attempts using computers to quantify the activity, usually with moderate success. In a row of contexts, including Landau-Kleffner syndrome and the syndrome of epilepsy with continuous spike wave during slow sleep, the spike index (SI) has been applied to quantify [Symbol: see text]interictal nocturnal focal epileptiform activity', which is suggested as a general term for the epileptiform activity enhanced by sleep. However, the SI has been implemented differently by different authors and has usually not been well described and never properly defined. This study suggests a definition of SI that gives a semiautomatic and relatively robust algorithm for assessment. The method employs spike detection by means of template matching of the current source density estimate. The percentage of time within an epoch with interspike interval (ISI) below a given limit, usually 3 s, is returned as the SI. This is calculated during daytime and in non-REM sleep. The standard epoch length is 10 min. The parameter selection is discussed in the context of the influence of spikes and bursts on cognition. The described method gives reproducible results in routine use, gives clinical valuable information, and is easily implemented in a clinical setting. There is only a minor added workload for the electroencephalographer.
Background/Objectives Ingestion of the non-proteinic amino acid L-theanine (gamma-glutamylethylamide) has been shown to influence oscillatory brain activity in the alpha band (8-14 Hz) in humans during resting electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings and also during cognitive task performance. We have previously shown that ingestion of a 250-mg dose of L-theanine significantly reduced tonic (background) alpha power during a demanding intersensory (auditory-visual) attentional cueing task. Further, cue-related phasic changes in alpha power, indexing the shorter-term anticipatory biasing of attention between modalities, were stronger on L-theanine compared to placebo. This form of cue-contingent phasic alpha activity is also known to index attentional biasing within visual space. Specifically, when a relevant location is pre-cued, anticipatory alpha power increases contralateral to the location to be ignored. Here we investigate whether the effects of L-theanine on tonic and phasic alpha activity, found previously during intersensory attentional deployment, occur also during a visuospatial task. Subjects/Methods 168-channel EEG data were recorded from thirteen neurologically normal individuals while engaged in a highly demanding visuo-spatial attention task. Participants underwent testing on two separate days, ingesting either a 250-mg colorless and tasteless solution of L-theanine mixed with water, or a water-based solution placebo on each day in counterbalanced order. We compared the alpha-band activity when subjects ingested L-Theanine vs. Placebo. Results We found a significant reduction in tonic alpha for the L-theanine treatment compared to placebo, which was accompanied by a shift in scalp topography, indicative of treatment-related changes in the neural generators of oscillatory alpha activity. However, L-theanine did not measurably affect cue-related anticipatory alpha effects. Conclusions This pattern of results implies that L-theanine plays a more general role in attentional processing, facilitating longer-lasting processes responsible for sustaining attention across the timeframe of a difficult task, rather than affecting specific moment-to-moment phasic deployment processes.
The brain processes associated with mental imagery have long been a matter of debate. Neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies have yielded diverging evidence of mental transformation activating the right hemisphere, the left hemisphere, or both. Here, using a mirror/normal discrimination task with rotated body parts (BPs) and external objects (EOs), we describe the case of a patient who developed a selective deficit in mental imagery of such BPs due to left posterior parietal brain damage. In addition, the patient's deficit predominated for pictures of right arms (i.e., arms corresponding to the patient's imagined contralesional arm) and was further characterised by an inability to distinguish between anatomically possible and impossible arm positions. This neuropsychological deficit was corroborated by neuroimaging evidence revealing the absence of activation in the left parietal lobe for the mental rotation of body parts as shown in healthy participants. In contrast, his behavioural performance and brain activation for EOs were similar to those of healthy participants. These data suggest that mental imagery of BPs and EOs relies on different cognitive and neural mechanisms and indicate that the left posterior parietal lobe is a necessary structure for mental transformations of human BPs.
The comparative method is widely used to understand brain-behaviour relationships in comparative psychology. Such studies have demonstrated functional relationships between the brain and behaviour as well as how the brain and behaviour evolve in concert with one another. Here, the authors illustrate with their data on tool use and cerebellar morphology in birds that such comparisons can be further extended to (a) relate the morphology of a brain region to a behaviour, and (b) provide insight into the function of an often overlooked brain region in comparative cognitive studies, the cerebellum. Their results indicate that tool-using species have a significantly more folded cerebellar cortex, but not a larger cerebellum than non-tool-using species. This marks the first demonstration of an empirical relationship between the folding of a neural structure and a cognitive behaviour and in so doing, provides critical insight into the neural basis of tool use and the role of the cerebellum in cognitive processes.
The authors previously described a procedure that permits rapid, multiple within-participant assessments of the contingency between a cue and an outcome (the &quot;streamed-trial&quot; procedure, Crump, Hannah, Allan, &amp; Hord, 2007). In the present experiments, the authors modified this procedure to investigate cue-interaction effects, replicating conventional findings in both the one- and two-phase blocking paradigms. The authors show that the streamed-trial procedure is not restricted to the geometric forms used as cues and outcomes by Crump et al., and that it can incorporate the conventional allergy stimuli, where food is the cue and an allergic reaction is the outcome. The authors discuss the value of the streamed-trial procedure as a method for advancing our theoretical understanding of cue-interaction effects.
When faced with a relatively novel task, it is reasonable to assume that increases in performance efficiency depend upon processing adjustments that occur in response to errant or suboptimal performance. For such dynamic corrections to occur, the errors must first be noted, which can be challenging in contexts where no external feedback is provided. In the present article, the authors describe how a &quot;double cross&quot; error monitoring and correction process can be added to diffusion models of binary decision. The authors first outline the logick of our proposed error detection system, and then demonstrate that the addition of this double-cross process in the context of a simulation of lexical decision leads to more efficient responding. That is, with such a mechanism in place, the model was able to gradually respond more quickly and the distribution of errors became more consistent with human response patterns.

Doxorubicin (Dox) is a very potent antineoplastic agent used against several types of cancer, despite a cumulative cardiomyopathy that reduces the therapeutic index for treatment. H9c2 myoblast cells have been used as an in vitro model to study biochemical alterations induced by Dox treatment on cardiomyocyte cells. Despite the extensive work already published, few data are available regarding morphological alterations of H9c2 cells during Dox treatment. The purpose of the present work was to evaluate Dox-induced morphological alterations in H9c2 myoblasts, focusing especially on the nuclei, mitochondria, and structural fibrous proteins. Treatment of H9c2 cell with low concentrations of Dox causes alterations in fibrous structural proteins including the nuclear lamina and sarcomeric cardiac myosin, as well as mitochondrial depolarization and fragmentation, membrane blebbing with cell shape changes, and phosphatidylserine externalization. For higher Dox concentrations, more profound alterations are evident, including nuclear swelling with disruption of nuclear membrane structure, mitochondrial swelling, and extensive cytoplasm vacuolization. The results obtained indicate that Dox causes morphological alterations in mitochondrial, nuclear, and fibrous protein structures in H9c2 cells, which are dependent on the drug concentration. Data obtained with the present study allow for a better characterization of the effects of Dox on H9c2 myoblasts, used as a model to study Dox-induced cardiotoxicity. The results obtained also provide new and previously unknown targets that can contribute to understand the mechanisms involved in the cardiotoxicity of Dox.
Lipids and lipid-derived metabolites are increasingly recognised as bonafide signalling molecules that regulate many cellular processes. These include the well-established InsP(3), diacylglycerol (DAG), PIP(2), PIP(3) and arachidonic acid (AA), as well as other poly-unsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), lysophospholipids, sphingolipids, endocannabinoids and endovanilloids. They regulate a plethora of molecules that are involved in Ca(2+) signalling, including various ion channels, pumps and transporters, thereby triggering, modulating and fine-tuning Ca(2+) signals. Although appreciated individually, it seems timely to highlight the overall impact of lipids as signalling molecules and their role in Ca(2+) signalling, and this is the aim of this special issue of Cell Calcium.
Increased phosphoinositide turnover was first identified as an early signal transduction event initiated by cell surface receptors that were linked to calcium signaling. Subsequently, the generation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate by phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C enzymes was defined as the major link between inositide turnover and the cytosolic Ca(2+) rise in response to external stimulation. However, in the last decades, phosphoinositides have been emerging as major regulatory lipids involved in virtually every membrane-associated signaling process. Phosphoinositides regulate both the activity and the trafficking of almost all ion channels and transporters contributing to the maintenance of the ionic gradients that are essential for the proper functioning of all eukaryotic cells. Here we summarize the various means by which phosphoinositides affect ion channel functions with special emphasis on Ca(2+) signaling and outline the principles that govern the highly compartmentalized roles of these regulatory lipids.
Insights into early human development are fundamental for our understanding of human biology. Efficient differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) into neural precursor cells is critical for future cell-based therapies. Here, using defined conditions, we characterized a new method for rapid and uniform differentiation of hESCs into committed neural precursor cells (designated C-NPCs). Dynamic gene expression analysis identified several distinct stages of ESC neuralization and revealed functional modules of coregulated genes and pathways. The first wave of gene expression changes, likely corresponding to the transition through primitive ectoderm, started at day 3, preceding the formation of columnar neuroepithelial rosettes. The second wave started at day 5, coinciding with the formation of rosettes. The majority of C-NPCs were positive for both anterior and posterior markers of developing neuroepithelium. In culture, C-NPCs became electrophysiologically functional neurons; on transplantation into neonatal mouse brains, C-NPCs integrated into the cortex and olfactory bulb, acquiring appropriate neuronal morphologies and markers. Compared to rosette-NPCs,(1) C-NPCs exhibited limited in vitro expansion capacity and did not express potent oncogenes such as PLAG1 or RSPO3. Concordantly, we never detected tumors or excessive neural proliferation after transplantation of C-NPCs into mouse brains. In conclusion, our study provides a framework for future analysis of molecular signaling during ESC neuralization.
Neurofilaments (NFs) are hyperphosphorylated and accumulate in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. In this study, employing the transgenic mouse model, we explored the effect of presenilin 1 (PS-1) mutation on the phosphorylation and distribution of NFs. Western blot analysis showed that there was a significant increase in the phosphorylation of NF-H and NF-M subunits with a concomitant increase in phosphorylated c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase 1/2 (JNK1/2) mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in hippocampus of PS-1 transgenic mice compared to that of wild-type littermates. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that phosphorylated NFs accumulated throughout the hippocampal neurons of the transgenic mice. These findings suggest that PS-1 mutation may induce hyperphosphorylation and accumulation of NFs via a JNK1/2-involved mechanism.
Our previous reports indicated that astrocytes (ASTs) in injured adult rat spinal cord underwent a process of de-differentiation, and may acquire the potential of neural stem cells (NSCs). However, the AST de-differentiation and transitional rejuvenation process following injury is still largely unclear. The aim of the present study was to determine whether injured in vitro ASTs can re-enter the multipotential-like stem cell pool and regain NSC characteristics, and to further understand the mechanism of AST de-differentiation. We used an in vitro scratch-wound model to evoke astrocytic response to mechanical injury. GFAP and nestin double-labeled indirect immunofluorescence were carried out to characterize these scratched cells at various periods. Western-blot analysis was used to determine the changes of GFAP and nestin expression following injury. Furthermore, the rate of proliferation was determined by immunocytochemical detection of BrdU incorporating cells. These scratch-wound ASTs were cultured with stem cells medium to explore their ability to generate neurospheres and examine the self-renewal and multi-potency of such neurospheres. Moreover, scratched AST culture supernatant as conditioned cultured medium (ACM) was used to investigate if some diffusible factors derived from injured ASTs could induce de-differentiation of AST. The results showed: (1) the nestin positivity first appeared in GFAP-positive cells at the edge of the scratch, subsequently, disseminated into un-insulted zone. The expression of nestin in AST was increased with longer culture, while that of GFAP was decreased. Furthermore, these nestin-immunoreactive ASTs could generate neurospheres, which showed self-renewal and could be differentiated into neurons, ASTs and oligodendrocytes. (2) Scratched ASTs culture supernatant can induce astrocytic proliferation and de-differentiation. These results reveal that the in vitro injured ASTs can de-differentiate into nestin-positive stem/precursor cells, the process of de-differentiation may arise from direct injury or some diffusible factors released from injured ASTs.

Neuro-2a (N2a) cells are derived from spontaneous neuroblastoma of mouse and capable to differentiate into neuronal-like cells. Recently, P2X7 receptor has been shown to sustain growth of human neuroblastoma cells but its role during neuronal differentiation remains unexamined.We characterized the role of P2X7 receptors in the retinoic acid (RA)-differentiated N2a cells. RA induced N2a cells differentiation into neurite bearing and neuronal specific proteins, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and neuronal specific nuclear protein (NeuN), expressing neuronal-like cells. Interestingly, the RA-induced neuronal differentiation was associated with decreases in the expression and function of P2X7 receptors. Functional inhibition of P2X7 receptors by P2X7 receptor selective antagonists, 5'-triphosphate, periodate-oxidized 2',3'-dialdehyde ATP (oATP), brilliant blue G (BBG) or A438079 induced neurite outgrowth. In addition, RA and oATP treatment stimulated the expression of neuron-specific class III beta-tubulin (TuJ1), and knockdown of P2X7 receptor expression by siRNA induced neurite outgrowth. To elucidate the possible mechanism, we found the levels of basal intracellular Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i) were decreased in either RA- or oATP-differentiated or P2X7receptor knockdown N2a cells. Simply cultured N2a cells in low Ca2+ medium induced a 2-fold increase in neurite length. Treatment of N2a cells with ATP hydrolase apyrase and the P2X7 receptors selective antagonist oATP or BBG decreased cell viability and cell number. Nevertheless, oATP but not BBG decreased cell proliferation and cell cycle progression. These results suggest for the first time that decreases in expression/function of P2X7 receptors are involved in neuronal differentiation.We provide additional evidence shown that the ATP release-activated P2X7 receptor is important in maintaining cell survival of N2a neuroblastoma cells.
Manipulation of neurotrophin (NT) signalling by administration or depletion of NTs, by transgenic overexpression or by deletion of genes coding for NTs and their receptors has demonstrated the importance of NT signalling for the survival and differentiation of neurons in sympathetic and dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Combination with mutation of the proapoptotic Bax gene allows the separation of survival and differentiation effects. These studies together with cell culture analysis suggest that NT signalling directly regulates the differentiation of neuron subpopulations and their integration into neural networks. The high-affinity NT receptors trkA, trkB and trkC are restricted to subpopulations of mature neurons, whereas their expression at early developmental stages largely overlaps. trkC is expressed throughout sympathetic ganglia and DRG early after ganglion formation but becomes restricted to small neuron subpopulations during embryogenesis when trkA is turned on. The temporal relationship between trkA and trkC expression is conserved between sympathetic ganglia and DRG. In DRG, NGF signalling is required not only for survival, but also for the differentiation of nociceptors. Expression of neuropeptides calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P, which specify peptidergic nociceptors, depends on nerve growth factor (NGF) signalling. ret expression indicative of non-peptidergic nociceptors is also promoted by the NGF-signalling pathway. Regulation of TRP channels by NGF signalling might specify the temperature sensitivity of afferent neurons embryonically. The manipulation of NGF levels &quot;tunes&quot; heat sensitivity in nociceptors at postnatal and adult stages. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor signalling is required for subpopulations of DRG neurons that are not fully characterized; it affects mechanical sensitivity in slowly adapting, low-threshold mechanoreceptors and might involve the regulation of DEG/ENaC ion channels. NT3 signalling is required for the generation and survival of various DRG neuron classes, in particular proprioceptors. Its importance for peripheral projections and central connectivity of proprioceptors demonstrates the significance of NT signalling for integrating responsive neurons in neural networks. The molecular targets of NT3 signalling in proprioceptor differentiation remain to be characterized. In sympathetic ganglia, NGF signalling regulates dendritic development and axonal projections. Its role in the specification of other neuronal properties is less well analysed. In vitro analysis suggests the involvement of NT signalling in the choice between the noradrenergic and cholinergic transmitter phenotype, in the expression of various classes of ion channels and for target connectivity. In vivo analysis is required to show the degree to which NT signalling regulates these sympathetic neuron properties in developing embryos and postnatally.
Prosaposin, a 66 kDa glycoprotein, was identified initially as the precursor of the sphingolipid activator proteins, saposins A-D, which are required for the enzymatic hydrolysis of certain sphingolipids by lysosomal hydrolases. While mature saposins are distributed to lysosomes, prosaposin exists in secretory body fluids and plasma membranes. In addition to its role as the precursor, prosaposin shows a variety of neurotrophic and myelinotrophic activities through a receptor-mediated mechanism. In studies in vivo, prosaposin was demonstrated to exert a variety of neuro-efficacies capable of preventing neuro-degeneration following neuro-injury and promoting the amelioration of allodynia and hyperalgesia in pain models. Collective findings indicate that prosaposin is not a simple house-keeping precursor protein; instead, it is a protein essentially required for the development and maintenance of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Accumulating evidence over the last decade has attracted interests in exploring and developing new therapeutic approaches using prosaposin for human disorders associated with neuro-degeneration. In this review we detail the structure characteristics, cell biological feature, in vivo efficacy, and neuro-therapeutic potential of prosaposin, thereby providing future prospective in clinical application of this multifunctional protein.
Chronic migraine is associated with abnormalities in the periaqueductal grey that may be progressive. The condition is also associated with a greater degree of impairment in cortical processing of sensory stimuli than episodic migraine, perhaps due to more pervasive or persistent cortical hyperexcitability. These findings fit with the model of migraine as a spectrum disorder, in which the clinical and pathophysiological features may progress over time. This progression may result from changes in nociceptive thresholds and ensuing central sensitization caused by recurrent migraine in susceptible individuals. This may lead to changes in baseline neurological function between headaches, evident not only in electrophysiological and functional imaging studies, but also as psychological and somatic complaints that occur after years of episodic migraine. From current research and migraine models, a conceptualization of chronic migraine is emerging in which relatively permanent and pervasive central changes have occurred that warrant novel and tolerable treatments.
Status migrainosus is a condition characterized by a migraine attack causing disability, with or without aura, lasting for &gt; 72 h. The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying this complication of migraine remain a matter of debate. We describe a migraine without aura patient who presented two episodes of status migrainosus associated with recurrent and reversible brain magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities. These abnormalities, confirmed also by positron emission tomography, suggest that status migrainosus can be associated with a condition of vasogenic cerebral oedema.
There is little information about the perception of experimentally induced extracephalic pain in migraine. This study investigates the associations between mammography-related pain and migraine. A neurologist clinically assessed 630 women aged 40-74 years attending a population-based breast cancer screening programme. Headache criteria proposed by the International Headache Society were used. Mammography-related pain was measured on a 100-mm visual analogue scale. High levels of mammography-related pain were associated with migraine. This association was related to mammographic examination during the early follicular phase and menopausal status, but unrelated to differences in age, compression pressure, education, current use of hormonal replacement therapy, anxiety, and recent use of analgesics and antimigraine medication. The results of the present study indicate that migraine and compression-induced breast pain are related.
Synapsins (Syns) are synaptic vesicle (SV) phosphoproteins that play a role in synaptic transmission and plasticity. Mutation of the SYN1 gene results in an epileptic phenotype in mouse and man, implicating SynI in the control of network excitability. We used microelectrode array and patch-clamp recordings to study network activity in primary cortical neurons from wild-type (WT) or SynI knockout (KO) mice. SYN1 deletion was associated with increased spontaneous and evoked activities, with more frequent and sustained bursts of action potentials and a high degree of synchronization. Blockade of GABA(A) (gamma-aminobutyric acid(A)) receptors with bicuculline attenuated, but did not completely abolish, the differences between WT and SynI KO networks in both spontaneous and evoked activities. Patch-clamp recordings on cortical autaptic neurons revealed a reduced amplitude of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents (PSCs) and a concomitantly increased amplitude of evoked excitatory PSCs in SynI KO neurons, in the absence of changes in miniature PSCs. Cumulative amplitude analysis revealed that these effects were attributable to opposite changes in the size of the readily releasable pool of SVs. The results indicate distinct roles of SynI in GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons and provide an explanation for the high susceptibility of SynI KO mice to epileptic seizures.
Many neuroimaging studies of the mirror neuron system (MNS) examine if certain voxels in the brain are shared between action observation and execution (shared voxels, sVx). Unfortunately, finding sVx in standard group analyses is not a guarantee that sVx exist in individual subjects. Using unsmoothed, single-subject analyses we show sVx can be reliably found in all 16 investigated participants. Beside the ventral premotor (BA6/44) and inferior parietal cortex (area PF) where mirror neurons (MNs) have been found in monkeys, sVx were reliably observed in dorsal premotor, supplementary motor, middle cingulate, somatosensory (BA3, BA2, and OP1), superior parietal, middle temporal cortex and cerebellum. For the premotor, somatosensory and parietal areas, sVx were more numerous in the left hemisphere. The hand representation of the primary motor cortex showed a reduced BOLD during hand action observation, possibly preventing undesired overt imitation. This study provides a more detailed description of the location and reliability of sVx and proposes a model that extends the original idea of the MNS to include forward and inverse internal models and motor and sensory simulation, distinguishing the MNS from a more general concept of sVx.
Alterations in the activity of one sensory system can affect the development of cortical and subcortical structures in all sensory systems. In this study, we characterize the changes that occur in visual and nonvisual areas of the brain following bilateral enucleation in short-tailed opossums. We demonstrate that bilateral enucleation early in development can significantly decrease brain size. This change is driven primarily by a decrease in the size of the thalamus, midbrain, and hindbrain, rather than a decrease in the size of the cortical hemispheres. We also found a significant decrease in the size of the lateral geniculate nucleus in bilaterally enucleated animals. Although the overall size of the neocortex was the same, the percentage of neocortex devoted to visual areas V1 (primary visual area) and caudotemporal area were significantly smaller in bilaterally enucleated opossums and the percentage of neocortex devoted to the primary somatosensory area (S1) was significantly larger, although S1 did not change in size to the same extent as V1. Our data suggest that during development the relative activity patterns between sensory systems, which are driven by activity from unique sets of sensory receptor arrays, play a major role in determining the relative size and organization of cortical and subcortical areas.
Synchrotron rapid-scanning X-ray fluorescence (RS-XRF) is employed for the first time to simultaneously map iron, copper, and zinc in the normal cerebellum. The cerebellum is a major repository of metals that are essential to normal function. Therefore, mapping the normal metal distribution is an important first step towards understanding how multiple metals may induce oxidative damage, protein aggregation, and neurotoxicity leading to cerebellar degeneration in a wide range of diseases. We found that cerebellar white and grey matter could be sharply defined based upon the unique metal content of each region. The dentate nucleus was particularly metal-rich with copper localized to the periphery and iron and zinc abundant centrally. We discuss how RS-XRF metal mapping in the normal brain may yield important clues to the mechanisms of degeneration in the dentate nucleus.
It has been suggested that the cerebellum participates in diverse neuropsychological functions by adjusting the sensory information acquired for the connected brain regions to support its processing capabilities. Nevertheless, the knowledge of how the cerebellum is modulated by the sensory information is far from clear. Function magnetic resonance imaging was exploited to investigate how the cerebellum activity and cerebrocerebellum interaction can be affected by the interaction between visual size and duration information during visual duration discrimination. The present findings support the sensory acquisition hypothesis that the cerebellum, together with extensive cortical networks, yields higher activation with incongruent sensory information to cope with increasing cortical computational demand. Furthermore, comprehensive intracerebellum connections are engaged in tasks with congruent sensory information for saving cortical computation with integrated sensory information.
We have extensively used arm cycling to study the neural control of rhythmic movements such as arm swing during walking. Recently rhythmic movement of the arms has also been shown to enhance and shape muscle activity in the legs. However, restricted information is available concerning the conditions necessary to maximally alter lumbar spinal cord excitability. Knowledge on the neuromechanics of a task can assist in the determination of the type, level, and timing of neural signals, yet arm swing during walking and arm cycling have not received a detailed neuromechanical comparison. The purpose of this research was to provide a combined neural and mechanical measurement approach that could be used to assist in the determination of the necessary and sufficient conditions for arm movement to assist in lower limb rehabilitation after stroke and spinal cord injury. Subjects performed three rhythmic arm movement tasks: (1) cycling (cycle); (2) swinging while standing (swing); and (3) swinging while treadmill walking (walk). We hypothesized that any difference in neural control between tasks (i.e., pattern of muscle activity) would reflect changes in the mechanical constraints unique to each task. Three-dimensional kinematics were collected simultaneously with force measurement at the hand and electromyography from the arms and trunk. All data were appropriately segmented to allow a comparison between and across conditions and were normalized and averaged to 100% movement cycle based on shoulder excursion. Separate mathematical principal components analysis of kinematic and neural variables was performed to determine common task features and muscle synergies. The results highlight important neural and mechanical features that distinguish differences between tasks. For example, there are considerable differences in the anatomical positions of the arms during each task, which relate to the moments experienced about the elbow and shoulder. Also, there are differences between tasks in elbow flexion/extension kinematics alongside differential muscle activation profiles. As well, mechanical assistance and constraints during all tasks could affect muscle recruitment and the functional role of muscles. Overall, despite neural and mechanical differences, the results are consistent with conserved common central motor control mechanisms operational for cycle, walk, and swing but appropriately sculpted to demands unique to each task. However, changing the mechanical parameters could affect the role of afferent feedback altering neural control and the coupling to the lower limbs.
Running and walking, collectively referred to as bipedal locomotion, represent self-organized behaviors generated by a spatially distributed dynamical system operating under the constraint that a person must be able to move without falling down. The organizing principles involve both forces actively regulated by the nervous system and those generated passively by the biomechanical properties of the musculoskeletal system and the environment in which the movements occur. With the development of modern motion capture and electrophysiological techniques it has become possible to explore the dynamical interplay between the passive and active controllers of locomotion in a manner that directly compares observation to predictions made by relevant mathematical and computer models. Consequently, many of the techniques initially developed to study nonlinear dynamical systems, including stability analyses, phase resetting and entrainment properties of limit cycles, and fractal and multifractal analysis, have come to play major roles in guiding progress. This Focus Issue discusses bipedal locomotion from the point of view of dynamical systems theory with the goal of stimulating discussion between the dynamical systems, physics, biomechanics, and neuroscience communities.
Modular structure is ubiquitous among real-world networks from related proteins to social groups. Here we analyze the modular organization of brain networks at a large scale (voxel level) extracted from functional magnetic resonance imaging signals. By using a random-walk-based method, we unveil the modularity of brain webs and show modules with a spatial distribution that matches anatomical structures with functional significance. The functional role of each node in the network is studied by analyzing its patterns of inter- and intramodular connections. Results suggest that the modular architecture constitutes the structural basis for the coexistence of functional integration of distant and specialized brain areas during normal brain activities at rest.
We have characterized, by intracellular recording and staining combined with immunocytochemistry, a serotonin-immunoreactive neuron in the central olfactory pathway of the male moth Helicoverpa assulta. The neuron joins the unique category of so-called SI antennal-lobe neurons, previously described in several insect species. In similarity with that originally discovered in the sphinx moth Manduca sexta, the neuron identified here has a large soma located posteriorly in the lateral cell cluster of the antennal lobe and an unbranched neurite projecting into the ipsilateral protocerebrum via the inner antennocerebral tract. After bypassing the central body, the axon crosses the midline and extends through the corresponding antennocerebral tract to the contralateral antennal lobe where it innervates the entire assembly of glomeruli including the male-specific macroglomerular complex. The neuron arborizes into several fine branches in bilateral protocerebral regions anterior to the calyces of the mushroom bodies, particularly on the contralateral side. The physiology of the neuron revealed 2 distinctly different spiking amplitudes, 1 small showing a relatively high spontaneous activity and 1 large showing low activity. The small-amplitude spikes displayed increased frequency when pheromones and plant odors were blown over the antenna. The large-amplitude spikes, which had an unusually long duration, showed no observable responses.


Tetracyclines are a class of antibiotics which could play a therapeutic role in several neurological disorders. Minocycline, extensively studied in animal models, decreased the size of ischaemic and haemorrhagic infarct. In Parkinson's disease models minocycline protected the nigrostriatal pathway, and in Huntington's disease and motoneuron disease models delayed the progression of disease extending the lifespan. Finally, in human diseases such as stroke and multiple sclerosis tetracyclines seem to play some neuroprotective role. The main biological effects of tetracyclines are the inhibition of microglial activation, the attenuation of apoptosis, and the suppression of reactive oxygen species production. These mechanisms are involved in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders. Several reports showed that minocycline reduced mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake, stabilized mitochondrial membranes, and reduced the release into the cytoplasm of apoptotic factors. Other effects include up-regulation of mitochondrial bcl-2 (an antiapoptotic protein), direct scavenging of reactive oxygen species, and inhibition of mitogen activated protein kinases. It is still unclear which of these mechanisms plays the pivotal role in neuroprotective properties of tetracyclines. The anti-apoptotic effect of tetracyclines probably involves the mitochondrion. The major target for tetracyclines in neurodegeneration could lie within the complex network that links mitochondria, oxidative stress, poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 and apoptosis. Here, we review the neuroprotective effects of tetracyclines in animal models and in human disease, and we focus on their possible mechanism(s) of action, with special regard to mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegeneration.
Polymer based therapies offer many potential advantages in the treatment of diseases of the nervous system, and would allow delivery of therapeutic agents directly to the relevant area of brain, circumventing obstacles presented by the blood brain barrier, avoiding the side-effects often associated with systemic medication administration, and permitting much smaller doses of medication. As improvements in diagnostic procedures, particularly imaging, now provide very accurate localization of therapeutic targets in many of these conditions, it is technically feasible to deliver such agents precisely to the relevant brain region. Combined with advances in polymer sciences, there is renewed interest in focal drug delivery systems, particularly around intelligent or controlled release systems which would extend the life-span of these devices considerably. Major obstacles remain, however, particularly around the safety and biocompatibility of such materials, and the complexity of testing in clinical scenarios. We review here the current status of animal and human studies in this rapidly evolving area, addressing some of the practical obstacles and examining the range of potential applications in chronic neurological disease.

We follow up on a suggestion by Rolls and co-workers, that the effects of competitive learning should be assessed on the shape and number of spatial fields that dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells may form when receiving input from medial entorhinal cortex (mEC) grid units. We consider a simple non-dynamical model where DG units are described by a threshold-linear transfer function, and receive feedforward inputs from 1,000 mEC model grid units of various spacing, orientation and spatial phase. Feedforward weights are updated according to a Hebbian rule as the virtual rodent follows a long simulated trajectory through a single environment. Dentate activity is constrained to be very sparse. We find that indeed competitive Hebbian learning tends to result in a few active DG units with a single place field each, rounded in shape and made larger by iterative weight changes. These effects are more pronounced when produced with thousands of DG units and inputs per DG unit, which the realistic system has available, than with fewer units and inputs, in which case several DG units persists with multiple fields. The emergence of single-field units with learning is in contrast, however, to recent data indicating that most active DG units do have multiple fields. We show how multiple irregularly arranged fields can be produced by the addition of non-space selective lateral entorhinal cortex (lEC) units, which are modelled as simply providing an additional effective input specific to each DG unit. The mean number of such multiple DG fields is enhanced, in particular, when lEC and mEC inputs have overall similar variance across DG units. Finally, we show that in a restricted environment the mean size of the fields is unaltered, while their mean number is scaled down with the area of the environment.
Perceptual load is a key determinant of distraction by task-irrelevant stimuli (e.g., Lavie, N. (2005). Distracted and confused?: Selective attention under load. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 9, 75-82). Here we establish the role of perceptual load in determining an internal form of distraction by task-unrelated thoughts (TUTs or &quot;mind-wandering&quot;). Four experiments demonstrated reduced frequency of TUTs with high compared to low perceptual load in a visual-search task. Alternative accounts in terms of increased demands on responses, verbal working memory or motivation were ruled out and clear effects of load were found for unintentional TUTs. Individual differences in load effects on internal (TUTs) and external (response-competition) distractors were correlated. These results suggest that exhausting attentional capacity in task-relevant processing under high perceptual load can reduce processing of task-irrelevant information from external and internal sources alike.
Hibernation in Arctic ground squirrels (AGS), Spermophilus parryii, is characterized by a profound decrease in oxygen consumption and metabolic demand during torpor that is punctuated by periodic rewarming episodes, during which oxygen consumption increases dramatically. The extreme physiology of torpor or the surge in oxygen consumption during arousal may increase production of reactive oxygen species, making hibernation an injurious process for AGS. To determine if AGS tissues experience cellular stress during rewarming, we measured carbonyl proteins, lipid peroxide end products and percent oxidized glutathione in brown adipose tissue (BAT) and liver of torpid, hibernating (hAGS), late arousal (laAGS), and cold-adapted, euthermic AGS (eAGS). In BAT carbonyl proteins and lipid peroxide end products were higher in eAGS and laAGS than in hAGS. By contrast, in liver, no significant difference in carbonyl proteins was observed. In another group of animals, comparison of carbonyl proteins and percent oxidized glutathione in frontal cortex, liver, and BAT of eAGS and hAGS showed no evidence of oxidative stress associated with torpor. These results indicate that increased thermogenesis associated with arousal AGS results in tissue specific oxidative stress in BAT but not in liver. Moreover, torpor per se is largely devoid of oxidative stress, likely due to suppression of oxidative metabolism.
Number-form synesthetes consciously experience numbers in spatially-defined locations. For non-synesthete individuals, a similar association of numbers and space appears in the form of an implicit mental number line as signified by the distance effect-reaction time decreases as the numerical distance between compared numbers increases. In the current experiment, three number-form synesthetes and two different non-synesthete control groups (Hebrew speaking and English speaking) performed a number comparison task. Synesthete participants exhibited a sizeable distance effect only when presented numbers were congruent with their number-form. In contrast, the controls exhibited a distance effect regardless of congruency or presentation type. The findings suggest that: (a) number-form synesthesia impairs the ability to represent numbers in a flexible manner according to task demands; (b) number-form synesthesia is a genuine tangible experience, triggered involuntarily; and (c) the classic mental number line can be more pliable than previously thought and appears to be independent of cultural-lingo direction.
Although complex hallucinations are extremely vivid, painful symptoms in schizophrenia, little is known about the underlying mechanisms of multisensory integration in such a phenomenon. We investigated the neural basis of these altered states of consciousness in a patient with schizophrenia, by combining state of the art neuroscientific exploratory methods like functional MRI, diffusion tensor imaging, cortical thickness analysis, electrical source reconstruction and trans-cranial magnetic stimulation. The results shed light on the functional architecture of the hallucinatory processes, in which unimodal information from different modalities is strongly functionally connected to higher-order integrative areas.



Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a late-onset progressive neurodegenerative disorder which results in the irreversible loss of cortical neurons, particularly in the associative neocortex and hippocampus. AD is the most common form of dementia in the elderly. Apart from the neuronal loss, the pathological hallmarks are extracellular senile plaques, containing the peptide beta-amyloid (Abeta), and neurofibrillary tangles. The Abeta cascade hypothesis remains the main pathogenetic model, as suggested by familiar AD, mainly associated to mutation in amyloid precursor protein and presenilin genes. The remaining 95% of AD patients are mostly sporadic late-onset cases, with a complex aetiology due to interactions between environmental conditions and genetic features of the individual. A relationship between genetic and acquired vascular factors and AD has been hypothesized. Many vascular risk factors for AD, such as atherosclerosis, stroke and cardiac disease in the aging individual, could result in cerebrovascular dysfunction and trigger AD pathology. A major vascular susceptibility factor gene is the apolipoprotein E gene, found to be associated with sporadic late-onset AD cases. Another interesting vascular susceptibility gene is angiotensin converting enzyme. Other possible genes include VLDL-R, LRP, NOS3, CST3, OLR1, MTHFR, PON1 and VEGF, but many of the related studies have shown conflicting results. In this paper, we review the role of molecular vascular abnormalities and of the &quot;vascular risk&quot; genes supposed to be involved in the pathogenesis of AD, in an attempt to provide a comprehensive picture of what is known about the mechanisms underlying the role of vascular factors in late-onset sporadic AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible, progressive brain disease that slowly destroys memory and thinking skills. With over 26 million patients in 2006, AD is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease worldwide. Different hypotheses have been suggested to explain the pathogenesis of AD, like those involving inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction or oxidative stress. Many of these studies have addressed amyloid plaque formation, tau hyperphosphorylation and apoptotic neuronal loss, the three main histopathological hallmarks of this disease. Increasing evidences, however, suggest another feature that can also be considered a neuropathological marker for AD: ectopic cell cycle re-entry. Cell cycle events have been frequently registered in the brains of AD patients. Although the exact starting point of cell cycle re-entry remains unclear, a number of subsequent cascades, which include events such as kinase upregulation, DNA replication and cytoskeletal alterations, have already been described. There are also increasing reports suggesting that cell cycle reactivation in mature neurons occurs as part of the apoptotic process. Upon a brief overview of the different theories and models addressing cell cycle reactivation in AD, we will describe possible mechanisms that trigger cell cycle re-entry, with special attention to links between this feature and the main neuropathological markers of AD. Finally, we will also analyze possible similarities between cell cycle dysregulation in AD and in other pathologies, such as Prion-Related Encephalopathies.
Lithium is a simple cation that has been used clinically since 1950 for the treatment of bipolar disorder. However in the last decade numerous studies either using animal models or human trials suggest that this cation may delay progression of neurodegenerative diseases. One of the main challenges facing researchers in the neurosciences is to identify key molecules in neuronal apoptosis. This would facilitate the identification of targets in order to design drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and other neurological disorders. Although enormous effort has been made in the past few years and it has been demonstrated that the mitochondria comprise a key component of the neuronal apoptotic route, it seems that in addition to the mitochondria other intracellular components are implicated in this process. It has been proposed that DNA damage and re-entry into the cell cycle or the activation of different proteases, such as calpain, could constitute a common pathway in the apoptotic process and thus death processes in neurological diseases. The hypothesis about the implication of calpain in neuronal cell death is supported by existing data on neurodegenerative disorders in the brains of patients who show an increase in proteolytic activity of calpain compared with control brains. Indeed, studies performed in neuronal cell preparations suggest that activation of this protease is accompanied by other features such as structural modifications of the cytoskeleton, cleavage of several receptors, activation of kinases, such as cdk5 or GSK3ss, etc. Here, we summarize the potential routes involved in neurodegenerative disorders related to calpain activation, mainly those connected with changes in calcium homeostasis machinery, activation of kinase pathways, transcription factors, and the cell cycle.
Over the past ten years, a variety of imaging techniques have been developed that allow non-invasive detection of gene expression within the brain of intact mammals, ranging from mouse to man. The basic concepts of these imaging techniques, including positron emission tomography, single photon emission computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy, bioluminescence imaging and fluorescent imaging, are discussed. The expression of imaging reporter genes can be detected and quantified by these imaging techniques, which allow to unravel the temporospatial dynamics of gene expression within the intact living animal. Different imaging reporter genes have been developed each with their specific use in the basic and clinical neurosciences. Applications of reporter gene imaging can be found in neurooncology, infectious disease of the central nervous system, brain gene transfer, neural cellular therapy and in transgenic mice. Strategies that aim to image gene expression based on detection of mRNA levels have also been developed. We anticipate that these techniques will have a strong impact on preclinical neuroscience and will be of utmost importance in the implementation of gene and cell therapy for diseases of the brain.
During the two past decades tremendous effort has been put into uncovering the activation mechanism of 7TM receptors. The majority of such studies have focused on the major binding pocket, comprised of transmembrane segments (TM) -III through -VII, as most non-peptide and peptide ligands, in addition to biogenic amines and retinal a.m.o. bind to residues in this region. Consequently the major helical movements occur here during activation, as described recently in the Global Toggle Switch Model for Family A (also known as rhodopsin-like) members of the 7TM receptors. As a result, the minor binding pocket, comprised of TM-I, -II and, in part, -III and -VII, has received much less attention. With a few exceptions, such as the highly conserved Asp in position II:10/2.50, the residues in this region have generally been considered insignificant with regard to receptor activation. However, accumulating evidence emphasize that this is not the case. In this review, we focus on TM-II with an emphasis on position II:20/2.60, and present data from structure-activity studies on a range of Family A 7TM receptors including chemokine, ghrelin and melanocortin receptors in addition to the orphan EBI2 suggesting that TM-II has important functions for both ligand-dependent and -independent activation of 7TM receptors.
The autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are a heterogeneous set of developmental disorders characterized at their core by deficits in social interaction and communication. Current psychiatric nosology groups this broad set of disorders with strong genetic liability and multiple etiologies into the same diagnostic category. This heterogeneity has challenged genetic analyses. But shared patient resources, genomic technologies, more refined phenotypes, and novel computational approaches have begun to yield dividends in defining the genetic mechanisms at work. Over the last five years, a large number of autism susceptibility loci have emerged, redefining our notion of autism's etiologies, and reframing how we think about ASD.
Genetic diseases known as ciliopathies have recently entered the limelight, placing new importance on a previously mysterious organelle: the primary cilium. Mutations affecting the primary cilium in both humans and animal models can lead to a plethora of distinct phenotypes including retinal degeneration, kidney cysts, and brain malformations. New findings are quickly lending insight into the functions of this cellular extension that seems to be especially important in modulation of subcellular signaling cascades at various stages of development and adult homeostasis.
Sleep is regulated by two broad mechanisms: the circadian system, which generates 24-h rhythms of sleep propensity and a wake-dependent homeostatic sleep process whereby sleep pressure increases during wake and dissipates during sleep. These, in turn, regulate multiple brain structures and neurotransmitter systems. In view of the complexity of sleep it is not surprising that there is considerable variation between individuals in both sleep timing and propensity. Furthermore, marked abnormalities in sleep are commonly encountered in psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. Teasing apart the genetic versus environmental contributions to normal and abnormal sleep is complex. Here we attempt to summarise what recent progress has been made, and what will be needed in the future to gain a more complete understanding of this fundamental aspect of physiology.
Genetic analysis has identified many loci designated as PARK loci (OMIM #168600). Many of these loci do not refer to idiopathic Parkinson's disease which is characterized by Lewy body pathology, but rather to clinical parkinsonisms. In this review, besides reviewing the genetic of the disorder, we argue that this designation is misleading and that if we seek to understand the pathogenesis, we should study the genetics of Lewy body diseases: these include not only idiopathic Parkinson's disease, but also such disparate syndromes as Hallevorden-Spatz disease and Niemann-Pick Type C.
Homeostatic plasticity mechanisms are employed by neurons to alter membrane excitability and synaptic strength to adapt to changes in network activity. Recent studies suggest that homeostatic processes can occur not only on a global scale but also within specific neuronal subcompartments, involving a wide range of molecules and signalling pathways. Here, we review new findings into homeostatic adaptation within dendrites and discuss potential signalling components and mechanisms that may mediate this local form of regulation.
Presynaptic modulation is a crucial factor in the adaptive capacity of the nervous system. The coupling between incoming action potentials and neurotransmitter secretion is modulated by firstly, recent activity of the presynaptic axon that leads to the accumulation of residual calcium in the terminal and secondly, activation of presynaptic receptors by external signals. Despite the detailed description of these phenomena, the underlying mechanisms are still poorly understood. The nerve terminal contains many Ca(2+)-binding proteins that may contribute to the translation of residual Ca(2+)-increases to secretion modulation. We also found that &gt;100 presynaptic proteins are phosphorylated and may contribute to the translation of presynaptic receptor activation to secretion modulation. However, which of these many candidates are the dominant regulators and how their activities integrate is largely unknown. Here, we review some of the recent insights into the complex interplay between presynaptic signal transduction components and propose blueprints of the major pathways.
Until recently we held the simple view that voltage-gated calcium channels consisted of an alpha1 subunit, usually associated with auxiliary beta subunits and alpha(2)delta subunits and that skeletal muscle calcium channels were also associated with a gamma subunit. However, as discussed here, there is now evidence that the auxiliary subunits may also perform other roles unrelated to voltage-gated calcium entry. In the past students were taught the simplistic view that second messenger signaling to voltage-gated calcium channels involved mainly phosphorylation of L-type calcium channels, Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation via calmodulin, and direct G-protein-mediated inhibition of the neuronal N and P/Q channels. However, it is now clear that there are many other means of modulating calcium channel activity, including receptor-mediated internalization, proteolytic cleavage, phosphorylation of beta subunits, and interaction of calcium channels with other proteins, including enzymes masquerading as scaffold proteins.
The semaphorins, originally discovered as evolutionarily conserved steering molecules for developing axons, also influence neuronal structure and function in the early postnatal and juvenile nervous systems through several refinement processes. Semaphorins control synaptogenesis, axon pruning, and the density and maturation of dendritic spines. In addition, semaphorins and their downstream signaling components regulate synaptic physiology and neuronal excitability in the mature hippocampus, and these proteins are also implicated in a number of developmental, psychiatric, and neurodegenerative disorders. Significant inroads have been made in defining the mechanisms by which semaphorins regulate dynamic changes in the neuronal cytoskeleton at the molecular and cellular levels during embryonic nervous system development. However, comparatively little is known about how semaphorins influence neuronal structure and synaptic plasticity during adult nervous system homeostasis or following injury and disease. A detailed understanding of how semaphorins function beyond initial phases of neural network assembly is revealing novel insights into key aspects of nervous system physiology and pathology.
Visual cortical plasticity can be either rapid, occurring in response to abrupt changes in neural activity, or slow, occurring over days as a homeostatic process for adapting neuronal responsiveness. Recent advances have shown that the magnitude and polarity of rapid synaptic modifications are regulated by neuromodulators, while homeostatic modifications can occur through regulation of cytokine actions or N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit composition. Synaptic and homeostatic plasticity together produce the normal physiological response to monocular impairments. In vivo studies have now overturned the dogma that robust plasticity is limited to an early critical period. Indeed, rapid physiological plasticity in the adult can be enabled by prior, experience-driven anatomical rearrangements or through pharmacological manipulations of the epigenome.
The receptor tyrosine kinase Eph and its membrane-bound ligand ephrin are emerging key players in synapse formation and plasticity in the central nervous system. Understanding how ephrin/Eph regulate synapse formation and functions is often complicated by the fact that both ligands and receptors are expressed in the pre-synaptic and post-synaptic neurons and upon their interaction, bi-directional signaling cascades can be triggered. By elucidating the respective downstream targets and generating signaling-deficient mutants, the specific roles of forward (Eph receptor) and reverse (ephrin) signaling are beginning to be unraveled. In this review, we summarize recent advances in our understanding of how ephrin and Eph differentially participate in specific aspects of synapse formation in developing neurons, and activity-dependent plasticity in the adult brain.
Synaptically activated, rapid and dendritic synthesis of new proteins has long been proposed to mediate long-lasting changes at the synapse [Steward O, Schuman EM: Protein synthesis at synaptic sites on dendrites.Annu Rev Neurosci 2001, 24:299-325]. Studies of group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor-dependent long-term depression (mGluR-LTD) have provided new insight into dendritic or local translation and plasticity. Here we highlight these exciting results and discuss how synaptic activity controls local translation, the proteins that are synthesized in dendrites, how they affect synaptic function and how altered local translational control contributes to a form of human mental retardation, Fragile X Syndrome.
Direction-selective neurons, which respond selectively to motion in one direction, have been characterized in visual circuits across many species. Recently, the development of these directional neurons has been explored in both retina and primary visual cortex (V1). The development of direction-selective cells in V1 requires visual experience. In contrast, direction-selective ganglion cells in retina are present at the age of the earliest light responses. The vision-independent signals guiding the asymmetric wiring underlying retinal direction selectivity remain unknown. The details of how retinal and cortical circuits extract motion information could explain their differing requirements for visual experience in development.




Presented in this unit is a protocol using subchronically administered phencyclidine (PCP) for establishing a behavioral sensitization model of aspects of schizophrenia. This model is validated using haloperidol and risperidone. The end-point of the assay is locomotor hyperactivity, which is induced by PCP challenge following subchronic treatment with this NMDA receptor antagonist. The antipsychotics haloperidol, risperidone, and quetiapine all reduce hyperactivity in a dose-dependent and selective manner. While the effects of other antipsychotics such as clozapine, olanzapine, and ziprasidone are similar to haloperidol, the interpretation of responses to them is often confounded by nonspecific effects during habituation.
Described in this unit is the stress-induced hyperthermia (SIH) test in mice in a single-housed format. This protocol has proven reliable in detecting the anxiolytic properties of test compounds. In this test, SIH is quantified in singly housed mice using a rectal temperature measurement as the stressor. Rectal temperature is measured twice at a 10-min interval. Due to the stress experienced during the first temperature measurement, the temperature of the second measurement (T(2)) is 0.8 to 1.5C higher than that of the first (T(1)). This difference in temperature (T = T(2) - T(1)) is defined as the SIH response. The SIH response is reduced by different classes of anxiolytics. The SIH test is simple and robust, it does not require training of animals, and test compound effects on motor behavior, feeding, and nociception do not affect test outcome. Furthermore, it is one of few anxiety tests that focuses on the physiological component of anxiety.
Nedd4 (neural precursor cell expressed developmentally down-regulated gene 4) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase highly conserved from yeast to humans. The expression of Nedd4 is developmentally down-regulated in the mammalian nervous system, but the role of Nedd4 in mammalian neural development remains poorly understood. Here we show that a null mutation of Nedd4 in mice leads to perinatal lethality: mutant mice were stillborn and many of them died in utero before birth (between E15.5-E18.5). In Nedd4 mutant embryos, skeletal muscle fiber sizes and motoneuron numbers are significantly reduced. Surviving motoneurons project axons to their target muscles on schedule, but motor nerves defasciculate upon reaching the muscle surface, suggesting that Nedd4 plays a critical role in fine-tuning the interaction between the nerve and the muscle. Electrophysiological analyses of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) demonstrate an increased spontaneous miniature endplate potential (mEPP) frequency in Nedd4 mutants. However, the mutant neuromuscular synapses are less responsive to membrane depolarization, compared to the wildtypes. Ultrastructural analyses further reveal that the pre-synaptic nerve terminal branches at the NMJs of Nedd4 mutants are increased in number, but decreased in diameter compared to the wildtypes. These ultrastructural changes are consistent with functional alternation of the NMJs in Nedd4 mutants. Unexpectedly, Nedd4 is not expressed in motoneurons, but is highly expressed in skeletal muscles and Schwann cells. Together, these results demonstrate that Nedd4 is involved in regulating the formation and function of the NMJs through non-cell autonomous mechanisms.
We have addressed the question when horizontal cells in the chick retina are generated and undergo their terminal mitosis. Horizontal cell progenitors replicate their DNA early and migrate bi-directionally to the horizontal cell layer. It was hypothesized that the cells undergo mitosis directly after replication and migrate as post-mitotic transition cells before differentiating to horizontal cells. However, our results show that cells expressing markers for the axon-bearing and the axon-less subtypes of horizontal cells undergo terminal mitosis while residing on the vitreal side of the retina. By combining horizontal cell transcription factors Lim1, Isl1 and Prox1 labeling with phospho-histone H3, a marker for mitosis, we demonstrate that all or a clear majority of vitreal mitoses are undertaken by the horizontal cell committed progenitors. The pattern of cells that incorporated the thymidine analogue EdU implied that the progenitors replicated their genome while migrating towards the vitreal side. Upon arrival to the vitreal retina they become arrested for about two days prior to mitosis. Hence, cells expressing horizontal cell markers are arrested in G2-phase on the vitreal side of the retina. These results support the existence of committed progenitors that give rise to horizontal cells and that those cells become arrested in G2-phase before undergoing terminal mitosis on the vitreal side of the retina followed by migration to the horizontal cell layer. The results also indicate that the regulation of the transition from G2-phase to mitosis is important for the development of these committed progenitor cells.
During normal vertebrate development, Hoxd10 and Hoxd11 are expressed by differentiating motoneurons in restricted patterns along the rostrocaudal axis of the lumbosacral (LS) spinal cord. To assess the roles of these genes in the attainment of motoneuron subtypes characteristic of LS subdomains, we examined subtype complement after overexpression of Hoxd10 or Hoxd11 in the embryonic chick LS cord and in a Hoxd10 loss-of-function mouse embryo. Data presented here provide evidence that Hoxd10 defines the position of the lateral motor column (LMC) as a whole and, in rostral LS segments, specifically promotes the development of motoneurons of the lateral subdivision of the lateral motor column (LMCl). In contrast, Hoxd11 appears to impart a caudal and medial LMC (LMCm) identity to some motoneurons and molecular profiles suggestive of a suppression of LMC development in others. We also provide evidence that Hoxd11 suppresses the expression of Hoxd10 and the retinoic acid synthetic enzyme, retinaldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (RALDH2). In a normal chick embryo, Hoxd10 and RALDH2 are expressed throughout the LS region at early stages of motoneuron differentiation but their levels decline in Hoxd11-expressing caudal LS segments that ultimately contain few LMCl motoneurons. We hypothesize that one of the roles played by Hoxd11 is to modulate Hoxd10 and local retinoic acid levels and thus, perhaps define the caudal boundaries of the LMC and its subtype complement.
Mechanisms regulating masculinization of the zebra finch song system are unclear; both estradiol and sex-specific genes may be important. This study was designed to investigate relationships between estrogen and ribosomal proteins (RPL17 and RPL37; sex-linked genes) that exhibit greater expression in song control nuclei in juvenile males than females. Four studies on zebra finches were conducted using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) injections on posthatching days 6-10 with immunohistochemistry for the ribosomal proteins and the neuronal marker HuC/D at day 25. Volumes of brain regions were also assessed in Nissl-stained tissue. Most BrdU+ cells expressed RPL17 and RPL37. The density and percentage of cells co-expressing BrdU and HuC/D was greatest in Area X. The density of BrdU+ cells in Area X (or its equivalent) and the percentage of these cells that were neurons were greater in males than females. In RA and HVC, total BrdU+ cells were increased in males. A variety of effects of estradiol were also detected, including inducing an Area X in females with a masculine total number of BrdU+ cells, and increasing the volume and percentage of new neurons in the HVC of females. The same manipulation in males decreased the density of BrdU+ cells in Area X, total number of BrdU+ cells in RA, and density of new neurons in HVC and RA. These data are consistent with the idea that RPL17, RPL37, and estradiol might all influence sexual differentiation, perhaps with the hormone and proteins interacting, such that an appropriate balance is required for normal development.
The sensory epithelium of the mammalian cochlea comprises mechanosensory hair cells that are arranged into four ordered rows extending along the length of the cochlear spiral. The factors that regulate the alignment of these rows are unknown. Results presented here demonstrate that cellular patterning within the cochlea, including the formation of ordered rows of hair cells, arises through morphological remodeling that is consistent with the mediolateral component of convergent extension. Non-muscle myosin II is shown to be expressed in a pattern that is consistent with an active role in cellular remodeling within the cochlea, and genetic or pharmacological inhibition of myosin II results in defects in cellular patterning that are consistent with a disruption in convergence and extension. These results identify the first molecule, myosin II, which directly regulates cellular patterning and alignment within the cochlear sensory epithelium. Our results also provide insights into the cellular mechanisms that are required for the formation of highly ordered cellular patterns.
The cochlear nucleus (CN), which consists of dorsal and ventral cochlear nuclei (DCN and VCN), plays pivotal roles in processing and relaying auditory information to the brain. Although it contains various types of neurons, the origins of the distinct subtypes and their developmental molecular machinery are still elusive. Here we reveal that two basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors play crucial roles in specifying neuron subtypes in the CN. Pancreatic transcription factor 1a (Ptf1a) and atonal homolog 1 (Atoh1) were found to be expressed in discrete dorsolateral regions of the embryonic neuroepithelia of the middle hindbrain (rhombomeres 2-5). Genetic lineage tracing using mice that express Cre recombinase from the Ptf1a locus or under the control of the Atoh1 promoter revealed that inhibitory (GABAergic and glycinergic) or excitatory (glutamatergic) neurons of both DCN and VCN are derived from the Ptf1a- and Atoh1-expressing neuroepithelial regions, respectively. In the Ptf1a or Atoh1 null embryos, production of inhibitory or excitatory neurons, respectively, was severely inhibited in the CN. These findings suggest that inhibitory and excitatory subtypes of CN neurons are defined by Ptf1a and Atoh1, respectively and, furthermore, provide important insights into understanding the machinery of neuron subtype specification in the dorsal hindbrain.
In order to explore the different genetic backgrounds of non-obese and obese type 2 diabetes, we tried to genotype six SNPs (-11391G/A, -11377C/G, -10068G/A, G54V, Y111H and 4545G/C) in the adipose most abundant gene transcript-1 (APM1) gene in 338 type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients and 460 non-diabetic subjects by PCR-RFLP. Among these mutations, the 4545G/C mutation (rs1063539) contributed to the genetic risk of T2D in the non-obese group (OR=2.34, 95%CI: 1.31-4.21, P=0.004), and 57% of the risk is related to this polymorphism. On the contrary, -11377C/G (rs266729) was associated with type 2 diabetes in the obese group only (OR=2.45, 95%CI: 1.13-5.31, P=0.02), and 59% risk of diabesity could be attributed to that. All the associations above were adjusted for age and gender in unconditional logistic regression. Besides, the -11377G/4545C haplotype was merely related to obese diabetes (OR=2.12, 95%CI: 1.08-4.14, P=0.03). In addition, the obese diabetic group had significantly higher levels of triglyceride and insulin, better beta-cell function but lower glucose levels than the non-obese group (all P values &lt;0.01). This study suggests that the genetic susceptibility is different between type 2 diabetes with and without obesity in Chinese Han population.
Continuous glucose monitors (CGMs) generate data streams that are both complex and voluminous. The analyses of these data require an understanding of the physical, biochemical, and mathematical properties involved in this technology. This article describes several methods that are pertinent to the analysis of CGM data, taking into account the specifics of the continuous monitoring data streams. These methods include: (1) evaluating the numerical and clinical accuracy of CGM. We distinguish two types of accuracy metrics-numerical and clinical-each having two subtypes measuring point and trend accuracy. The addition of trend accuracy, e.g., the ability of CGM to reflect the rate and direction of blood glucose (BG) change, is unique to CGM as these new devices are capable of capturing BG not only episodically, but also as a process in time. (2) Statistical approaches for interpreting CGM data. The importance of recognizing that the basic unit for most analyses is the glucose trace of an individual, i.e., a time-stamped series of glycemic data for each person, is stressed. We discuss the use of risk assessment, as well as graphical representation of the data of a person via glucose and risk traces and Poincar plots, and at a group level via Control Variability-Grid Analysis. In summary, a review of methods specific to the analysis of CGM data series is presented, together with some new techniques. These methods should facilitate the extraction of information from, and the interpretation of, complex and voluminous CGM time series.
Molecular signatures of tumors with prognostic and predictive value are now available. However, several technical problems prevent the performing of gene expression profiles in routine diagnostics. The highly sensitive fluorescence-based real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction procedure is able to analyze mRNA levels from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues, the most commonly available source of tumor samples with well-documented information. However, the time-dependent fragmentation and small amount of RNA extracted from FFPE requires a preliminary mRNA amplification step to amplify small amounts of mRNA without significantly distorting relative mRNA levels. The purpose of this study was to determine the performance of a commercial cDNA preamplification kit (TaqMan PreAmp Master Mix Kit) on RNA samples obtained from FFPE tissues, prepared, and archived for routine diagnosis. We tested the reliability and reproducibility of this procedure for performing low-density gene expression assay from FFPE tissue samples. The whole procedure reported herein is a powerful and reproducible approach for routine clinical purposes that can be performed even using poorer RNA quality samples and that allows the analysis of gene expression for 96 genes in stored samples.
Recent research has suggested that the central nervous system controlling swallowing can undergo experience-dependent plasticity. Moreover, swallowing neuroplastic change may be associated with behavioural modulation. This article presents research evidence suggesting that nonbehavioural and behavioural interventions, as well as injury, can induce swallowing neuroplasticity. These studies indicate that while swallowing and limb neuroplasticity share certain features, certain principles of swallowing neuroplasticity may be distinct. Thus, an understanding of swallowing neuroplasticity is necessary in terms of explaining and predicting the (1) behavioural effects of injury to the swallowing nervous system and (2) effects of swallowing interventions applied in rehabilitation.
Day hospital (DH) treatments for eating disorders (EDs) provide intensive daily care and allow patients to maintain and test their social relations and coping skills at home and outside. Although widespread, their description is lacking. This review compares the different types of DH described in the literature and presents our DH experience in Turin, Italy. We searched Psychinfo and Pubmed with the following keywords: anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, EDs, DH, day treatment and partial hospitalisation. We found and reviewed the DH programmes of eleven specialised centres, which have some shared features but also many differences, suggesting that DH treatments are still largely experimental. Briefly, the shared elements are: biopsychosocial model as reference frame; cognitive-behavioural model or techniques; behavioural contract; patients' selection; body image therapy; involvement of family; weight normalisation/weight gain and modification/normalisation of eating behaviour as objectives. Nonetheless, shared opinions concerning inclusion criteria are lacking; the duration of DH treatment is surprisingly different among centres (from 3 to 39 weeks); the approach to eating and compensation behaviours ranges from control to autonomy; followup and psychometric assessment can be either performed or not; psychological and behavioural objectives can be different. This review suggests the existence of two different DH models: the first has a shorter duration and is mainly symptom-focused; the second is more individual-focused, has a longer duration and is focused on patients' relational skills, psychodynamic understanding of symptoms and more gradual changes in body weight. Further investigation is required to make DH treatment programmes measurable and comparable.
The role of mitochondria in sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD) has been debated for a little over 20 years since the description of complex I deficiency in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) of PD patients. However, the identification of recessive pathogenic mutations in the pink1 gene in familial PD cases firmly re-ignited interest in the pathophysiology of mitochondria in PD. PINK1 is a putative mitochondrial serine/threonine kinase, which protects cells against oxidative stress induced apoptosis. The mechanism by which this is achieved and the effect of the pathogenic mutations has been an area of intensive research over the past five years. Significant progress has been made and, in this review, we summarize the physiological roles that have been assigned to PINK1 and the potential mechanisms behind pathogenesis.

The positivity effect is a trend for adults to increasingly process positive and/or decreasingly process negative information compared with other information with advancing age. The positivity effect has been observed with behavioral measures, such as in attention and memory tests, and with measures of neurophysiological activity, such as in amygdala activation and the late positive potential (LPP). In this study, it was investigated whether these behavioral and neurophysiological positivity effects co-occur. The electroencephalogram of younger (19-26 years) and older (65-82 years) adults was recorded while they encoded unpleasant, neutral, and pleasant pictures for retrieval in free and cued recall tests. Positivity effects occurred in the late LPP amplitude (700-1,000 ms) and in the free recall test, with negativity biases in younger adults and no biases in older adults. The occurrence of a valence bias in the LPP was substantially but nonsignificantly correlated with the occurrence of a similar valence bias in memory in the older adults. In conclusion, neurophysiological and behavioral positivity effects appear to co-occur, a finding that awaits expansion using different neurophysiological and behavioral measures.
The incorporation of subjective elements provided by the patient to medical practice constitutes a new bridge between two historical movements of human culture: naturalism and rationalism. In recent years, medical sciences have identified these movements as patient-centered medicine and evidence-based medicine. By revisiting the paradigms of medicine, theories of causality, doctor-patient relationship models, bioethical principles and examples of clinical studies, their role and meaning has been revised. The applicability for neuroendocrinology has been demonstrated by validating therapeutic results with measurement of health-related quality of life. The need to incorporate the patient's subjective perception poses a challenge that, when accepted, can advance the understanding and care of human beings--ultimately rational, thinking subjects, and therefore subjective--as our species has been defined.

Exogenous activation of central nervous system glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptors (GLP-1Rs) reduces food intake. Experiments addressed whether endogenous central GLP-1R activity is involved in the control of normal feeding and examined which gastrointestinal satiation signals contribute to this control. Given that nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) neurons are the source of central GLP-1, that caudal brainstem circuits mediate the intake suppression triggered by exogenous hindbrain GLP-1R activation, and that these neurons process gastrointestinal vagal signals, the role of endogenous hindbrain GLP-1R activation to intake control was the focus of the analysis. Food intake increased with GLP-1R antagonist [Exendin-(9-39) (Ex-9)] [10 microg, fourth intracerebroventricular (icv)] delivery to overnight food-deprived rats after ingestion of 9 ml Ensure diet. Direct medial NTS injection of a ventricle subthreshold dose (1.0 microg) of Ex-9 increased food intake and established the contribution of this GLP-1R population to the effect observed with ventricular administration. To determine whether satiation signals of gastric vs. intestinal origin drive the GLP-1R-mediated NTS effect on food intake, two experiments were performed in overnight-fasted rats. In one, Ensure was infused intraduodenally (0.4 ml/min for 20 min); in another, the stomach was distended (9 ml SILASTIC brand balloon) for 15 min before fourth icv Ex-9. The intake suppression by duodenal nutrient infusion was not affected by GLP-1R blockade, but the feeding suppression after gastric distension was significantly attenuated by fourth icv Ex-9. We conclude that endogenous NTS GLP-1R activation driven by gastric satiation signals contributes to the control of normal feeding.
Although ovarian nerve growth factor (NGF) facilitates follicular development and ovulation, an excess of the neurotrophin in the rodent ovary reduces ovulatory capacity and causes development of precystic follicles. Here we show that ovarian NGF production is enhanced in patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) and that transgenically driven overproduction of NGF targeted to the ovary results in cystic morphology, when accompanied by elevated LH levels. NGF levels are increased in the follicular fluid from PCOS ovaries and in the culture medium of granulosa cells from PCOS patients, as compared with non-PCOS patients. Ovaries from transgenic mice carrying the NGF gene targeted to thecal-interstitial cells by the 17alpha-hydroxylase gene promoter produce more NGF than wild-type (WT) ovaries and are hyperinnervated by sympathetic nerves. Antral follicle growth is arrested resulting in accumulation of intermediate size follicles, many of which are apoptotic. Peripubertal transgenic mice respond to a gonadotropin challenge with a greater increase in plasma 17-hydroxyprogesterone, estradiol, and testosterone levels than WT controls. Transgenic mice also exhibit a reduced ovulatory response, delayed puberty, and reduced fertility, as assessed by a prolonged interval between litters, and a reduced number of pups per litter. Sustained, but mild, elevation of plasma LH levels results in a heightened incidence of ovarian follicular cysts in transgenic mice as compared with WT controls. These results suggest that overproduction of ovarian NGF is a component of polycystic ovarian morphology in both humans and rodents and that a persistent elevation in plasma LH levels is required for the morphological abnormalities to appear.
We investigate the clinical outcome from stimulation of the mamillothalamic tract in two patients with intractable epilepsy secondary to hypothalamic hamartomas. One patient has a left-sided and the other a right-sided tumor. Both patients presented with a history of gelastic and complex partial seizures resistant to multiple antiepileptic drugs. Both patients underwent insertion of a single deep brain-stimulating electrode ipsilateral to the site of the tumor, lying adjacent to the mamillothalamic tract. Postoperatively they both had a significant reduction in seizure frequency, with one patient being seizure free for the last 10 months. An improvement in mood was reported by the patient's primary carers and demonstrated on quality of life questionnaires.



Animals treated with scopolamine after fasting develop convulsions after they are allowed to eat ad libitum. This study was aimed at investigating the effect on these convulsions of liquid food intake, feeding by gavage, and placebo. Fasted mice treated with saline or scopolamine were allowed to eat solid food, slurry food or liquid food ad libitum, given placebo, or given liquid food by gavage. After 30 min, all animals were allowed to eat food pellets and observed for 30 min for the incidence and onset of convulsions. Scopolamine treatment caused convulsions only in the animals given solid food in the first 30 min; no convulsions were observed in the animals given slurry food, liquid food ad libitum, gavage, or placebo. When the animals that did not develop convulsions during the experiment were allowed to eat solid food, convulsions occurred. These findings indicate that complex mechanisms trigger scopolamine-induced convulsions in fasted animals eating solid food.

This study was designed to evaluate the utility of subtraction ictal SPECT coregistered to MRI (SISCOM) in atypical psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES). Video-EEG monitoring (vEEG) is the gold standard for PNES diagnosis but, like any modality, has limitations. In difficult cases in which the diagnosis is suspected but remains in question after vEEG, a complementary study that could help differentiate epilepsy from PNES would be desirable. Thirteen SISCOM studies performed in patients with a final diagnosis of PNES were retrospectively reviewed. Common indications for SISCOM were semiology consistent with partial epilepsy (9/13), abnormal head MRI (5/13), and reported abnormal routine EEG (5/13). SISCOM was negative in 85% (11/13) of patients and was helpful in increasing the diagnostic certainty of PNES in these exceptional cases.
Neurostimulation represents an interesting alternative therapy for patients resistant to drug treatment or who cannot benefit from resective surgery. Theoretically, neurostimulation allows the control of seizures to be tailored to the individual patient and specific form of epilepsy. Here, we review both experimental and clinical studies that have reported the possible control of epileptic seizures by means of different approaches using electrical stimulation (vagus nerve stimulation, deep brain stimulation and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation). The rationale for targeting specific areas that have thus far been considered (i.e., vagus nerve, cerebellum, anterior or centromedial thalamus, basal ganglia, cortex and temporal lobe) is addressed in the light of experimental data and clinical effectiveness in different models and forms of epilepsy. The type of seizures that can be considered for neurostimulation, as well as the optimal parameters such as stimulation frequency and modes of stimulation (chronic, continuous or adaptative), are discussed to determine the best candidates for such a therapeutic strategy. This review points out the need for improved knowledge of neural circuits that generate seizures and/or allow their propagation, as well as a better understanding of the mechanisms of action of neurostimulation.

The objective of this study was to investigate breast cancer occurrence among women treated for anorexia nervosa (AN), with emphasis on age at the onset of this disorder. We conducted a register-based retrospective cohort with a total of 6009 women with at least one admission with an AN diagnosis during the period 1973-2003 in Sweden. During a mean follow-up of 13.4 years, information on 80 057 women-years was generated. The standardized incidence ratio (SIR)--the ratio of observed-to-expected number of cases--was used as the measure of relative risk. Overall, 16 women developed breast cancer versus 25.5 expected cases [SIR: 0.6, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.4-0.9]. Among women who were first admitted for AN between the age of 10 and 24 years, four developed breast cancer versus 11.3 expected (SIR: 0.4, 95% CI: 0.1-0.9). In this group of women with early onset AN, only one parous woman developed breast cancer versus 6.3 expected (SIR: 0.2, 95% CI: 0-0.9). Among women first hospitalized for AN between the age of 25 and 40 years, 12 developed breast cancer, whereas the expected number was 14.2, a nonsignificant deficit. Our results suggest that early onset AN may play an important role in the development of breast cancer, possibly because of the extreme restriction of energy intake at a crucial period for mammary gland development. Late onset AN is likely to play a relatively less important role.
A recent investigation reported, for the first time, an association between variants in the IFIH1-GCA-KCNH7 locus and multiple sclerosis (MS). We sought to replicate this genetic association in MS with a new independent MS cohort composed of French Caucasian MS trio families. The two most significant IFIH1 single nucleotide polymorphisms, rs1990760 and rs2068330, reported as involved in MS susceptibility, were genotyped in 591 French Caucasian MS trio families, and analyzed using the transmission/disequilibrium test. No association with MS was found (rs1990760, P=0.45 and rs2068330, P=0.27). Similarly, no significant association was detected after stratification for HLA-DRB1*1501 carriers. Reasons that may explain this discrepancy between the original report and our study are discussed.

The ability to perform an appropriate response in the presence of competing alternatives is a critical facet of human behavioral control. This is especially important if a response is prepared for execution but then has to be changed suddenly. A popular hypothesis of basal ganglia (BG) function suggests that its direct and indirect pathways could provide a neural mechanism to rapidly switch from one planned response to an alternative. However, if one response is more dominant or 'automatic' than the other, the BG might have a different role depending on switch direction. We built upon the pro- and antisaccade tasks, two models of automatic and voluntary behavior, respectively, and investigated whether the BG are important for switching any planned response in general, or if they are more important for switching from a more automatic response to a response that is more difficult to perform. Subjects prepared either a pro- or antisaccade but then had to switch it unexpectedly on a subset of trials. The results revealed increased striatal activation for switching from a pro- to an antisaccade but this did not occur for switching from an anti- to a prosaccade. This activation pattern depended on the relative difficulty in switching, and it was distinct from frontal eye fields, an area shown to be more active for antisaccade trials than for prosaccade trials. This suggests that the BG are important for compensating for differences in response difficulty, facilitating the rapid switching of one response for another.
Hypoxic preconditioning stabilizes hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) 1 alpha in the retina and protects photoreceptors against light-induced cell death. HIF-1 alpha is one of the major transcription factors responding to low oxygen tension and can differentially regulate a large number of target genes. To analyse whether photoreceptor-specific expression of HIF-1 alpha is essential to protect photoreceptors by hypoxic preconditioning, we knocked down expression of HIF-1 alpha specifically in photoreceptor cells, using the cyclization recombinase (Cre)-lox system. The Cre-mediated knockdown caused a 20-fold reduced expression of Hif-1 alpha in the photoreceptor cell layer. In the total retina, RNA expression was reduced by 65%, and hypoxic preconditioning led to only a small increase in HIF-1 alpha protein levels. Accordingly, HIF-1 target gene expression after hypoxia was significantly diminished. Retinas of Hif-1 alpha knockdown animals did not show any pathological alterations, and tolerated hypoxic exposure in a comparable way to wild-type retinas. Importantly, the strong neuroprotective effect of hypoxic preconditioning against light-induced photoreceptor degeneration persisted in knockdown mice, suggesting that hypoxia-mediated survival of light exposure does not depend on an autocrine action of HIF-1 alpha in photoreceptor cells. Hypoxia-mediated stabilization of HIF-2 alpha and phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT 3) were not affected in the retinas of Hif-1 alpha knockdown mice. Thus, these factors are candidates for regulating the resistance of photoreceptors to light damage after hypoxic preconditioning, along with several potentially neuroprotective genes that were similarly induced in hypoxic knockdown and control mice.
Neuronal synchronization at gamma frequency, implicated in cognition, can be evoked in hippocampal slices by pharmacological activation. We characterized spontaneous small-amplitude gamma oscillations (SgammaO) recorded in area CA3 of mouse hippocampal slices and compared it with kainate-induced gamma oscillations (KgammaO). SgammaO had a lower peak frequency, a more sinusoidal waveform and was spatially less coherent than KgammaO, irrespective of oscillation amplitude. CA3a had the smallest oscillation power, phase-led CA3c by approximately 4 ms and had the highest SgammaO frequency in isolated subslices. During SgammaO CA3c neurons fired at the rebound of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) that were associated with a current source in stratum lucidum, whereas CA3a neurons often fired from spikelets, 3-4 ms earlier in the cycle, and had smaller IPSPs. Kainate induced faster/larger IPSPs that were associated with an earlier current source in stratum pyramidale. SgammaO and KgammaO power were dependent on alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors, gap junctions and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors. SgammaO was suppressed by elevating extracellular KCl, blocking N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors or muscarinic receptors, or activating GluR5-containing kainate receptors. SgammaO was not affected by blocking metabotropic glutamate receptors or hyperpolarization-activated currents. The adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethoxyxanthine (8-CPT) and the CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (AM251) increased SgammaO power, indicating that endogenous adenosine and/or endocannabinoids suppress or prevent SgammaO in vitro. SgammaO emerges from a similar basic network as KgammaO, but differs in involvement of somatically projecting interneurons and pharmacological modulation profile. These observations advocate the use of SgammaO as a natural model for hippocampal gamma oscillations, particularly during less activated behavioural states.
According to perceptual load theory, processing of task-irrelevant stimuli is limited by the perceptual load of a parallel attended task if both the task and the irrelevant stimuli are presented to the same sensory modality. However, it remains a matter of debate whether the same principles apply to cross-sensory perceptual load and, more generally, what form cross-sensory attentional modulation in early perceptual areas takes in humans. Here we addressed these questions using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Participants undertook an auditory one-back working memory task of low or high perceptual load, while concurrently viewing task-irrelevant images at one of three object visibility levels. The processing of the visual and auditory stimuli was measured in the lateral occipital cortex (LOC) and auditory cortex (AC), respectively. Cross-sensory interference with sensory processing was observed in both the LOC and AC, in accordance with previous results of unisensory perceptual load studies. The present neuroimaging results therefore warrant the extension of perceptual load theory from a unisensory to a cross-sensory context: a validation of this cross-sensory interference effect through behavioural measures would consolidate the findings.
Sleep loss is known to potently suppress adult hippocampal cell proliferation and neurogenesis. Whether sleep suppression following acute administration of stimulant drugs also decreases hippocampal cell proliferation is not known. The present study examined the effect of three mechanistically distinct stimulants (caffeine, methamphetamine and modafinil) on cell proliferation. To maximize sleep suppression, these drugs were administered to rats (three i.p. injections, once every 4 h) during their sleep period (i.e. 12-h light phase). At the end of the light phase, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (200 mg/kg, i.p.) was injected and animals were killed 2 h later. Polygraphic recordings and locomotor activity measurements confirmed the wake-promoting and sleep-suppressing actions of each treatment. Results indicate that caffeine (20 mg/kg), methamphetamine (1.5 mg/kg) and modafinil (300 mg/kg) differentially suppressed sleep (45-91%) and selectively reduced cell proliferation in the hilus (12-44%), these results being significant for both caffeine and modafinil. When the same experiment was repeated in the dark (active) phase, the suppressant effect on hippocampal cell proliferation was either absent or greatly attenuated. In a further experiment, the effect of acute modafinil treatment in the light phase was shown to persist for 3 weeks after BrdU administration. We hypothesize that the differential effect of the stimulant drugs in the light vs. dark phase is attributable primarily to sleep suppression in the light. As abuse of stimulant drugs invariably leads to disrupted sleep in humans, our results suggest that they may, at least in part, decrease hippocampal neurogenesis via sleep loss and thereby adversely affect hippocampal-dependent processes.
Lumbar motoneurons can be activated monosynaptically by two glutamatergic synaptic inputs: the segmental dorsal root (DR) and the descending ventrolateral funiculus (VLF). To determine whether their N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are independent, we used (5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine-hydrogen-maleate (MK-801), known to induce a use-dependent irreversible block of NMDA receptors (NMDARs). In the presence of MK-801 (in bath) and non-NMDA antagonists (in bath, to isolate NMDARs pharmacologically), we first stimulated the DR. After MK-801 blockade of DR synaptic input, the VLF was stimulated. Its response was found to be not significantly different from its control value, suggesting that the DR stimulus activated very few, if any, receptors also activated by VLF stimulation. Similar findings were obtained if the stimulation order was reversed. Both inputs also elicited a polysynaptic NMDAR-mediated response. Evoking the DR polysynaptic response in the presence of MK-801 eliminated the corresponding VLF response; the reverse did not occur. Surprisingly, when MK-801 was washed from the bath, both the DR and the VLF responses could recover, although the recovery of the DR monosynaptic and polysynaptic responses was reliably greater than those associated with the VLF. Recovery was prevented if extrasynaptic receptors were activated by bath-applied NMDA in the presence of MK-801, consistent with the possibility that recovery was due to movement of extrasynaptic receptors into parts of the membrane accessible to transmitter released by DR and VLF stimulation. These novel findings suggest that segmental glutamatergic inputs to motoneurons are more susceptible to plastic changes than those from central nervous system white matter inputs at this developmental stage.
Application of physostigmine to the oromucosal surface with the aim of stimulating underlying mucin-producing glands while reducing cholinergic systemic effects might be a strategy for treating dry mouth. Subjects suffering from dry mouth and with hyposalivation participated in a crossover, double-blind, randomized study. A gel containing physostigmine (0.9, 1.8, 3.6, and 7.2 mg) or placebo was applied to the inside of the lips and distributed with the tongue. The feeling of dryness was assessed using a visual analogue scale (VAS) (where a score of 100 = extremely dry) and systemic effects were registered. Based on assessments of efficacy and safety, the dose of 1.8 mg of physostigmine was selected for use in the second part of the study to make objective measurements of saliva volumes. Physostigmine (1.8 mg) produced long-lasting (120 min) relief (evident as a score reduction of 25 on the VAS) in the feeling of dryness. Judging from AUC values related to baseline over 180 min, the improvement for both mouth and lips in response to physostigmine was six times greater than that to placebo. At higher doses of physostigmine, gastrointestinal discomfort predominantly occurred. The volume of saliva collected in response to physostigmine was five times higher over 180 min than that collected in response to placebo. Physostigmine, applied locally, therefore appears to be a promising modality for dry-mouth treatment.


Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic progressive disorder mainly affecting the motor system. PD is only partially controlled by symptomatic dopaminergic treatment. Therefore, motor rehabilitation can be used in PD to reduce complications and to train patients in the use of compensatory movement strategies. Rehabilitative practice is largely dependent on the efficiency of motor learning, i.e. the acquisition of new abilities or the adaptation of pre-existing ones. Although patients with PD are able to improve their motor performance through practice, the amount and persistence of clinical benefit are uncertain. Both ''implicit'' (procedural) and ''explicit'' (declarative) features of motor learning have been extensively investigated in patients with PD using neuropsychological testing, serial reaction time paradigms, and analysis of reaching movements. Evidence from these studies suggests an early impairment of ''explicit'' learning in PD, while ''implicit'' learning is relatively preserved. The consolidation of learned motor tasks is defective in PD and the mechanisms of motor learning seem to be independent from dopamine-replacement therapy. The knowledge of motor learning in PD is critical in designing more effective rehabilitative protocols.
The development of ethologically based behavioural animal models has clarified the anxiolytic properties of a range of neurotransmitter and neuropeptide receptor agonists and antagonists, with several models predicting efficacy in human clinical samples. Neuro-cognitive models of human anxiety and findings from fMRI suggest dysfunction in amygdala-prefrontal circuitry underlies biases in emotion activation and regulation. Cognitive and neural mechanisms involved in emotion processing can be manipulated pharmacologically, and research continues to identify genetic polymorphisms and interactions with environmental risk factors that co-vary with anxiety-related behaviour and neuro-cognitive endophenotypes. This paper describes findings from a range of research strategies in anxiety, discussed at the recent ECNP Targeted Expert Meeting on anxiety disorders and anxiolytic drugs. The efficacy of existing pharmacological treatments for anxiety disorders is discussed, with particular reference to drugs modulating serotonergic, noradrenergic and gabaergic mechanisms, and novel targets including glutamate, CCK, NPY, adenosine and AVP. Clinical and neurobiological predictors of active treatment and placebo response are considered.
Reflex pathways connect all four limbs in humans. Presently, we tested the hypothesis that reflexes also link sensory receptors in the lower leg with muscles of the lower back (erector spinae; ES). Taps were applied to the right Achilles' tendon and electromyographic activity was recorded from the right soleus and bilaterally from ES. Reflexes were compared between sitting and standing and between standing with the eyes open versus closed. Reflexes were evoked bilaterally in ES and consisted of an early latency excitation, a medium latency inhibition, and a longer latency excitation. During sitting but not standing, the early excitation was larger in the ES muscle ipsilateral to the stimulation (iES) than in the contralateral ES (cES). During standing but not sitting, the longer latency excitation in cES was larger than in iES. This response in cES was also larger during standing compared to sitting. Responses were not significantly different between the eyes open and eyes closed conditions. Taps applied to the lateral calcaneus (heel taps) evoked responses in ES that were not significantly different in amplitude or latency than those evoked by tendon taps, despite a 75-94% reduction in the amplitude of the soleus stretch reflex evoked by the heel taps. Electrical stimulation of the sural nerve, a purely cutaneous nerve at the ankle, evoked ES reflexes that were not significantly different in amplitude but had significantly longer latencies than those evoked by the tendon and heel taps. These results support the hypothesis that reflex pathways connect receptors in the lower leg with muscles of the lower back and show that that the amplitude of these reflexes is modulated by task. Responses evoked by stimulation of the sural nerve establish that reflex pathways connect the ES muscles with cutaneous receptors of the foot. In contrast, the large volley in muscle spindle afferents induced by the tendon taps compared to the heel taps did not alter the ES responses, suggesting that the reflex connection between triceps surae muscle spindles and the ES muscles may be relatively weak. These heteronymous reflexes may play a role in stabilizing the trunk for maintaining posture and balance.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to probe the involvement of the left primary motor cortex (M1) in the consolidation of a sequencing skill. In particular we asked: (1) if M1 is involved in consolidation of planning processes prior to response execution (2) whether movement preparation and movement execution can undergo consolidation independently and (3) whether sequence consolidation can occur in a stimulus specific manner. TMS was applied to left M1 while subjects prepared left hand sequential finger responses for three different movement sequences, presented in an interleaved fashion. Subjects also trained on three control sequences, where no TMS was applied. Disruption of subsequent consolidation was observed, but only for sequences where subjects had been exposed to TMS during training. Further, reduced consolidation was only observed for movement preparation, not movement execution. We conclude that left M1 is causally involved in the consolidation of effective response planning for left hand movements prior to response execution, and mediates consolidation in a sequence specific manner. These results provide important new insights into the role of M1 in sequential memory consolidation and sequence response planning.
A fundamental aspect of goal-directed behavior concerns the closure of motion-gaps in a timely fashion. In this context, the critical variable is the time-to-closure, called tau (Lee in Perception 5:437-459, 1976), and is defined as the ratio of the current distance-to-goal gap over the current instantaneous speed towards the goal. In this study, we investigated the neural mechanisms of speed and tau in pointing hand movements by recording MEG activity from the whole brain of 20 right-handed healthy human subjects operating a joystick with their right hand. The relations between neural signals and speed and tau were analyzed using an autoregressive multiple regression model, where the time-varying MEG signal was the dependent variable and the corresponding value of speed and tau were the independent variables. With respect to speed, we found that 81% of sensors showed significant relations over the left frontal-parietal, left parieto-temporal, and, less prominently, the right temporo-occipital sensor space. These results document the widespread involvement of brain areas with movement speed, especially in the left hemisphere (i.e., contralateral to the moving limb), in accord with previous studies. With respect to tau, 22% of sensors showed significant relations over the parietal (bilaterally), right parietal-temporal, and, less prominently, the left temporo-occipital sensor space. The tau effects often occurred concurrently with speed effects and spatially overlapped in the left fronto-parietal sensors. These findings document for the first time the time-varying, dynamic processing of information regarding tau in specific brain areas, including the right parietal cortex. This is of special interest, for that area has been found to be involved in processing information concerning the duration of time intervals in perceptual tasks (Harrington et al. in J Neurosci 18:1085-1095, 1998; Rao et al. in Nat Neurosci 4:317-323, 2001). Since tau is itself a time interval, we hypothesize that the right parietal focus of tau processing observed in this study reflects the ongoing processing of tau as an interval for a timely arrival of the hand to the target.
Bradykinin is an endogenous nonapeptide known to induce pain and hyperalgesia to heat and mechanical stimulation. Correspondingly, it excites nociceptors in various tissues and sensitizes them to heat, whereas sensitizing effect on the mechanical response of nociceptors is not well established. Protein kinase C and TRPV1 contribute to the sensitizing mechanism of bradykinin to heat. In addition, TRPA1 and other ion channels appear to contribute to excitation caused by bradykinin. Finally, prostaglandins sensitize bradykinin-induced excitation in normal tissues by restoring desensitized responses due to the inhibition of protein kinase A.
This chapter presents an historical review on the development of some of the main findings on presynaptic inhibition. Particular attention is given to recent studies pertaining the differential GABAa control of the synaptic effectiveness of muscle, cutaneous and articular afferents, to some of the problems arising with the identification of the interneurons mediating the GABAergic depolarization of primary afferents (PAD) of muscle afferents, on the influence of the spontaneous activity of discrete sets of dorsal horn neurons on the pathways mediating PAD of muscle and cutaneous afferents, and to the unmasking of the cutaneous-evoked responses in the lumbosacral spinal cord and associated changes in tonic PAD that follow acute and chronic section of cutaneous nerves. The concluding remarks are addressed to several issues that need to be considered to have a better understanding of the functional role of presynaptic inhibition and PAD on motor performance and sensory processing and on their possible contribution to the shaping of a higher coherence between the cortically programmed and the executed movements.
Transient receptor potential receptors (TRP) on primary afferent neurons respond to noxious and/or thermal stimuli. TRPV1 receptors can be activated by noxious heat, acid, capsaicin and resiniferatoxin, leading to burning pain or itch mediated by discharges in C polymodal and Adelta mechano-heat nociceptors and in central neurons, including spinothalamic tract (STT) cells. Central nociceptive transmission involves both non-NMDA and NMDA receptors, and inhibitory interneurons as well as projection neurons contribute to the neural interactions. Behavioral consequences of intradermal injection of capsaicin include pain, as well as primary and secondary hyperalgesia and allodynia. Primary hyperalgesia depends on sensitization of peripheral nociceptors, whereas, secondary hyperalgesia and allodynia result from sensitization of central nociceptive neurons, such as STT cells. Central sensitization is associated with enhanced responses to excitatory amino acids and decreased responses to inhibitory amino acids. The mechanism of the increase in responses to excitatory amino acids includes phosphorylation of NR1 subunits of NMDA receptors and GluR1 subunits of AMPA receptors. Central sensitization depends on activation of several protein kinases and other enzymes, such as nitric oxide synthase. This process is regulated by protein phosphatases. Central sensitization can be regarded as a spinal cord form of long-term potentiation.
Children with seizures are at risk for long-term cognitive deficits. Similarly, recurrent seizures in developing rats are associated with deficits in spatial learning and memory. However, the pathophysiological bases for these deficits are not known. Hippocampal place cells, cells that are activated selectively when an animal moves through a particular location in space, provides the animal with a spatial map. We hypothesized that seizure-induced impairment in spatial learning is a consequence of the rat's inability to form accurate and stable hippocampal maps. To directly address the cellular concomitants of spatial memory impairment, we recorded the activity of place cells from hippocampal subfield CA1 in freely moving rats subjected to 100 brief flurothyl-induced seizures during the first weeks of life and then tested them in the Morris water maze and radial-arm water maze followed by place cell testing. Compared to controls, rats with recurrent seizures had marked impairment in Morris water maze and radial-arm water maze. In parallel, there were substantial deficits in action potential firing characteristics of place cells with two major defects: i) the coherence, information content, center firing rate, and field size were reduced compared to control cells; and ii) the fields were less stable than those in control place cells. These results show that recurrent seizures during early development are associated with significant impairment in spatial learning and that these deficits are paralleled by deficits in the hippocampal map. This study thus provides a cellular correlate for how recurrent seizures during early development lead to cognitive impairment.
Human embryonic teratocarcinoma-derived Ntera2/cl.D1 (NT2) cells recapitulate many features of embryonic neuronal progenitor cells. Upon retinoic acid (RA) treatment they terminally differentiate into post-mitotic neuron-like cells (NT2-N), akin to human fetal neurons, thus representing an in vitro model of human neuron terminal differentiation. Experimental evidence also indicate NT2-N cultures as a potential source for cell transplantation therapy. The neurosteroids progesterone and its metabolite 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP) promote neurogenesis and show anti-neurodegenerative properties. This study's aim was to assess the neurosteroidogenic competence of NT2 cells during RA-induced neuronal differentiation. Radioimmunoassay measurements revealed progesterone only in NT2-N cultures (4 week RA). Accordingly, progesterone synthesis from (3)H-pregnenolone was absent in NT2 cells and increased during RA exposure, being highest in NT2-N. [(3)H]-pregnenolone metabolism, yielding [(3)H]-progesterone and [(3)H]-5alpha-dihydroprogesterone ([(3)H]-5alpha-DHP), was time-dependent and inhibited by trilostane, a 3beta-hydroxysteroid-dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD) inhibitor. Conversely, (3)H-progesterone metabolism, which yielded [(3)H]-5alpha-DHP &gt; [(3)H]-3beta,5alpha-THP &gt; [(3)H]-3alpha,5alpha-THP, occurred at all time points examined, though showing a nadir in cultures treated with RA for 1 and 2 weeks. The differentiation-dependent increase of progesterone accumulation matched 3beta-HSD type I mRNA expression and 3beta-HSD immunoreactivity, that co-localized with Map2a/b- and GAD67 in NT2-N. Hence, in vitro differentiated human neurons, while retaining progesterone metabolic activity, also become competent in progesterone synthesis. These findings suggest an autocrine/paracrine role of neuronal progesterone, either on its own or through its 5alpha-reduced metabolites, in fetal brain development and allow speculation that NT2-N-produced neurosteroids may contribute to the encouraging results of NT2-N transplants in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases.
The sea lamprey recovers normal-appearing locomotion after spinal cord transection and its spinal axons regenerate selectively in their correct paths. However, among identified reticulospinal neurons some are consistently bad regenerators and only about 50% of severed reticulospinal axons regenerate through the site of injury. We previously suggested (Shifman, M. I., and Selzer, M. E., 2000a. Expression of netrin receptor UNC-5 in lamprey brain; modulation by spinal cord transection. Neurorehabilitation and Neural Repair 14, 49-58; Shifman, M. I., and Selzer, M. E., 2000b. In situ hybridization in wholemounted lamprey spinal cord: localization of netrin mRNA expression. Journal of Neuroscience Methods 104, 19-25) that selective chemorepulsion might explain why some neurons are bad regenerators and others not. To explore the role of additional chemorepulsive axonal guidance molecules during regeneration, we examined the expression of the repulsive guidance molecule (RGM) and its receptor neogenin by in situ hybridization and quantitative PCR. RGM mRNA was expressed in the spinal cord, primarily in neurons of the lateral gray matter and in dorsal cells. Following spinal cord transection, RGM message was downregulated in neurons close (within 10 mm) to the transection at 2 and 4 weeks, although it was upregulated in reactive microglia at 2 weeks post-transection. Neogenin mRNA expression was unchanged in the brainstem after spinal cord transection, and among the identified reticulospinal neurons, was detected only in &quot;bad regenerators&quot;, neurons that are known to regenerate well never expressed neogenin. The downregulation of RGM expression in neurons near the transection may increase the probability that regenerating axons will regenerate through the site of injury and entered caudal spinal cord.
In mammals, including man, epidemiological and experimental studies have shown that a range of environmental factors acting during critical periods of early development can alter adult phenotype. Hormones have an important role in these epigenetic modifications and can signal the type, severity and duration of the environmental cue to the developing feto-placental tissues. They affect development of these tissues both directly and indirectly by changes in placental phenotype. They act to alter gene expression, hence the protein abundance in a wide range of different tissues, which has functional consequences for many physiological systems both before and after birth. By producing an epigenome specific to the prevailing condition in utero, hormones act as epigenetic signals in developmental programming, with important implications for adult health and disease. This review examines the role of hormones as epigenetic signals by considering their responses to environmental cues, their effects on phenotypical development and the molecular mechanisms by which they programme feto-placental development, with particular emphasis on the glucocorticoids.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) is a potentially disabling autoimmune disease causing progressive or relapsing-remitting weakness with or without sensory loss. Previous small trials demonstrated short-term benefit from intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg), and international guidelines recommend IVIg as an option. However, evidence had been insufficient to persuade authorities to approve IVIg for use in CIDP. This article aims to review the Immune Globulin Intravenous CIDP Efficacy (ICE) trial, which was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, response-conditional crossover trial of Gamunex (intravenous immunoglobulin, 10% caprylate/chromatography purified). With 117 participants, it is the largest treatment trial ever conducted in CIDP. The results showed unequivocal short- and long-term benefit from IVIg in confirmation of previous reports. The trial also showed for the first time that continued IVIg infusion 1 g/kg every 3 weeks protected participants from relapse. Adverse events were mostly mild and serious adverse events were not more common with IVIg than with placebo. The results persuaded the US FDA and Health Canada to approve Gamunex for use in CIDP.
Maternal obesity may affect the child's long-term development and health. However, there is little information about the involvement of maternal obesity in the brain development of offspring. Here, we investigated the effects of maternal obesity on the hippocampal formation of offspring. Adult female mice were fed either a normal diet (ND, 4% fat) or a high-fat diet (HFD, 32% fat) 6 wk before mating and throughout pregnancy and the majority of lactation. We found that infants from HFD-fed dams (HFD offspring) showed obesity and hyperlipidemia during suckling. In HFD offspring, lipid peroxidation was promoted in serum and the hippocampal dentate gyrus, where neurogenesis takes place throughout postnatal life. Using a BrdU-pulse labeling study, we showed that malondialdehyde, a product of peroxidized lipids, reduced the proliferation of hippocampal progenitor cells in vitro and that neurogenesis in HFD offspring during postnatal development was similarly lowered relative to the ND animals. These results indicated that maternal obesity impairs hippocampal progenitor cell division and neuronal production in young offspring possibly due to metabolic and oxidative changes.
Current forensic mitochondrial (mt)DNA databases are limited in representative population data of African origin. We investigated HVS-I/HVS-II sequences of 120 Tunisian and Moroccan healthy male donors applying stringent quality criteria to assure high quality of the data and phylogenetic alignment and notation of the sequences. Among 64 Tunisians, 56 different haplotypes were observed and the most common haplotype (16187T 16189C 16223T 16264T 16270T 16278T 16293G 16311C 73G 152C 182T 185T 195C 247A 263G 309.1C 315.1C; haplogroup (hg) L1b) was shared by four individuals. 56 Moroccans could be assigned to 52 different haplotypes where the most common haplotype was of West Eurasian origin with the hg H sequence motif 263G 315.1C and variations in the HVS-II polyC-stretch (309.1C 309.2C) shared by six samples. The majority of the observed haplotypes belong to the west Eurasian phylogeny (50% in Tunisians and 62.5% in Moroccans). Our data are consistent with the current phylogeographic knowledge displaying the occurrence of sub-Saharan haplogroup L sequences, found in 48.4% of Tunisians and 25% of Moroccans as well as the presence of the two re-migrated haplogroups U6 (7.8% and 1.8% in Tunisians and Moroccans, respectively) and M1 (1.6% in Tunisians and 8.9% in Moroccans).
The mechanisms underlying opioid tolerance are not fully understood, but appear to be comprised of two types of plasticity or counter-adaptation, at the cellular level and through neuronal circuits. Current studies mostly emphasize the cellular adaptation mechanisms, which include altered gene expression and receptor desensitization due to phosphorylation and endocytosis. However, the mechanisms underlying opioid tolerance and dependence are not always explained by cellular adaptation mechanisms alone. This review focuses on the plasticity in neuronal circuits achieved through an enhancement of synaptic activities between glutamate and NMDA receptor due to up-regulation of receptor and racemase to produce D-serine, an allosteric NMDA receptor agonist, and down-regulation of glutamate transporter, all which contribute to the counterbalance of opioid actions or anti-opioid mechanisms underlying opioid tolerance. This anti-opioid system is supposed to be also augmented by altered expression of key molecules regulating through neuron-glial networks. This review also introduces a new approach using in vivo electroporation to identify the brain loci responsible for morphine tolerance and dependence.
Activation of the inflammatory immune system has been associated with the development of psychological disorders such as major depressive disorder (MDD). In this regard, the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines (signaling molecules of the immune system) provokes a constellation of neurochemical and behavioral alterations, reminiscent of the effects of traditional stressors, which if sustained could influence psychological functioning. In animal models, exogenously administered cytokines, as well as bacterial endotoxins and viral analogues, induce a variety of behavioral disturbances collectively known as sickness behavior. Although it is difficult to differentiate the general malaise of sickness engendered by cytokines from the depressogenic effects, clinical studies have revealed increased levels of circulating cytokines and acute phase proteins in patients diagnosed with MDD. Furthermore, the incidence of MDD is increased in patients suffering from chronic inflammatory conditions, and immunotherapy used to treat chronic illnesses such as Hepatitis C was related to high levels of depression that could be attenuated by antidepressant treatment. Together, these findings indicate that activation of the inflammatory immune system may favor the evolution of psychological disturbances.
The Anglo-Swedish Medicinal Chemistry Symposium is normally held in the skiing resort of Are in Sweden, but this year, for the first time, the meeting was held at the AstraZeneca R&amp;D site in Lund. The meeting was divided into five sections, consisting of a total of 19 high-quality lectures. In chronological order these sections were: kinases and ATPases; overcoming problems associated with multifunctional targets; achieving selectivity by tissue distribution; enzymes and transporters; challenges and trends in medicinal chemistry; and G protein-coupled receptors.
Repeated activation of the mesolimbic dopamine system results in persistent behavioral alterations accompanied by a pattern of neural plasticity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). As the accumulation of the transcription factor Delta FosB may be an important component of this plasticity, the question addressed in our research is whether Delta FosB is regulated by sexual experience in females. We have shown that female Syrian hamsters, given sexual experience, exhibit several behavioral alterations including increased sexual efficiency with nave male hamsters, sexual reward and enhanced responsiveness to psychomotor stimulants (e.g. amphetamine). We recently demonstrated that sexual experience increased the levels of Delta FosB in the NAc of female Syrian hamsters. The focus of this study was to explore the functional consequences of this induction by determining if the constitutive overexpression of Delta FosB by adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors in the NAc could mimic the behavioral effects of sexual experience. Animals with AAV-mediated overexpression of Delta FosB in the NAc showed evidence of sexual reward in a conditioned place preference paradigm under conditions in which control animals receiving an injection of AAV-green fluorescent protein (GFP) into the NAc did not. Sexual behavior tests further showed that males paired with the AAV-Delta FosB females had increased copulatory efficiency as measured by the proportion of mounts that included intromission compared to males mated with the AAV-GFP females. These results support a role for Delta FosB in mediating natural motivated behaviors, in this case female sexual behavior, and provide new insight into the possible endogenous actions of Delta FosB.
A heightened aversion to delayed rewards is associated with substance abuse and numerous other neuropsychiatric disorders. Many of these disorders are heritable, raising the possibility that delay aversion may also have a significant genetic or heritable component. To examine this possibility, we compared delay discounting in six inbred strains of rats (Brown Norway, Copenhagen, Lewis, Fischer, Noble and Wistar Furth) using the adjusting amount procedure, which provides a measure of the subjective value of delayed rewards. The subjective value of rewards decreased as the delay to receipt increased for all strains. However, a main effect of strain and a strain x delay interaction indicated that some strains were more sensitive to the imposition of delays than others. Fitting a hyperbolic discount equation showed significant strain differences in sensitivity to delay (k). These data indicate that there are significant strain differences in delay discounting. All strains strongly preferred the 10% sucrose solution (the reinforcer in the delay discounting task) over water and the amount of sucrose consumed was correlated with sensitivity to delay. Locomotor activity was not correlated with delay discounting behavior. Additional research will be required to disentangle genetic influences from maternal effects and to determine how these factors influence the underlying association between heightened delay discounting and neuropsychiatric disorders.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a frequent neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by variable clinical severity. Core symptoms are qualitatively impaired communication and social behavior, highly restricted interests and repetitive behaviors. Although recent work on genetic mutations in ASD has shed light on the pathophysiology of the disease, classifying it essentially as a synaptopathy, no treatments are available to date. To develop and test novel ASD treatment approaches, validated and informative animal models are required. Of particular interest, in this context are loss-of-function mutations in the postsynaptic cell adhesion protein neuroligin-4 and point mutations in its homologue neuroligin-3 (NL-3) that were found to cause certain forms of monogenic heritable ASD in humans. Here, we show that NL-3-deficient mice display a behavioral phenotype reminiscent of the lead symptoms of ASD: reduced ultrasound vocalization and a lack of social novelty preference. The latter may be related to an olfactory deficiency observed in the NL-3 mutants. Interestingly, such olfactory phenotype is also present in a subgroup of human ASD patients. Tests for learning and memory showed no gross abnormalities in NL-3 mutants. Also, no alterations were found in time spent in social interaction, prepulse inhibition, seizure propensity and sucrose preference. As often seen in adult ASD patients, total brain volume of NL-3 mutant mice was slightly reduced as assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Our findings show that the NL-3 knockout mouse represents a useful animal model for understanding pathophysiological events in monogenic heritable ASD and for developing novel treatment strategies in this devastating human disorder.
Smokers often report an anxiolytic effect of cigarettes. In addition, stress-related disorders such as anxiety, post-traumatic stress syndrome and depression are often associated with chronic nicotine use. To study the role of the alpha5 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit in anxiety-related responses, control and alpha5 subunit null mice (alpha5(-/-)) were subjected to the open field activity (OFA), light-dark box (LDB) and elevated plus maze (EPM) tests. In the OFA and LDB, alpha5(-/-) behaved like wild-type controls. In the EPM, female alpha5(-/-) mice displayed an anxiolytic-like phenotype, while male alpha5(-/-) mice were undistinguishable from littermate controls. We studied the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis by measuring plasma corticosterone and hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing factor. Consistent with an anxiolytic-like phenotype, female alpha5(-/-) mice displayed lower basal corticosterone levels. To test whether gonadal steroids regulate the expression of alpha5, we treated cultured NTera 2 cells with progesterone and found that alpha5 protein levels were upregulated. In addition, brain levels of alpha5 mRNA increased upon progesterone injection into ovariectomized wild-type females. Finally, we tested anxiety levels in the EPM during the estrous cycle. The estrus phase (when progesterone levels are low) is anxiolytic-like in wild-type mice, but no cycle-dependent fluctuations in anxiety levels were found in alpha5(-/-) females. Thus, alpha5-containing neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors may be mediators of anxiogenic responses, and progesterone-dependent modulation of alpha5 expression may contribute to fluctuations in anxiety levels during the ovarian cycle.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) in the adult rat subventricular zone (SVZ) generate new striatal neurons during several months after ischemic stroke. Whether the microglial response associated with ischemic injury extends into SVZ and influences neuroblast production is unknown. Here, we demonstrate increased numbers of activated microglia in ipsilateral SVZ concomitant with neuroblast migration into the striatum at 2, 6, and 16 weeks, with maximum at 6 weeks, following 2 h middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. In the peri-infarct striatum, numbers of activated microglia peaked already at 2 weeks and declined thereafter. Microglia in SVZ were resident or originated from bone marrow, with maximum proliferation during the first 2 weeks postinsult. In SVZ, microglia exhibited ramified or intermediate morphology, signifying a downregulated inflammatory profile, whereas amoeboid or round phagocytic microglia were frequent in the peri-infarct striatum. Numbers of microglia expressing markers of antigen-presenting cells (MHC-II, CD86) increased in SVZ but very few lymphocytes were detected. Using quantitative PCR, strong short- and long-term increase (at 1 and 6 weeks postinfarct) of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) gene expression was detected in SVZ tissue. Elevated numbers of IGF-1-expressing microglia were found in SVZ at 2, 6, and 16 weeks after stroke. At 16 weeks, 5% of microglia but no other cells in SVZ expressed the IGF-1 protein, which mitigates apoptosis and promotes proliferation and differentiation of NSCs. The long-term accumulation of microglia with proneurogenic phenotype in the SVZ implies a supportive role of these cells for the continuous neurogenesis after stroke.

SUNA is a trigeminal autonomic cephalalgia (TAC) characterized by short unilateral attacks centered on the ophthalmic trigeminal distribution, and accompanied by at least one of a number of cranial autonomic symptoms that can include lacrimation, redness of the ipsilateral eye, nasal congestion, rhinorrhea, and eyelid edema. It exists in episodic and chronic form. We have described an atypical case of episodic SUNA with an exclusive seasonal pattern as previously reported in other trigeminal autonomic cephalalgia, commonly known as TACs.
Reproductive hormones can modulate communication-evoked behavior by acting on neural systems associated with motivation; however, recent evidence suggests that modulation occurs at the sensory processing level as well. The anuran auditory midbrain processes communication stimuli, and is sensitive to steroid hormones. Using multiunit electrophysiology, we tested whether sex and circulating testosterone influence auditory sensitivity to pure tones and to the natural vocalization in the green treefrog, Hyla cinerea. Sex did not influence audiogram best frequencies although sexes did differ in the sensitivities at those frequencies with males more sensitive in the lower frequency range. Females were more sensitive than males in response to the natural vocalization, despite showing no difference in response to pure tones at frequencies found within the advertisement call. Thresholds to frequencies outside the range of the male advertisement call were higher in females. Additionally, circulating testosterone increased neural thresholds in females in a frequency-specific manner. These results demonstrate that sex differences are limited to frequency ranges that relate to the processing of natural vocalizations, and depend on the type of stimulus. The frequency-dependent and stimulus-dependent nature of sex and testosterone influences suggests that reproductive hormones influence the filtering properties of the auditory system.
Turner syndrome is a chromosomal aberration affecting 1:2000 newborn girls, in which all or part of one X chromosome is absent. This leads to ovarial dysgenesis and little or no endogenous estrogen production. These women have, among many other syndromal features, a high occurrence of ear and hearing problems, and neurocognitive dysfunctions, including reduced visual-spatial abilities; it is assumed that estrogen deficiency is at least partially responsible for these problems. In this, study 30 Turner women aged 40-67, with mild to moderate hearing loss, performed a battery of hearing tests aimed at localizing the lesion causing the sensorineural hearing impairment and assessing central auditory function, primarily sound localization. The results of TEOAE, ABR and speech recognition scores in noise were all indicative of cochlear dysfunction as the cause of the sensorineural impairment. Phase audiometry, a test for sound localization, showed mild disturbances in the Turner women compared to the reference group, suggesting that auditory-spatial dysfunction is another facet of the recognized neurocognitive phenotype in Turner women.
Glioma growth depends on microvascular adaptation and angiogenesis. Our study focused on the structural changes that occur in the microvasculature to adapt to glioma growth. Vascular morphology, morphometry and permeability studies were performed in induced rat gliomas. Tumours were identified by magnetic resonance imaging and histopathology. Blood brain barrier integrity was examined by EBA and GluT-1 immunostaining and correlated with vascular permeability for gadolinium and intravital dyes. VEGF165 immunoexpression was also analyzed. Tumours were grouped in microtumours (6.69+/-0.99 mm3) displaying a homogeneous T2-w hyperintense signal corresponding to low-grade gliomas, and macrotumours (900.79+/-332.39 mm3) showing gadolinium contrast enhancement, intravital dye extravasation and histopathological features of high-grade gliomas. Results show that the microvascular network becomes aberrant as we move from micro to macrotumours. Vessel density decreases, whereas the relative area occupied by the vascular network increases. Microtumours display homogeneous angioarchitecture composed of simple and mildly dilated vessels similar to normal tissue. Macrotumours show different patterns, following a gradient from the neoangiogenic border to the hypoxic core. The tumour core contains scarce, huge, dilated vessels with some profiles co-expressing GluT-1 and VEGF165, the peripheral tissue shows light dilated vessels co-expressing EBA and GluT-1, and the border area displays glomeruloid vessels strongly positive for VEGF. Glucose uptake was maintained for some vascular endothelial sections in areas where BBB function was lost. In conclusion, during development of gliomas the microvasculature becomes aberrant, undergoing a sequence of adaptive changes which involve the distribution and permeability of vessels. This explains the disturbances of blood flow and the increased permeability.
The dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) plays an important role in coordinating physiological and behavioral responses to stress-related stimuli. In vertebrates, DMH serotonin (5-HT) concentrations increase rapidly in response to acute stressors or corticosterone (CORT). Recent studies suggest that CORT inhibits postsynaptic clearance of 5-HT from the extracellular fluid in the DMH by blocking organic cation transporter 3 (OCT3), a polyspecific CORT-sensitive transport protein. Because OCTs are low-affinity, high-capacity transporters, we hypothesized that CORT effects on extracellular 5-HT are most pronounced in the presence of elevated 5-HT release. We predicted that local application of CORT into the DMH would potentiate the effects of d-fenfluramine, a 5-HT-releasing agent, on extracellular 5-HT. These experiments were conducted using in vivo microdialysis in freely-moving male Sprague-Dawley rats implanted with a microdialysis probe into the medial hypothalamus (MH), which includes the DMH. In Experiment 1, rats simultaneously received intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of 1 mg/kg D-fenfluramine or saline and either 200 ng/mL CORT or dilute ethanol (EtOH) vehicle delivered to the MH by reverse-dialysis for 40 min. In Experiment 2, 5 microM D-fenfluramine and either 200 ng/mL CORT or EtOH vehicle were concurrently delivered to the MH for 40 min using reverse-dialysis. CORT potentiated the increases in extracellular 5-HT concentrations induced by either i.p. or intra-MH administration of D-fenfluramine. Furthermore, CORT and D-fenfluramine interacted to alter home cage behaviors. Our results support the hypothesis that CORT inhibition of OCT3-mediated 5-HT clearance from the extracellular fluid contributes to stress-induced increases in extracellular 5-HT and 5-HT signaling.
It is known that the early environment affects the mental development of rodent and human offspring. However, it is not known specifically whether a postpartum depressive state influences the depressive state in offspring. Using learned helplessness (LH) in rats as an animal model of depression, we examined the influence of maternal postpartum LH on responses to the LH test of offspring. Dam rats were judged as LH or non-helpless (nLH) on postnatal days (PN) 2-3, and maternal behavior was recorded during PN2-14. On PN 45-46, offspring were subjected to the LH test. Plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels, hippocampal levels of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA were measured before and after the LH test in offspring. Active nursing in LH dams was significantly lower than that in nLH dams. Susceptibility to LH in the offspring of LH dams was significantly higher than in those of nLH dams, and was negatively correlated with active nursing by LH dams. The GR mRNA levels before and after the LH test were lower in the offspring of LH dams than in those of nLH dams, and the reduced basal GR mRNA and protein might have resulted in the higher CORT response after the LH test. There was no significant difference in BDNF mRNA in the offspring of LH and nLH dams. These findings suggest that early postpartum LH decreased active nursing and increased depression-like behavior in the adolescent offspring via dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Recently, Roney et al. (Roney, J.R., Lukaszewski, A.W., Simmons, Z.L., 2007. Rapid endocrine responses of young men to social interactions with young women. Horm. Behav. 52, 326-33; Roney, J.R., Mahler, S.V., Maestripieri, D., 2003. Behavioral and hormonal responses of men to brief interactions with women. Evol. Hum. Behav. 24, 365-375) demonstrated that men release testosterone and cortisol in response to brief social interactions with young women. The current experiment examined whether women show a similar endocrine response to physically and behaviorally attractive men. 120 women (70 naturally-cycling and 50 using hormonal contraceptives) were shown one of four 20-minute video montages extracted from popular films, depicting the following scenarios: 1) an attractive man courting a young woman (experimental stimulus), 2) a nature documentary (video clip control), 3) an unattractive older man courting a woman (male control), and 4) an attractive woman with no men present (female control). Saliva samples were taken before and after presentation of the stimulus, and were later analyzed for testosterone and cortisol content via enzyme immunoassay. Naturally-cycling women experienced a significant increase in both testosterone and cortisol in response to the experimental stimulus but to none of the control stimuli. Participants taking hormonal contraceptives also showed a significant cortisol response to the attractive man. Women may release adrenal steroid hormones to facilitate courtship interactions with high mate-value men.
To advance our understanding of biological processes we often plan our experiments based on published data. This can be confusing though, as data from experiments performed in a laboratory environment are sometimes different from, or completely opposite to, findings from similar experiments performed in the &quot;real world&quot;. In this mini-review, we discuss instances where results from laboratory experiments differ as a result of laboratory housing conditions, and where they differ from results gathered in the field environment. Experiments involving endocrinology and behavior appear to be particularly susceptible to influence from the environment in which they are performed. As such, we have attempted to promote discussion of the influence of housing environment on the reproductive axis, circadian biology and behavior, immune function, stress biology, neuroplasticity and photoperiodism. For example, why should a rodent species be diurnal in one housing environment yet nocturnal in another? Are data that are gathered from experiments in the laboratory applicable to the field environment, and vice-versa? We hope not only to highlight the need for experiments in both lab and field when looking at complex biological systems, but also to promote frank discussion of discordant data. Perhaps, just as study of individual variation has been gaining momentum in recent years, data from variation between experimental arenas can provide us with novel lines of research.
This article describes a spatio-temporal EEG/MEG source imaging (ESI) that extracts a parsimonious set of &quot;atoms&quot; or components, each the outer product of both a spatial and a temporal signature. The sources estimated are localized as smooth, minimally overlapping patches of cortical activation that are obtained by constraining spatial signatures to be nonnegative (NN), orthogonal, sparse, and smooth-in effect integrating ESI with NN-ICA. This constitutes a generalization of work by this group on the use of multiple penalties for ESI. A multiplicative update algorithm is derived being stable, fast and converging within seconds near the optimal solution. This procedure, spatio-temporal tomographic NN ICA (STTONNICA), is equally able to recover superficial or deep sources without additional weighting constraints as tested with simulations. STTONNICA analysis of ERPs to familiar and unfamiliar faces yields an occipital-fusiform atom activated by all faces and a more frontal atom that only is active with familiar faces. The temporal signatures are at present unconstrained but can be required to be smooth, complex, or following a multivariate autoregressive model.
We present a review of dynamic causal modeling (DCM) for magneto- and electroencephalography (M/EEG) data. DCM is based on a spatiotemporal model, where the temporal component is formulated in terms of neurobiologically plausible dynamics. Following an intuitive description of the model, we discuss six recent studies, which use DCM to analyze M/EEG and local field potentials. These studies illustrate how DCM can be used to analyze evoked responses (average response in time), induced responses (average response in time-frequency), and steady-state responses (average response in frequency). Bayesian model comparison plays a critical role in these analyses, by allowing one to compare equally plausible models in terms of their model evidence. This approach might be very useful in M/EEG research; where correlations among spatial and neuronal model parameter estimates can cause uncertainty about which model best explains the data. Bayesian model comparison resolves these uncertainties in a principled and formal way. We suggest that DCM and Bayesian model comparison provides a useful way to test hypotheses about distributed processing in the brain, using electromagnetic data.
Regulatory CD4+ CD25+Foxp3+ T cells are involved in the regulation of immune response and inhibit protective antitumor immunity. Celiac disease (CD), a food gluten-sensitive enteropathy, is considered a T-cell-mediated autoimmune disease and is generally associated with an overall increased risk of cancer in CD patients. We observed a higher percentage of circulating CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ T cells and an increased Foxp3 expression in CD4+CD25+ T cells from untreated than from treated CD patients. In co-culture, CD4+CD25+ T cells from both treated and untreated CD patients significantly suppressed the proliferation of autologous CD4+CD25(-) T cells similarly to values in healthy subjects. Our study suggests that Treg proportion and Foxp3 expression in circulating CD4+CD25+ T cells could justify the increased global risk of malignancy in CD population and support the efficacy of lifelong gluten-free diet in the reduction of the cancer risk.
When we perform actions with two hands in everyday life, coordination has to change very quickly depending on task goals. Here, we study these task-dependent changes using a bimanual reaching task in which participants move two separate cursors to two visual targets, or move a single cursor, displayed at the average position of the two hands, to a single target. During the movement, one of the hands is perturbed in a random direction using a viscous curl field. We have previously shown that feedback control, the structure of noise, and adaptation change between these two tasks as predicted by optimal control theory: feedback control is independent when the hands control two cursors, but becomes dependent when they move one cursor together. The same changes are observed even on trials in which no visual feedback about the cursor position is given. One assumption in this model is that coordinative motor commands can be described as a linear function of the state of the left and right hands. Here we test the assumption by studying the feedback corrections for 25 combinations of force fields applied to the two hands. Our study shows that feedback gains are constant across all levels of force fields strength, providing strong evidence that intermanual coordination for this task can accurately be explained by optimal task-dependent linear feedback gains.


Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia characterized by progressive neurodegeneration. Based on the amyloid cascade hypothesis, several immunotherapies for AD have been developed as curative treatment. In 1999, Schenk et al. reported for the first time that amyloid beta (Abeta) deposits in AD model mice could be reduced by active vaccination with Abeta peptide. Although clinical trials with the Abeta peptide were halted due to the development of meningoencephalitis in some treated patients, the vaccine therapy was judged to be effective on the basis of clinical and pathological analyses. Passive immunization using humanized anti-Abeta monoclonal antibodies is also under clinical trials; however they have some problems to be solved. As other strategies, DNA vaccines have been developed as immunotherapies for AD, which is simple, easily modified and can be administered without adjuvant. DNA vaccines were developed by several groups including our laboratory, which induced Abeta reduction in AD model mice without side effects. DNA vaccination may be open up new avenue of vaccine therapies for AD in the near future.

The authors describe an extremely unusual case of a giant hemicranial subdural empyema occurring nine years after insertion of a venticuloperitoneal shunt. Though the empyema was evacuated, the child suffered significant morbidity and remained hemiparetic. The present case highlights the delayed morbidity following a ventriculoperitoneal shunt insertion and the need of prolonged and regular follow up in children who have undergone this procedure.
Since its inception, the amyloid cascade hypothesis has dominated the field of Alzheimer's disease (AD) research and has provided the intellectual framework for therapeutic intervention. Although the details of the hypothesis continue to evolve, its core principle has remained essentially unaltered. It posits that the amyloid-beta peptides, derived from amyloid precursor protein (APP), are the root cause of AD. Substantial genetic and biochemical data support this view, and yet a number of findings also run contrary to its tenets. The presence of familial AD mutations in APP and presenilins, demonstration of Abeta toxicity, and studies in mouse models of AD all support the hypothesis, whereas the presence of Abeta plaques in normal individuals, the uncertain nature of the pathogenic Abeta species, and repeated disappointments with Abeta-centered therapeutic trials are inconsistent with the hypothesis. The current state of knowledge does not prove nor disprove the amyloid hypothesis, but rather points to the need for its reassessment. A view that Abeta is one of the factors, as opposed to the factor, that causes AD is more consistent with the present knowledge, and is more likely to promote comprehensive and effective therapeutic strategies.

Auditory temporal processing deficits have been suggested to play a causal role in language learning impairments, and evidence of cortical developmental anomalies (microgyria (MG), ectopia) has been reported for language-impaired populations. Rodent models have linked these features, by showing deficits in auditory temporal discrimination for rats with neuronal migration anomalies (MG, ectopia). Since evidence from human studies suggests that training with both speech and non-speech acoustic stimuli may improve language performance in developmentally language-disabled populations, we were interested in whether/how maturation and early experience might influence auditory processing deficits seen in male rats with induced focal cortical MG. Results showed that for both simple (Normal single tone), as well as increasingly complex auditory discrimination tasks (silent gap in white noise and FM sweep), prior experience significantly improved acoustic discrimination performance--in fact, beyond improvements seen with maturation only. Further, we replicated evidence that young adult rats with MG were significantly impaired at discriminating FM sweeps compared to shams. However, these MG effects were no longer seen when experienced subjects were retested in adulthood (even though deficits in short duration FM sweep detection were seen for adult MG rats with no early experience). Thus while some improvements in auditory processing were seen with normal maturation, the effects of early experience were even more profound, in fact resulting in amelioration of MG effects seen at earlier ages. These findings support the clinical view that early training intervention with appropriate acoustic stimuli could similarly ameliorate long-term processing impairments seen in some language-impaired children.
The NOP system is considered to be part of the opioid system, although it exerts antiopioid actions depending on the anatomical region where it is localized. This apparent controversy has lead to the hypothesis that the NOP system interacts with the classical opioid systems (mu, delta, kappa) and regulates/modulates their activity in relation to analgesia and the development of addiction to drugs. In order to shed light into the importance of the NOP system, we have analyzed the expression of NOP during zebrafish development, and the effect of its endogenous agonist nociceptin and the opioid agonist morphine on NOP expression. Our qPCR study show that the number of NOP transcripts is different at each developmental stage studied (0.5 hpf, 2.75 hpf, 3 hpf, 8 hpf, 16 hpf, 19 hpf, 22 hpf, 24 hpf, 30 hpf, 48 hpf, 60 hpf and 72 hpf). Nociceptin enhances NOP expression at 24 hpf but decreases the number of NOP copies at 48 hpf, whereas NOP expression decreases after morphine exposure at 24 hpf and 48 hpf. Also, our ISH analysis demonstrates that nociceptin causes a change in the distribution of NOP towards rostral areas at both developmental stages. Morphine produces similar changes to those of nociceptin although only at 48 hpf. The present work leads to the conclusion that the NOP system is important during embryogenesis. Exposure to drugs changes the expression level and localization of NOP, suggesting that also during development, NOP plays a role in the apparition of dependence and addiction to drugs.
Evidence suggests that noradrenaline has a tonic anti-inflammatory action in the central nervous system (CNS) via its ability to suppress microglial and astrocytic activation, and inhibit production of inflammatory mediators. Consequently it is suggested that noradrenaline may play an endogenous neuroprotective role in CNS disorders where inflammatory events contribute to pathology. Here we demonstrate that acute treatment of rats with the noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (NRIs) desipramine and atomoxetine elicited anti-inflammatory actions in rat cortex following a systemic challenge with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). This was characterized by a reduction in cortical gene expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), the enzyme inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and the microglial activation markers CD11b and CD40. These anti-inflammatory actions of NRIs were associated with reduced activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB); a transcription factor that is considered the major regulator of inflammation in the CNS. To determine whether NRI administration directly altered glial expression of these inflammatory markers, primary cortical glial cells were exposed in vitro to the NRIs desipramine or atomoxetine. In vitro treatment with NRIs largely failed to alter mRNA expression of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, iNOS, CD11b and CD40, following stimulation with LPS. Similarly, LPS-induced TNF-alpha and IL-1beta protein production from glial cells was unaffected by NRI treatment. In contrast, in vitro exposure of cultured glial cells to noradrenaline suppressed IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, iNOS and CD40 expression. These results suggest that in vivo administration of NRIs limit inflammatory events in the brain, probably by increasing noradrenaline availability. Overall, this study has yielded significant insights into the ability of noradrenaline-augmentation strategies to limit neuroinflammation.
Recent advances in the neurobiology of cannabinoids have renewed interest in the association between cannabis and schizophrenia. Our studies showed that chronic-intermittent phencyclidine (PCP) treatment of rats, an animal model of schizophrenia-like cognitive deficit, impaired recognition memory in the novel object recognition (NOR) test and induced alterations in CB1 receptor functionality and in endocannabinoid levels mainly in the prefrontal cortex. In this region, we observed a significant reduction in GTPgammaS binding (-41%) accompanied by an increase in the levels of the endocannabinoid 2-AG (+38%) in PCP-treated rats, suggesting that a maladaptation of the endocannabinoid system might contribute to the glutamatergic-related cognitive symptoms encountered in schizophrenia disorders. Moreover, we evaluated the ability of the main psychoactive ingredient of marijuana, Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), to modulate the cognitive dysfunctions and neuroadaptations in the endocannabinoid system induced by PCP. Chronic THC co-treatment worsened PCP-induced cognitive impairment, without inducing any effect per se, and in parallel, it provoked a severe reduction in the levels of the other endocannabinoid, AEA, vs. either vehicle (-73%) or PCP (-64%), whereas it reversed the PCP-induced increase in 2-AG levels. These results point to the involvement of the endocannabinoid system in this pharmacological model of cognitive dysfunction, with a potentially different role of AEA and 2-AG in schizophrenia-like behaviours and suggest that prolonged cannabis use might aggravate cognitive performances induced by chronic PCP by throwing off-balance the endocannabinoid system.
The obesity epidemic has unfolded in a matter of decades, not millennia, and therefore cannot be attributed to a drift in the genome. Rather, the temporal characteristics of the epidemic more closely track environmental and lifestyle changes, such as reduced physical activity, increased availability of palatable and energy-dense foods and drinks, and increased acceptance of eating outside of meal time (among others). One important observation is that not everyone is becoming obese. This suggests that individual factors interact with recent environmental changes to predispose some to overeat. One hypothesis that has been gaining traction in the neuroscience community is that individual differences in the neural encoding of foods may predispose some to overeat in the presence of a surplus of energy-dense, palatable foods and drinks. The aim of this review is to highlight several possible ways by which individual differences in the neurophysiology of food reward may lead to overeating.
Obesity is now being recognized as a neurobehavioral disorder. Although the view of appetite as an addiction to food is controversial, there are useful lessons to be learned from the neuroscience of addiction for understanding obesity. The speakers in this symposium all addressed different aspects of the neurobiology of feeding and obesity. In this overview and the associated reviews, the behavioral, genetic and neural factors that promote over-eating in animals and humans are discussed.

The objectives of this study were to describe psychosocial adjustment and outcome over time for severely brain-injured patients and to find suitable outcome measures for clinical practice during the rehabilitation process and for individual rehabilitation planning after discharge from hospital. The methods include a descriptive, prospective, population-based study. The participants were assessed at 6 months and annually until 5 years after traumatic brain injury or nontraumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage. Inclusion criteria were age 16-65 years, severe traumatic brain injury or nontraumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage defined as Glasgow Coma Scale 8 or worse and need for neurointensive care for at least 5 days. The main outcome measures were Head Injury Evaluation Chart, Glasgow Outcome Scale Extended (GOSE) and Life Satisfaction Questionnaire (LiSat)-11 checklist. Change over time for the group and the individuals, as measured with the GOSE, was analyzed by a statistical method that is suitable for small datasets and takes into account the nonmetric properties of the data. Eighteen patients were included. Three died and one was excluded for the long-term follow-up (n=14). The group had a good outcome with no participant remaining in a vegetative state, 93% (12 of 13) went home and 60% (six of 10) returned to work. Eighty percent (eight of 10) of participants rated 'life as a whole' as satisfactory 5 years after the injury. The change at group level was significant (GOSE) until 1 year after the injury. The GOSE and the LiSat-11 were most clinically useful as they were easy to use for the rater/participants.

Transient ischemic attack is a medical emergency because early stroke risk after transient ischemic attack is high. Hypertension is the most important modifiable risk factor for stroke and transient ischemic attack. The aims of this review are to provide a summary of the current knowledge concerning the relationship between blood pressure and transient ischemic attack, as well as outline issues regarding diurnal variation and the potential of chronotherapy (timing medications to accord with diurnal patterns of blood pressure). There is a strong relationship between hypertension and the incidence of transient ischemic attack and the subsequent short-term risk for stroke. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is a reliable diagnostic and monitoring tool for hypertension and provides additional information about diurnal variation in blood pressure. Different diurnal blood pressure patterns may confer variable stroke risk. Patients with stroke commonly have abnormal diurnal blood pressure patterns and this may relate, in part, to autonomic nervous system dysfunction. However, blood pressure patterns have not been systematically studied in patients with transient ischemic attack. Blood pressure remains poorly controlled in a large proportion of patients after transient ischemic attack and under-treatment and poor adherence are important factors. Chronotherapy for blood pressure may result in more effective blood pressure control. More research is needed in this area. Hypertension is strongly associated with transient ischemic attack. Diurnal blood pressure patterns may influence subsequent stroke risk after transient ischemic attack and more evidence is needed to inform clinical practice to improve blood pressure management for transient ischemic attack patients.
Drugs approved and used for treatment of stroke vary from country to country. This is, at least, partly because of variation in the standards of evidence that is required for approval of drugs across countries. For example, some countries, usually low and middle income ones, approve a drug on the basis of a small positive study or post hoc subgroup analysis in a overall negative study, while others, usually high income countries, require confirmatory or replication studies before approving the same drug. Needless to say that such confirmatory or replication studies need to be published and adequately disseminated as soon as possible so that approval decisions can be revised in the light of additional evidence. However, this does not always happen. The new evidence often remains hidden in the form of nonpublication or abbreviated publication. Sometimes, it is published but with undue delay. What is worrisome is that these problems occur more often when the new evidence does not favor the new drugs than when it favors them, a manifestation of what is called 'publication bias.' This bias is well documented in the stroke research literature (1, 2).

Neuropathological studies of early multiple sclerosis (MS) tissue have shaped prevailing views of the pathogenesis of the disease. The hallmark of the acute MS lesion, inflammatory demyelination, has been largely accepted as evidence of a macrophage-mediated attack on normal myelin, driven by perivascular and parenchymal autoreactive CD4+ Th1 cells primed in the periphery by an unknown self or foreign antigen(s). Predicated largely upon comparisons with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, this paradigm has, in recent years, been recognized as a simplification of the events that constitute and perhaps presage lesion formation in the human disease; and the importance of the innate immune cells of the central nervous system, humoral factors, cytotoxic CD8+ T-cells and regulatory T-cells has been emphasized. An influential series of publications by one group, based on histopathological examination of actively demyelinating lesions in selected autopsy and biopsy MS tissue, defined four early lesion subtypes. In a given individual, these subtypes were reported to be mutually exclusive, suggesting that disparate pathogenetic pathways separate patients with clinically indistinguishable syndromes. This schema, which has considerable therapeutic implications, has not been independently verified and has recently been questioned by the finding of a uniform pre-phagocytic pathology and overlap of lesion subtypes in individual patients with typical relapsing and remitting disease. The latter findings would suggest that the heterogeneous features observed in active MS lesions sampled at different time-points are a reflection of the evolution of a single pathophysiological process, perhaps modified in part by genetic factors in individual cases.

Regional movies in India play an important role in portraying mental illness and also depict awareness and attitudes of society towards people with mental health problems. Kannada (the language spoken by 50 million people from the state of Karnataka in South India) cinema has produced a range of movies depicting conditions ranging from psychosis to personality disorders. However, the descriptions of mental illness in several of these movies is vague and often stigmatizing. Some landmark films have involved psychiatrists in producing and directing the movies, including helping with the story line, which have added value to these films. Despite Karnataka being home to some of the important psychiatrists in the country and to some of the most famous and advanced mental health training and treatment centres, depictions of treatment and the portrayal of psychiatrists continues to be caricatured. As is true of many parts of India, treatment methods are often magico-religious, which is what Kannada cinema also reflects.


The adolescent period is characterized by substantial behavioral changes, including increases in novelty-seeking and risk-taking, which may facilitate substance use and experimentation. These behavioral changes co-occur with widespread structural and functional neural developments. Ontogenic changes affecting the neural circuitry subserving inhibitory control and reward-related processes are particularly relevant to adolescent risk-taking behavior. Impairment or immaturity of these processes are shown to contribute to enhanced risk for substance abuse. Additionally, the direct neural action of drugs of abuse in adolescents may have more severe consequences than in adults because of the additional potential effects on development. Functional neuroimaging research is beginning to examine the neural correlates of reward and inhibitory processes in adolescents. However, the study of the consequences of exposure to drugs of abuse on brain function in adolescents is lagging. This review summarizes the functional neuroimaging literature that can inform conceptualizations of risk and consequences of substance use in adolescence.

In the current vigorous debate over the value of neuroscience to psychoanalysis, the epistemological status of the links between the data of brain research and the constructs of interest to psychoanalysts has rarely been examined. An inspection of recent discussions of mirror neuron research, particularly regarding countertransference, reveals gaps between psychoanalytic processes and the available brain activation data, and allows the evaluation of evidence for three implicit assumptions frequently made to bridge these gaps: (1) there is a straightforward correspondence between observed brain activity and mental activity; (2) similarity of localized brain activity across individuals signifies a shared interpersonal experience; (3) an automatic brain mechanism enables direct interpersonal sharing of experiences in the absence of inference and language. Examination of mirror neuron research findings reveals that these assumptions are either untested or questionable. Moreover, within neuroscience there are competing interpretations of mirror neuron findings, with diverse implications for psychoanalysis. The present state of mirror neuron research may offer us new hypotheses or metaphors, but does not provide empirical validation of the proposed models. More generally, as we attempt to learn from research findings generated outside psychoanalysis, we must strive to think scientifically, by minding the difference between data and interpretation.
This paper begins with an overview of contemporary approaches to archetype theory and notes the radical nature of certain deductions. Some argue that there is no 'archetype-as-such' as a pre-existing entity at the core of a complex driving its formation whilst the findings of current neuroscience are calling into question one very thing on which the classical theory is built--innatism. Knox's argument for image schemas raises the question as to the extent to which archetypes can be conceived in any preformationist sense. The question is then posed--to what extent can Jung's classical theory of archetypes be read in light of these current models? The case examples Jung uses to evidence the existence of archetypes, his explications of synchronicity and his own Philemon experience are then reappraised. The conclusion is drawn that it is difficult to evidence the existence of autonomous archetypes unrelated to personal affective experience. Not only would this be expected by emergent/developmental models of archetype but it can explain many of Jung's disjunctive statements about archetype constellation; the difficulties in separating personal and collective psychic content and Jung's apparent Lamarckianism. The implications of these models for theory, clinical practice and analyst training are then offered for discussion.

Insomnia is a common disorder effecting millions of people worldwide. Currently most individuals suffering from insomnia take medications to help them sleep. However, there are a variety of behavioral treatments, which have been shown to be effective in empirical studies that offer many advantages over medications. In addition, behavioral treatments have been shown to be more effective long-term than medication. This paper reviews the principles and practice of these behavioral treatments. At the end of the paper there is also a brief discussion of circadian rhythm disorders that can mimic insomnia.
Body dysmorphic disorder is a severe disturbance in which the person is preoccupied with an imagined defect in appearance. It is unclear what causes and what maintains BDD, although it is assumed that patients are characterized by an increased self-focused attention. Since patients spend a lot of time examining their 'defect' in reflecting surfaces, it might well be that mirror gazing itself is an important maintaining factor for BDD, as it may lead to a loss of sense of proportions. If so, normal individuals' body evaluations are expected to decrease likewise after mirror exposure. In the present study, 50 female students watched both their own face in the mirror and a photograph of a neutral female face for 3.5 min. Before and after gazing, they rated the attractiveness of the faces. Results indicate that mirror exposure did not lead to decreased attractiveness in normal participants. However, when participants were divided into high and low satisfaction about appearance, highly satisfied individuals' evaluations of their own face improved, whereas low satisfied individuals' evaluations tended to decrease. For the other face, only the low satisfied individuals showed increased attractiveness scores at post-test. The results are explained by selective visual attention and are in line with recent findings in eating disordered women.
The ability to generate torque during a maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) changes over the day. The present experiments were designed to determine the influence of an individual's chronotype on this diurnal rhythm and on cortical, spinal, and peripheral mechanisms that may be related to torque production. After completing a questionnaire to determine chronotype, 18 subjects (9 morning people, 9 evening people) participated in 4 data collection sessions (at 09:00, 13:00, 17:00, and 21:00) over 1 day. We used magnetic stimulation of the cortex, electrical stimulation of the tibial nerve, electromyographic (EMG) recordings of muscle activity, and isometric torque measurements to evaluate the excitability of the motor cortex, the spinal cord, and the torque-generating capacity of the triceps surae (TS) muscles. We found that for morning people, cortical excitability was highest at 09:00, spinal excitability was highest at 21:00, and there were no significant differences in TS EMG or torque produced during MVCs over the day. In contrast, evening people showed parallel increases in cortical and spinal excitability over the day, and these were associated with increased TS EMG and MVC torque. There were no differences at the level of the muscle over the day between morning and evening people. We propose that the simultaneous increases in cortical and spinal excitability increased central nervous system drive to the muscles of evening people, thus increasing torque production over the day. These differences in cortical excitability and performance of a motor task between morning and evening people have implications for maximizing human performance and highlight the influence of chronotype on an individual's diurnal rhythms.
The triptans, serotonin 5-HT 1B/1D agonists exemplified by sumatriptan, are an effective class of migraine therapy but have class labeling contraindicating their use in patients with coronary artery disease. Triptans have been shown to constrict human coronary artery in vitro, and there have been case reports of myocardial infarction in patients using sumatriptan. However, preclinical in vivo studies with sumatriptan in normal dogs have failed to demonstrate an effect on coronary flow. The present studies were conducted in a canine model in which regional myocardial ischemia was evoked by atrial pacing in the presence of a 40% stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Ischemic severity was quantified by changes in local epicardial electrograms (EGs) recorded in the ischemic zone. The intra-atrial administration of 10 microg x kg x min sumatriptan variably but not significantly increased the severity of regional ischemia (pre- vs. posttreatment: Delta EG: 2.00 +/- 0.17 vs. 3.05 +/- 1.15 mV). Sumatriptan at 30 microg x kg x min significantly increased ischemic severity (Delta EG: 1.88 +/- 0.19 vs. 3.32 +/- 0.58 mV, P &lt; 0.05) concomitant with a significant reduction in coronary blood flow (8.9 +/- 0.5 vs. 7.2 +/- 0.8 mL/min, P &lt; 0.05). These results demonstrate that a reduction in coronary flow with proischemic consequence can be modeled preclinically with sumatriptan in a canine model of cardiac stress.
p27SJ, a novel protein isolated from St John's wort (Hypericum perforatum), belongs to an emerging family of DING proteins that are related to a prokaryotic phosphate-binding protein superfamily. Here we demonstrate that p27SJ exhibits phosphatase activity and that its expression in cells decreases the level of phosphorylated Erk1/2, a key protein of several signaling pathways. Treatment of p27SJ-expressing cells with phosphatase inhibitors including okadaic acid, maintained Erk1/2 in its phosphorylated form, suggesting that dephosphorylation of Erk1/2 is mediated by p27SJ. Further, expression of p27SJ affects Erk1/2 downstream regulatory targets such as STAT3 and CREB. Moreover, the level of expression of cyclin A that associates with active ERK1/2 and is regulated by CREB, was modestly reduced in p27SJ-expressing cells. Accordingly, results from in vitro kinase assays revealed a noticeable decrease in the activity of cyclin A in cells expressing p27SJ. Cell cycle analysis demonstrated dysregulation at S and G2/M phases in cells expressing p27SJ, supporting the notion that a decline in cyclin A activity by p27SJ has a biological impact on cell growth. These observations provide evidence that p27SJ alters the state of Erk1/2 phosphorylation, and impacts several biological events associated with cell growth and function.
As a disease model, the laboratory rat has contributed enormously to neuroscience research over the years. It has also been a popular animal model for Alzheimer's disease but its popularity has diminished during the last decade, as techniques for genetic manipulation in rats have lagged behind that of mice. In recent years, the rat has been making a comeback as an Alzheimer's disease model and the appearance of increasing numbers of transgenic rats will be a welcome and valuable complement to the existing mouse models. This review summarizes the contributions and current status of the rat as an animal model of Alzheimer's disease.
Mice deficient in superoxide dismutase 1 (Sod1(-/-) mice) develop many features seen in patients with age-related macular degeneration (AMD) including choroidal neovascularization (NV). We sought to determine if the absence of SOD1 contributes to the pro-angiogenic environment in the subretinal space or whether it is completely secondary to other changes in Bruch's membrane and the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE) that precede the development of choroidal NV. In an ischemic retinopathy model or a transgenic model in which the rhodopsin promoter drives expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in photoreceptor there was significantly more NV in Sod1(-/-) compared to Sod1(+/+) mice. The compromised antioxidant defense system in Sod1(-/-) mice contributes to the pro-angiogenic environment, because treatment of Sod1(-/-) mice with a mixture of antioxidants caused a significant reduction in ischemia-induced retinal NV. Wild-type mice treated with the same antioxidants also showed reduced ischemia-induced retinal NV, reduced VEGF-induced subretinal NV, and reduced choroidal NV at Bruch's membrane rupture sites. These data suggest that reactive oxygen species contribute to several types of ocular NV. This could explain why in the Age-Related Eye Disease Trial, antioxidant treatment reduced conversion from non-neovascular to neovascular AMD and severe vision loss, and suggest that potent antioxidants should be considered for other diseases complicated by ocular NV. J. Cell. Physiol. 219: 544-552, 2009. (c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Biotin-responsive basal ganglia disease is a rare childhood neurological disorder of uncertain etiology that is treatable if suspected and diagnosed. Only few cases have been reported earlier in literature. We report a case of biotin-responsive basal ganglia disease suspected clinically, corroborated by neuroimaging and a dramatic response to biotin therapy.

Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor stimulation is a potential target for controlling symptoms in several psychiatric disorders. Galantamine is a cholinesterase inhibitor that can modulate the nicotinic receptor sites. In this study, we examined the effect of galantamine on the quantitative EEG in patients with major depression. Twenty patients were included in a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial. Patients received galantamine (8 mg/day for 4 weeks then 16 mg/day for another 4 weeks) or placebo for eight weeks. Quantitative EEG using the international 10 to 20 configuration, 9 minutes of resting, eyes closed, and eyes open was done before and after the study period. Nineteen patients completed the study and their data were included in the final analysis. The results showed that galantamine compared with placebo reduced absolute band power that was statistically significant (using multivariate analysis of variance) for beta wave [F(1,17) = 2.48, P = 0.03]; the between-subject effect was significant on the left and right posterior, and left central regions. The multivariate analysis of variance model for alpha was not significant [F(1,17) = 1.07, P = 0.43]. We suggest that the reduction in absolute power after galantamine administration could be a sign of brain activation as a result of modulation of neurotransmitter release. We recommend the initiation of a larger study to confirm our findings and help in understanding the neuropathology of major depression.
Purpose of the present study was to investigate the early cortical somatosensory evoked potentials after median nerve stimulation and to determine normative data as a function of age. Two hundred forty subjects aged 1 day to 18 years were studied to determine standards of normality during maturation to establish the growth curve. The N9, N13, and N20 components were present in all patients. These components decreased in latency until 4 to 5 years of age because of central nervous system maturation after which latencies increased until adulthood, on the basis of brain and body growth.
Although chronic pain and depression have a high co-occurrence, major depression is underrecognized and undertreated in patients with chronic pain conditions, partly because these patients frequently present with somatic complaints rather than mood symptoms. Depression and pain have overlapping neurobiologic mechanisms, and a comprehensive treatment plan for patients with depression and painful physical symptoms should include pharmacotherapy to target serotonergic and noradrenergic neurotransmitters, along with cognitive-behavioral therapy, exercise, and patient education.
A central question in behavioral science is how we select among choice alternatives to obtain consistently the most beneficial outcomes. Three variables are particularly important when making a decision: the potential payoff, the probability of success, and the cost in terms of time and effort. A key brain region in decision making is the frontal cortex as damage here impairs the ability to make optimal choices across a range of decision types. We simultaneously recorded the activity of multiple single neurons in the frontal cortex while subjects made choices involving the three aforementioned decision variables. This enabled us to contrast the relative contribution of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), the orbito-frontal cortex, and the lateral prefrontal cortex to the decision-making process. Neurons in all three areas encoded value relating to choices involving probability, payoff, or cost manipulations. However, the most significant signals were in the ACC, where neurons encoded multiplexed representations of the three different decision variables. This supports the notion that the ACC is an important component of the neural circuitry underlying optimal decision making.
Attentional cues can trigger activity in the parietal cortex in anticipation of visual displays, and this activity may, in turn, induce changes in other areas of the visual cortex, hence, implementing attentional selection. In a recent TMS study [Mevorach, C., Humphreys, G. W., &amp; Shalev, L. Opposite biases in salience-based selection for the left and right posterior parietal cortex. Nature Neuroscience, 9, 740-742, 2006b], it was shown that the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) can utilize the relative saliency (a nonspatial property) of a target and a distractor to bias visual selection. Furthermore, selection was lateralized so that the right PPC is engaged when salient information must be selected and the left PPC when the salient information must be ignored. However, it is not clear how the PPC implements these complementary forms of selection. Here we used on-line triple-pulse TMS over the right or left PPC prior to or after the onset of global/local displays. When delivered after the onset of the display, TMS to the right PPC disrupted the selection of the more salient aspect of the hierarchical letter. In contrast, left PPC TMS delivered prior to the onset of the stimulus disrupted responses to the lower saliency stimulus. These findings suggest that selection and suppression of saliency, rather than being &quot;two sides of the same coin,&quot; are fundamentally different processes. Selection of saliency seems to operate reflexively, whereas suppression of saliency relies on a preparatory phase that &quot;sets up&quot; the system in order to effectively ignore saliency.
Goal-directed behavior lowers activity in brain areas that include the medial frontal cortex, the medial and lateral parietal cortex, and limbic and paralimbic brain regions, commonly referred to as the &quot;default network.&quot; These activity decreases are believed to reflect the interruption of processes that are ongoing when the mind is in a restful state. Previously, the nature of these processes was probed by varying cognitive task parameters, but the presence of emotional processes, while often assumed, was little investigated. With fMRI, we studied the effect of systematic variations of both cognitive load and emotional stimulus connotation on task-related decreases in the default network by employing an auditory working memory (WM) task with musical sounds. The performance of the WM task, compared to passive listening, lowered the activity in medial and lateral, prefrontal, parietal, temporal, and limbic regions. In a subset of these regions, the magnitude of decrease depended on the memory load; the greater the cognitive load, the larger the magnitude of the observed decrease. Furthermore, in the right amygdala and the left precuneus, areas previously associated with processing of unpleasant dissonant musical sounds, there was an interaction between the experimental condition and the stimulus type. The current results are consistent with the previously reported effect of task difficulty on task-related brain activation decreases. The results also indicate that task-related decreases may be further modulated by the emotional stimulus connotation.
We used concurrent TMS-fMRI to test directly for hemispheric differences in causal influences of the right or left fronto-parietal cortex on activity (BOLD signal) in the human occipital cortex. Clinical data and some behavioral TMS studies have been taken to suggest right-hemisphere specialization for top-down modulation of vision in humans, based on deficits such as spatial neglect or extinction in lesioned patients, or findings that TMS to right (vs. left) fronto-parietal structures can elicit stronger effects on visual performance. But prior to the recent advent of concurrent TMS and neuroimaging, it was not possible to directly examine the causal impact of one (stimulated) brain region upon others in humans. Here we stimulated the frontal or intraparietal cortex in the left or right hemisphere with TMS, inside an MR scanner, while measuring with fMRI any resulting BOLD signal changes in visual areas V1-V4 and V5/MT+. For both frontal and parietal stimulation, we found clear differences between effects of right- versus left-hemisphere TMS on activity in the visual cortex, with all differences significant in direct statistical comparisons. Frontal TMS over either hemisphere elicited similar BOLD decreases for central visual field representations in V1-V4, but only right frontal TMS led to BOLD increases for peripheral field representations in these regions. Hemispheric differences for effects of parietal TMS were even more marked: Right parietal TMS led to strong BOLD changes in V1-V4 and V5/MT+, but left parietal TMS did not. These data directly confirm that the human frontal and parietal cortex show right-hemisphere specialization for causal influences on the visual cortex.
If we search for an item, a representation of this item in our working memory guides attention to matching items in the visual scene. We can hold multiple items in working memory. Do all these items guide attention in parallel? We asked participants to detect a target object in a stream of objects while they maintained a second item in memory for a subsequent task. On some trials, we presented this memory item as a distractor in the stream. Subjects did not confuse these memory items with the search target, as the false alarm rate on trials where the memory item was presented in the stream was comparable to that on trials with only regular distractors. However, a comparable performance does not exclude that the memory items are processed differently from normal distractors. We therefore recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) evoked by search targets, memory items, and regular distractors. As expected, ERPs evoked by search targets differed from those evoked by distractors. Search targets elicited an occipital selection negativity and a frontal selection positivity indexing selective attention, whereas the P3b component, which reflects the matching of sensory events to memory representations, was enhanced for targets compared to distractors. Remarkably, the ERPs evoked by memory items were indistinguishable from the ERPs evoked by normal distractors. This implies that the search target has a special status in working memory that is not shared by the other items. These other, &quot;accessory&quot; items do not guide attention and are excluded from the matching process.
The stochastic integrate and fire neuron is one of the most commonly used stochastic models in neuroscience. Although some cases are analytically tractable, a full analysis typically calls for numerical simulations. We present a fast and accurate finite volume method to approximate the solution of the associated Fokker-Planck equation. The discretization of the boundary conditions offers a particular challenge, as standard operator splitting approaches cannot be applied without modification. We demonstrate the method using stationary and time dependent inputs, and compare them with Monte Carlo simulations. Such simulations are relatively easy to implement, but can suffer from convergence difficulties and long run times. In comparison, our method offers improved accuracy, and decreases computation times by several orders of magnitude. The method can easily be extended to two and three dimensional Fokker-Planck equations.
The purpose of the study was to explore changes in the spatial distribution of erector spinae electromyography amplitude during static, sustained contractions and during contractions of increasing load. Surface electromyographic (EMG) signals were detected from nine healthy subjects using a grid of 13 x 5 electrodes placed unilaterally over the lumbar erector spinae musculature. Subjects stood in a 20 degrees forward flexed position and performed: (1) six 20-s long contractions with loads ranging from 2.5 kg to 12.5 kg (2.5 kg increments) and (2) a 6 min sustained contraction with 7.5 kg load. Root mean square (RMS) and mean power spectral frequency (MNF) were computed from the recorded EMG signals. EMG RMS increased (P&lt;0.0001) and MNF remained constant during contractions of increased load. During the sustained contraction, MNF decreased (P&lt;0.0001) and RMS did not change over time. The centroid (center of activity) of the RMS map shifted caudally (P&lt;0.0001) with time during the sustained contraction but did not change with varying load. These results suggest a change in the distribution of erector spinae muscle activity with fatigue and a uniform distribution of muscle activation across loads.
A total of 82 Chinese 11- and 12-year-olds with and without dyslexia were tested on four paired associate learning (PAL) tasks, phonological awareness, morphological awareness, rapid naming, and verbal short-term memory in three different experiments. Experiment 1 demonstrated that children with dyslexia were significantly poorer in visual-verbal PAL than nondyslexic children but that these groups did not differ in visual-visual PAL performance. In Experiment 2, children with dyslexia had more difficulties in transferring rules to new stimuli in a rule-based visual-verbal PAL task as compared with children without dyslexia. Long-term retention of PAL was not impaired in dyslexic children across either experiment. In Experiment 3, rates of visual-verbal PAL deficits among children with dyslexia were all at or above 39%, the highest among all cognitive deficits tested. Moreover, rule-based visual-verbal PAL, in addition to morphological awareness and rapid naming ability, uniquely distinguished children with and without dyslexia even with other metalinguistic skills statistically controlled. Results underscore the importance of visual-verbal PAL for understanding reading impairment in Chinese children.
The double deficit hypothesis states that naming speed problems represent a second core deficit in dyslexia independent from a phonological deficit. The current study investigated the main assumptions of this hypothesis in a large sample of well-diagnosed dyslexics. The three main findings were that (a) naming speed was consistently related only to reading speed; (b) phonological processing speed and naming speed loaded on the same factor, and this factor contributed strongly to reading speed; and (c) although general processing speed was involved in speeded naming of visual items, it did not explain the relationship between naming speed and reading speed. The results do not provide support for the existence of a second independent core naming deficit in dyslexia and indicate that speeded naming tasks are mainly phonological processing speed tasks with an important addition: fast cross-modal matching of visual symbols and phonological codes.

The structure of the pore is critical to understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying selective permeation and voltage-dependent gating of channels formed by the connexin gene family. Here, we describe a portion of the pore structure of unapposed hemichannels formed by a Cx32 chimera, Cx32*Cx43E1, in which the first extracellular loop (E1) of Cx32 is replaced with the E1 of Cx43. Cysteine substitutions of two residues, V38 and G45, located in the vicinity of the border of the first transmembrane (TM) domain (TM1) and E1 are shown to react with the thiol modification reagent, MTSEA-biotin-X, when the channel resides in the open state. Cysteine substitutions of flanking residues A40 and A43 do not react with MTSEA-biotin-X when the channel resides in the open state, but they react with dibromobimane when the unapposed hemichannels are closed by the voltage-dependent &quot;loop-gating&quot; mechanism. Cysteine substitutions of residues V37 and A39 do not appear to be modified in either state. Furthermore, we demonstrate that A43C channels form a high affinity Cd2+ site that locks the channel in the loop-gated closed state. Biochemical assays demonstrate that A43C can also form disulfide bonds when oocytes are cultured under conditions that favor channel closure. A40C channels are also sensitive to micromolar Cd2+ concentrations when closed by loop gating, but with substantially lower affinity than A43C. We propose that the voltage-dependent loop-gating mechanism for Cx32*Cx43E1 unapposed hemichannels involves a conformational change in the TM1/E1 region that involves a rotation of TM1 and an inward tilt of either each of the six connexin subunits or TM1 domains.

The aim of this study was to investigate the association between caffeine consumption and headache type and frequency in the general adult population. The results were based on cross-sectional data from 50,483 (55%) out of 92,566 invited inhabitants aged &gt;or=20 years who participated in the Nord-Trndelag Health Survey. In the multivariate analyses, adjusting for age, gender, smoking, and level of education as confounding factors, a weak but significant association (OR = 1.16, 95% CI 1.09-1.23) was found between high caffeine consumption and prevalence of infrequent headache. In contrast, headache &gt;14 days/month was less likely among individuals with high caffeine consumption compared to those with low caffeine consumption. The results may indicate that high caffeine consumption changes chronic headache into infrequent headache due to the analgesic properties of caffeine. Alternatively, chronic headache sufferers tend to avoid intake of caffeine to not aggravate their headaches, whereas individuals with infrequent headache are less aware that high caffeine use can be a cause.
Adult neural stem cells (NSCs) are believed to facilitate CNS repair and tissue regeneration. However, it is not yet clear how these cells are influenced when the cellular environment is modified during neurotrauma or neuroinflammatory conditions. In this study, we determine how different proinflammatory cytokines modulate the expression of TLR2 and TLR4 in NSCs and how these cells respond to TLR2 and TLR4 agonists. Primary cultures of neural stem/progenitor cells isolated from the subventricular zone of brains from adult Dark Agouti rats were exposed to 1) supernatants from activated macrophages; 2) proinflammatory cytokines IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, or both; and 3) agonists for TLR2 and TLR4. Both TLR2 and TLR4 were expressed during basal conditions and their mRNA levels were further increased following cytokine exposure. TLR4 was up-regulated by IFN-gamma and this effect was reversed by TNF-alpha. TLR2 expression was increased by supernatants from activated macrophages and by TNF-alpha, which synergized with IFN-gamma. TLR agonists induced the expression of TNF-alpha mRNA. Importantly, TNF-alpha could be translated into protein and released into the supernatants where it was quantified by cytokine ELISA. In conclusion, we demonstrate that NSCs constitutively express TLR2 and TLR4 and that their expression is increased as a consequence of exposure to proinflammatory mediators. Additionally, activation of these receptors can induce production of proinflammatory cytokines. These findings suggest that NSCs may be primed to participate in cytokine production during neuroinflammatory or traumatic conditions.
Stroke is defined as repidly developing symptoms or signs of loss of cerebral function with no apparent cause other than vascular origin. The issues to be addressed when making diagnosis of stroke are : (1) is it a stroke? (2) What pathological type of stroke? (3) Where is the lesion? (4) What caused it? Differential diagnosis of stroke is chronic subdural haematoma, brain tumour, hypoglycaemic, metabolic encephalopathies, postictal neurological deficit and functional. CT or MRI is important investigation while dealing with a stroke patient. In treating acute stroke one has to go through the objectives eg, optimising the patient's chance of survival, minimising the risk and degree of disability and preventing recurrence. One has to think of genera care required in management of stroke. Control of blood pressure and blood sugar is important. Specific treatment includes aspirin, t-PA, low molecular weight heparin, calcium antagonists though some reservation persists over efficacy. Psychological support, cognitive impairment, motor and sensory impairment are to be addressed. Functional rehabilitation interventions, log-term management and secondary prevention are to be cared for.
The topic of vision-based grasping is being widely studied in humans and in other primates using various techniques and with different goals. The fundamental related findings are reviewed in this paper, with the aim of providing researchers from different fields, including intelligent robotics and neural computation, a comprehensive but accessible view on the subject. A detailed description of the principal sensorimotor processes and the brain areas involved is provided following a functional perspective, in order to make this survey especially useful for computational modeling and bio-inspired robotic applications.
This study addressed a macroscopic neurophysiological phenomenon - supernormality during the recovery phase of propagating axonal impulses - in explicit chemical terms. Excitation was reconstructed numerically using the kinetic scheme of multiple-state probabilistic transitions within a population of voltage-dependent sodium channels (NaCh) derived by Vandenberg and Bezanilla (&quot;PC&quot; scheme). Each NaCh transition was characterized as a reversible Markov process with voltage-dependent rate constants associated with each respective directional transition. While recovery reconstructed with the Hodgkin-Huxley formalism included a supernormal period, the PC scheme did not. The present analysis showed that the occurrence and degree of supernormality with the PC scheme was determined by the relative speed of the transitions within the closed loop of the kinetic scheme; supernormality was promoted by speeding these kinetics. The analysis also showed that concurrent with supernormality, the faster loop kinetics caused (1) an elevation in the C(1) --&gt; C(2) transitions, and (2) a reduction in the I(4) --&gt; I(5) transitions. Thus, macroscopic functionality in information processing could be expressed in terms of probabilistic interstate transitions among a population of NaCh molecules.
Chemokines constitute a family of chemoattractant cytokines and are subdivided into four families on the basis of the number and spacing of the conserved cysteine residues in the N-terminus of the protein. Chemokines play a major role in selectively recruiting monocytes, neutrophils, and lymphocytes, as well as in inducing chemotaxis through the activation of G-protein-coupled receptors. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1/CCL2) is one of the key chemokines that regulate migration and infiltration of monocytes/macrophages. Both CCL2 and its receptor CCR2 have been demonstrated to be induced and involved in various diseases. Migration of monocytes from the blood stream across the vascular endothelium is required for routine immunological surveillance of tissues, as well as in response to inflammation. This review will discuss these biological processes and the structure and function of CCL2.
Experiments involving two diffusion-weightings in a single acquisition, so-called double- or two-wave-vector experiments, have recently been applied to measure the microscopic anisotropy in macroscopically isotropic samples or to estimate pore or compartment sizes. These informations are derived from the signal modulation observed when varying the wave vectors' orientations. However, the modulation amplitude can be small and, for short mixing times between the two diffusion-weightings, decays with increased gradient pulse lengths which hampers its detectability on whole-body MR systems. Here, an approach is investigated that involves multiple concatenations of the two diffusion-weightings in a single experiment. The theoretical framework for double-wave-vector experiments of fully restricted diffusion is adapted and the corresponding tensor approach recently presented for short mixing times extended and compared to numerical simulations. It is shown that for short mixing times (i) the extended tensor approach well describes the signal behavior observed for multiple concatenations and (ii) the relative amplitude of the signal modulation increases with the number of concatenations. Thus, the presented extension of the double-wave-vector experiment may help to improve the detectability of the signal modulations observed for short mixing times, in particular on whole-body MR systems with their limited gradient amplitudes.

Despite the lack of its molecular identification, the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP) is a fascinating subject because of its important role in cell death. This holds especially true for cardiovascular diseases and in particular for ischemia-reperfusion injury, where research on PTP inhibition has been successfully translated from bench to clinical evidence of cardioprotection. In addition, recent reports extend the relevance of PTP to heart failure and atherosclerosis. This review summarizes the major factors involved in PTP control with specific emphasis on cardiovascular pathophysiology, and highlights recent findings on the pivotal role of inorganic phosphate as a mediator of the inhibitory effects of cyclosporin A and cyclophilin D ablation.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive, lethal, neurodegenerative disorder. The causes of ALS are still obscure. Accumulating evidence supports the hypothesis that oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction can be implicated in ALS pathogenesis. DJ-1 plays an important role in the oxidative stress response. The aim of this study was to discover whether there are changes in DJ-1 expression or in DJ-1-oxidized isoforms in an animal model of ALS. We used mutant SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice, a commonly used animal model for ALS. Upregulation of DJ-1 mRNA and protein levels were identified in the brains and spinal cords of SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice as compared to wild-type controls, evident from an early disease stage. Furthermore, an increase in DJ-1 acidic isoforms was detected, implying that there are more oxidized forms of DJ-1 in the CNS of SOD1(G93A) mice. This is the first report of possible involvement of DJ-1 in ALS. Since DJ-1 has a protective role against oxidative stress, it may suggest a possible therapeutic target in ALS.
Here, we want to assess the benefit of high-resolution and high-contrast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for detailed documentation of internal brain morphology in formalin-fixed whole head specimens of the full-term calf brain (Bos taurus). Imaging was performed on a Siemens 1.5 T scanner. Optimum contrast was achieved using a 3D sequence with a flip angle of 30 degrees , repetition time (TR) of 20 ms, echo time (TE) of 6.8 ms, and an interpolated matrix of 1024 x 1024. In plane resolution was 0.25 mm. Computer-generated three-dimensional images were reconstructed from the original scans in the coronal plane. This study shows that MRI is capable to identify delicate structures in immature brain specimens. The use of MRI in comparative morphology facilitates the examination of series of brains or brain samples in a reasonable time. The comprehensive description of species- and group-specific brain features in MRI scans of Bos taurus will complement existing data for diagnostic imaging and neuromorphological research, in general, as well as for phylogenetic reconstructions.
Carbon nanotubes, owing to their electrical, chemical, mechanical, and thermal properties, are one of the most promising nanomaterials for the electronics, computer, and aerospace industries. More recently, these unique materials are finding their niche in neuroscience. Here, we discuss the use of carbon nanotubes as scaffolds for neuronal growth. The chemical properties of carbon nanotubes can be systematically varied by attaching different functional groups. Such functionalized carbon nanotubes can be used to control the outgrowth and branching pattern of neuronal processes. We also discuss electrical interactions between neurons and carbon nanotubes. The electrical properties of nanotubes can provide a mechanism to monitor or stimulate neurons through the scaffold itself. The ease of which carbon nanotubes can be patterned makes them attractive for studying the organization of neural networks and has the potential to develop new devices for neural prosthesis. We note that additional toxicity studies of carbon nanotubes are necessary so that exposure guidelines and safety regulations can be set.
Coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10)) and creatine are promising agents for neuroprotection in neurodegenerative diseases via their effects on improving mitochondrial function and cellular bioenergetics and their properties as antioxidants. We examined whether a combination of CoQ(10) with creatine can exert additive neuroprotective effects in a MPTP mouse model of Parkinson's disease, a 3-NP rat model of Huntington's disease (HD) and the R6/2 transgenic mouse model of HD. The combination of the two agents produced additive neuroprotective effects against dopamine depletion in the striatum and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) following chronic subcutaneous administration of MPTP. The combination treatment resulted in significant reduction in lipid peroxidation and pathologic alpha-synuclein accumulation in the SNpc neurons of the MPTP-treated mice. We also observed additive neuroprotective effects in reducing striatal lesion volumes produced by chronic subcutaneous administration of 3-NP to rats. The combination treatment showed significant effects on blocking 3-NP-induced impairment of glutathione homeostasis and reducing lipid peroxidation and DNA oxidative damage in the striatum. Lastly, the combination of CoQ(10) and creatine produced additive neuroprotective effects on improving motor performance and extending survival in the transgenic R6/2 HD mice. These findings suggest that combination therapy using CoQ(10) and creatine may be useful in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease and HD.
Alpha-synuclein (ASYN) is central in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis. Converging pieces of evidence suggest that the levels of ASYN expression play a critical role in both familial and sporadic Parkinson's disease. To elucidate the mechanism underlying wild type (WT) ASYN-mediated neurotoxicity, we have generated a novel Tet-Off SHSY-5Y cell line, conditionally expressing WT ASYN. Induction of human WT ASYN in retinoic acid-differentiated SHSY-5Y cells leads to accumulation of soluble ASYN oligomers, in the absence of inclusions, and to gradual cellular degeneration. Morphologically, the death observed is non-apoptotic. Caspases other than caspase 3, including caspase 9, are activated and caspase inhibition diminishes death by acting at a point upstream of cytochrome c release. Application of Scyllo-inositol, an oligomer-stabilizing compound, prevents neuronal death in this model. These findings are consistent with a model in which oligomeric ASYN triggers the initial activation of the apoptotic pathway, which is however blocked downstream of the mitochondrial checkpoint, thus leading to a death combining in a unique fashion both apoptotic and non-apoptotic features. This novel inducible cell model system may prove valuable in the deciphering of WT ASYN-induced pathogenic effects and in the assessment and screening of potential therapeutic strategies.
The accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is known to activate the ER, which is termed ER stress. Here, we demonstrated that amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a novel mediator of ER stress-induced apoptosis through the C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) pathway. Expression of APP mRNA was elevated by tunicamycin- or dithiothreitol-induced ER stress. The levels of C83 and APP intracellular domain (AICD) fragments, which are cleaved from APP, were significantly increased under ER stress, although the protein level of full-length APP was decreased. Cellular viability was reduced in APP-over-expressing cells, which was attenuated by treatment with a gamma-secretase inhibitor, N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT). Cellular viability was also reduced in AICD-FLAG-over-expressing cells. The mRNA and protein levels of CHOP, an ER stress-responsive gene, were remarkably increased by APP over-expression, which was attenuated by treatment with DAPT. CHOP mRNA induction was also found in AICD-FLAG-over-expressing cells. Cell death and CHOP up-regulation by ER stress were attenuated by APP knockdown. Data obtained with a luciferase assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay indicated that AICD associates with the promoter region of the CHOP gene. In conclusion, ER stress-induced APP undergoes alpha- and gamma-secretase cleavage and subsequently induces CHOP-mediated cell death.
Animal models are invaluable tools to study neurodegenerative disorders but a general consensus on the most accurate rodent model of Parkinson's disease has not been reached. Here, we examined how different methods of MPTP administration influence the degeneration of the dopaminergic (DA) system. Adult male C57BL/6 mice were treated with the same cumulative dose of MPTP following four distinct procedures: (i) subacute i.p. injections; (ii) 28-day chronic s.c. infusion; (iii) 28-day chronic i.p. infusion; and (iv) 14-day chronic i.p. infusion. Subacute MPTP treatment significantly affected all aspects of the DA system within the nigral and striatal territories. In contrast, the 28-day chronic s.c. infusion did not significantly alter any components of the DA system. The 28- and 14-day chronic i.p. infusions induced loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells correlated with a decrease in Nurr1 mRNA levels, but no significant decrease in the density of TH striatal fibers. Importantly, however, only the 14-day chronic MPTP i.p. infusion protocol promoted the formation of neuronal inclusions as noted by the expression of alpha-synuclein protein within the cytoplasm of TH nigral neurons. Overall, we found that the 14-day chronic MPTP i.p. infusion reproduces more accurately the pathological characteristics of early stage Parkinson's disease.
Although there is known to be a marked concentration of reactive microglia in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), a disorder in which alpha-synuclein plays a key pathogenic role, the specific roles of alpha-synuclein and microglia remains poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the effects of alpha-synuclein and the mechanisms of invasive microglial migration into the SNpc. We show that alpha-synuclein up-regulates the expressions of the cell adhesion molecule CD44 and the cell surface protease membrane-type 1 matrix metalloproteinase through the extracellular regulated kinases 1/2 pathway. These concurrent inductions increased the generation of soluble CD44 to liberate microglia from the surrounding extracellular matrix for migration. The effects of alpha-synuclein were identical in BV-2 murine microglial cells subjected to cDNA transfection and extracellular treatment. These inductions in primary microglial cultures of C57Bl/6 mice were identical to those in BV-2 cells. alpha-Synuclein-induced microglial migration into the SNpc was confirmed in vivo using a 6-hydroxydopamine mouse model of PD. Our data demonstrate a correlation between alpha-synuclein-induced phenotypic changes and microglial migration. With the recruitment of the microglial population into the SNpc during dopaminergic neurodegeneration, alpha-synuclein may play a role in accelerating the pathogenesis of PD.
Microglial cell activity increases in the rat hippocampus during normal brain aging. The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM)-derived mimetic peptide, FG loop (FGL), acts as an anti-inflammatory agent in the hippocampus of the aged rat, promoting CD200 ligand expression while attenuating glial cell activation and subsequent pro-inflammatory cytokine production. The aim of the current study was to determine if FGL corrects the age-related imbalance in hippocampal levels of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and pro-inflammatory interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), and subsequently attenuates the glial reactivity associated with aging. Administration of FGL reversed the age-related decline in IGF-1 in hippocampus, while abrogating the age-related increase in IFNgamma. FGL robustly promotes IGF-1 release from primary neurons and IGF-1 is pivotal in FGL induction of neuronal Akt phosphorylation and subsequent CD200 ligand expression in vitro. In addition, FGL abrogates both age- and IFNgamma-induced increases in markers of glial cell activation, including major histocompatibility complex class II (MHCII) and CD40. Finally, the proclivity of FGL to attenuate IFNgamma-induced glial cell activation in vitro is IGF-1-dependent. Overall, these findings suggest that FGL, by correcting the age-related imbalance in hippocampal levels of IGF-1 and IFNgamma, attenuates glial cell activation associated with aging. These findings also highlight a novel mechanism by which FGL can impact on neuronal CD200 ligand expression and subsequently on glial cell activation status.
Activation and translocation of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) from cytoplasm to the nucleus has been reported in models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Our focus was to discern the upstream events which ultimately lead to NF-kappaB nuclear translocation using animal model of PD. We demonstrate that p38 activation results in downstream phosphorylation of NF-kappaB and accumulation of p65 subunit of NF-kappaB selectively in ventral midbrain but not in striatum. Treatment with p38 inhibitor, SB239063, prevented downstream phosphorylation of IkappaB alpha and p65 translocation to the nucleus in the ventral midbrain. Phosphorylation of anti-apoptotic Bcl2, an NF-kappaB target gene by p38 to inactive pBcl2ser87 was also attenuated by SB239063. Increased staining of p65 in the nuclei of cells in the substantia nigra but not in the ventral tegmental area of MPTP-treated mice further suggests a role for NF-kappaB in PD. In agreement with the above, sustained caspase activation is seen in the ventral midbrain but not in striatum. We demonstrate the region specific p38-mediated activation of NF-kappaB following MPTP treatment demonstrating the role of p38/NF-kappaB signaling in the pathogenesis and progression of the disease. Selective inhibitors of p38 may therefore, help preserve the surviving neurons in PD and slow down the disease progression.
A GAG deletion in the DYT1 gene is responsible for the autosomal dominant movement disorder, early onset primary torsion dystonia, which is characterised by involuntary sustained muscle contractions and abnormal posturing of the limbs. The mutation leads to deletion of a single glutamate residue in the C-terminus of the protein torsinA, a member of the AAA+ ATPase family of proteins with multiple functions. Since no evidence of neurodegeneration has been found in DYT1 patients, the dystonic phenotype is likely to be the result of neuronal functional defect(s), the nature of which is only partially understood. Biochemical, structural and cell biological studies have been performed in order to characterise torsinA. These studies, together with the generation of several animal models, have contributed to identify cellular compartments and pathways, including the cytoskeleton and the nuclear envelope, the secretory pathway and the synaptic vesicle machinery where torsinA function may be crucial. However, the role of torsinA and the correlation between the dysfunction caused by the mutation and the dystonic phenotype remain unclear. This review provides an overview of the findings of the last ten years of research on torsinA, a critical evaluation of the different models proposed and insights towards future avenues of research.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and NPY receptors are widely distributed in the CNS, including the retina, but the role of NPY in the retina is largely unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate whether NPY modulates intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) changes in retinal neurons and identify the NPY receptors involved. As NPY decreased the [Ca(2+)](i) amplitudes evoked by 30 mM KCl in only 50% of neurons analyzed, we divided them in two populations: NPY-non-responsive neurons (Delta2/Delta1 &gt; or = 0.80) and NPY-responsive neurons (Delta2/Delta1 &lt; 0.80), being the Delta2/Delta1 the ratio between the amplitude of [Ca(2+)](i) increase evoked by the second (Delta2) and the first (Delta1) stimuli of KCl. The NPY Y(1)/Y(5), Y(4), and Y(5) receptor agonists (100 nM), but not the Y(2) receptor agonist (300 nM), inhibited the [Ca(2+)](i) increase induced by KCl. In addition, the inhibitory effect of NPY on evoked-[Ca(2+)](i) changes was reduced in the presence of the Y(1) or the Y(5) receptor antagonists. In conclusion, NPY inhibits KCl-evoked [Ca(2+)](i) increase in retinal neurons through the activation of NPY Y(1), Y(4), and Y(5) receptors. This effect may be viewed as a potential neuroprotective mechanism of NPY against retinal neurodegeneration.
The transcriptional adaptive response of motoneurons and muscles to voluntary exercise has been investigated by using laser capture microdissection and microarray analysis. Our results show that motoneurons respond to physical activity by activating a complex transcriptional plan, with changes involved in neurotrophic factor signalling, electrophysiological changes and synaptic reorganization. Gastrocnemius muscle shows increases in transcripts responsible for neovascularization and new myogenesis. Both tissues show transcriptional changes involved in the growth and reinforcement of the neuromuscular junction. This study indicates that the neuromuscular system undergoes significant structural and functional alterations, aiming to optimize the transmission of both chemical and electrical stimuli, thus prompting axonal outgrowth and mechanisms similar to long-term potentiation in hippocampal neurons. Understanding the response of these cells during exercise has potentially important implications for human neuromuscular disease, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, by highlighting candidate genes pivotal for the balance between the physiology and the pathology of the neuromuscular system in terms of the stress response to physical exercise.
The heterologous expression and activation of the human P2Y(2) nucleotide receptor (P2Y(2)R) in human 1321N1 astrocytoma cells stimulates alpha-secretase-dependent cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), causing extracellular release of the non-amyloidogenic protein secreted amyloid precursor protein (sAPPalpha). To determine whether a similar response occurs in a neuronal cell, we analyzed whether P2Y(2)R-mediated production of sAPPalpha occurs in rat primary cortical neurons (rPCNs). In rPCNs, P2Y(2)R mRNA and receptor activity were virtually absent in quiescent cells, whereas overnight treatment with the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) up-regulated both P2Y(2)R mRNA expression and receptor activity by four-fold. The up-regulation of the P2Y(2)R was abrogated by pre-incubation with Bay 11-7085, an IkappaB-alpha phosphorylation inhibitor, which suggests that P2Y(2)R mRNA transcript levels are regulated through nuclear factor-kappa-B (NFkappaB) signaling. Furthermore, the P2Y(2)R agonist Uridine-5'-triphosphate (UTP) enhanced the release of sAPPalpha in rPCNs treated with IL-1beta or transfected with P2Y(2)R cDNA. UTP-induced release of sAPPalpha from rPCNs was completely inhibited by pre-treatment of the cells with the metalloproteinase inhibitor TACE inhibitor (TAPI-2) or the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor LY294002, and was partially inhibited by the MAPK/extracellular signal-regulated kinase inhibitor U0126 and the protein kinase C inhibitor GF109203. These data suggest that P2Y(2)R-mediated release of sAPPalpha from cortical neurons is directly dependent on a disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM) 10/17 and PI3K activity, whereas extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and PI3K activity may indirectly regulate APP processing. These results demonstrate that elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines associated with neurodegenerative diseases, such as IL-1beta, can enhance non-amyloidogenic APP processing through up-regulation of the P2Y(2)R in neurons.
The dentate gyrus (DG) is the central input region to the hippocampus and is known to play an important role in learning and memory. Previous studies have shown that prenatal alcohol is associated with hippocampal-dependent learning deficits and a decreased ability to elicit long-term potentiation (LTP) in the DG in adult animals. Given that activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) signaling cascade by NMDA receptors is required for various forms of learning and memory, as well as LTP, in hippocampal regions, including the DG, we hypothesized that fetal alcohol-exposed adult animals would have deficits in hippocampal NMDA receptor-dependent ERK1/2 activation. We used immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry techniques to detect NMDA-stimulated ERK1/2 activation in acute hippocampal slices prepared from adult fetal alcohol-exposed mice. We present the first evidence linking prenatal alcohol exposure to deficits in NMDA receptor-dependent ERK1/2 activation specifically in the DG of adult offspring. This deficit may account for the LTP deficits previously observed in the DG, as well as the life-long cognitive deficits, associated with prenatal alcohol exposure.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a behaviourally defined syndrome where the etiology and pathophysiology is only partially understood. In a small proportion of children with the condition, a specific medical disorder is identified, but the causal significance in many instances is unclear. Currently, the medical conditions that are best established as probable causes of ASD include Fragile X syndrome, Tuberous Sclerosis and abnormalities of chromosome 15 involving the 15q11-13 region. Various other single gene mutations, genetic syndromes, chromosomal abnormalities and rare de novo copy number variants have been reported as being possibly implicated in etiology, as have several ante and post natal exposures and complications. However, in most instances the evidence base for an association with ASD is very limited and largely derives from case reports or findings from small, highly selected and uncontrolled case series. Not only therefore, is there uncertainty over whether the condition is associated, but the potential basis for the association is very poorly understood. In some cases the medical condition may be a consequence of autism or simply represent an associated feature deriving from an underlying shared etiology. Nevertheless, it is clear that in a growing proportion of individuals potentially causal medical conditions are being identified and clarification of their role in etio-pathogenesis is necessary. Indeed, investigations into the causal mechanisms underlying the association between conditions such as tuberous sclerosis, Fragile X and chromosome 15 abnormalities are beginning to cast light on the molecular and neurobiological pathways involved in the pathophysiology of ASD. It is evident therefore, that much can be learnt from the study of probably causal medical disorders as they represent simpler and more tractable model systems in which to investigate causal mechanisms. Recent advances in genetics, molecular and systems biology and neuroscience now mean that there are unparalleled opportunities to test causal hypotheses and gain fundamental insights into the nature of autism and its development.
The hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neurones secrete dopamine, which inhibits prolactin secretion. TIDA neurone numbers are deficient in Ames (df/df) and Snell (dw/dw) dwarf mice, which lack prolactin, growth hormone and thyroid-stimulating hormone. Prolactin therapy initiated before 21 days maintains normal-sized TIDA neurone numbers in df/df mice and, when initiated as early as 7 days, maintains the maximum TIDA neurone numbers observed in dw/dw development, which are decreased compared to those in normal mice. The present study investigated the effect of prolactin dose and species on TIDA neurone development. Snell dwarf and normal mice were treated with saline, 5 microg of ovine prolactin (oPRL), 50 microg of oPRL, or 50 microg of recombinant mouse prolactin (rmPRL) beginning at 3 days of age. Brains were analysed at 45 days using catecholamine histofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase or bromodeoxyuridine. Normal mice had greater (P &lt;or= 0.01) TIDA neurones than dw/dw, regardless of treatment. TIDA neurones in 50 microg oPRL-treated dw/dw mice were greater (P &lt;or= 0.05) than those in 5 microg oPRL- and rmPRL-treated dw/dw mice, which were greater (P &lt;or= 0.01) than those in saline-treated dw/dw mice. Fifty microgram oPRL-treated dw/dw mice also had greater (P &lt; 0.01) TIDA neurone numbers than the maximum numbers observed in untreated dw/dw mice development. Among saline, 5 microg oPRL and 50 microg oPRL treatments, but not rmPRL, A14 neurone numbers were higher (P &lt;or= 0.01) in normal compared to in dw/dw mice. The mechanism of TIDA neurone recruitment was investigated using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) treatment at intervals after 21 days. Mice treated with rmPRL, but not oPRL, had increased BrdU incorporation in the periventricular area surrounding the third ventricle and median eminence and in the arcuate nucleus. The data obtained in the present study indicate that oPRL, but not rmPRL, when given at a high enough dose, induces TIDA neurone differentiation in dw/dw mice. This supports neurotrophic effects of prolactin on TIDA neurones in early postnatal development that extends beyond maintenance of the cell population.

Although the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has led to a strong reduction of HIV-associated dementia (HAD) incidence, the prevalence of minor HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) is rising among AIDS patients. HAART medication has shifted neuropathology from a subacute encephalitic condition to a subtle neurodegenerative process involving synaptic and dendritic degeneration, particularly of hippocampal neurons that are spared prior to HAART medication. Considerable neuroinflammation coupled with mononuclear phagocyte activation is present in HAART-medicated brains, particularly in the hippocampus. Accumulating evidence suggests that the resultant elevated secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interferon-gamma, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interleukin-1beta can increase amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) generation and reduce Abeta clearance. Recent advancements in Alzheimer's disease (AD) research identified Abeta biogenesis and clearance venues that are potentially influenced by HIV viral infection, providing new insights into beta-amyloidosis segregation in HIV patients. Our study suggests enhanced beta-amyloidosis in ART-treated HAD and HIV-associated encephalitis brains and suppression of Abeta clearance by viral infection of human primary macrophages. A growing awareness of potential convergent mechanisms leading to neurodegeneration shared by HIV and Abeta points to a significant chance of comorbidity of AD and HAND in senile HIV patients, which calls for a need of basic studies.
Women with epilepsy that plan to become pregnant can in general look forward to uneventful pregnancies and to giving birth to normal children. However, there are certain risks associated with epilepsy and antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment, and it is likely that these risks can be reduced with appropriate prepregnancy counseling. Women with epilepsy should be informed that maintained control of tonic-clonic seizures is important for their health as well as for the well-being of the fetus; that pregnancy in general has little effect on seizure control; but that pregnancy may affect plasma concentrations of AEDs, and that drug level monitoring and dosage adjustments may be needed. They should be informed of the moderately increased risk of birth defects, and that this risk appears to be higher with the use of valproate, in particular at doses above 800 mg/day. The possibility of changing from valproate to another AED should be considered, but such changes should be tried out before conception. Withdrawing or changing an AED should generally be avoided during pregnancy. Women with epilepsy on AED treatment should be encouraged to breast-feed.
A case of brainstem encephalitis in a man positive for both anti-Hu and anti-Ri antibodies is reported. This case had an unusual double step evolution and progressive involvement of different CNS subdivisions at MRI. Brainstem encephalitis developed abruptly, mimicking a posterior vascular deficit with vertigo and dizziness. These symptoms transiently remitted completely after a few days to relapse acutely 1 month later with sudden loss of consciousness, followed by confusion, disorientation, dysarthria, dysphagia and reduced thermic sensation on the right side. Within another few days, the patient developed acute respiratory failure and died some weeks later. MRI was negative at the beginning but later showed a progressive ascending involvement of the brainstem and thalamus. At autopsy, this picture corresponded to lymphocytic infiltration, preferentially B cells into the perivascular spaces and T cells in the brainstem parenchyma, confirming that T cells could be the effector of cytotoxicity, probably in the presence of cooperation with B cells that were well represented in this setting.
Generally, activation of the frontal eye field during seizures can cause versive (forced) gaze deviation, while non-versive head deviation is hypothesised to result from ictal neglect after inactivation of the ipsilateral temporo-parietal area. Almost all non-versive head deviations occurring during temporal lobe seizures are directed to the side of seizure onset, so in derogatory cases it is worth while explaining the paradoxical event. We present a patient with a paradoxical direction of gaze deviation during temporal lobe seizures with an unexpected explanation. Electrocortical stimulation of the temporo-parieto-occipital junction elicited an irrepressible urge to look towards an illusory shadow person besides the patient. Paradoxical non-versive gaze deviations in temporal lobe seizures may be due to illusory experiences masked by postictal amnesia.
Polyethylene glycol (PEG) has been reported to possess fusogenic properties that may confer neuroprotection after spinal cord injury (SCI), but there is uncertainty regarding the mechanisms of PEG in vivo and the robustness of its protective effects. We hypothesized that PEG promotes preservation of cytoskeletal proteins associated with white matter protection and neurobehavioral recovery after SCI. In proof-of-principle experiments using a pin-drop organotypic culture model of SCI, PEG attenuated neural cell death. Adult rats underwent 35-g clip compression SCI at C8 and were randomized postinjury to receive intravenous 30% PEG or sterile Ringer's lactate solution. Confocal microscopy and high-performance liquid chromatography of fluorescein-conjugated PEG permitted in vivo quantification of PEG concentrations in the injured and uninjured spinal cord. Western blot, immunohistochemistry, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP nick end labeling staining demonstrated that PEG reduced 200-kd neurofilament degradation and apoptotic cell death. Polyethylene glycol also promoted spinal cord tissue sparing based on retrograde axonal Fluoro-Gold tracing and morphometric histological assessment. Polyethylene glycol also promoted significant, although modest, neurobehavioral recovery after SCI. Collectively, these results indicate that PEG protects key axonal cytoskeletal proteins after SCI, and that the protection is associated with axonal preservation. The modest extent of locomotor recovery after treatment with PEG suggests, however, that this compound may notconfer sufficient neuroprotection to be used clinically as a single treatment.
