Auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) in schizophrenia are typically characterized by rich emotional content. Despite the prominent role of emotion in regulating normal perception, the neural interface between emotion-processing regions such as the amygdala and auditory regions involved in perception remains relatively unexplored in AVH. Here, we studied brain metabolism using FDG-PET in 9 remitted patients with schizophrenia that previously reported severe AVH during an acute psychotic episode and 8 matched healthy controls. Participants were scanned twice: (1) at rest and (2) during the perception of aversive auditory stimuli mimicking the content of AVH. Compared to controls, remitted patients showed an exaggerated response to the AVH-like stimuli in limbic and paralimbic regions, including the left amygdala. Furthermore, patients displayed abnormally strong connections between the amygdala and auditory regions of the cortex and thalamus, along with abnormally weak connections between the amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex. These results suggest that abnormal modulation of the auditory cortex by limbic-thalamic structures might be involved in the pathophysiology of AVH and may potentially account for the emotional features that characterize hallucinatory percepts in schizophrenia.
Human non-hairy (glabrous) skin of the fingers, palms and soles wrinkles after prolonged exposure to water. Wrinkling is a sympathetic nervous system-dependent process but little is known about the physiology and potential functions of water-induced skin wrinkling. Here we investigated the idea that wrinkling might improve handling of wet objects by measuring the performance of a large cohort of human subjects (n=40) in a manual dexterity task. We also tested the idea that skin wrinkling has an impact on tactile acuity or vibrotactile sensation using two independent sensory tasks. We found that skin wrinkling did not improve dexterity in handling wet objects nor did it affect any aspect of touch sensitivity measured. Thus water-induced wrinkling appears to have no significant impact on tactile driven performance or dexterity in handling wet or dry objects.
Expression of brown adipose tissue (BAT) associated proteins like uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) in inguinal WAT (iWAT) has been suggested to alter iWAT metabolism. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in exercise training and cold exposure-induced iWAT UCP1 expression. The effect of daily intraperitoneal injections of IL-6 (3 ng/g) in C57BL/6 mice for 7 days on iWAT UCP1 expression was examined. In addition, the expression of UCP1 in iWAT was determined in response to 3 days of cold exposure (4C) and 5 weeks of exercise training in wild type (WT) and whole body IL-6 knockout (KO) mice. Repeated injections of IL-6 in C57BL/6 mice increased UCP1 mRNA but not UCP1 protein content in iWAT. Cold exposure increased iWAT UCP1 mRNA content similarly in IL-6 KO and WT mice, while exercise training increased iWAT UCP1 mRNA in WT mice but not in IL-6 KO mice. Additionally, a cold exposure-induced increase in iWAT UCP1 protein content was blunted in IL-6 KO mice, while UCP1 protein content in iWAT was lower in both untrained and exercise trained IL-6 KO mice than in WT mice. In conclusion, repeated daily increases in plasma IL-6 can increase iWAT UCP1 mRNA content and IL-6 is required for an exercise training-induced increase in iWAT UCP1 mRNA content. In addition IL-6 is required for a full induction of UCP1 protein expression in response to cold exposure and influences the UCP1 protein content iWAT of both untrained and exercise trained animals.
Research in the epilepsy field is moving from a primary focus on controlling seizures to addressing disease pathophysiology. This requires the adoption of resource- and time-consuming animal models of chronic epilepsy which are no longer able to sustain the testing of even moderate numbers of compounds. Therefore, new in vitro functional assays of epilepsy are needed that are able to provide a medium throughput while still preserving sufficient biological context to allow for the identification of compounds with new modes of action. Here we describe a robust and simple fluorescence-based calcium assay to measure epileptiform network activity using rat primary cortical cultures in a 96-well format. The assay measures synchronized intracellular calcium oscillations occurring in the population of primary neurons and is amenable to medium throughput screening. We have adapted this assay format to the low magnesium and the 4-aminopyridine epilepsy models and confirmed the contribution of voltage-gated ion channels and AMPA, NMDA and GABA receptors to epileptiform activity in both models. We have also evaluated its translatability using a panel of antiepileptic drugs with a variety of modes of action. Given its throughput and translatability, the calcium oscillations assay bridges the gap between simplified target-based screenings and compound testing in animal models of epilepsy. This phenotypic assay also has the potential to be used directly as a functional screen to help identify novel antiepileptic compounds with new modes of action, as well as pathways with previously unknown contribution to disease pathophysiology.


Some theories of motor control suggest efference-copies of motor commands reach somatosensory cortices. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to test these models. We varied the amount of efference-copy signal by making participants squeeze a soft material either actively or passively. We found electromyographical recordings, an efference-copy proxy, to predict activity in primary somatosensory regions, in particular Brodmann Area (BA) 2. Partial correlation analyses confirmed that brain activity in cortical structures associated with motor control (premotor and supplementary motor cortices, the parietal area PF and the cerebellum) predicts brain activity in BA2 without being entirely mediated by activity in early somatosensory (BA3b) cortex. Our study therefore provides valuable empirical evidence for efference-copy models of motor control, and shows that signals in BA2 can indeed reflect an input from motor cortices and suggests that we should interpret activations in BA2 as evidence for somatosensory-motor rather than somatosensory coding alone.
One of the greatest challenges in visual neuroscience is that of linking neural activity with perceptual experience. In the case of binocular depth perception, important insights have been achieved through comparing neural responses and the perception of depth, for carefully selected stimuli. One of the most important types of stimulus that has been used here is the anti-correlated random dot stereogram (ACRDS). In these stimuli, the contrast polarity of one half of a stereoscopic image is reversed. While neurons in cortical area V1 respond reliably to the binocular disparities in ACRDS, they do not create a sensation of depth. This discrepancy has been used to argue that depth perception must rely on neural activity elsewhere in the brain. Currently, the psychophysical results on which this argument rests are not clear-cut. While it is generally assumed that ACRDS do not support the perception of depth, some studies have reported that some people, some of the time, perceive depth in some types of these stimuli. Given the importance of these results for understanding the neural correlates of stereopsis, we studied depth perception in ACRDS using a large number of observers, in order to provide an unambiguous conclusion about the extent to which these stimuli support the perception of depth. We presented observers with random dot stereograms in which correlated dots were presented in a surrounding annulus and correlated or anti-correlated dots were presented in a central circular region. While observers could reliably report the depth of the central region for correlated stimuli, we found no evidence for depth perception in static or dynamic anti-correlated stimuli. Confidence ratings for stereoscopic perception were uniformly low for anti-correlated stimuli, but showed normal variation with disparity for correlated stimuli. These results establish that the inability of observers to perceive depth in ACRDS is a robust phenomenon.
Across human cultures, grandparents make a valued contribution to the health of their families and communities. Moreover, evidence is gathering that grandparents have a positive impact on the development of grandchildren in contemporary industrialized societies. A broad range of factors that influence the likelihood grandparents will invest in their grandchildren has been explored by disciplines as diverse as sociology, economics, psychology and evolutionary biology. To progress toward an encompassing framework, this study will include biological relatedness between grandparents and grandchildren, a factor central to some discipline's theoretical frameworks (e.g., evolutionary biology), next to a wide range of other factors in an analysis of grandparental investment in contemporary Europe. This study draws on data collected in the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe from 11 European countries that included 22,967 grandparent-child dyads. Grandparents reported biological relatedness, and grandparental investment was measured as the frequency of informal childcare. Biological and non-biological grandparents differed significantly in a variety of individual, familial and area-level characteristics. Furthermore, many other economic, sociological, and psychological factors also influenced grandparental investment. When they were controlled, biological grandparents, relative to non-biological grandparents, were more likely to invest heavily, looking after their grandchildren almost daily or weekly. Paradoxically, however, they were also more likely to invest nothing at all. We discuss the methodological and theoretical implications of these findings across disciplines.
Neurotensin (NT) is a neuropeptide identical in mice and humans that is produced and released in many CNS regions associated with maternal behavior. NT has been linked to aspects of maternal care and previous studies have indirectly suggested that endogenous NT signaling is altered in the postpartum period. In the present study, we directly examine whether NT and its receptors exhibit altered gene expression in maternal relative to virgin outbred mice using real time quantitative PCR (qPCR) across multiple brain regions. We also examine NT protein levels using anti-NT antibodies and immunohistochemistry in specific brain regions. In the medial preoptic area (MPOA), which is critical for maternal behaviors, mRNA of NT and NT receptor 3 (Sort1) were significantly up-regulated in postpartum mice compared to virgins. NT mRNA was also elevated in postpartum females in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis dorsal. However, in the lateral septum, NT mRNA was down-regulated in postpartum females. In the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), Ntsr1 expression was down-regulated in postpartum females. Neurotensin receptor 2 (Ntsr2) expression was not altered in any brain region tested. In terms of protein expression, NT immunohistochemistry results indicated that NT labeling was elevated in the postpartum brain in the MPOA, lateral hypothalamus, and two subregions of PVN. Together, these findings indicate that endogenous changes occur in NT and its receptors across multiple brain regions, and these likely support the emergence of some maternal behaviors.
Brain cancer is a devastating disease affecting many people worldwide. Effective treatment with chemotherapeutics is limited due to the presence of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) that tightly regulates the diffusion of endogenous molecules but also xenobiotics. Glutathione pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (2B3-101) is being developed as a new treatment option for patients with brain cancer. It is based on already marketed pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil/Caelyx), with an additional glutathione coating that safely enhances drug delivery across the BBB. Uptake of 2B3-101 by human brain capillary endothelial cells in vitro was time-, concentration- and temperature-dependent, while pegylated liposomal doxorubicin mainly remained bound to the cells. In vivo, 2B3-101 and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin had a comparable plasma exposure in mice, yet brain retention 4 days after administration was higher for 2B3-101. 2B3-101 was overall well tolerated by athymic FVB mice with experimental human glioblastoma (luciferase transfected U87MG). In 2 independent experiments a strong inhibition of brain tumor growth was observed for 2B3-101 as measured by bioluminescence intensity. The effect of weekly administration of 5 mg/kg 2B3-101 was more pronounced compared to pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (p&lt;0.05) and saline (p&lt;0.01). Two out of 9 animals receiving 2B3-101 showed a complete tumor regression. Twice-weekly injections of 5 mg/kg 2B3-101 again had a significant effect in inhibiting brain tumor growth (p&lt;0.001) compared to pegylated liposomal doxorubicin and saline, and a complete regression was observed in 1 animal treated with 2B3-101. In addition, twice-weekly dosing of 2B3-101 significantly increased the median survival time by 38.5% (p&lt;0.001) and 16.1% (p&lt;0.05) compared to saline and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, respectively. Overall, these data demonstrate that glutathione pegylated liposomal doxorubicin enhances the effective delivery of doxorubicin to brain tumors and could become a promising new therapeutic option for the treatment of brain malignancies.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels are cation-selective channels present in retina, brain and heart. The activity of HCN channels contributes to signal integration, cell excitability and pacemaker activity. HCN1 channels expressed in photoreceptors participate in keeping light responses transient and are required for normal mesopic vision. The subcellular localization of HCN1 varies among cell types. In photoreceptors HCN1 is concentrated in the inner segments while in other retinal neurons, HCN1 is evenly distributed though the cell. This is in contrast to hippocampal neurons where HCN1 is concentrated in a subset of dendrites. A key regulator of HCN1 trafficking and activity is tetratricopeptide repeat-containing Rab8b interacting protein (TRIP8b). Multiple splice isoforms of TRIP8b are expressed throughout the brain and can differentially regulate the surface expression and activity of HCN1. The purpose of the present study was to determine which isoforms of TRIP8b are expressed in the retina and to test if loss of TRIP8b alters HCN1 expression or trafficking. We found that TRIP8b colocalizes with HCN1 in multiple retina neurons and all major splice isoforms of TRIP8b are expressed in the retina. Photoreceptors express three different isoforms. In TRIP8b knockout mice, the ability of HCN1 to traffic to the surface of retinal neurons is unaffected. However, there is a large decrease in the total amount of HCN1. We conclude that TRIP8b in the retina is needed to achieve maximal expression of HCN1.
With the trend of an increasing aged population worldwide, Alzheimer's disease (AD), an age-related neurodegenerative disorder, as one of the major causes of dementia in elderly people is of growing concern. Despite the many hard efforts attempted during the past several decades in trying to elucidate the pathological mechanisms underlying AD and putting forward potential therapeutic strategies, there is still a lack of effective treatments for AD. The efficacy of many potential therapeutic drugs for AD is of main concern in clinical practice. For example, large bodies of evidence show that the anti-tumor histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, suberoylanilidehydroxamic acid (SAHA), may be of benefit for the treatment of AD; however, its extensive inhibition of HDACs makes it a poor therapeutic. Moreover, the natural flavonoid, curcumin, may also have a potential therapeutic benefit against AD; however, it is plagued by low bioavailability. Therefore, the integrative effects of SAHA and curcumin were investigated as a protection against amyloid-beta neurotoxicity in vitro. We hypothesized that at low doses their synergistic effect would improve therapeutic selectivity, based on experiments that showed that at low concentrations SAHA and curcumin could provide comprehensive protection against A25-35-induced neuronal damage in PC12 cells, strongly implying potent synergism. Furthermore, network analysis suggested that the possible mechanism underlying their synergistic action might be derived from restoration of the damaged functional link between Akt and the CBP/p300 pathway, which plays a crucial role in the pathological development of AD. Thus, our findings provided a feasible avenue for the application of a synergistic drug combination, SAHA and curcumin, in the treatment of AD.
Because of the features provided by an abundance of specialized experimental software packages, personal computers have become prominent and powerful tools in cognitive research. Most of these programs have mechanisms to control the precision and accuracy with which visual stimuli are presented as well as the response times. However, external factors, often related to the technology used to display the visual information, can have a noticeable impact on the actual performance and may be easily overlooked by researchers. The aim of this study is to measure the precision and accuracy of the timing mechanisms of some of the most popular software packages used in a typical laboratory scenario in order to assess whether presentation times configured by researchers do not differ from measured times more than what is expected due to the hardware limitations. Despite the apparent precision and accuracy of the results, important issues related to timing setups in the presentation of visual stimuli were found, and they should be taken into account by researchers in their experiments.
Empathizing is defined as the drive to identify the mental states of others for predicting their behavior and responding with an appropriate emotion. Systemizing is defined as the drive to analyze a system in terms of the rules that govern the system in order to predict its behavior. Using voxel-based morphometry and questionnaires in a large sample of normal, right-handed young adults, we investigated the regional gray matter volume (rGMV) correlates of empathizing and systemizing and additionally those of the D score, which is the difference between systemizing and empathizing, to reveal the comprehensive picture of those correlates. Negative rGMV correlates of empathizing and positive rGMV correlates of the D score (formed by the negative correlation between rGMV and empathizing), were found primarily in nodes in the default mode network, mirror neuron system, dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, and the lateral part of the prefrontal cortex together with other areas. Positive rGMV correlates of systemizing and of the D score (formed by the positive correlation between rGMV and systemizing) were found primarily in nodes in the external attention system, middle cingulate cortex, and other regions. Negative rGMV correlates of systemizing were found in an area close to the left posterior insula and putamen. These findings reconcile some previously inconsistent findings, provide other new findings and suggest that these areas contribute to empathizing-systemizing. Furthermore, the negative/positive rGMV correlates of empathizing and positive/negative rGMV correlates of systemizing overlapped substantially. This may be in line with the notion that empathizing and systemizing compete neurally in the brain.
The disintegrin and metalloproteinases ADAM10 and ADAM17 are regarded as the most important -secretases involved in the physiological processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in brain. Since it has been suggested that processing of APP by -secretases could be involved in the reorganization of the brain following injury, we studied mRNA expression of the two -secretases Adam10 and Adam17, the -secretase Bace1, and the App-gene family (App, Aplp1, Aplp2) in the dentate gyrus of the mouse following entorhinal denervation. Using laser microdissection, tissue was harvested from the outer molecular layer and the granule cell layer of the denervated dentate gyrus. Expression levels of candidate genes were assessed using Affymetrix GeneChip Mouse Gene 1.0 ST arrays and reverse transcription-quantitative PCR, revealing an upregulation of Adam10 mRNA and Adam17 mRNA in the denervated outer molecular layer and an upregulation of Adam10 mRNA and App mRNA in the dentate granule cell layer. Immunolabeling for ADAM10 or ADAM17 in combination with markers for astro- and microglia revealed an increased labeling of ADAM10 and ADAM17 in the denervated outer molecular layer that was associated with reactive astrocytes but not with microglia. Collectively, these data show that denervation affects the expression level of APP and its two most important -secretases. This suggests that APP-processing could be shifted towards the non-amyloidogenic pathway in denervated areas of the brain and, thus, towards the formation of neuroprotective APP cleavage products, such as APPs.
The posterior medial frontal cortex (pMFC) is known to be involved in adaptive goal-directed behavior, but its specific function is not yet clear. Most theories have proposed that the pMFC monitors performance in a reactive manner only, but it is possible that the pMFC also contributes to performance monitoring in a proactive manner. To date, the evidence for proactive pMFC activity is equivocal. Here, we investigated pMFC activity before, during and after the performance of a challenging motor task. Participants navigated a cursor through narrow and wide mazes in randomly intermixed trials. On each trial, participants saw previews of the actual maze display prior to gaining control of the cursor. Event-related potentials (ERPs) to the preview displays were compared to ERPs elicited by no-go signals and errors. Compared to the wider maze, the preview display for the more challenging narrow maze elicited a medial-frontal negativity (MFN) similar to the ERP components elicited by no-go signals and errors. Like these known ERP components, the preview-elicited MFN appeared to be generated from a source in pMFC. This is consistent with the hypothesis that the pMFC participates in adaptive behavior whenever there is a need for increased effort to maintain successful task performance.
Large-scale brain activity patterns can be visualized by optical imaging of intrinsic signals (OIS) based on activity-dependent changes in the blood oxygenation level. Another method, flavoprotein autofluorescence imaging (AFI), exploits the mitochondrial flavoprotein autofluorescence, which is enhanced during neuronal activity. In birds, topographic mapping of visual space has been shown in the visual wulst, the avian homologue of the mammalian visual cortex by using OIS. We here applied the AFI method to visualize topographic maps in the visual wulst because with OIS, which depends on blood flow changes, blood vessel artifacts often obscure brain activity maps. We then compared both techniques quantitatively in zebra finches and in C57Bl/6J mice using the same setup and stimulation conditions. In addition to experiments with craniotomized animals, we also examined mice with intact skull (in zebra finches, intact skull imaging is not feasible probably due to the skull construction). In craniotomized animals, retinotopic maps were obtained by both methods in both species. Using AFI, artifacts caused by blood vessels were generally reduced, the magnitude of neuronal activity significantly higher and the retinotopic map quality better than that obtained by OIS in both zebra finches and mice. In contrast, our measurements in non-craniotomized mice did not reveal any quantitative differences between the two methods. Our results thus suggest that AFI is the method of choice for investigations of visual processing in zebra finches. In mice, however, if researchers decide to use the advantages of imaging through the intact skull, they will not be able to exploit the higher signals obtainable by the AFI-method.
The growth and guidance of many axons in the developing nervous system require Netrin-mediated activation of Deleted in Colorectal Cancer (DCC) and other still unknown signaling cues. Commissural axon guidance defects are more severe in DCC mutant mice than Netrin-1 mutant mice, suggesting additional DCC activating signals besides Netrin-1 are involved in proper axon growth. Here we report that interaction screens on extracellular protein microarrays representing over 1,000 proteins uniquely identified Cerebellin 4 (CBLN4), a member of the C1q-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family, and Netrin-1 as extracellular DCC-binding partners. Immunofluorescence and radio-ligand binding studies demonstrate that Netrin-1 competes with CBLN4 binding at an overlapping site within the membrane-proximal fibronectin domains (FN) 4-6 of DCC and binds with 5-fold higher affinity. CBLN4 also binds to the DCC homolog, Neogenin-1 (NEO1), but with a lower affinity compared to DCC. CBLN4-null mice did not show a defect in commissural axons of the developing spinal cord but did display a transient increase in the number of wandering axons in the brachial plexus, consistent with a role in axon guidance. Overall, the data solidifies CBLN4 as a bona fide DCC ligand and strengthens its implication in axon guidance.
Biorhythm is a fundamental property of human physiology. Changes in the extracellular space induced by cell swelling in response to the neural activity enable the in vivo characterization of cerebral microstructure by measuring the water diffusivity using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). To study the diurnal microstructural alterations of human brain, fifteen right-handed healthy adult subjects were recruited for DTI studies in two repeated sessions (830 AM and 830 PM) within a 24-hour interval. Fractional anisotropy (FA), apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), axial (//) and radial diffusivity () were compared pixel by pixel between the sessions for each subject. Significant increased morning measurements in FA, ADC, // and  were seen in a wide range of brain areas involving frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital lobes. Prominent evening dominant  (18.58%) was detected in the right inferior temporal and ventral fusiform gyri. AM-PM variation of  was substantially left side hemisphere dominant (p&lt;0.05), while no hemispheric preference was observed for the same analysis for ADC (p=0.77), // (p=0.08) or FA (p=0.25). The percentage change of ADC, //, , and FA were 1.59%, 2.15%, 1.20% and 2.84%, respectively, for brain areas without diurnal diffusivity contrast. Microstructural variations may function as the substrates of the phasic neural activities in correspondence to the environment adaptation in a light-dark cycle. This research provided a baseline for researches in neuroscience, sleep medicine, psychological and psychiatric disorders, and necessitates that diurnal effect should be taken into account in following up studies using diffusion tensor quantities.

Many survivors of severe disasters need psychological support, even those not suffering post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The critical issue in understanding the psychological response after experiencing severe disasters is to distinguish neurological microstructural underpinnings as vulnerability factors from signs of emotional distress acquired soon after the stressful life event. We collected diffusion-tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DTI) data from a group of healthy adolescents before the Great East Japan Earthquake and re-examined the DTIs and anxiety levels of 30 non-PTSD subjects from this group 3-4 months after the earthquake using voxel-based analyses in a longitudinal DTI study before and after the earthquake. We found that the state anxiety level after the earthquake was negatively associated with fractional anisotropy (FA) in the right anterior cingulum (Cg) before the earthquake (r=-0.61, voxel level p&lt;0.0025, cluster level p&lt;0.05 corrected), and positively associated with increased FA changes from before to after the earthquake in the left anterior Cg (r=0.70, voxel level p&lt;0.0025, cluster level p&lt;0.05 corrected) and uncinate fasciculus (Uf) (r=0.65, voxel level p&lt;0.0025, cluster level p&lt;0.05 corrected). The results demonstrated that lower FA in the right anterior Cg was a vulnerability factor and increased FA in the left anterior Cg and Uf was an acquired sign of state anxiety after the earthquake. We postulate that subjects with dysfunctions in processing fear and anxiety before the disaster were likely to have higher anxiety levels requiring frequent emotional regulation after the disaster. These findings provide new evidence of psychophysiological responses at the neural network level soon after a stressful life event and might contribute to the development of effective methods to prevent PTSD.

Visual perception is not only based on incoming visual signals but also on information about a multimodal reference frame that incorporates vestibulo-proprioceptive input and motor signals. In addition, top-down modulation of visual processing has previously been demonstrated during cognitive operations including selective attention and working memory tasks. In the absence of a stable gravitational reference, the updating of salient stimuli becomes crucial for successful visuo-spatial behavior by humans in weightlessness. Here we found that visually-evoked potentials triggered by the image of a tunnel just prior to an impending 3D movement in a virtual navigation task were altered in weightlessness aboard the International Space Station, while those evoked by a classical 2D-checkerboard were not. Specifically, the analysis of event-related spectral perturbations and inter-trial phase coherency of these EEG signals recorded in the frontal and occipital areas showed that phase-locking of theta-alpha oscillations was suppressed in weightlessness, but only for the 3D tunnel image. Moreover, analysis of the phase of the coherency demonstrated the existence on Earth of a directional flux in the EEG signals from the frontal to the occipital areas mediating a top-down modulation during the presentation of the image of the 3D tunnel. In weightlessness, this fronto-occipital, top-down control was transformed into a diverging flux from the central areas toward the frontal and occipital areas. These results demonstrate that gravity-related sensory inputs modulate primary visual areas depending on the affordances of the visual scene.
Nowadays, brain signals are employed in various scientific and practical fields such as Medical Science, Cognitive Science, Neuroscience, and Brain Computer Interfaces. Hence, the need for robust signal analysis methods with adequate accuracy and generalizability is inevitable. The brain signal analysis is faced with complex challenges including small sample size, high dimensionality and noisy signals. Moreover, because of the non-stationarity of brain signals and the impacts of mental states on brain function, the brain signals are associated with an inherent uncertainty. In this paper, an evidence-based combining classifiers method is proposed for brain signal analysis. This method exploits the power of combining classifiers for solving complex problems and the ability of evidence theory to model as well as to reduce the existing uncertainty. The proposed method models the uncertainty in the labels of training samples in each feature space by assigning soft and crisp labels to them. Then, some classifiers are employed to approximate the belief function corresponding to each feature space. By combining the evidence raised from each classifier through the evidence theory, more confident decisions about testing samples can be made. The obtained results by the proposed method compared to some other evidence-based and fixed rule combining methods on artificial and real datasets exhibit the ability of the proposed method in dealing with complex and uncertain classification problems.
Memory performance is the result of many distinct mental processes, such as memory encoding, forgetting, and modulation of memory strength by emotional arousal. These processes, which are subserved by partly distinct molecular profiles, are not always amenable to direct observation. Therefore, computational models can be used to make inferences about specific mental processes and to study their genetic underpinnings. Here we combined a computational model-based analysis of memory-related processes with high density genetic information derived from a genome-wide study in healthy young adults. After identifying the best-fitting model for a verbal memory task and estimating the best-fitting individual cognitive parameters, we found a common variant in the gene encoding the brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor 1-associated protein 2 (BAIAP2) that was related to the model parameter reflecting modulation of verbal memory strength by negative valence. We also observed an association between the same genetic variant and a similar emotional modulation phenotype in a different population performing a picture memory task. Furthermore, using functional neuroimaging we found robust genotype-dependent differences in activity of the parahippocampal cortex that were specifically related to successful memory encoding of negative versus neutral information. Finally, we analyzed cortical gene expression data of 193 deceased subjects and detected significant BAIAP2 genotype-dependent differences in BAIAP2 mRNA levels. Our findings suggest that model-based dissociation of specific cognitive parameters can improve the understanding of genetic underpinnings of human learning and memory.
About ten years ago, HMAX was proposed as a simple and biologically feasible model for object recognition, based on how the visual cortex processes information. However, the model does not encompass sparse firing, which is a hallmark of neurons at all stages of the visual pathway. The current paper presents an improved model, called sparse HMAX, which integrates sparse firing. This model is able to learn higher-level features of objects on unlabeled training images. Unlike most other deep learning models that explicitly address global structure of images in every layer, sparse HMAX addresses local to global structure gradually along the hierarchy by applying patch-based learning to the output of the previous layer. As a consequence, the learning method can be standard sparse coding (SSC) or independent component analysis (ICA), two techniques deeply rooted in neuroscience. What makes SSC and ICA applicable at higher levels is the introduction of linear higher-order statistical regularities by max pooling. After training, high-level units display sparse, invariant selectivity for particular individuals or for image categories like those observed in human inferior temporal cortex (ITC) and medial temporal lobe (MTL). Finally, on an image classification benchmark, sparse HMAX outperforms the original HMAX by a large margin, suggesting its great potential for computer vision.



The olfactory system has a rich cortical representation, including a large archicortical component present in most vertebrates, and in mammals neocortical components including the entorhinal and orbitofrontal cortices. Together, these cortical components contribute to normal odor perception and memory. They help transform the physicochemical features of volatile molecules inhaled or exhaled through the nose into the perception of odor objects with rich associative and hedonic aspects. This chapter focuses on how olfactory cortical areas contribute to odor perception and begins to explore why odor perception is so sensitive to disease and pathology. Odor perception is disrupted by a wide range of disorders including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, depression, autism, and early life exposure to toxins. This olfactory deficit often occurs despite maintained functioning in other sensory systems. Does the unusual network of olfactory cortical structures contribute to this sensitivity?
In the last decade, drastic changes in the understanding of the role of the olfactory bulb and piriform cortex in odor detection have taken place through awake behaving recording in rodents. It is clear that odor responses in mitral and granule cells are strikingly different in the olfactory bulb of anesthetized versus awake animals. In addition, sniff recording has evidenced that mitral cell responses to odors during the sniff can convey information on the odor identity and sniff phase. Moreover, we review studies that show that the mitral cell conveys information on not only odor identity but also whether the odor is rewarded or not (odor value). Finally, we discuss how the substantial increase in awake behaving recording raises questions for future studies.
The olfactory system is a dynamic place. In mammals, not only are sensory neurons located in the sensory organ renewed through adult life, but also its first central relay is reconstructed by continuous neuronal recruitment. Despite these numerous morphological and physiological changes, olfaction is a unique sensory modality endowed with a privileged link to memory. This raises a clear conundrum; how does the olfactory system balance its neuronal turnover with its participation in long-term memory? This review concentrates on the functional aspects of adult neurogenesis, addressing how the integration of late-born neurons participates in olfactory perception and memory. After outlining the properties of adult neurogenesis in the olfactory system, and after describing their regulation by internal and environmental factors, we ask how the process of odorant perception can be influenced by constant neuronal turnover. We then explore the possible functional roles that newborn neurons might have for olfactory memory. Throughout this review, and as we concentrate almost exclusively on mammalian models, we stress the idea that adult neurogenesis is yet another form of plasticity used by the brain to copes with a constantly changing olfactory world.
Failure to remember, or forgetting, is a phenomenon familiar to everyone and despite more than a century of scientific inquiry, why we forget what we once knew remains unclear. If the brain marshals significant resources to form and store memories, why is it that these memories become lost? In the last century, psychological studies have divided forgetting into decay theory, in which memory simply dissipates with time, and interference theory, in which additional learning or mental activity hinders memory by reducing its stability or retrieval (for review, Dewar et al., 2007; Wixted, 2004). Importantly, these psychological models of forgetting posit that forgetting is a passive property of the brain and thus a failure of the brain to retain memories. However, recent neuroscience research on olfactory memory in Drosophila has offered evidence for an alternative conclusion that forgetting is an &quot;active&quot; process, with specific, biologically regulated mechanisms that remove existing memories (Berry et al., 2012; Shuai et al., 2010). Similar to the bidirectional regulation of cell number by mitosis and apoptosis, protein concentration by translation and lysosomal or proteomal degradation, and protein phosphate modification by kinases and phosphatases, biologically regulated memory formation and removal would be yet another example in biological systems where distinct and separate pathways regulate the creation and destruction of biological substrates.
A ubiquitous feature of an animal's response to an odorant is that it declines when the odorant is frequently or continuously encountered. This decline in olfactory response, termed olfactory habituation, can have temporally or mechanistically different forms. The neural circuitry of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster's olfactory system is well defined in terms of component cells, which are readily accessible to functional studies and genetic manipulation. This makes it a particularly useful preparation for the investigation of olfactory habituation. In addition, the insect olfactory system shares many architectural and functional similarities with mammalian olfactory systems, suggesting that olfactory mechanisms in insects may be broadly relevant. In this chapter, we discuss the likely mechanisms of olfactory habituation in context of the participating cell types, their connectivity, and their roles in sensory processing. We overview the structure and function of key cell types, the mechanisms that stimulate them, and how they transduce and process odor signals. We then consider how each stage of olfactory processing could potentially contribute to behavioral habituation. After this, we overview a variety of recent mechanistic studies that point to an important role for potentiation of inhibitory synapses in the primary olfactory processing center, the antennal lobe, in driving the reduced response to familiar odorants. Following the discussion of mechanisms for short- and long-term olfactory habituation, we end by considering how these mechanisms may be regulated by neuromodulators, which likely play key roles in the induction, gating, or suppression of habituated behavior, and speculate on the relevance of these processes for other forms of learning and memory.

The neural control of inspiratory muscles can be assessed in human subjects by measurement of the behavior of populations of single motor unit from the various inspiratory muscles. The discharge frequencies and patterns of firing of the motor units directly reflect the output of the motoneurons that innervate them. With the use of these methods, our work has revealed several features of the way the output of different inspiratory motoneuron pools are controlled. The output of inspiratory motoneurons is nonuniform across pools during quiet breathing and this coordinates the contraction of all the different muscles. This output is geared to the mechanical advantage of the muscles that they innervate. For the intercostal muscles, there is recruitment of the motor units by a principle of neuromechanical matching in which neural drive is higher in the muscles with the greatest mechanical advantage for inspiration, presumably to minimize the metabolic cost of ventilation. We summarize some evidence that this principle is likely to be organized at the spinal cord, although the exact underlying mechanisms are not known. The specific differences in the output from motoneurones innervating parasternal intercostal and diaphragm muscles during trunk rotation suggest that the output of inspiratory motoneurones engaged in a nonrespiratory voluntary task involve integration of corticospinal and bulbospinal drives at the spinal cord. An evolutionary argument is presented to support the importance of a role for spinal integration in ventilatory control.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) neurons are widely considered to play an important role in central respiratory chemoreception. Although many studies in the past decades have supported this hypothesis, there had been concerns about its validity until recently. One recurring claim had been that 5-HT neurons are not consistently sensitive to hypercapnia in vivo. Another belief was that 5-HT neurons do not stimulate breathing; instead, they inhibit or modulate respiratory output. It was also believed by some that 5-HT neuron chemosensitivity is dependent on TASK channels, but mice with genetic deletion of TASK-1 and TASK-3 have a normal hypercapnic ventilatory response. This review explains why these principal arguments against the hypothesis are not supported by existing data. Despite repeated challenges, a large body of evidence now supports the conclusion that at least a subset of 5-HT neurons are central chemoreceptors.
Cardiorespiratory coupling is an encompassing term describing more than the well-recognized influences of respiration on heart rate and blood pressure. Our data indicate that cardiorespiratory coupling reflects a reciprocal interaction between autonomic and respiratory control systems, and the cardiovascular system modulates the ventilatory pattern as well. For example, cardioventilatory coupling refers to the influence of heart beats and arterial pulse pressure on respiration and is the tendency for the next inspiration to start at a preferred latency after the last heart beat in expiration. Multiple complementary, well-described mechanisms mediate respiration's influence on cardiovascular function, whereas mechanisms mediating the cardiovascular system's influence on respiration may only be through the baroreceptors but are just being identified. Our review will describe a differential effect of conditioning rats with either chronic intermittent or sustained hypoxia on sympathetic nerve activity but also on ventilatory pattern variability. Both intermittent and sustained hypoxia increase sympathetic nerve activity after 2 weeks but affect sympatho-respiratory coupling differentially. Intermittent hypoxia enhances sympatho-respiratory coupling, which is associated with low variability in the ventilatory pattern. In contrast, after constant hypobaric hypoxia, 1-to-1 coupling between bursts of sympathetic and phrenic nerve activity is replaced by 2-to-3 coupling. This change in coupling pattern is associated with increased variability of the ventilatory pattern. After baro-denervating hypobaric hypoxic-conditioned rats, splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity becomes tonic (distinct bursts are absent) with decreases during phrenic nerve bursts and ventilatory pattern becomes regular. Thus, conditioning rats to either intermittent or sustained hypoxia accentuates the reciprocal nature of cardiorespiratory coupling. Finally, identifying a compelling physiologic purpose for cardiorespiratory coupling is the biggest barrier for recognizing its significance. Cardiorespiratory coupling has only a small effect on the efficiency of gas exchange; rather, we propose that cardiorespiratory control system may act as weakly coupled oscillator to maintain rhythms within a bounded variability.
TRP-channels are the most prominent family of ligand-gated ion channels for pain perception. In sensory neurons, TRPV1-V4, TRPA1 and TRPM8 are expressed and are responsible for the conversion of external stimuli to painful sensations. Under pathophysiological conditions, excessive activity of TRP-channels leads to mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. Among the endogenous TRP-channel sensitizers, activators and inhibitors, more than 50 arachidonic acid- and linoleic acid-metabolites from the COX-, LOX- and CYP-pathways, as well as lysophospholipids and isoprenoids can be found. As a consequence, these lipids represent the vast majority of endogenous TRP-channel modulators in sensory neurons. Although the precise mechanisms of TRP-channel modulation by most lipids are still unknown, it became clear that lipids can either bind directly to the target TRP-channel or modulate TRP-channels indirectly by activating G-protein coupled receptors. Thus, TRP-channels seem to be key sensors for lipids, integrating and interpreting incoming signals from the different metabolic lipid pathways. Here, we discuss the specific properties of the currently known endogenous lipid-derived TRP-channel modulators concerning their ability to activate or inhibit TRP-channels, the molecular mechanisms of lipid/TRP-channel interactions and specific TRP-regulatory characteristics of the individual lipid families.
This chapter reviews the current status of -secretase modulators, highlighting key compounds by each company involved in the area. The review focuses on the three main chemotypes: acids, imidazoles and related derivatives and natural products. A section on chemical biology and ligand-binding site elucidation studies is also included. The primary source of information is drawn from peer reviewed literature as this permits analysis of PK-PD relationships and subsequent comment. Discussion of the patent literature is included for completeness. From this analysis, the key issues and challenges in the area are highlighted. The review concludes with a summary of the clinical development status and comment on future prospects of the field.

Synaptic plasticity is a major convergence point for theory and computation, and the process of plasticity engages physiology, cell, and molecular biology. In its many manifestations, plasticity is at the hub of basic neuroscience questions about memory and development, as well as more medically themed questions of neural damage and recovery. As an important cellular locus of memory, synaptic plasticity has received a huge amount of experimental and theoretical attention. If computational models have tended to pick specific aspects of plasticity, such as STDP, and reduce them to an equation, some experimental studies are equally guilty of oversimplification each time they identify a new molecule and declare it to be the last word in plasticity and learning. Multiscale modeling begins with the acknowledgment that synaptic function spans many levels of signaling, and these are so tightly coupled that we risk losing essential features of plasticity if we focus exclusively on any one level. Despite the technical challenges and gaps in data for model specification, an increasing number of multiscale modeling studies have taken on key questions in plasticity. These have provided new insights, but importantly, they have opened new avenues for questioning. This review discusses a wide range of multiscale models in plasticity, including their technical landscape and their implications.
In this chapter, we describe how to create mathematical models of synaptic transmission and integration. We start with a brief synopsis of the experimental evidence underlying our current understanding of synaptic transmission. We then describe synaptic transmission at a particular glutamatergic synapse in the mammalian cerebellum, the mossy fiber to granule cell synapse, since data from this well-characterized synapse can provide a benchmark comparison for how well synaptic properties are captured by different mathematical models. This chapter is structured by first presenting the simplest mathematical description of an average synaptic conductance waveform and then introducing methods for incorporating more complex synaptic properties such as nonlinear voltage dependence of ionotropic receptors, short-term plasticity, and stochastic fluctuations. We restrict our focus to excitatory synaptic transmission, but most of the modeling approaches discussed here can be equally applied to inhibitory synapses. Our data-driven approach will be of interest to those wishing to model synaptic transmission and network behavior in health and disease.
Striatum, which is the input nucleus of the basal ganglia, integrates cortical and thalamic glutamatergic inputs with dopaminergic afferents from the substantia nigra pars compacta. The combination of dopamine and glutamate strongly modulates molecular and cellular properties of striatal neurons and the strength of corticostriatal synapses. These actions are performed via intracellular signaling networks, containing several intertwined feedback loops. Understanding the role of dopamine and other neuromodulators requires the development of quantitative dynamical models for describing the intracellular signaling, in order to provide precise unambiguous descriptions and quantitative predictions. Building such models requires integration of data from multiple data sources containing information regarding the molecular interactions, the strength of these interactions, and the subcellular localization of the molecules. Due to the uncertainty, variability, and sparseness of these data, parameter estimation techniques are critical for inferring or constraining the unknown parameters, and sensitivity analysis evaluates which parameters are most critical for a given observed macroscopic behavior. Here, we briefly review the modeling approaches and tools that have been used to investigate biochemical signaling in the striatum, along with some of the models built around striatum. We also suggest a future direction for the development of such models from the, now becoming abundant, high-throughput data.
Neuronal ischemia, the consequence of a stroke (cerebrovascular accident), is a condition of reduced delivery of nutrients to brain neurons. The brain consumes more energy per gram of tissue than any other organ, making continuous blood flow critical. Loss of nutrients, most critically glucose and O2, triggers a large number of interacting molecular pathways in neurons and astrocytes. The dynamics of these pathways take place over multiple temporal scales and occur in multiple interacting cytosolic and organelle compartments: in mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, and nucleus. The complexity of these relationships suggests the use of computer simulation to understand the interplay between pathways leading to reversible or irreversible damage, the forms of damage, and interventions that could reduce damage at different stages of stroke. We describe a number of models and simulation methods that can be used to further our understanding of ischemia.
In this chapter, we review the principal astrocyte functions and the interactions between neurons and astrocytes. We then address how the experimentally observed functions have been verified in computational models and review recent experimental literature on astrocyte-neuron interactions. Benefits of computational neuroscience work are highlighted through selected studies with neurons and astrocytes by analyzing the existing models qualitatively and assessing the relevance of these models to experimental data. Common strategies to mathematical modeling and computer simulation in neuroscience are summarized for the nontechnical reader. The astrocyte-neuron interactions are then further illustrated by examples of some neurological and neurodegenerative diseases, where the miscommunication between glia and neurons is found to be increasingly important.
Diffusion is a major transport mechanism in living organisms. In the cerebellum, diffusion is responsible for the propagation of molecular signaling involved in synaptic plasticity and metabolism, both intracellularly and extracellularly. In this chapter, we present an overview of the cerebellar structure and function. We then discuss the types of diffusion processes present in the cerebellum and their biological importance. We particularly emphasize the differences between extracellular and intracellular diffusion and the presence of tortuosity and anomalous diffusion in different parts of the cerebellar cortex. We provide a mathematical introduction to diffusion and a conceptual overview of various computational modeling techniques. We discuss their scope and their limit of application. Although our focus is the cerebellum, we have aimed at presenting the biological and mathematical foundations as general as possible to be applicable to any other area in biology in which diffusion is of importance.
Many neurodegenerative diseases involve defects in mitochondrial function. These defects often arise from mutations carried in the genes that code mitochondrial proteins. Many of these defective proteins are involved in mitochondrial energy metabolism which is one of the primary roles of the mitochondria. However, others proteins have other roles that are related to signaling or mitochondrial structure. The interaction of the mitochondrial proteins is complex. Understanding these complex dynamics requires the use of computational models. Studies have started to exploit such models, but much further work is necessary to understand mitochondrial function and its role in neurodegenerative disease.
Midbrain dopamine neurons are pacemakers in vitro, but in vivo they fire less regularly and occasionally in bursts that can lead to a temporary cessation in firing produced by depolarization block. The therapeutic efficacy of antipsychotic drugs used to treat the positive symptoms of schizophrenia has been attributed to their ability to induce depolarization block within a subpopulation of dopamine neurons. We summarize the results of experiments characterizing the physiological mechanisms underlying the ability of these neurons to enter depolarization block in vitro, and our computational simulations of those experiments. We suggest that the inactivation of voltage-dependent Na(+) channels, and, in particular, the slower component of this inactivation, is critical in controlling entry into depolarization block. In addition, an ether-a-go-related gene (ERG) K(+) current also appears to be involved by delaying entry into and speeding recovery from depolarization block. Since many antipsychotic drugs share the ability to block this current, ERG channels may contribute to the therapeutic effects of these drugs.
Chronic pain constitutes an important and growing problem in society with large unmet needs with respect to treatment and clear implications for quality of life. Computational modeling is used to complement experimental studies to elucidate mechanisms involved in pain states. Models representing the peripheral nerve ending often address questions related to sensitization or reduction in pain detection threshold. In models of the axon or the cell body of the unmyelinated C-fiber, a large body of work concerns the role of particular sodium channels and mutations of these. Furthermore, in central structures: spinal cord or higher structures, sensitization often refers not only to enhanced synaptic efficacy but also to elevated intrinsic neuronal excitability. One of the recent developments in computational neuroscience is the emergence of computational neuropharmacology. In this area, computational modeling is used to study mechanisms of pathology with the objective of finding the means of restoring healthy function. This research has received increased attention from the pharmaceutical industry as ion channels have gained increased interest as drug targets. Computational modeling has several advantages, notably the ability to provide mechanistic links between molecular and cellular levels on the one hand and functions at the systems level on the other hand. These characteristics make computational modeling an additional tool to be used in the process of selecting pharmaceutical targets. Furthermore, large-scale simulations can provide a framework to systematically study the effects of several interacting disease parameters or effects from combinations of drugs.
Optogenetics has accelerated the field of neuroscience by overcoming many of the spatial, genetic, and temporal limitations of previous techniques to control neural activity. The study of learning and memory has profoundly benefited from these tools mainly from their use in rodents. New insights have been made regarding the involvement of specific cell types or populations of synapses in the acquisition, consolidation, and retrieval of memories. The cellular specificity and temporal precision of optogenetic manipulations have also shown to be useful to study synaptic mechanisms supporting learning and memory including long-term synaptic plasticity. Recently, new light-sensitive molecules have been developed to control intracellular pathways or gene expression, which promise to enhance our understanding of the molecular mechanism of memory function.
Pavlovian threat conditioning is a behavioral paradigm that has been successfully utilized to define the mechanisms underlying threat (fear) memory formation. The amygdala is a temporal lobe structure required for the acquisition, consolidation, and expression of threat (fear) memories. In particular, the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) is the major input structure of the amygdala and is required for all aspects of threat learning and memory. The LA expresses many neurotransmitter and neuromodulator receptors. This chapter covers the molecular mechanisms that occur downstream of these receptors and how they influence LA-dependent Pavlovian threat learning.
The capacity to remember our past experiences and organize our future draws on a number of cognitive processes that allow our brain to form and store neural representations that can be recalled and updated at will. In the brain, these processes require mechanisms of neural plasticity in the activated circuits, brought about by cellular and molecular changes within the neurons activated during learning. At the cellular level, a wealth of experimental data accumulated in recent years provides evidence that signaling from synapses to nucleus and the rapid regulation of the expression of immediate early genes encoding inducible, regulatory transcription factors is a key step in the mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity and the modification of neural networks required for the laying down of memories. In the activated neurons, these transcriptional events are thought to mediate the activation of selective gene programs and subsequent synthesis of proteins, leading to stable functional and structural remodeling of the activated networks, so that the memory can later be reactivated upon recall. Over the past few decades, novel insights have been gained in identifying key transcriptional regulators that can control the genomic response of synaptically activated neurons. Here, as an example of this approach, we focus on one such activity-dependent transcription factor, Zif268, known to be implicated in neuronal plasticity and memory formation. We summarize current knowledge about the regulation and function of Zif268 in different types of brain plasticity and memory processes.
The protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms, which play an essential role in transmembrane signal conduction, can be viewed as a family of &quot;memory kinases.&quot; Evidence is emerging that they are critically involved in memory acquisition and maintenance, in addition to their involvement in other functions of cells. Deficits in PKC signal cascades in neurons are one of the earliest abnormalities in the brains of patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease. Their dysfunction is also involved in several other types of memory impairments, including those related to emotion, mental retardation, brain injury, and vascular dementia/ischemic stroke. Inhibition of PKC activity leads to a reduced capacity of many types of learning and memory, but may have therapeutic values in treating substance abuse or aversive memories. PKC activators, on the other hand, have been shown to possess memory-enhancing and antidementia actions. PKC pharmacology may, therefore, represent an attractive area for developing effective cognitive drugs for the treatment of many types of memory disorders and dementias.
Insulin resistance plays a key role in the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus and is also associated with several other diseases, such as obesity, hypertension, and cardiovascular diseases. Type 2 diabetes and obesity have become epidemic worldwide in the past few decades, and epidemiological and metabolic evidence indicates that the two conditions are linked closely through insulin resistance. The perturbation of free fatty acid (FFA) metabolism is now accepted to be a major factor contributing to whole-body insulin resistance, including that in skeletal muscle. Acute exposure to FFAs and excess dietary lipid intake are strongly associated with the pathogenesis of muscle insulin resistance. Despite an enormous amount of published research and the proposal of numerous hypotheses, however, the mechanisms underlying FFA-induced skeletal muscle insulin resistance have not been fully elucidated. This chapter describes existing hypotheses, recent findings, and debates about the role of FFAs in the development of muscle insulin resistance. Therapeutic options for this condition are also discussed.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and NPY receptors are widely expressed in the central nervous system, including the retina. Retinal cells, in particular neurons, astrocytes, and Mller, microglial and endothelial cells express this peptide and its receptors (Y1, Y2, Y4 and/or Y5). Several studies have shown that NPY is expressed in the retina of various mammalian and non-mammalian species. However, studies analyzing the distribution of NPY receptors in the retina are still scarce. Although the physiological roles of NPY in the retina have not been completely elucidated, its early expression strongly suggests that NPY may be involved in the development of retinal circuitry. NPY inhibits the increase in [Ca(2+)]i triggered by elevated KCl in retinal neurons, protects retinal neural cells against toxic insults and induces the proliferation of retinal progenitor cells. In this review, we will focus on the roles of NPY in the retina, specifically proliferation, neuromodulation and neuroprotection. Alterations in the NPY system in the retina might contribute to the pathogenesis of retinal degenerative diseases, such as diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma, and NPY and its receptors might be viewed as potentially novel therapeutic targets.
The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is a catalytic machinery that targets numerous cellular proteins for degradation, thus being essential to control a wide range of basic cellular processes and cell survival. Degradation of intracellular proteins via the UPS is a tightly regulated process initiated by tagging a target protein with a specific ubiquitin chain. Neurons are particularly vulnerable to any change in protein composition, and therefore the UPS is a key regulator of neuronal physiology. Alterations in UPS activity may induce pathological responses, ultimately leading to neuronal cell death. Brain ischemia triggers a complex series of biochemical and molecular mechanisms, such as an inflammatory response, an exacerbated production of misfolded and oxidized proteins, due to oxidative stress, and the breakdown of cellular integrity mainly mediated by excitotoxic glutamatergic signaling. Brain ischemia also damages protein degradation pathways which, together with the overproduction of damaged proteins and consequent upregulation of ubiquitin-conjugated proteins, contribute to the accumulation of ubiquitin-containing proteinaceous deposits. Despite recent advances, the factors leading to deposition of such aggregates after cerebral ischemic injury remain poorly understood. This review discusses the current knowledge on the role of the UPS in brain function and the molecular mechanisms contributing to UPS dysfunction in brain ischemia with consequent accumulation of ubiquitin-containing proteins. Chemical inhibitors of the proteasome and small molecule inhibitors of deubiquitinating enzymes, which promote the degradation of proteins by the proteasome, were both shown to provide neuroprotection in brain ischemia, and this apparent contradiction is also discussed in this review.
What psychiatric symptoms are caused by central noradrenergic dysfunction? The hypothesis considered in this review is that noradrenergic dysfunction causes the abnormalities in arousal level observed in functional psychoses. In this review, the psychiatric symptoms of noradrenergic dysfunction were inferred pathophysiologically from the neuroscience literature. This inference was examined based on the literature on the biology of psychiatric disorders and psychotropics. Additionally, hypotheses were generated as to the cause of the noradrenergic dysfunction. The central noradrenaline system, like the peripheral system, mediates the alarm reaction during stress. Overactivity of the system increases the arousal level and amplifies the emotional reaction to stress, which could manifest as a cluster of symptoms, such as insomnia, anxiety, irritability, emotional instability and exaggerated fear or aggressiveness (hyperarousal symptoms). Underactivity of the system lowers the arousal level and attenuates the alarm reaction, which could result in hypersomnia and insensitivity to stress (hypoarousal symptoms). Clinical data support the hypothesis that, in functional psychoses, the noradrenergic dysfunction is in fact associated with the arousal symptoms described above. The anti-noradrenergic action of anxiolytics and antipsychotics can explain their sedative effects on the hyperarousal symptoms of these disorders. The results of animal experiments suggest that excessive stress can be a cause of long-term noradrenergic dysfunction.
The treatment of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is far from satisfactory, as there is a high proportion of patients who do not respond to conventional treatment. The antidiuretic sulfonamide, acetazolamide, inhibits carbonic anhydrase and potentiates GABAergic transmission; the latter is putatively involved in PMDD. We therefore tried acetazolamide in a series of women with intractable PMDD. Here, we describe a series of eight women diagnosed with DSM-IV-TR PMDD, five of whom had comorbidity with a mood disorder and one with an anxiety disorder, who were resistant to treatment and responded with symptom disappearance after being added-on 125 mg/day acetazolamide for 7-10 days prior to menses each month. Patients were free from premenstrual symptoms at the 12-month follow-up. We suggest that acetazolamide may be used to improve symptoms of PMDD in cases not responding to other treatments. GABAergic mechanisms may be involved in counteracting PMDD symptoms.



Jaspers famously argued that psychiatry has two distinct ways of knowing about psychiatric illness: explanation - which utilizes natural sciences, and objective and empirical methods; and understanding - which reflects our subjective, empathic appreciation of our patients' experiences. He saw a clear division between these two approaches and considered a number of psychotic symptoms to be fundamentally un-understandable. We here argue for an updating of Jasper's view that includes the possibility, due to advances in neuroscience and neuropsychology, for explanation-aided understanding. We describe two scientific explanatory models for kinds of psychotic symptoms deemed un-understandable by Jaspers that illustrate this process. The first describes how dysfunction of the brain dopamine salience system may produce ideas of reference. The second demonstrates that symptoms of made-actions may be caused by abnormalities in the feed-forward motor control system. Both of these models begin at a biological level describing pathological brain processes in neuroscience language but then utilize neuropsychology to 'translate' from brain dysfunction into the mental. Both models break down the pathological pathways into individual subjective elements (particularly misattributing meaning to environmental stimuli and having body parts moved by others) that are understandable because they are common to nearly all of us. The neuropsychology provides hypotheses about the functional and physiological structures underlying familiar subjective experiences. Analyses of disorders of those structures thus provide a scaffold for expanding our empathic understanding of the subjective experiences of those suffering from psychiatric illness.

Spatial perspective taking is a crucial social skill that underlies many of our everyday interactions. Previous studies have suggested that spatial perspective taking is an embodied process that involves the integration of both motor and proprioceptive information. Given the importance of vestibular signals for own-body perception, mental own-body imagery, and bodily self-consciousness, in the present study we hypothesized that vestibular stimulation due to passive own-body displacements should also modulate spatial perspective taking. Participants performed an own-body transformation task while being passively rotated in a clockwise or counter-clockwise direction on a human motion platform. A congruency effect was observed, reflected in faster reaction times if the implied mental body rotation direction matched the actual rotation direction of the chair. These findings indicate that vestibular stimulation modulates and facilitates mental perspective taking, thereby highlighting the importance of integrating multisensory bodily information for spatial perspective taking.
Perception of affordance is enhanced not only when that object is located in one's own peripersonal space, as compared to when it is located within extrapersonal space, but also when the object is located in another person's peripersonal space [as measured by a spatial alignment effect (SAE)]. It has been suggested that this reflects the existence of an interpersonal body representation (IBR) that allows us to represent the perceptual states and action possibilities of others. Here, we address the question of whether IBR can be modulated by higher level/reflective social cognition, such as judgments about one's own social status. Participants responded with either the right or the left hand as soon as a go signal appeared. The go signal screen contained a task-irrelevant stimulus consisting of a 3D scene in which a mug with a left- or right-facing handle was positioned on a table. The mug was positioned either inside or outside the reaching space of the participants. In a third of the trials, the mug was positioned within the reaching space of an avatar seated at the table. Prior to this task we induced an experience of social ostracism in half of the participants by means of a standardized social exclusion condition. The results were that the SAE that normally occurs when the mug is in the avatar's reaching space is extinguished by the induced social exclusion. This indicates that judgments about one's own social status modulate the effect of IBR.
The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) is considered to be the gold standard manual for assessing the psychiatric diseases and is currently in its fourth version (DSM-IV), while a fifth (DSM-V) has just been released in May 2013. The DSM-V Anxiety Work Group has put forward recommendations to modify the criteria for diagnosing specific phobias. In this manuscript, we propose to consider the inclusion of nomophobia in the DSM-V, and we make a comprehensive overview of the existing literature, discussing the clinical relevance of this pathology, its epidemiological features, the available psychometric scales, and the proposed treatment. Even though nomophobia has not been included in the DSM-V, much more attention is paid to the psychopathological effects of the new media, and the interest in this topic will increase in the near future, together with the attention and caution not to hypercodify as pathological normal behaviors.


We present a computational model to explain the results from experiments in which subjects estimate the hidden probability parameter of a stepwise nonstationary Bernoulli process outcome by outcome. The model captures the following results qualitatively and quantitatively, with only 2 free parameters: (a) Subjects do not update their estimate after each outcome; they step from one estimate to another at irregular intervals. (b) The joint distribution of step widths and heights cannot be explained on the assumption that a threshold amount of change must be exceeded in order for them to indicate a change in their perception. (c) The mapping of observed probability to the median perceived probability is the identity function over the full range of probabilities. (d) Precision (how close estimates are to the best possible estimate) is good and constant over the full range. (e) Subjects quickly detect substantial changes in the hidden probability parameter. (f) The perceived probability sometimes changes dramatically from one observation to the next. (g) Subjects sometimes have second thoughts about a previous change perception, after observing further outcomes. (h) The frequency with which they perceive changes moves in the direction of the true frequency over sessions. (Explaining this finding requires 2 additional parametric assumptions.) The model treats the perception of the current probability as a by-product of the construction of a compact encoding of the experienced sequence in terms of its change points. It illustrates the why and the how of intermittent Bayesian belief updating and retrospective revision in simple perception. It suggests a reinterpretation of findings in the recent literature on the neurobiology of decision making.
Response inhibition is an important act of control in many domains of psychology and neuroscience. It is often studied in a stop-signal task that requires subjects to inhibit an ongoing action in response to a stop signal. Performance in the stop-signal task is understood as a race between a go process that underlies the action and a stop process that inhibits the action. Responses are inhibited if the stop process finishes before the go process. The finishing time of the stop process is not directly observable; a mathematical model is required to estimate its duration. Logan and Cowan (1984) developed an independent race model that is widely used for this purpose. We present a general race model that extends the independent race model to account for the role of choice in go and stop processes, and a special race model that assumes each runner is a stochastic accumulator governed by a diffusion process. We apply the models to 2 data sets to test assumptions about selective influence of capacity limitations on drift rates and strategies on thresholds, which are largely confirmed. The model provides estimates of distributions of stop-signal response times, which previous models could not estimate. We discuss implications of viewing cognitive control as the result of a repertoire of acts of control tailored to different tasks and situations.
Listeners' expectations for melodies and harmonies in tonal music are perhaps the most studied aspect of music cognition. Long debated has been whether faster response times (RTs) to more strongly primed events (in a music theoretic sense) are driven by sensory or cognitive mechanisms, such as repetition of sensory information or activation of cognitive schemata that reflect learned tonal knowledge, respectively. We analyzed over 300 stimuli from 7 priming experiments comprising a broad range of musical material, using a model that transforms raw audio signals through a series of plausible physiological and psychological representations spanning a sensory-cognitive continuum. We show that RTs are modeled, in part, by information in periodicity pitch distributions, chroma vectors, and activations of tonal space--a representation on a toroidal surface of the major/minor key relationships in Western tonal music. We show that in tonal space, melodies are grouped by their tonal rather than timbral properties, whereas the reverse is true for the periodicity pitch representation. While tonal space variables explained more of the variation in RTs than did periodicity pitch variables, suggesting a greater contribution of cognitive influences to tonal expectation, a stepwise selection model contained variables from both representations and successfully explained the pattern of RTs across stimulus categories in 4 of the 7 experiments. The addition of closure--a cognitive representation of a specific syntactic relationship--succeeded in explaining results from all 7 experiments. We conclude that multiple representational stages along a sensory-cognitive continuum combine to shape tonal expectations in music.
[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported in Vol 121(1) of Psychological Review (see record 2014-03591-005). The link to supplemental material was missing. All versions of this article have been corrected.] Much current research on speeded choice utilizes models in which the response is triggered by a stochastic process crossing a deterministic threshold. This article focuses on 2 such model classes, 1 based on continuous-time diffusion and the other on linear ballistic accumulation (LBA). Both models assume random variability in growth rates and in other model components across trials. We show that if the form of this variability is unconstrained, the models can exactly match any possible pattern of response probabilities and response time distributions. Thus, the explanatory or predictive content of these models is determined not by their structural assumptions but, rather, by distributional assumptions (e.g., Gaussian distributions) that are traditionally regarded as implementation details. Selective influence assumptions (i.e., which experimental manipulations affect which model parameters) are shown to have no restrictive effect, except for the theoretically questionable assumption that speed-accuracy instructions do not affect growth rates. The 2nd contribution of this article concerns translation of falsifiable models between universal modeling languages. Specifically, we translate the predictions of the diffusion and LBA models (with their parametric and selective influence assumptions intact) into the Grice modeling framework, in which accumulation processes are deterministic and thresholds are random variables. The Grice framework is also known to reproduce any possible pattern of response probabilities and times, and hence it can be used as a common language for comparing models. It is found that only a few simple properties of empirical data are necessary predictions of the diffusion and LBA models.
Accuracy is paramount in radiology and security screening, yet many factors undermine success. Target prevalence is a particularly worrisome factor, as targets are rarely present (e.g., the cancer rate in mammography is ~0.5%), and low target prevalence has been linked to increased search errors. More troubling is the fact that specific target types can have extraordinarily low frequency rates (e.g., architectural distortions in mammography-a specific marker of potential cancer-appear in fewer than 0.05% of cases). By assessing search performance across millions of trials from the Airport Scanner smartphone application, we demonstrated that the detection of ultra-rare items was disturbingly poor. A logarithmic relationship between target detection and target frequency (adjusted R (2) = .92) revealed that ultra-rare items had catastrophically low detection rates relative to targets with higher frequencies. Extraordinarily low search performance for these extraordinarily rare targets-what we term the ultra-rare-item effect-is troubling given that radiological and security-screening searches are primarily ultra-rare-item searches.
Despite the existence of much evidence for a number sense in humans, several researchers have questioned whether number is sensed directly or derived indirectly from texture density. Here, we provide clear evidence that numerosity and density judgments are subserved by distinct mechanisms with different psychophysical characteristics. We measured sensitivity for numerosity discrimination over a wide range of numerosities: For low densities (less than 0.25 dots/deg(2)), thresholds increased directly with numerosity, following Weber's law; for higher densities, thresholds increased with the square root of texture density, a steady decrease in the Weber fraction. The existence of two different psychophysical systems is inconsistent with a model in which number is derived indirectly from noisy estimates of density and area; rather, it points to the existence of separate mechanisms for estimating density and number. These results provide strong confirmation for the existence of neural mechanisms that sense number directly, rather than indirectly from texture density.
Although the processing of facial identity is known to be sensitive to the orientation of the face, it is less clear whether orientation sensitivity extends to the processing of facial expressions. To address this issue, we used functional MRI (fMRI) to measure the neural response to the Thatcher illusion. This illusion involves a local inversion of the eyes and mouth in a smiling face-when the face is upright, the inverted features make it appear grotesque, but when the face is inverted, the inversion is no longer apparent. Using an fMRI-adaptation paradigm, we found a release from adaptation in the superior temporal sulcus-a region directly linked to the processing of facial expressions-when the images were upright and they changed from a normal to a Thatcherized configuration. However, this release from adaptation was not evident when the faces were inverted. These results show that regions involved in processing facial expressions display a pronounced orientation sensitivity.
A thorough understanding of monosyllabic-word-recognition processes, in contrast with multisyllabic-word processing, has accumulated over the past decades. One fundamental challenge regarding multisyllabic words concerns their parsing into smaller units and the nature of the cues determining the parsing. We propose that the organization of consonant and vowel letters provides powerful cues for parsing, and we present data from a new task showing that a word's orthographic structure, as determined by the number of vowel-letter clusters, influences estimations of its length. Words were briefly presented on a computer screen, and participants had to estimate word length by drawing a line on the screen with the mouse. In three experiments, participants estimated words comprising fewer orthographic units as shorter than words comprising more units even though the words matched for number of letters. Further results demonstrated that the length bias was driven by orthographic information and not by phonological structure.
Can people learn complex information without conscious awareness? Implicit learning-learning without awareness of what has been learned-has been the focus of intense investigation over the last 50 years. However, it remains controversial whether complex knowledge can be learned implicitly. In the research reported here, we addressed this challenge by asking participants to differentiate between sequences of symbols they could not perceive consciously. Using an operant-conditioning task, we showed that participants learned to associate distinct sequences of crowded (nondiscriminable) symbols with their respective monetary outcomes (reward or punishment). Overall, our study demonstrates that sensitivity to sequential regularities can arise through the nonconscious temporal integration of perceptual information.
Previous research suggests that people construct mental time lines to represent and reason about time. However, is the ability to represent space truly necessary for representing events along a mental time line? Our results are the first to demonstrate that deficits in spatial representation (as a function of left hemispatial neglect) also result in deficits in representing events along the mental time line. Specifically, we show that patients with left hemispatial neglect have difficulty representing events that are associated with the past and, thus, fall to the left on the mental time line. These results demonstrate that representations of space and time share neural underpinnings and that representations of time have specific spatial properties (e.g., a left and a right side). Furthermore, it appears that intact spatial representations are necessary for at least some types of temporal representation.
There is robust evidence for a protective role of interpersonal factors such as social support on alcohol relapse, but research on the mechanisms that social factors may be acting on to effectively protect individuals against relapse is lacking. Prairie voles are highly social, monogamous rodents that freely self-administer ethanol in high amounts, and are a useful model for understanding social influences on alcohol drinking. Here we investigated whether prairie voles can be used to model social influences on relapse using the alcohol deprivation effect, in which animals show a transient increase in ethanol drinking following deprivation. In Experiment I, subjects were housed alone during four weeks of 24-h access to 10% ethanol in a two-bottle choice test. Ethanol was then removed from the cage for 72 h. Animals remained in isolation or were then housed with a familiar same-sex social partner, and ethanol access was resumed. Animals that remained isolated showed an increase in ethanol intake relative to pre-deprivation baseline, indicative of relapse-like behavior. However, animals that were socially housed did not show an increase in ethanol intake, and this was independent of whether the social partner also had access to ethanol. Experiment II replicated the alcohol deprivation effect in a separate cohort of isolated animals. These findings demonstrate that prairie voles display an alcohol deprivation effect and suggest a 'social buffering' effect of relapse-like behavior in the prairie vole. This behavioral paradigm provides a novel approach for investigating the behavioral and neurobiological underpinnings of social influences on alcohol relapse.
White matter lesions, also termed White Matter Hyperintensities (WMH), on T2-weighted MR images, are common in the elderly population. Of note, their presence is often accompanied with cognitive decline and the risk of dementia. Even though previous brain ischemia and WM lesion studies have been conducted and indicated that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) might protect against neuronal cell death, the interaction between regional WMH volume and the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism on the cognitive performance of healthy elderly population remains unclear. To investigate the genetic effect of BDNF on cognitive function and regional WMH in the healthy elderly population, 90 elderly men, without dementia, with a mean age of 80.6  5.6 y/o were recruited to undergo cognitive tests, structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, and genotyping of BDNF alleles. Compared with Met homozygotes, Val homozygotes showed significantly inferior short-term memory (STM) performance (P = .001). A tendency toward dose-dependent effects of the Val allele on WMH volume was found, and Val homozygotes showed larger WMH volume in the temporal (P = .035), the occipital (P = .006), and the global WMH volume (P = .025) than others. Significant interaction effects of BDNF genotypes with temporal WMH volume on STM performance was observed (F1,89 = 4.306, P = .041). Val homozygotes presented steeper negative correlation compared to Met carriers. Mediation analysis also demonstrated that WMH in temporal, limbic, and subcortical regions might mediate the relationship between BDNF's genetic effect and STM performance. Our findings supported the hypothesis that the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism may affect susceptibility to regional WMH volume and such genotype-by-WMH interaction effect is correlated with cognitive decline in non-demented elderly males, in which the Met allele plays a protective role.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the presence of psychiatric diseases/symptoms in transsexual patients and to compare psychiatric distress related to the hormonal intervention in a one year follow-up assessment. We investigated 118 patients before starting the hormonal therapy and after about 12 months. We used the SCID-I to determine major mental disorders and functional impairment. We used the Zung Self-Rating Anxiety Scale (SAS) and the Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS) for evaluating self-reported anxiety and depression. We used the Symptom Checklist 90-R (SCL-90-R) for assessing self-reported global psychological symptoms. Seventeen patients (14%) had a DSM-IV-TR axis I psychiatric comorbidity. At enrollment the mean SAS score was above the normal range. The mean SDS and SCL-90-R scores were on the normal range except for SCL-90-R anxiety subscale. When treated, patients reported lower SAS, SDS and SCL-90-R scores, with statistically significant differences. Psychiatric distress and functional impairment were present in a significantly higher percentage of patients before starting the hormonal treatment than after 12 months (50% vs. 17% for anxiety; 42% vs. 23% for depression; 24% vs. 11% for psychological symptoms; 23% vs. 10% for functional impairment). The results revealed that the majority of transsexual patients have no psychiatric comorbidity, suggesting that transsexualism is not necessarily associated with severe comorbid psychiatric findings. The condition, however, seemed to be associated with subthreshold anxiety/depression, psychological symptoms and functional impairment. Moreover, treated patients reported less psychiatric distress. Therefore, hormonal treatment seemed to have a positive effect on transsexual patients' mental health.
Interpersonal touch is frequently used for communicating emotions, strengthen social bonds and to give others pleasure. The neuropeptide oxytocin increases social interest, improves recognition of others' emotions, and it is released during touch. Here, we investigated how oxytocin and gentle human touch affect social impressions of others, and vice versa, how others' facial expressions and oxytocin affect touch experience. In a placebo-controlled crossover study using intranasal oxytocin, 40 healthy volunteers viewed faces with different facial expressions along with concomitant gentle human touch or control machine touch, while pupil diameter was monitored. After each stimulus pair, participants rated the perceived friendliness and attractiveness of the faces, perceived facial expression, or pleasantness and intensity of the touch. After intranasal oxytocin treatment, gentle human touch had a sharpening effect on social evaluations of others relative to machine touch, such that frowning faces were rated as less friendly and attractive, whereas smiling faces were rated as more friendly and attractive. Conversely, smiling faces increased, whereas frowning faces reduced, pleasantness of concomitant touch - the latter effect being stronger for human touch. Oxytocin did not alter touch pleasantness. Pupillary responses, a measure of attentional allocation, were larger to human touch than to equally intense machine touch, especially when paired with a smiling face. Overall, our results point to mechanisms important for human affiliation and social bond formation.
Both oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (AVP) are known to modulate social behavior, and dysfunction in both systems has been postulated as a potential cause of certain psychiatric disorders that involve social behavioral deficits. In particular, there is growing interest in intranasal OT as a potential treatment for certain psychiatric disorders, and preliminary pre-clinical and clinical studies suggest efficacy in alleviating some of the associated symptoms. However, the vast majority of research participants in these studies have been male, and there is evidence for sexually differentiated effects of nonapeptides in both humans and non-human animals. To date, no study has investigated the effect of intranasal OT on brain function in human males and females within the same paradigm. Previously, in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind fMRI study, we reported effects of intranasal OT and AVP on behavior and brain activity of human males as they played an interactive social game known as the Prisoner's Dilemma Game. Here, we present findings from an identical study in human females, and compare these with our findings from males. Overall, we find that both behavioral and neural responses to intranasal OT and AVP are highly sexually differentiated. In women, AVP increased conciliatory behavior, and both OT and AVP caused women to treat computer partners more like humans. In men, AVP increased reciprocation of cooperation from both human and computer partners. However, no specific drug effects on behavior were shared between men and women. During cooperative interactions, both OT and AVP increased brain activity in men within areas rich in OT and AVP receptors and in areas playing a key role in reward, social bonding, arousal and memory (e.g., the striatum, basal forebrain, insula, amygdala and hippocampus), whereas OT and AVP either had no effect or in some cases actually decreased brain activity in these regions in women. OT treatment rendered neural responses of males more similar to responses of females in the placebo group and vice versa, raising the prospect of an inverted u-shaped dose response to central OT levels. These findings emphasize the need to fully characterize the effects of intranasal OT and AVP in both males and females and at multiple doses before widespread clinical application will be warranted.
Recent findings have suggested that aerobic exercise may have a positive effect on brain functioning, in addition to its well-recognized beneficial effects on human physiology. This study confirmed the cognitive effects of aerobic exercise on the human brain. It also examined the relationships between exercise and the serum levels of neurotrophic factors (BDNF, IGI-1, and VEGF). A total of 91 healthy teens who exercised regularly participated in this study. A between-group design was adopted to compare cognitive functioning subserved by the frontal and temporal brain regions and the serum levels of neurotrophic factors between 45 regular exercisers and 46 matched controls. The exercisers performed significantly better than the controls on the frontal and temporal functioning parameters measured. This beneficial cognitive effect was region-specific because no such positive cognitive effect on task-tapping occipital functioning was observed. With respect to the serum levels of the neurotrophic factors, a negative correlation between neurotrophic factors (BDNF and VEGF) with frontal and medial-temporal lobe function was revealed. Furthermore, the levels of BDNF and VEGF interacted with exercise status in predicting frontal and temporal lobe function. This is the first report of the interaction effects of exercise and neurotrophic factors on cognitive functioning. Herein, we report preliminary evidence of the beneficial effects of regular aerobic exercise in improving cognitive functions in teens. These beneficial effects are region-specific and are associated with the serum levels of neurotrophic factors. Our findings lay the path for future studies looking at ways to translate these beneficial effects to therapeutic strategies for adolescents.
Hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis responses to change and social challenges during adolescence can influence mental health and behavior into adulthood. To examine how HPA tone in adolescence may contribute to psychopathology, we challenged male adolescent (5 weeks) and adult (16 weeks) BTBR T(+)tf/J (BTBR) and 129S1/SvImJ (129S) mice with novelty in sociability tests. In prior studies these strains had exaggerated or altered HPA stress responses and low sociability relative to C57BL/6J mice in adulthood. In adolescence these strains already exhibited similar or worse sociability deficits than adults or age-matched C57 mice. Yet BTBR adolescents were less hyperactive and buried fewer marbles than adults. Novelty-induced corticosterone (CORT) spikes in adolescent BTBR were double adult levels, and higher than 129S or C57 mice at either age. Due to their established role in HPA feedback, we hypothesized that hippocampal Gi/o-coupled serotonin 5-HT1A and cannabinoid CB1 receptor function might be upregulated in BTBR mice. Adolescent BTBR mice had higher hippocampal 5-HT1A density as measured by [(3)H] 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) binding than C57 mice, and adult BTBR 8-OH-DPAT-stimulated GTPS binding was higher than in either C57 or 129S mice in this region. Further, BTBR hippocampal CB1 density measured by [(3)H]CP55,940 binding was 15-20% higher than in C57. CP55,940-stimulated GTPS binding in adult BTBR dentate gyrus was 30% higher then 129S (p&lt;0.05), but was not a product of greater neuronal or cell density defined by NeuN and DAPI staining. Hence hyperactive HPA responsiveness during adolescence may underlie 5-HT1A and CB1 receptor up-regulation and behavioral phenotype of BTBR mice.











Diminished emotional capacity is a core characteristic of psychopathic personality. We examined behavioral and electrophysiological differences in attentional bias to emotional material in 34 healthy individuals rated high or low in psychopathic traits using the short form of the Psychopathic Personality Inventory-Revised (18 high-trait, 16 low-trait). While performing an emotional Stroop task, high-trait participants displayed reduced emotional modulation of the late positive potential (LPP, 400-600ms), and early anterior positivity (EAP, 200-300ms) amplitudes. Results suggest blunted bias to affective content in psychopathic personality, characterized by diminished early capture to emotional salience (EAP) and dampened cognitive emotional processing (LPP).





Lysosomal storage diseases (LSDs) are a group of rare genetic multisystemic disorders, resulting in deficient lysosomal activity. These pathologies are characterized by progressive accumulation of storage material within the lysosomes, ultimately leading to organ dysfunctions. LSDs patient's clinical outcomes have significantly improved, since the advent of enzyme replacement therapy (ERT). ERT is approved worldwide for 6 LSDs: Gaucher disease, Fabry disease, Mucopolysaccharidosis types I, II, and VI, and Pompe disease. The efficacy and safety of ERT for LSDs has been confirmed by extensive clinical trials, however therapy with infused protein is life-long and disease progression is still observed in treated patients. Obstacles to successful ERT, such as immune reactions against the infused enzyme, miss-targeting of recombinant enzymes, and difficult delivery to crucial tissues (i.e. brain and bone), determine the need for further research, in order to ameliorate therapeutic strategies. Viral gene therapy, stem cell based therapy, pharmacological chaperones and could be considered essential tools for future improvement of recombinant enzyme trafficking and targeting. This review will discuss recent patents and new strategic approaches for enzyme delivery to highlight the most relevant aspects, concerning next generation LSDs treatment.


Purpose. The adult myopathy assessment tool (AMAT) is a performance-based battery comprised of functional and endurance subscales that can be completed in approximately 30 minutes without the use of specialized equipment. The purpose of this study was to determine the construct validity and internal consistency of the AMAT with a sample of adults with spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA). Methods. AMAT validity was assessed in 56-male participants with genetically confirmed SBMA (mean age, 5310 years). The participants completed the AMAT and assessments for disease status, strength, and functional status. Results. Lower AMAT scores were associated with longer disease duration (r = -0.29; P &lt; 0.03) and lower serum androgen levels (r = 0.49-0.59; P &lt; 0.001). The AMAT was significantly correlated with strength and functional status (r = 0.82-0.88; P &lt; 0.001). The domains of the AMAT exhibited good internal consistency (Cronbach's  =0.77-0.89; P &lt; 0.001). Conclusions. The AMAT is a standardized, performance-based tool that may be used to assess functional limitations and muscle endurance. The AMAT has good internal consistency, and the construct validity of the AMAT is supported by its significant associations with hormonal, strength, and functional characteristics of adults with SBMA. This trial is registered with Clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT00303446.

The mechanisms through which ethanol exposure results in developmental defects remain unclear. We used the zebrafish model to elucidate eye-specific mechanisms that underlie ethanol-mediated microphthalmia (reduced eye size), through time-series microarray analysis of gene expression within eyes of embryos exposed to 1.5% ethanol. 62 genes were differentially expressed (DE) in ethanol-treated as compared to control eyes sampled during retinal neurogenesis (24-48 h post-fertilization). The EDGE (extraction of differential gene expression) algorithm identified &gt;3000 genes DE over developmental time in ethanol-exposed eyes as compared to controls. The DE lists included several genes indicating a mis-regulated cellular stress response due to ethanol exposure. Combined treatment with sub-threshold levels of ethanol and a morpholino targeting heat shock factor 1 mRNA resulted in microphthalmia, suggesting convergent molecular pathways. Thermal preconditioning partially prevented ethanol-mediated microphthalmia while maintaining Hsf-1 expression. These data suggest roles for reduced Hsf-1 in mediating microphthalmic effects of embryonic ethanol exposure.

Infants born prematurely are at higher risk for later linguistic deficits present in delayed or atypical processing of phonetic and prosodic information. In order to be able to specify the nature of this atypical development, it is important to investigate the role of early experience in language perception. According to the concept of Gonzalez-Gomez and Nazzi (2012) there is a special intrauterine sensitivity to the prosodic features of languages that should have a special role in language acquisition. Therefore, we may also assume that pre- and full-term infants having months difference in intrauterine experience show different maturation patterns of processing prosodic and phonetic information present at word level. The aim of our study was to investigate the effect of these differences on word stress pattern vs. phoneme information processing. Two age groups of infants (6 and 10 month-olds) were included in our study. 21 of 46 of the total of infants investigated were prematurely born with low birth weight. We used the mismatch negativity (MMN) event related brain potential (ERP) component, a widely used electrophysiological correlate of acoustic change detection, for testing the assumed developmental changes of phoneme and word stress discrimination. In a passive oddball paradigm we used a word as standard, a pseudo-word as phoneme deviant, and an illegally uttered word as stress deviant. Our results showed no differences in MMN responses in the phoneme deviant condition between the groups, meaning a relatively intact maturation of phoneme processing of preterm infants as compared to their contemporaries. However, the mismatch responses measured in the stress condition revealed significant between-group differences. These results strengthen the view that the total length of intrauterine experience influences the time of emergence of prosodic processing.

Purpose: Fatigue is a frequent and difficult to treat symptom affecting patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) with a profound negative impact on quality of life. Fatigue has been associated with functional and structural abnormalities of the frontal cortex, including frontal hypo-activation. The aim of this exploratory study was to assess whether fatigue symptoms can be reduced by excitability-enhancing anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS). Methods: In this sham-controlled, double-blind intervention study, tDCS was applied over the left prefrontal cortex of MS patients with fatigue for five consecutive days. Symptoms were tracked for 1 month via questionnaires. Lesion load at baseline was calculated for each patient and correlated with fatigue levels and responsiveness to stimulation. Results: In the whole group analysis the scores of the fatigue scales were not altered by tDCS. However, in an exploratory analysis we found a correlation between response to the stimulation regarding subjectively perceived fatigue and lesion load in the left frontal cortex: patients responding positively to anodal tDCS had higher lesion load, compared to non-responding patients. Conclusion: We conclude that in patient subgroups discernible by specific morphological alterations, tDCS may be a tool for MS fatigue management.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a serious public health concern and a major cause of death and disability worldwide. Each year, an estimated 1.7 million Americans sustain TBI of which ~52,000 people die, ~275,000 people are hospitalized and 1,365,000 people are treated as emergency outpatients. Currently there are ~5.3 million Americans living with TBI. TBI is more of a disease process than of an event that is associated with immediate and long-term sensomotor, psychological and cognitive impairments. TBI is the best known established epigenetic risk factor for later development of neurodegenerative diseases and dementia. People sustaining TBI are ~4 times more likely to develop dementia at a later stage than people without TBI. Single brain injury is linked to later development of symptoms resembling Alzheimer's disease while repetitive brain injuries are linked to later development of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) and/or Dementia Pugilistica (DP). Furthermore, genetic background of -amyloid precursor protein (APP), Apolipoprotein E (ApoE), presenilin (PS) and neprilysin (NEP) genes is associated with exacerbation of neurodegenerative process after TBI. This review encompasses acute effects and chronic neurodegenerative consequences after TBI.
Purpose: In adult rats, intravitreal injections of the Rho-GTPase inhibitor C3 transferase (BA-210), or a cocktail of recombinant ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and a cyclic AMP analogue (CPTcAMP), increase retinal ganglion cell (RGC) survival and axonal regeneration. Here we examined whether these treatments also affect the dendritic architecture of regrowing RGCs. Methods: In Fischer F344 rats, one optic nerve was cut and an autologous peripheral nerve graft was sutured onto it. Rats then received intravitreal injections (4 l) of saline, BA-210 or CNTF + CPTcAMP four and eleven days after the PN graft surgery. After 5 weeks, regenerating RGCs were retrogradely labelled with fluorogold (FG) and in living wholemounts the dendritic trees of FG labelled RGCs were visualised by intracellular injection of 2% Lucifer Yellow. Results: Injection of BA-210 or CNTF + CPTcAMP resulted in significantly more regenerating RGCs with abnormal dendritic morphologies, including abnormally long looping processes. Compared to saline-injected regenerating controls, RGCs in BA-210 injected eyes had significantly smaller dendritic field areas and sparser dendrites, while in CNTF + CPTcAMP injected eyes there was increased branching of more distal dendrites. Conclusions: While both intraocular treatments enhance RGC axonal regrowth, they also induce significant changes in RGC dendritic morphology. It remains to be determined if such changes alter the function of the regenerating neuronal population.

We review evidence from our laboratory that suggests that in addition to enhanced cue conditioning and delayed cue extinction disturbed contextual learning may play an important role in the development and maintenance of posttraumatic stress disorder. Based on data from a longitudinal sample of rescue workers at high risk for posttraumatic stress disorder and data on single trauma exposed persons with and without posttraumatic stress disorder we show the crucial role of the hippocampus for contextual memory and impaired contextual learning along with enhanced cue conditioning and delayed extinction in PTSD. Using structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging we confirmed animal data on the role of the hippocampus in contextual and the importance of the amygdala in cue conditioning and the role of the frontal cortex in extinction. Genetic variants related to the modulation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis are associated with cue and genetic variants related to calcium signaling and memory processes and the regulation of the stress response are associated with context conditioning. These genes also play a role in PTSD. Further research needs to identify the predictive nature of these learning processes and plastic brain changes and their interaction with genetic characteristics changes for the transition into PTSD and its maintenance. A further focus needs to be on the identification of learning and memory mechanisms and the associated brain plasticity across disorders.
Recent research in neurodevelopment, neuroplasticity and genetics is providing new insights into the etiogenesis of psychopathology, but progress in treatment development has been hampered by reliance on diagnostic categories that are characterized by heterogeneity and based primarily on phenomenology. The NIMH Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) initiative seeks to provide a neuroscience-based nosological framework for future research on psychopathology, categorizing individuals for research purposes using a dimensional approach that capitalizes on advances in modern neuroscience. These scientific advances and new approaches to classification can inform the development of novel, circuit-based interventions and the personalization of treatment. In this paper, we review key advances areas in clinical neuroscience, describe the RDoC project and highlight some emerging treatment approaches that are consistent with these developments.

Unexpected, recurrent panic attacks and anxious apprehension are two distinct emotional phenomena that constitute the core symptoms for diagnosing panic disorder. Taking a neuroscience perspective the current review paper presents both epidemiological and experimental psychophysiological evidence suggesting that panic attacks can be conceptualized as an unconditioned circa defense response pattern to intense internal threat stimuli, characterized by strong autonomic surge and escape behavior and abnormal plastic changes of the brain. Anxious apprehension develops after the experience of such severe panic attacks as conditioned responses to mild body symptoms. Theoretically these conditioned fear responses can be considered as post-encounter defense characterized by increased selective attention, increased threat appraisal and defensive freezing and startle potentiation evidencing altered brain circuits evoked by mild body symptoms. Agoraphobic avoidance starts very early during the defensive cascade and can be conceived as motivated behavior driven by the incentive to be in a safe context that is under control of the individual.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a severe, chronic disease with a heritability of 60-80%. BD is frequently misdiagnosed due to phenomenological overlap with other psychopathologies, an important issue that calls for the identification of biological and psychological vulnerability and disease markers. Altered structural and functional connectivity, mainly between limbic and prefrontal brain areas, have been proposed to underlie emotional and motivational dysregulation in BD and might represent relevant vulnerability and disease markers. In the present laboratory review we discuss functional and structural neuroimaging findings on emotional and motivational dysregulation from our research group in BD patients and healthy individuals at risk to develop BD. As a main result of our studies, we observed altered orbitofrontal and limbic activity and reduced connectivity between dorsal prefrontal and limbic brain regions, as well as reduced integrity of fiber tracts connecting prefrontal and subcortical brain structures in BD patients and high-risk individuals. Our results provide novel insights into pathophysiological mechanisms of bipolar disorder. The current laboratory review provides a specific view of our group on altered brain connectivity and underlying psychological processes in bipolar disorder based on our own work, integrating relevant findings from others. Thereby we attempt to advance neuropsychobiological models of BD.



Abstract Serotonin and its various receptors are involved in numerous brain functions and neuropsychiatric disorders. Of the 14 known serotoninergic receptors, the 5-HT7 receptor is the most recently identified and characterized. It is closely involved in the pathogenesis of depression, anxiety, epilepsy and pain and is therefore an important target for drug therapy. It is a crucial target in neuroscience, and there is a clear need for radioligands for in vitro and in vivo visualization and quantification, first in animal models and ultimately in humans. This review focuses on the main radioligands suggested for in vitro and in vivo imaging of the 5-HT7 receptor.
A 61-year-old man developed disturbance of consciousness for 2 weeks. He showed neck stiffness and hyporeflexia. Analysis of his cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) revealed pleocytosis and markedly reduced glucose contents. Adenosine deaminase (ADA) levels in the CSF were elevated (28.8 IU/l). Brain magnetic resonance imagings showed enhancement of the leptomeninges. Tuberculous meningitis was considered, but antituberculous drug was not effective. Repeated cytological analysis of the CSF demonstrated atypical cells with enlarged unevenly distributed nuclei and immunoreactive with glial fibrillary acidic protein. We diagnosed him as leptomeningeal gliomatosis. CSF ADA may be elevated in this rare disorder, and here we emphasize that repeated cytological analysis with immunohistochemical staining was useful for diagnosis.
This article presents a report on the 2nd meeting of the International Consortium on Hallucination Research, held on September 12th and 13th 2013 at Durham University, UK. Twelve working groups involving specialists in each area presented their findings and sought to summarize the available knowledge, inconsistencies in the field, and ways to progress. The 12 working groups reported on the following domains of investigation: cortical organisation of hallucinations, nonclinical hallucinations, interdisciplinary approaches to phenomenology, culture and hallucinations, subtypes of auditory verbal hallucinations, a Psychotic Symptoms Rating Scale multisite study, visual hallucinations in the psychosis spectrum, hallucinations in children and adolescents, Research Domain Criteria behavioral constructs and hallucinations, new methods of assessment, psychological therapies, and the Hearing Voices Movement approach to understanding and working with voices. This report presents a summary of this meeting and outlines 10 hot spots for hallucination research, which include the in-depth examination of (1) the social determinants of hallucinations, (2) translation of basic neuroscience into targeted therapies, (3) different modalities of hallucination, (4) domain convergence in cross-diagnostic studies, (5) improved methods for assessing hallucinations in nonclinical samples, (6) using humanities and social science methodologies to recontextualize hallucinatory experiences, (7) developmental approaches to better understand hallucinations, (8) changing the memory or meaning of past trauma to help recovery, (9) hallucinations in the context of sleep and sleep disorders, and (10) subtypes of hallucinations in a therapeutic context.

CACNA1C (12p13.3) has been implicated as a susceptibility gene for schizophrenia by several replicated genome wide association studies. While these results have been consistent among studies in European populations, the findings in East Asian populations have varied. To test whether CACNA1C is a risk gene for schizophrenia, we conducted a case-control study in 5897 schizophrenic patients and 6323 healthy control subjects selected from Han Chinese population. Our study replicated the positive associations of rs1006737 (P=0.0108, OR=1.16, 95% CI: 1.03-1.29) and rs1024582 (P=0.0062, OR=1.18, 95% CI: 1.05-1.33), and identified a novel risk locus, rs2007044 (P=0.0053, OR=1.08, 95% CI: 1.02-1.14). A meta-analysis of rs1006737 combining our study and previous studies was conducted in a total of 8222 schizophrenia cases and 24,661 healthy controls. In the meta-analysis, the association between rs1006737 and schizophrenia remained significant (OR=1.14, 95% CI: 1.07-1.22, P=0.0001). Stratified analysis showed no heterogeneity between East Asian and European ancestries ((2)[1]=0.07, P=0.795), and the difference in pooled ORs between ancestries was not significant (Z=0.25, P=0.801). Our results provide further support for associations of rs1006737 and rs1024582 with schizophrenia, identify a new risk locus rs2007044 in a Han Chinese population, and further establish CACNA1C as an important susceptibility gene for the disease across world populations.


The Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms (SAPS), the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS), and the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale for Schizophrenia (PANSS) are the most widely used schizophrenia symptom rating scales, but despite their co-existence for 25 years no easily usable between-scale conversion mechanism exists. The aim of this study was to provide equations for between-scale symptom rating conversions. Two-hundred-and-five schizophrenia patients [mean ageSD=39.511.6, 156 males] were assessed with the SANS, SAPS, and PANSS. Pearson's correlations between symptom scores from each of the scales were computed. Linear regression analyses, on data from 176 randomly selected patients, were performed to derive equations for converting ratings between the scales. Intraclass correlations, on data from the remaining 29 patients, not part of the regression analyses, were performed to determine rating conversion accuracy. Between-scale positive and negative symptom ratings were highly correlated. Intraclass correlations between the original positive and negative symptom ratings and those obtained via conversion of alternative ratings using the conversion equations were moderate to high (ICCs=0.65 to 0.91). Regression-based equations may be useful for conversion between schizophrenia symptom severity as measured by the SANS/SAPS and PANSS, though additional validation is warranted. This study's conversion equations, implemented at http:/converteasy.org, may aid in the comparison of medication efficacy studies, in meta- and mega-analyses examining symptoms as moderator variables, and in retrospective combination of symptom data in multi-center data sharing projects that need to pool symptom rating data when such data are obtained using different scales.
Longer duration of untreated psychosis (DUP) in adult patients with first-episode psychosis (FEP) has been associated with poor clinical and social outcomes. We aimed to estimate the influence of DUP on outcome at 2-year follow-up in subjects with an early-onset (less than 18 years of age) FEP of less than 6 months' duration. A total of 80 subjects (31.3% females, mean age 16.01.8 years) were enrolled in the study. The influence of DUP on outcome was estimated using multiple regression models (two linear models for influence of DUP on the C-GAF at 2 years and C-GAF change through the follow-up period, and a logistic model for influence of DUP on 41 PANSS remission at 2 years in schizophrenia patients (n=47)). Mean DUP was 65.354.7 days. Median DUP was 49.5 days. For the whole sample (n=80), DUP was the only variable significantly related to C-GAF score at 2-year follow-up (Beta=-0.13, p&lt;0.01), while DUP and premorbid adjustment (Beta=-0.01, p&lt;0.01; and Beta=-0.09, p=0.04, respectively) were the only variables significantly related to C-GAF change. In schizophrenia patients, DUP predicted both C-GAF score at 2 years and C-GAF change, while in patients with affective psychosis (n=22), DUP was unrelated to outcome. Lower baseline C-GAF score (OR=0.91, p&lt;0.01) and shorter DUP (OR=0.98, p=&lt;0.01) were the only variables that significantly predicted clinical remission in schizophrenia patients. In conclusion, longer DUP was associated with lower C-GAF at 2 years, less increase in C-GAF, and lower rates of clinical remission in early-onset FEP. Our findings support the importance of early detection programs, which help shorten DUP.


Decisions are called decisions under uncertainty when either prior information is incomplete or the outcomes of the decision are unclear. Alterations in these processes related to decisions under uncertainty have been linked to delusions. In patients with schizophrenia, the underlying neural networks have only rarely been studied. We aimed to disentangle the neural correlates of decision-making and relate them to neuropsychological and psychopathological parameters in a large sample of patients with schizophrenia and healthy subjects. Fifty-seven patients and fifty-seven healthy volunteers from six centers had to either indicate via button-press from which of two bottles red or blue balls were drawn (decision-making under uncertainty condition), or indicate whether eight red balls had been presented (baseline condition) while BOLD signal was measured with fMRI. Patients based their decisions on less conclusive evidence and had decreased activations in the underlying neural network, comprising of medial and lateral frontal as well as parietal areas, as compared to healthy subjects. While current psychopathology was not correlated with brain activation, positive symptoms led to longer decision latencies in patients. These results suggest that decision-making under uncertainty in schizophrenia is affected by a complex interplay of aberrant neural activation. Furthermore, reduced neuropsychological functioning in patients was related to impaired decision-making and task performance was modulated by distinct positive symptoms.


The rs1344706, an intronic SNP within the zinc-finger protein 804A gene (ZNF804A), was identified as one of the most compelling risk SNPs for schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder (BD). It is however not clear by which molecular mechanisms ZNF804A increases disease risk. We evaluated the role of ZNF804A in SZ and BD by genotyping the originally associated rs1344706 SNP and an exonic SNP (rs12476147) located in exon four of ZNF804A in a sample of 422 SZ, 382 BD, and 507 controls from the isolated population of the Costa Rica Central Valley. We also investigated the rs1344706 SNP for allelic specific expression (ASE) imbalance in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) of 46 heterozygous postmortem brains. While no significant association between rs1344706 and SZ or BD was observed in the Costa Rica sample, we observed an increased risk of SZ for the minor allele (A) of the exonic rs12476147 SNP (p=0.026). Our ASE assay detected a significant over-expression of the rs12476147 A allele in DLPFC of rs1344706 heterozygous subjects. Interestingly, cDNA allele ratios were significantly different according to the intronic rs1344706 genotypes (p-value=0.03), with the rs1344706 A allele associated with increased ZNF804A rs12476147 A allele expression (average 1.06, p-value=0.02, for heterozygous subjects vs. genomic DNA). In conclusion, we have demonstrated a significant association of rs12476147 with SZ, and using a powerful within-subject design, an allelic expression imbalance of ZNF804A exonic SNP rs12476147 in the DLPFC. Although this data does not preclude the possibility of other functional variants in ZNF804A, it provides evidence that the rs1344706 SZ risk allele is the cis-regulatory variant directly responsible for this allelic expression imbalance in adult cortex.

In this study we use high resolution Magnetic Resonance imaging (MRI) and apply rigorous manual tracing criteria in order to assess volumetrically the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in schizophrenia. Previous MRI studies suggested PFC is included in neural systems necessary for emotional processing and cognition, and regional PFC abnormalities might, thus, lead to specific negative symptoms, as well as a frequent association of poorer performance in category switching. The aim of this study was to use 3T imaging and reliable manual parcellation to determine if, as hypothesized, this higher precision would reveal additional MRI abnormalities in PFC in schizophrenia, and an association between PFC abnormalities and specific negative symptoms, as well as in category switching. Using 3-T MRI, 27 schizophrenia patients and 27 healthy controls were examined. PFC was manually parcellated into frontal pole, superior frontal gyrus (SFG), middle frontal gyrus (MFG), and inferior frontal gyrus (IFG). Left SFG (p=0.004), bilateral MFG (left: p=0.007; right: p=0.007), and bilateral IFG (left: p&lt;0.001; right: p=0.002) showed volume reduction. There were symptom associations between smaller left MFG volumes and more affective flattening (R=-0.465, p=0.015), and smaller left IFG volumes and poorer performance on the alternating semantic category test (R=0.440, p=0.025). In summary, 3-T imaging revealed widespread gyral volume deficits in PFC gyri, and specific associations with selective negative symptoms, such as affective flattening, and with deficits in cognitive switching.

Individuals with a psychotic disorder who had a premorbid history of amphetamine use (n=382) were analyzed in groups according to age of initiation to amphetamine (AIA) and mean number of years of duration of premorbid exposure to amphetamine (DPEA) was calculated. Univariate General Linear Models were used to test for group differences in age at onset of psychotic illness (AOI) and DPEA. Although a temporal direct relationship between AIA and AOI was detected (mean duration 5.3 years), our findings suggested this association was spurious and better explained by a later initiation to amphetamine than to cannabis (by 2-3 years).

Schizophrenic patients may report unusual perception of their own body. Studies using the rubber hand illusion (RHI) proposed that they exhibit a distorted sense of body ownership. However, since the RHI is mostly achieved with the contribution of visuo-tactile integration, the stronger RHI observed in schizophrenic patients could reflect either a general increase of the response to multisensory stimuli or a larger influence of visual cues on the tactile sensory experience. The purpose of the present study is to investigate patients' perception of their own body by means of a behavioral paradigm that measures their proneness to the RHI without relying on multisensory integration occurring during actual experience of touch. In a previous study we demonstrated in healthy participants that expectation of touch experience arising at the sight of a human hand approaching a rubber hand is enough to induce a sense of ownership over the same hand. Here we take advantage of the same paradigm to investigate body ownership in schizophrenia. Patients observed the experimenter's hand while approaching--without touching--either a rubber hand or a piece of wood placed in front of them. The seen object could be either aligned to participant's hand or rotated by 180. Phenomenology of the illusion revealed that schizophrenic patients exhibited sense of ownership over the rubber hand, but more weakly than healthy controls. The present study sheds new light on the experience of body ownership in schizophrenic patients, corroborating the notion that alterations of bodily self-awareness play an important role in schizophrenia.
This paper offers an overview and clarification of the ipseity-disturbance or self-disorder hypothesis regarding schizophrenia, with focus on some recent and recommended research and theoretical refinements. There is need to expand research and theorizing in several directions-in order to: 1, specify more precisely what is truly distinctive in the schizophrenia spectrum, 2, explore internal structure and explanatory potential of this purported disturbance of minimal- or core-self experience, 3, generate testable hypotheses concerning pathogenetic pathways and psychotherapeutic interventions. Comparative studies can make a crucial scientific contribution. Some recent, exploratory studies are described: published reports were examined for alterations of self-experience in conditions outside the schizophrenia spectrum-mania, psychotic depression, and depersonalization disorder-and in one unusual attitudinal stance: intense introspection (as refined in early 20th century psychological research). Remarkable similarities (e.g., alienation/reification of thoughts and bodily experiences, fading of self and world) as well as some important differences (e.g., absence, outside schizophrenia, of severe erosion of minimal self-experience or real confusion of self and other) in types of self-anomalies were found. These support but also refine the ipseity-disturbance model. Future research should treat self-experience as an independent variable, manipulating and measuring this dimension (in both schizophrenic and non-schizophrenic populations) to study its associations with anomalies of cognition, affect, expression, and neural functioning already identified in schizophrenia. The self-disorder model offers an integrative and dynamic view of schizophrenia congruent with recent trends in cognitive neuroscience and consistent with the heterogeneous, varying, and holistic nature of this enigmatic illness.
Objective. It has been suggested that atypical antipsychotics confer their effects via brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We investigated the effect of quetiapine on serum levels of BDNF and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in drug-naive first-episode psychosis subjects. Methods. Fifteen patients drawn from a larger study received quetiapine treatment for twelve weeks. Baseline levels of serum BDNF and VEGF were compared to age- and sex-matched healthy controls and to levels following treatment. Linear regression analyses were performed to determine the relationship of BDNF and VEGF levels with outcome measures at baseline and week 12. Results. The mean serum BDNF level was significantly higher at week 12 compared to baseline and correlated with reductions in Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) and general psychopathology scores. Changes in serum VEGF levels also correlated significantly with a reduction in BPRS scores, a significant improvement in PANNS positive symptoms scores, and displayed a positive relationship with changes in BDNF levels. Conclusions. Our findings suggest that BDNF and VEGF are potential biomarkers for gauging improvement of psychotic symptoms. This suggests a novel neurotrophic-based mechanism of the drug effects of quetiapine on psychosis. This is the first report of VEGF perturbation in psychosis.

Burst suppression is a unique electroencephalogram (EEG) pattern commonly seen in cases of severely reduced brain activity such as overdose of general anesthesia. It is important to detect burst suppression reliably during the administration of anesthetic or sedative agents, especially for cerebral-protective treatments in various neurosurgical diseases. This study investigates recurrent plot (RP) analysis for the detection of the burst suppression pattern (BSP) in EEG. The RP analysis is applied to EEG data containing BSPs collected from 14 patients. Firstly we obtain the best selection of parameters for RP analysis. Then, the recurrence rate (RR), determinism (DET), and entropy (ENTR) are calculated. Then RR was selected as the best BSP index one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and multiple comparison tests. Finally, the performance of RR analysis is compared with spectral analysis, bispectral analysis, approximate entropy, and the nonlinear energy operator (NLEO). ANOVA and multiple comparison tests showed that the RR could detect BSP and that it was superior to other measures with the highest sensitivity of suppression detection (96.49%, P = 0.03). Tracking BSP patterns is essential for clinical monitoring in critically ill and anesthetized patients. The purposed RR may provide an effective burst suppression detector for developing new patient monitoring systems.
Following the study on computational neuroscience through functional magnetic resonance imaging claimed that human action recognition in the brain of mammalian pursues two separated streams, that is, dorsal and ventral streams. It follows up by two pathways in the bioinspired model, which are specialized for motion and form information analysis (Giese and Poggio 2003). Active basis model is used to form information which is different from orientations and scales of Gabor wavelets to form a dictionary regarding object recognition (human). Also biologically movement optic-flow patterns utilized. As motion information guides share sketch algorithm in form pathway for adjustment plus it helps to prevent wrong recognition. A synergetic neural network is utilized to generate prototype templates, representing general characteristic form of every class. Having predefined templates, classifying performs based on multitemplate matching. As every human action has one action prototype, there are some overlapping and consistency among these templates. Using fuzzy optical flow division scoring can prevent motivation for misrecognition. We successfully apply proposed model on the human action video obtained from KTH human action database. Proposed approach follows the interaction between dorsal and ventral processing streams in the original model of the biological movement recognition. The attained results indicate promising outcome and improvement in robustness using proposed approach.
Background electroencephalography (EEG), recorded with scalp electrodes, in children with electrical status epilepticus during slow-wave sleep (ESES) syndrome and control subjects has been analyzed. We considered 10 ESES patients, all right-handed and aged 3-9 years. The 10 control individuals had the same characteristics of the ESES ones but presented a normal EEG. Recordings were undertaken in the awake and relaxed states with their eyes open. The complexity of background EEG was evaluated using the permutation entropy (PE) and sample entropy (SampEn) in combination with the ANOVA test. It can be seen that the entropy measures of EEG are significantly different between the ESES patients and normal control subjects. Then, a classification framework based on entropy measures and adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) classifier is proposed to distinguish ESES and normal EEG signals. The results are promising and a classification accuracy of about 89% is achieved.
Category formation of human perception is a vital part of cognitive ability. The disciplines of neuroscience and linguistics, however, seldom mention it in the marrying of the two. The present study reviews the neurological view of language acquisition as normalization of incoming speech signal, and attempts to suggest how speech sound category formation may connect personality with second language speech perception. Through a questionnaire, (being thick or thin) ego boundary, a correlate found to be related to category formation, was proven a positive indicator of personality types. Following the qualitative study, thick boundary and thin boundary English learners native in Cantonese were given a speech-signal perception test using an ABX discrimination task protocol. Results showed that thick-boundary learners performed significantly lower in accuracy rate than thin-boundary learners. It was implied that differences in personality do have an impact on language learning.
Cell polarity during eye development determines the normal retinal lamination and differentiation of photoreceptor cells in the retina. In vertebrates, blood vessel epicardial substance (Bves) is known to play an important role in the formation and maintenance of the tight junctions essential for epithelial cell polarity. In the current study, we generated a transgenic zebrafish Bves (zbves) promoter-EGFP zebrafish line to investigate the expression pattern of Bves in the retina and to study the role of zbves in retinal lamination. Immunostaining with different specific antibodies from retinal cells and transmission electron microscopy were used to identify the morphological defects in normal and Bves knockdown zebrafish. In normal zebrafish, Bves is located at the apical junctions of embryonic retinal neuroepithelia during retinogenesis; later, it is strongly expressed around inner plexiform layer (IPL) and retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). In contrast, a loss of normal retinal lamination and cellular polarity was found with undifferentiated photoreceptor cells in Bves knockdown zebrafish. Herein, our results indicated that disruption of Bves will result in a loss of normal retinal lamination.

Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) have the potential to degrade intestinal oxalate and this is increasingly being studied as a promising probiotic solution to manage kidney stone disease. In this study, oxalate degrading LAB were isolated from human faeces and south Indian fermented foods, subsequently assessed for potential probiotic property in vitro and in vivo. Based on preliminary characteristics, 251 out of 673 bacterial isolates were identified as LAB. A total of 17 strains were found to degrade oxalate significantly between 40.38% and 62.90% and were subjected to acid and bile tolerance test. Among them, nine strains exhibited considerable tolerance up to pH 3.0 and at 0.3% bile. These were identified as Lactobacillus fermentum and Lactobacillus salivarius using 16S rDNA sequencing. Three strains, Lactobacillus fermentum TY5, Lactobacillus fermentum AB1, and Lactobacillus salivarius AB11, exhibited good adhesion to HT-29 cells and strong antimicrobial activity. They also conferred resistance to kanamycin, rifampicin, and ampicillin, but were sensitive to chloramphenicol and erythromycin. The faecal recovery rate of these strains was observed as 15.16% (TY5), 6.71% (AB1), and 9.3% (AB11) which indicates the colonization ability. In conclusion, three efficient oxalate degrading LAB were identified and their safety assessments suggest that they may serve as good probiotic candidates for preventing hyperoxaluria.
Positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) may prevent cyclic opening and collapsing alveoli in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) patients, but it may play a role also in general anesthesia. This review is organized in two sections. The first one reports the pathophysiological effect of PEEP on thoracic pressure and hemodynamic and cerebral perfusion pressure. The second section summarizes the knowledge and evidence of the use of PEEP in general anesthesia and intensive care. More specifically, for intensive care this review refers to ARDS and traumatic brain injured patients.
Many of the most common anesthetics are used in surgical oncology, yet effects on cancer cells are still not known. Anesthesia technique could differentially affect cancer recurrence in oncologic patients undergoing surgery, due to immunosuppression, stimulation of angiogenesis, and dissemination of residual cancer cells. Data support the use of intravenous anesthetics, such as propofol anesthesia, thanks to antitumoral protective effects inhibiting cyclooxygenase 2 and prostaglandins E2 in cancer cells, and stimulation of immunity response; a restriction in the use of volatile anesthetics; restriction in the use of opioids as they suppress humoral and cellular immunity, and their chronic use favors angiogenesis and development of metastases; use of locoregional anesthesia compared with general anesthesia, as locoregional appears to reduce cancer recurrence after surgery. However, these findings must be interpreted cautiously as there is no evidence that simple changes in the practice of anesthesia can have a positive impact on postsurgical survival of cancer patients.
Modeling and rendering realistic ocean scenes have been thoroughly investigated for many years. Its appearance has been studied and it is possible to find very detailed simulations where a high degree of realism is achieved. Nevertheless, among the solutions to ocean rendering, real-time management of the huge heightmaps that are necessary for rendering an ocean scene is still not solved. We propose a new technique for simulating the ocean surface on GPU. This technique is capable of offering view-dependent approximations of the mesh while maintaining coherence among the extracted approximations. This feature is very important as most solutions previously presented must retessellate from the initial mesh. Our solution is able to use the latest extracted approximation when refining or coarsening the mesh.
We have analyzed the relation of prevalence rates in Spanish regions with a series of human, environmental, and ecological factors. We find that the variability in migraine rates found between Spanish regions may be explained by interregional differences in the percentage of daily smokers, percentage of alcohol consumers, percentage of population presenting physical and/or psychological life-limiting conditions, percentage of population engaging in physical exercise, minimum absolute temperatures per year, number of days under 0 C per year, and altitude.
Although it is obvious that preconceptional effects as well as stressors during pregnancy profoundly influence the progeny, the lactation period seems to be at least as important. Here we summarize how maternal stressors during the lactation period affect the offspring. As vasopressin is one of the crucial components both for stress adaptation and social behavior, special emphasis was given to this neuropeptide. We can conclude that stressing the mother does not have the same acute effect on the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis (as the main target of stress adaptation) of the pups as stressing the pups, but later endocrine and behavioral consequences can be similar. Vasopressin plays a role in acute and later consequences of perinatal stressor applied either to the mother or to the offspring, thereby contributing to transmitting the mothers' stress to the progeny. This mother-infant interaction does not necessarily mean a direct transmission of molecules, but rather is the result of programming the brain development through changes in maternal behavior. Thus, there is a time lag between maternal stress and stress-related changes in the offspring. The interactions are bidirectional as not only stress in the dam but also stress in the progeny has an effect on nursing.















Recent evidence points to two separate systems for empathy: a vicarious sharing emotional system that supports our ability to share emotions and mental states and a cognitive system that involves cognitive understanding of the perspective of others. Several recent models offer new evidence regarding the brain regions involved in these systems, but no study till date has examined how regions within each system dynamically interact. The study by Raz et al. in this issue of Social, Cognitive, &amp; Affective Neuroscience is among the first to use a novel approach of functional magnetic resonance imaging analysis of fluctuations in network cohesion while an individual is experiencing empathy. Their results substantiate the approach positing two empathy mechanisms and, more broadly, demonstrate how dynamic analysis of emotions can further our understanding of social behavior.
Social cognition provides humans with the necessary skills to understand and interact with one another. One aspect of social cognition, mentalizing, is associated with a network of brain regions often referred to as the 'social brain.' These consist of medial prefrontal cortex [medial Brodmann Area 10 (mBA10)], temporoparietal junction (TPJ), posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) and anterior temporal cortex (ATC). How these specific regions develop structurally across late childhood and adolescence is not well established. This study examined the structural developmental trajectories of social brain regions in the longest ongoing longitudinal neuroimaging study of human brain maturation. Structural trajectories of grey matter volume, cortical thickness and surface area were analyzed using surface-based cortical reconstruction software and mixed modeling in a longitudinal sample of 288 participants (ages 7-30years, 857 total scans). Grey matter volume and cortical thickness in mBA10, TPJ and pSTS decreased from childhood into the early twenties. The ATC increased in grey matter volume until adolescence and in cortical thickness until early adulthood. Surface area for each region followed a cubic trajectory, peaking in early or pre-adolescence before decreasing into the early twenties. These results are discussed in the context of developmental changes in social cognition across adolescence.
Legal decisions often require logical reasoning about the mental states of people who perform gruesome behaviors. We use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine how brain regions implicated in logical reasoning are modulated by emotion and social cognition during legal decision-making. Participants read vignettes describing crimes that elicit strong or weak disgust matched on punishment severity using the US Federal Sentencing Guidelines. An extraneous sentence at the end of each vignette described the perpetrator's personality using traits or biological language, mimicking the increased use of scientific evidence presented in courts. Behavioral results indicate that crimes weak in disgust receive significantly less punishment than the guidelines recommend. Neuroimaging results indicate that brain regions active during logical reasoning respond less to crimes weak in disgust and biological descriptions of personality, demonstrating the impact of emotion and social cognition on logical reasoning mechanisms necessary for legal decision-making.
Body postures provide clear signals about emotional expressions, but so far it is not clear what muscle patterns are associated with specific emotions. This study lays the groundwork for a Body Action Coding System by investigating what combinations of muscles are used for emotional bodily expressions and assessing whether these muscles also automatically respond to the perception of emotional behavior. Surface electromyography of muscles in the arms (biceps and triceps) and shoulders (upper trapezius and deltoids) were measured during both active expression and passive viewing of fearful and angry bodily expressions. The biceps, deltoids, and triceps are recruited strongly for the expression of anger and fear expression predominantly depends on the biceps and the deltoids. During passive viewing, all muscles automatically activate during the passive viewing of anger. During fear perception, a clear activation can be seen in the trapezius, deltoid, and triceps muscles, whereas the biceps shows inhibition. In conclusion, this study provides more insight into the perception and expression of emotions in the body.
When movements indicate meaningful actions, even nonbiological objects induce the impression of &quot;having a mind&quot; or animacy. This basic social ability was investigated in adults with high-functioning autism (HFA, n = 13, and matched controls, n = 13) by systematically varying motion properties of simple geometric shapes. Critically, trial-by-trial variations of (1) motion complexity of stimuli, and of (2) participants' individual animacy ratings were separately correlated with neural activity to dissociate cognitive strategies relying more closely on stimulus analysis vs. subjective experience. Increasing motion complexity did not yield any significant group differences, and in both groups, it correlated with neural activity in regions involved in perceptual and evaluative processing, including the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), superior temporal gyrus (STG) and posterior cingulate cortex (PCC). In contrast, although there were no significant behavioral differences between the groups, increasing animacy ratings correlated with neural activity in the insula, STG, amygdala, dorsal mPFC and PCC more strongly in controls than in HFA. These results indicate that in HFA the evaluation of stimulus properties cuing for animacy is intact, while increasing subjective ratings do not seem to be robustly related to social processing, including spontaneous mental state inferences and experience of salience.
Cognitive and biological processes play a role in human aggression. However, relatively little is known about the neural correlates of cognitive processes in aggressive individuals, particularly as they unfold during an aggressive encounter. We investigated whether the P3 event-related potential (ERP) discriminates aggressive versus nonaggressive individuals during a provocative, aggressive encounter. Forty-eight participants (23 men and 25 women) were classified as aggressive or nonaggressive based on self-reported life history of aggression. Aggressive behavior was assessed using a modification of a well-validated laboratory task during which the participant and a fictitious opponent ostensibly delivered and received noise blasts of low, medium, and high intensity. Provocation was manipulated by altering the level of noise set by the opponent. Aggression was defined as the number of high-intensity noise blasts the participant set for the opponent. As predicted, P3 amplitude in response to provocation differed as a function of aggressive history. Nonaggressive individuals showed enhanced P3 when provoked by the opponent relative to low provocation, but this effect was absent in aggressive individuals. The results suggest that aggressive individuals engage fewer neural processing resources in response to provoking social cues, which may reflect aberrant cognitive and emotional processes.
The current study examined how specific neurological systems contribute to the expression of multiple personality dimensions. We used individuals with traumatic brain injuries to examine the contribution of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC)--a region important for executive function and attention-to the expression of neuroticism and conscientiousness factors and facets. Results from Voxel-Based Lesion-Symptom Mapping analyses revealed that focal damage to the left DLPFC (Brodmann's area 9) was associated with high neuroticism and low conscientious factor and facet scores (anxiety and self-discipline, respectively). Compared with lesioned and normal controls, veterans with damage in left DLPFC also reported higher neuroticism and lower conscientiousness facet scores, slower reaction times on the California Computerized Assessment Package assessment, and lower scores on the Delis-Kaplan executive function battery. Findings suggest that while neuroticism and conscientiousness remain psychometrically independent personality dimensions, their component facets may rely on a common neurocognitive infrastructure and executive function resources in general.
People with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) engage with a broad range of health care services from symptom onset to end-of-life care. We undertook a grounded theory study to identify processes that underpin how and why people with ALS engage with health care services. Using theoretical sampling procedures, we sampled 34 people from the Irish ALS population-based register during September 2011 to August 2012. We conducted in-depth interviews with participants about their experiences of health care services. Our study yielded new insights into how people with ALS engage with services and adapt to loss. People with ALS live with insurmountable loss and never regain what they have already lost. Loss for people with ALS is multidimensional and includes loss of control. The experience of loss of control prompts people with ALS to search for control over health care services but exerting control in health care services can also include rendering control to service providers. People with ALS negotiate loss by exerting control over and rendering control to health care services. Our findings are important for future research that is attuned to how people with terminal illness exert control in health care services and make decisions about care in the context of mounting loss.



Tendon pain remains an enigma. Many clinical features are consistent with tissue disruption-the pain is localised, persistent and specifically associated with tendon loading, whereas others are not-investigations do not always match symptoms and painless tendons can be catastrophically degenerated. As such, the question 'what causes a tendon to be painful?' remains unanswered. Without a proper understanding of the mechanism behind tendon pain, it is no surprise that treatments are often ineffective. Tendon pain certainly serves to protect the area-this is a defining characteristic of pain-and there is often a plausible nociceptive contributor. However, the problem of tendon pain is that the relation between pain and evidence of tissue disruption is variable. The investigation into mechanisms for tendon pain should extend beyond local tissue changes and include peripheral and central mechanisms of nociception modulation. This review integrates recent discoveries in diverse fields such as histology, physiology and neuroscience with clinical insight to present a current state of the art in tendon pain. New hypotheses for this condition are proposed, which focus on the potential role of tenocytes, mechanosensitive and chemosensitive receptors, the role of ion channels in nociception and pain and central mechanisms associated with load and threat monitoring.

We have previously demonstrated that mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase 1, Mkp1, is expressed in the developing and rat adult substantia nigra and striatum, where it promotes the growth of nigral dopaminergic neurons. Mkp1 may therefore have therapeutic potential for Parkinson's disease. In the present study, we have assessed the expression of Mkp1 and TH in the substantia nigra and striatum of parkinsonian rat models. Expression was measured at 4 and 10days post-lesion in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) medial forebrain bundle lesion model and after 4, 10 and 28days in the 6-OHDA striatal lesion model. Our results show that Mkp1 expression was transiently up-regulated in the substantia nigra at 4days post-6-OHDA administration in the two models while TH expression was decreased at the later time-points examined. These data suggest that Mkp1 may play a role in counteracting the neurotoxic effects of 6-OHDA in nigral dopaminergic neurons.

Bisphosphonates (BPs), potent inhibitors of osteoclast-mediated bone resorption, play a major role in the management of patients with multiple myeloma (MM). However, in the case of dental infections, they can lead to bisphosphonate related osteonecrosis of the jaw (BRONJ). This process can be worsened by concomitant antineoplastic therapy. Herein, we present a case of a life-threatening necrotizing fasciitis (NF) as a rare and severe complication of BRONJ after three cycles of lenalidomide and dexamethasone in an MM patient treated with corticosteroid therapy and Ibandronate for 5years. The patient presented swelling on the right part of the neck, difficulty in swallowing and acute pain, so a magnetic resonance of the head and neck region was performed. It revealed the presence of an NF with a massive extension. Due to the large necrotic area and a rapid progression of the infection, the necrotic tissue had to be removed surgically. Furthermore, a specific antimicrobial treatment as well as 12 sessions of hyperbaric oxygen therapy were needed to cure the patient. Herein, we highlight the potential serious adverse events associated with the use of bisphosphonates and antiangiogenetic drugs in patients with MM. Future studies are needed to evaluate the potential synergistic effects of BPs, corticosteroids and antiangiogenetic drugs.



Molecular genetic studies are typically performed on homogenized biological samples, resulting in contamination from non-neuronal cells. To improve expression profiling of neurons we combined patch recordings with single-cell PCR. Two iPSC lines (healthy subject and 22q11.2 deletion) were differentiated into neurons. Patch electrode recordings were performed on 229 human cells from Day-13 to Day-88, followed by capture and single-cell PCR for 13 genes: ACTB, HPRT, vGLUT1, TUBIII, COMT, DISC1, GAD1, PAX6, DTNBP1, ERBB4, FOXP1, FOXP2, and GIRK2. Neurons derived from both iPSC lines expressed TUBIII, fired action potentials, and experienced spontaneous depolarizations (UP states) ~2 weeks before vGLUT1, GAD1 and GIRK2 appeared. Multisite calcium imaging revealed that these UP states were not synchronized among hESC-H9-derived neurons. The expression of FOXP1, FOXP2 and vGLUT1 was lost after 50 days in culture, in contrast to other continuously expressed genes. When gene expression was combined with electrophysiology, two subsets of genes were apparent; those irrelevant to spontaneous depolarizations (including vGLUT1, GIRK2, FOXP2 and DISC1) and those associated with spontaneous depolarizations (GAD1 and ERBB4). The results demonstrate that in the earliest stages of neuron development, it is useful to combine genetic analysis with physiological characterizations, on a cell-to-cell basis.
Due to their inherent tumor-tropic properties, genetically engineered stem cells may be advantageous for gene therapy treatment of various human cancers, including brain, liver, ovarian, and prostate malignancies. In this study, we employed human neural stem cells (HB1.F3; hNSCs) transduced with genes expressing Escherichia coli cytosine deaminase (HB1.F3.CD) and human interferon-beta (HB1.F3.CD.IFN-) as a treatment strategy for ductal breast cancer. CD can convert the prodrug 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC) to its active chemotherapeutic form, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), which induces a tumor-killing effect through DNA synthesis inhibition. IFN- also strongly inhibits tumor growth by the apoptotic process. RT-PCR confirmed that HB1.F3.CD cells expressed CD and HB1.F3.CD.IFN- cells expressed both CD and IFN-. A modified transwell migration assay showed that HB1.F3.CD and HB1.F3.CD.IFN- cells selectively migrated toward MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 human breast cancer cells. In hNSC-breast cancer co-cultures the viability of breast cancer cells which were significantly reduced by HB1.F3.CD or HB1.F3.CD.IFN- cells in the presence of 5-FC. The tumor inhibitory effect was greater with the HB1.F3.CD.IFN- cells, indicating an additional effect of IFN- to 5-FU. In addition, the tumor-tropic properties of these hNSCs were found to be attributed to chemoattractant molecules secreted by breast cancer cells, including stem cell factor (SCF), c-kit, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and VEGF receptor 2. An in vivo assay performed using MDA-MB-231/luc breast cancer mammary fat pad xenografts in immunodeficient mice resulted in 50% reduced tumor growth and increased long-term survival in HB1.F3.CD and HB1.F3.CD.IFN- plus 5-FC treated mice relative to controls. Our results suggest that hNSCs genetically modified to express CD and/or IFN- genes can be used as a novel targeted cancer gene therapy.
Hydrogels provide a unique tool for neural tissue engineering. These materials can be customized for certain functions, i.e. to provide cell/drug delivery or act as a physical scaffold. Unfortunately, hydrogel complexities can negatively impact their biocompatibility, resulting in unintended consequences. These adverse effects may be combated with a better understanding of hydrogel chemical, physical, and mechanical properties, and how these properties affect encapsulated neural cells. We defined the polymerization and degradation rates and compressive moduli of 25 hydrogels formulated from different concentrations of hyaluronic acid (HA) and poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG). Changes in compressive modulus were driven primarily by the HA concentration. The in vitro biocompatibility of fetal-derived (fNPC) and adult-derived (aNPC) neural progenitor cells was dependent on hydrogel formulation. Acute survival of fNPC benefited from hydrogel encapsulation. NPC differentiation was divergent: fNPC differentiated into mostly glial cells, compared with neuronal differentiation of aNPC. Differentiation was influenced in part by the hydrogel mechanical properties. This study indicates that there can be a wide range of HA and PEG hydrogels compatible with NPC. Additionally, this is the first study comparing hydrogel encapsulation of NPC derived from different aged sources, with data suggesting that fNPC and aNPC respond dissimilarly within the same hydrogel formulation.

The involvement of nitric oxide (NO) and cyclic GMP (cGMP) in neurogenesis has been progressively unmasked over the last decade. Phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) specifically degrades cGMP and is highly abundant in the mammalian brain. Inhibition of cGMP hydrolysis by blocking PDE5 is a possible strategy to enhance the first step of neurogenesis, proliferation of neural stem cells (NSC). In this work, we have studied the effect on cell proliferation of 3 inhibitors with different selectivity and potency for PDE5, T0156, sildenafil, and zaprinast, using subventricular zone-(SVZ-) derived NSC cultures. We observed that a short- (6h) or a long-term (24h) treatment with PDE5 inhibitors increased SVZ-derived NSC proliferation. Cell proliferation induced by PDE5 inhibitors was dependent on the activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and was abolished by inhibitors of MAPK signaling, soluble guanylyl cyclase, and protein kinase G. Moreover, sildenafil neither activated ERK1/2 nor altered p27(Kip1) levels, suggesting the involvement of pathways different from those activated by T0156 or zaprinast. In agreement with the present results, PDE5 inhibitors may be an interesting therapeutic approach for enhancing the proliferation stage of adult neurogenesis.
Background: Most studies in the field of neurosurgical treatment for movement disorders have been published by a small number of leading centers in developed countries. This study aimed to investigate the clinical practice of stereotactic neurosurgery for Parkinson's disease (PD) worldwide. Methods: Neurosurgeons were contacted via e-mail to participate in a worldwide survey. The results obtained are presented in order of the countries' economic development according to the World Bank, as well as by the source of financial support. Results: A total of 353 neurosurgeons from 51 countries who had operated on 13,200 patients in 2009 were surveyed. Surgical procedures performed in high-income countries were more commonly financed by a public health care system. In contrast, in lower-middle-income and upper-middle-income countries, patients frequently financed surgeries themselves, and ablative surgeries were most commonly performed. Unexpectedly, ablative surgery is still used by about 65% of neurosurgeons, regardless of their country's economic status. Conclusions: This study provides a previously unavailable picture of the surgical aspects of PD across the globe in relation to health economics and sociodemographic factors. Global educational and training programs are warranted to raise awareness of economically viable surgical options for PD that could be adopted by public health care systems in lower-income countries.  2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-mediated neurotransmission in the hippocampus is implicated in cognitive and emotional disturbances during stress-related disorders. Here, using quantitative RT-PCR, we investigated the hippocampal expression of NR2A, NR2B and NR1 subunit mRNAs in a mouse stress paradigm that mimics clinically relevant conditions of simultaneously affected emotionality and hippocampus-dependent functions. A 2-week stress procedure, which comprised ethologically valid stressors, exposure to a rat and social defeat, was applied to male C57BL/6J mice. For predation stress, mice were introduced into transparent containers that were placed in a rat home cage during the night; social defeat was applied during the daytime using aggressive CD1 mice. This treatment impaired hippocampus-dependent performance during contextual fear conditioning. A correlation between this behavior and food displacement performance was demonstrated, suggesting that burrowing behavior is affected by the stress procedure and is hippocampus-dependent. Stressed mice (n=22) showed behavioral invigoration and anomalous anxiolytic-like profiles in the O-maze and brightly illuminated open field, unaltered short-term memory in the step-down avoidance task and enhanced aggressive traits, as compared to non-stressed mice (n=10). Stressed mice showed increased basal serum corticosterone concentrations, hippocampal mRNA expression for the NR2A subunit of the NMDAR and in the NR2A/NR2B ratio; mRNA expression of NR2B and NR1 was unchanged. Thus, stress-induced aberrations in both hippocampal-dependent performance and emotional abnormalities are associated with alterations in hippocampal mRNA NR2A levels and the NR2A/NR2B ratio and not with mRNA expression of NR2B or NR1.
This study compared cortisol responses to a standardized psychosocial stressor during a major depressive episode (MDE) and again during remission in adolescents and young adults. Twenty-six individuals with no personal or family history of a major psychiatric disorder (NC) and 24 individuals with a diagnosis of major depressive disorder (MDD) at Time 1 participated in the study. The MDD group showed robust cortisol responses during their index episode and after recovery. In contrast, the NC group showed habituation to the repeated psychosocial stressor, as evident in a flatter cortisol response profile at Time 2. Within the MDD group, net peak cortisol during the first stress test was positively associated with the duration of the index MDE and negatively associated with the total duration of all MDEs. Whereas summary indices of cortisol responses were relatively stable across repeated stress tasks within the MDD group, this was not the case for NC. Results demonstrate that cortisol responses fail to habituate to repeated psychosocial stress during recovery from an MDE and could reflect a trait-like marker of risk for recurrence.
Restraint and immobilization have been extensively used to study habituation of the neuroendocrine response to a repeated stressor, but behavioral consequences of this stress regimen remain largely uncharacterized. In this study, we used sucrose preference and the elevated-plus maze to probe behavioral alterations resulting from 14 days of restraint in rats. We observed a decrease in sucrose preference in stressed animals, particularly in a subgroup of individuals, but no alteration in anxiety behaviors (as measured in the elevated-plus maze) four days following the last restraint. In these low-sucrose preference animals, we observed a downregulation of the expression of preproenkephalin mRNA in the nucleus accumbens. Furthermore, we observed a strong correlation between enkephalin expression and sucrose preference in the shell part of the nucleus accumbens, with a lower level of enkephalin expression being associated with lower sucrose preference. Interestingly, quantification of the corticosterone response revealed a delayed habituation to restraint in the low-sucrose preference population, which suggests that vulnerability to stress-induced deficits might be associated with prolonged exposure to glucocorticoids. The induction of FosB is also reduced in the nucleus accumbens shell of the low-sucrose preference population and this transcription factor is expressed in enkephalin neurons. Taken together, these results suggest that a FosB-mediated downregulation of enkephalin in the nucleus accumbens might underlie the susceptibility to chronic stress. Further experiments will be needed to determine causality between these two phenomena.
Exposure to an uncontrollable stressor elicits a constellation of physiological and behavioral sequel in laboratory rats that often reflect aspects of anxiety and other emotional disruptions. We review evidence suggesting that plasticity within the serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) is critical to the expression of uncontrollable stressor-induced anxiety. Specifically, after uncontrollable stressor exposure subsequent anxiogenic stimuli evoke greater 5-HT release in DRN terminal regions including the amygdala and striatum; and pharmacological blockade of postsynaptic 5-HT(2C) receptors in these regions prevents expression of stressor-induced anxiety. Importantly, the controllability of stress, the presence of safety signals, and a history of exercise mitigate the expression of stressor-induced anxiety. These stress-protective factors appear to involve distinct neural substrates; with stressor controllability requiring the medial prefrontal cortex, safety signals the insular cortex and exercise affecting the 5-HT system directly. Knowledge of the distinct yet converging mechanisms underlying these stress-protective factors could provide insight into novel strategies for the treatment and prevention of stress-related psychiatric disorders.















Background. Sedentary behaviour is associated with health risks, independent of physical activity. This study aimed to investigate patterns of sedentary behaviour and physical activity among stroke survivors in rehabilitation hospitals. Methods. Stroke survivors admitted to four Swedish hospital-based rehabilitation units were recruited 7 days since stroke onset and their activity was measured using behavioural mapping. Sedentary behaviour was defined as lying down or sitting supported. Results. 104 patients were observed (53% men). Participants spent an average of 74% (standard deviation, SD 21%) of the observed day in sedentary activities. Continuous sedentary bouts of 1 hour represented 44% (SD 32%) of the observed day. A higher proportion (30%, SD 7%) of participants were physically active between 9:00 AM and 12:30 PM, compared to the rest of the observed day (23%, SD 6%, P &lt; 0.0005). Patients had higher odds of being physically active in the hall (odds ratio, OR 1.7, P = 0.001) than in the therapy area. Conclusions. The time stroke survivors spend in stroke rehabilitation units may not be used in the most efficient way to promote maximal recovery. Interventions to promote reduced sedentary time could help improve outcome and these should be tested in clinical trials.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is helping us better understand the neurologic pathways involved in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). We previously reported that military service members with PTSD after deployment to Iraq or Afghanistan demonstrated significant improvement, or normalization, in the fMRI-measured activation of the amygdala, prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate gyrus following exposure therapy for PTSD. However, our original study design did not include repeat scans of control participants, rendering it difficult to discern how much of the observed normalization in brain activity is attributable to treatment, rather than merely a practice effect. Using the same Affective Stroop task paradigm, we now report on a larger sample of PTSD-positive combat veterans that we treated with exposure therapy, as well as a combat-exposed control group of service members who completed repeat scans at 3-4 month intervals. Findings from the treatment group are similar to our prior report. Combat controls showed no significant change on repeat scanning, indicating that the observed differences in the intervention group were in fact due to treatment. We continue to scan additional study participants, in order to determine whether virtual reality exposure therapy has a different impact on regional brain activation than other therapies for PTSD.
This study aimed to evaluate the reliability and validity of the Neuro-Virtual Reality as tool for the neuropsychological assessment in OCD patients. We used the neuropsychological battery and a virtual version of the Multiple Errand Test (V-MET), developed using the NeuroVR software, in order to evaluate the executive functions, the ability to plan ahead on complex problem solving tasks in daily life in 30 obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) patients and 30 healthy controls. The results showed the presence of difficulties of OCD patients: lower levels of divided attention and higher levels of errors; higher mean rank of inefficiencies, interpretation failures and rule breaks and longer time of execution of the whole task. By contrast, controls have higher level of efficiency and better performance. In addition, a significant correlation was found between the V-MET and the neuropsychological battery which confirms and supports the ecological validity of neurocognitive assessment through NeuroVirtual Reality.
How do we lastingly change our lives for the better? There is not an easy answer to this question. However, due to the advances in psychology and neuroscience, now we have a better view of personal change, that is not limited to a specific viewpoint. In particular, the emergence of integrative and transdiagnostic accounts suggests that change is contextual, depending on the person, the issues, and the situation. More, personal change is a process, happening in discontinuous and nonlinear ways, following life transitions and traumatic events. In this process a key role can be played by technology: using the &quot;Positive Technology&quot; approach it is possible to use technology to manipulate the quality of experience, with the goal of increasing wellness, and generating strengths and resilience in individuals, organizations and society.
ABSTRACT. Background: The aims of this study were to evaluate a combination of aripiprazole and topiramate in the treatment of opioid-dependent patients with schizoaffective disorder undergoing methadone maintenance therapy (MMT) and, further, to taper off patients from methadone treatment. Methods: Twenty patients who met DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition) criteria for opioid dependence and schizoaffective disorder receiving MMT (80mg/day) were given aripiprazole (10mg/day) plus topiramate (up to 200mg/day) for 8 weeks. A methadone dose reduction of 3mg/day until suspension at week 4 was established. Results: Aripiprazole plus topiramate was effective in reducing clinical symptoms, and a rapid tapering off of MMT was achieved. Conclusions: Combining aripiprazole and topiramate may be effective in patients with a dual diagnosis of opioid dependency and schizoaffective disorder.








The periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) consists in a brainstem structure rich in 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) inputs related to the modulation of pain. The involvement of each of the serotonergic receptor subtypes found in PAG columns, such as the dorsomedial (dmPAG) and the ventrolateral (vlPAG) columns, regarding post-ictal antinociception have not been elucidated. The present work investigated the participation of the dmPAG and vlPAG columns in seizure-induced antinociception. Specifically, we studied the involvement of serotonergic neurotransmission in these columns on antinociceptive responses that follow tonic-clonic epileptic reactions induced by pentylenetetrazole (PTZ), an ionophore GABA-mediated Cl(-) influx antagonist. Microinjections of cobalt chloride (1.0 mM CoCl2 /0.2 L) into the dmPAG and vlPAG caused an intermittent local synaptic inhibition and decreased post-ictal antinociception that had been recorded at various time points after seizures. Pretreatments of the dmPAG or the vlPAG columns with the nonselective serotonergic receptors antagonist methysergide (5.0 g/0.2 L) or intramesencephalic microinjections of ketanserin (5.0 g/0.2 L), a serotonergic antagonist with more affinity to 5-HT2A/2C receptors, decreased tonic-clonic seizure-induced antinociception. Both dmPAG and vlPAG treatment with either the 5-HT2A receptor selective antagonist R-96544 (10 nM/0.2 L), or the 5-HT2C receptors selective antagonist RS-102221 (0.15 g/0.2 L) also decrease post-ictal antinociception. These findings suggest that serotonergic neurotransmission, which recruits both 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C serotonergic receptors in dmPAG and vlPAG columns, plays a critical role in the elaboration of post-ictal antinociception.

The detection and categorization of animate motions is a crucial task underlying social interaction and perceptual decision making. Neural representations of perceived animate objects are partially located in the primate cortical region STS, which is a region that receives convergent input from intermediate-level form and motion representations. Populations of STS cells exist which are selectively responsive to specific animated motion sequences, such as walkers. It is still unclear how and to what extent form and motion information contribute to the generation of such representations and what kind of mechanisms are involved in the learning processes. The article develops a cortical model architecture for the unsupervised learning of animated motion sequence representations. We demonstrate how the model automatically selects significant motion patterns as well as meaningful static form prototypes characterized by a high degree of articulation. Such key poses are selectively reinforced during learning through a cross talk between the motion and form processing streams. Furthermore, we show how sequence-selective representations are learned in STS by fusing static form and motion input from the segregated bottom-up driving input streams. Cells in STS, in turn, feed their activities recurrently to their input sites along top-down signal pathways. We show how such learned feedback connections enable predictions about future input as anticipation generated by sequence-selective STS cells. Network simulations demonstrate the computational capacity of the proposed model by reproducing several experimental findings from neurosciences and by accounting for recent behavioral data.
The challenges families face in making decisions for loved ones after a severe stroke are best supported when the treatment team has the opportunity to share information and perspectives. Weekly multidisciplinary ethics rounds provides a very good forum for just such discussions. Using a case example, this article describes the framework for ethics rounds and its utility in a neuroscience intensive care unit.
In tracking analysis, the movement of cargos by motor proteins in axons is often represented by a time-space plot termed a 'kymograph'. Manual creation of kymographs is time-consuming and complicated for cell biologists. Therefore, we developed KYMOMAKER, a simple system that automatically creates a kymograph from a movie without generating multiple time-dissected movie stacks. In addition, KYMOMAKER can automatically extract faint vesicle traces, and can thereby effectively analyze cargos expressed at low levels in axons. A filter can be applied to remove traces of non-physiological movements and to extract meaningful traces of anterograde or retrograde cargo transport. For example, only cargos that move at a speed of &gt;0.4m/second for a distance of &gt;1m can be included. Another function of KYMOMAKER is to create a color kymograph in which the color of the trace varies according to the position of the fluorescent particle in the axis perpendicular to the long axis of the axon. Such positional information is completely lost in conventional kymographs. KYMOMAKER is an open access program that can be easily used to analyze vesicle transport in axons by cell biologists who do not have specific knowledge of bioimage informatics.




The homeobox transcription factor Pitx2 displays a highly specific expression pattern during embryogenesis. Gain and loss of function experiments have unraveled its pivotal role in left-right signaling. Conditional deletion in mice has demonstrated a complex and intricate role for Pitx2 in distinct aspects of cardiac development and more recently a link to atrial fibrillation has been proposed based on genome-wide association studies. In this review we will revise the role of Pitx2 in the developing heart, starting from the early events of left-right determination followed by its role in cardiac morphogenesis and ending with its role in cardiac arrhythmogenesis.
Neural oscillations at different frequencies have recently been related to a wide range of basic and higher cognitive processes. One possible role of oscillatory activity is to assure the maintenance of information in working memory (WM). Here we review the possibility that rhythmic activity at theta, alpha, and gamma frequencies serve distinct functional roles during WM maintenance. Specifically, we propose that gamma-band oscillations are generically involved in the maintenance of WM information. By contrast, alpha-band activity reflects the active inhibition of task-irrelevant information, whereas theta-band oscillations underlie the organization of sequentially ordered WM items. Finally, we address the role of cross-frequency coupling (CFC) in enabling alpha-gamma and theta-gamma codes for distinct WM information.
A recent study showed that topographic field maps of complex cognitive functions, such as numerosity, exist in the human brain. This is an exciting, novel approach for studying the neural representation of high-level cognition. However, the results can also be explained on the basis of the confounding non-numerical sensory cues of numerosity.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease caused by the loss of lower and upper motor neurons leading to progressive muscle weakness and respiratory insufficiency. No treatment is currently available to cure ALS. Recent progress has led to the identification of several novel genetic determinants of this disease, including repeat expansions in the ataxin-2 (ATXN2) gene. Ataxin-2 is mislocalized in ALS patients and represents a relatively common susceptibility gene in ALS, making it a promising therapeutic target. In this review, we summarize genetic and pathological data implicating ataxin-2 in ALS, discuss potential disease mechanisms linked to altered ataxin-2 localization or function, and propose potential strategies for therapeutic intervention in ALS based on ataxin-2.
Revealing the engram is one of the greatest challenges in neuroscience. Many researchers focus on understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the formation and maintenance of the engram, but an underutilized approach has been to investigate analogous processes associated with forgetting. Infant rodents present an ideal model for this purpose because they display a rapid form of non-pathological forgetting known as infantile amnesia (IA). Despite the widespread importance of this interesting phenomenon, the study of the neural bases of IA has remained largely neglected. Here, we consider what IA can tell us about memory. We argue that to understand the mechanisms underlying the engram we must also gain an appreciation of the mechanisms that drive forgetting.
Light is a potent stimulus for regulating circadian, hormonal, and behavioral systems. In addition, light therapy is effective for certain affective disorders, sleep problems, and circadian rhythm disruption. These biological and behavioral effects of light are influenced by a distinct photoreceptor in the eye, melanopsin-containing intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs), in addition to conventional rods and cones. We summarize the neurophysiology of this newly described sensory pathway and consider implications for the measurement, production, and application of light. A new light-measurement strategy taking account of the complex photoreceptive inputs to these non-visual responses is proposed for use by researchers, and simple suggestions for artificial/architectural lighting are provided for regulatory authorities, lighting manufacturers, designers, and engineers.
Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are compounds that have a structural role in the nervous system and are essential for neurodevelopment. Results obtained with docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid show therapeutic potential in neurotrauma. Traumatic brain injury (TBI) and spinal cord injury (SCI) can lead to major disability and have a significant socioeconomic cost. Thus, there is an unmet need for acute neuroprotection and for treatments that promote neuroregeneration. Acute administration of omega-3 PUFAs after injury and dietary exposure before or after injury improve neurological outcomes in experimental SCI and TBI. The mechanisms involved include decreased neuroinflammation and oxidative stress, neurotrophic support, and activation of cell survival pathways. This review raises questions that must be addressed before successful clinical translation.
Overconsumption of high caloric food plays an important role in the etiology of obesity. Several factors drive such hedonic feeding. High caloric food is often palatable. In addition, when an individual is sated, stress and food-related cues can serve as potent feeding triggers. A better understanding of the neurobiological underpinnings of food palatability and environmentally triggered overconsumption would aid the development of new treatment strategies. In the current review we address the pivotal role of the mesolimbic dopamine reward system in the drive towards high caloric palatable food and its relation to stress- and cue-induced feeding. We also discuss how this system may be affected by both established and potential anti-obesity drug targets.

Rivaroxaban is a direct factor Xa inhibitor that is widely available to reduce the risk of stroke or systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and one or more risk factors for stroke. Rivaroxaban provides practical advantages compared with warfarin and other vitamin K antagonists, including a rapid onset of action, few drug interactions, no dietary interactions, a predictable anticoagulant effect, and no requirement for routine coagulation monitoring. However, questions have emerged relating to the responsible use of rivaroxaban in day-to-day clinical practice, including patient selection, dosing, treatment of patients with renal impairment, conversion from use of vitamin K antagonists to rivaroxaban and vice versa, coagulation tests, and management of patients requiring invasive procedures or experiencing bleeding or an ischemic event. This article provides practical recommendations relating to the use of rivaroxaban in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, based on clinical trial evidence, relevant guidelines, prescribing information, and the authors' clinical experience.
The Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) is an initiative of the National Institute of Mental Health of the United States of America, which based on research purposes consists of a new way of classifying mental disorders. His raison d'tre is based on the conclusion that the knowledge progress of neurosciences does not seem to confirm the validity of the conventional psychiatric diagnoses. Furthermore, researching based on such diagnoses would weaken the progress in Psychiatry. Besides these scientific reasons, the Research Domain Criteria project is born within a political framework, giving raise to economic tensions. The objective of this paper is to discuss the first issue without avoiding the second one.
This article describes the anatomy of the avian hypothalamic/pituitary axis, the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, the somatotrophic axis, and neurohypophysis.
Organisms use the process of selective attention to optimally allocate their computational resources to the instantaneously most relevant subsets of a visual scene, ensuring that they can parse the scene in real time. Many models of bottom-up attentional selection assume that elementary image features, like intensity, color and orientation, attract attention. Gestalt psychologists, however, argue that humans perceive whole objects before they analyze individual features. This is supported by recent psychophysical studies that show that objects predict eye-fixations better than features. In this report we present a neurally inspired algorithm of object based, bottom-up attention. The model rivals the performance of state of the art non-biologically plausible feature based algorithms (and outperforms biologically plausible feature based algorithms) in its ability to predict perceptual saliency (eye fixations and subjective interest points) in natural scenes. The model achieves this by computing saliency as a function of proto-objects that establish the perceptual organization of the scene. All computational mechanisms of the algorithm have direct neural correlates, and our results provide evidence for the interface theory of attention.
Worldwide increase in the prevalence of metabolic syndrome and diabetes mellitus type 2 (DM2) during the past decades has converted them into a global epidemic disease. It is not well understood how these metabolic disorders initiate, but an increase in food consumption associated to low physical activity leads to increase in body weight and obesity. This in turn, elevates circulating lipids and cytokines release by adipose tissue, give the organism a chronic inflammation and potentiate insulin secretion, causing insulin resistance. Depending on genetics and probably other environmental factors, after a long period of hyperactivity, pancreatic beta cells become exhausted and DM2 overcomes. Pancreatic beta cells are the only source of insulin known in mammals. They are unique because of their ability to sense and transform fuels into a chemical signal, which affects mainly all the cells in the organism. Many other factors affect insulin secretion. We will focus on the alterations of glucose-induced insulin secretion coupling, particularly in ionic channels that have crucial importance in this process. Different channel types can be affected by metabolic syndrome. The most studied are KATP and other potassium channels, calcium, sodium, and TRP channels. Much information comes from rodents that do not express exactly the same proportion and type of channels than humans. However, getting insight of how do they participate in insulin secretion and how to modulate them is important to completely understand beta-cell physiology and pathophysiological reactions to metabolic syndrome and diabetes, in order to stop the epidemic of these metabolic disorders.
Endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are diverse and pervasive and may have significant consequence for health, including reproductive development and expression of sex-/gender-sensitive parameters. This review chapter discusses what is known about common EDCs and their effects on reproductively relevant end points. It is proposed that one way that EDCs may exert such effects is by altering steroid levels (androgens or 17-estradiol, E2) and/or intracellular E2 receptors (ERs) in the hypothalamus and/or hippocampus. Basic research findings that demonstrate developmentally sensitive end points to androgens and E2 are provided. Furthermore, an approach is suggested to examine differences in EDCs that diverge in their actions at ERs to elucidate their role in sex-/gender-sensitive parameters.
Endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are exogenous substances that interfere with hormone synthesis, metabolism, or action. In addition, some of them could cause epigenetic alterations of DNA that can be transmitted to the following generations. Because the developing organism is highly dependent on sex steroids and thyroid hormones for its maturation, the fetus and the child are very sensitive to any alteration of their hormonal environment. An additional concern about that early period of life comes from the shaping of the homeostatic mechanisms that takes place also at that time with involvement of epigenetic mechanisms along with the concept of fetal origin of health and disease. In this chapter, we will review the studies reporting effects of EDCs on human development. Using a translational approach, we will review animal studies that can shed light on some mechanisms of action of EDCs on the developing organism. We will focus on the major hormone-dependent stages of development: fetal growth, sexual differentiation, puberty, brain development, and energy balance. We will also discuss the possible epigenetic effects of EDCs on human development.
The universal microbial cometabolism provides us with an effective approach to remove man-made xenobiotics. However, the cometabolic bioremediation of toxic organic compounds has not been widely initiated due to the obscure underlying fundamentals in the studies or applications of microbial cometabolism. This review summarizes the current research trends in mechanistic understanding of microbial cometabolism, especially with regard to its potential applications. The crucial factors including key enzyme, enzyme inhibition, toxic effects and energy regulation are discussed, which all significantly contribute to the cometabolic bioremediation of pollutants. The presented review of chlorinated ethylene cometabolism in this overview has further confirmed the fundamentals and hypotheses mentioned above, and thus cometabolism of chlorinated ethylenes has been regarded as a role model of pollution remediation technology using microbial cometabolism. The subsequent prospective research should provide insights into the ambiguous mechanism of microbial cometabolism and help us to develop more efficient bioremediation of progressive pollution.




We review the extraordinary professional trajectory of Ladislau Steiner, a prolific neurosurgeon and radiosurgeon, who died earlier this year. Dr. Steiner trained and practiced as a neurosurgeon in his native Romania until he was 42, before moving to Stockholm. After 25 years at the Karolinska Institute, when most people consider retirement, he spent the following 25 years of his life as director of the Lars Leksell Center for Gamma Knife Radiosurgery at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. At 90, nostalgia for Europe made him accept the position of director of the Gamma Knife Center at the International Neuroscience Institute in Hannover, Germany. His life was dedicated to the 15,000 patients whose lives he saved in his lengthy career.



Gerard Percheron, M.D., a practicing neurologist and prolific researcher at the Institute Nationale de la Sante et de la Recherche Medicale (INSERM), made significant and valuable contributions to medicine, in particular, to the vascular anatomy of the basal ganglia. His particular interest in the thalamus eventually led to the identification of an anatomic variation in its vascular supply. This newly identified artery was subsequently named the artery of Percheron (AOP). Given the estimated prevalence of the AOP in up to one third of the population and its significant proportion of all thalamic infarcts, it is necessary for physicians to be aware of this anatomic vascular variant and its clinical consequences. Although occlusion of the AOP may present similar to other arterial thalamic occlusions, it can be identified through susceptibility-weighted imaging and ruled out with conventional or magnetic resonance angiography. Occlusion of the AOP typically causes a simultaneous and symmetric infarction. Treatment efficacy is time-dependent and necessitates thrombolytics and anticoagulative medications. Here, we trace a course from the artery's initial description in 1973 to its current implications in cerebrovascular stroke, and offer a synopsis of the proposed treatment.




Sinus cavernosi, or the cavernous sinus, was coined by Jacques Bnigne Winslow in the 18th century. Among the neurosurgeons and the modern-day neuroanatomists, Winslow is mainly known for erroneously using the term cavernous sinus. As the anatomical understanding of the parasellar space advanced during the next 200 years, it was unclear as to why Winslow compared this space in the brain with that of a male reproductive organ (corpus cavernosum). Our primary objective was to study the historical treatise on anatomy written by Winslow in the 18th century and analyze his anatomical dissections and nomenclature for the parasellar compartment. In addition, his pertinent contributions to neuroscience are highlighted in this vignette.
Anorexia nervosa is a frequent disorder especially among adolescent girls and young women, with high morbidity, mortality, and relapse rates. To date, no single therapeutic approach has proved to be superior to others (Herpertz et al., 2011). It remains unclear how its etiology and pathology are encoded within cognitive, neural, and endocrinological processes that modulate important mechanisms in appetitive processing and weight regulation. Yet, several trait characteristics have been identified in AN which might reflect predisposing factors. Further, altered levels of neuropeptides and hormones that regulate appetite and feeding behavior have been found during both the acute and the recovered state, pointing to dysfunctional mechanisms in AN that persist even after malnutrition has ceased. Researchers are also hoping that brain imaging techniques will allow for a more detailed investigation of the neural basis of reward and punishment sensitivity that appears to be altered in AN. The integration and extension of recent findings in these areas will hopefully provide a more comprehensive understanding of the disorder and hence enable the development of more effective treatments.
Nerve injury including peripheral nerve injury and central nerve injury has been a global problem. With the development of technology, many innovative approaches for nerve repair have been tested and some of the results are meaningful. It becomes a hot point that repair nerve injured by biological scaffold (nerve conduit). This article reviewed and analyzed several kinds of biological scaffold materials and microenvironment with better effect in recent years. Some new ideas were raised from the three aspects: appropriate materials, microstructure, and bionic microenvironment. It is better to combine multiple measures and achieve the best effect. In addition, nerve scaffold have a bright future in repair of central nervous system.


The discovery of mirror neurons has been recognized as one of the major developments in neuroscience, with possible implications for the explanation of many important cognitive functions, including action and perception understanding, imitation, and empathy. In the mirror neuron system, action observation, imitation, and empathy are represented in the same basic motor circuit as action execution. The present paper presents basic neurophysiological findings about mirror neuron system and discusses the effects of perceptual and motor resonance on other people's actions. Finally, this paper examines strategies informed by mirror neuron research in an empathy-fostering program for autism and in a motor rehabilitation program for stroke patients.







Pain in masticatory muscles is among the most prominent symptoms of temperomandibular disorders (TMDs) that have diverse and complex etiology. A common complaint of TMD is that unilateral pain of craniofacial muscle can cause a widespread of bilateral pain sensation, although the underlying mechanism remains unknown. To investigate whether unilateral inflammation of masseter muscle can cause a bilateral allodynia, we generated masseter muscle inflammation induced by unilateral injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) in rats, and measured the bilateral head withdrawal threshold at different time points using a von Frey anesthesiometer. After behavioral assessment, both right and left trigeminal ganglia (TRG) were dissected and examined for histopathology and transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) mRNA expression using quantitative real-time PCR analysis. A significant increase in TRPV1 mRNA expression occurred in TRG ipsilateral to CFA injected masseter muscle, whereas no significant alteration in TRPV1 occurred in the contralateral TRG. Interestingly, central injection of TRPV1 antagonist 5-iodoresiniferatoxin into the hippocampus significantly attenuated the head withdrawal response of both CFA injected and non-CFA injected contralateral masseter muscle. Our findings show that unilateral inflammation of masseter muscle is capable of inducing bilateral allodynia in rats. Upregulation of TRPV1 at the TRG level is due to nociception caused by inflammation, whereas contralateral nocifensive behavior in masticatory muscle nociception is likely mediated by central TRPV1, pointing to the involvement of altered information processing in higher centers.


Positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors are a diverse class of compounds that increase fast excitatory transmission in the brain. AMPA PAMs have been shown to facilitate long-term potentiation, strengthen communication between various cortical and subcortical regions, and some of these compounds increase the production and release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in an activity-dependent manner. Through these mechanisms, AMPA PAMs have shown promise as broad spectrum pharmacotherapeutics in preclinical and clinical studies for various neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. In recent years, a small collection of preclinical animal studies has also shown that AMPA PAMs may have potential as pharmacotherapeutic adjuncts to extinction-based or cue-exposure therapies for the treatment of drug addiction. The present paper will review this preclinical literature, discuss novel data collected in our laboratory, and recommend future research directions for the possible development of AMPA PAMs as anti-addiction medications.
In patients with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), quantitative neuroimaging techniques have revealed abnormalities in various brain regions, including the frontal cortex, striatum, cerebellum, and occipital cortex. Nonlinear signal processing techniques such as sample entropy have been used to probe the regularity of brain magnetoencephalography signals in patients with ADHD. In the present study, we extend this technique to analyse the complex output patterns of the 4 dimensional resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging signals in adult patients with ADHD. After adjusting for the effect of age, we found whole brain entropy differences (P=0.002) between groups and negative correlation (r=-0.45) between symptom scores and mean whole brain entropy values, indicating lower complexity in patients. In the regional analysis, patients showed reduced entropy in frontal and occipital regions bilaterally and a significant negative correlation between the symptom scores and the entropy maps at a family-wise error corrected cluster level of P&lt;0.05 (P=0.001, initial threshold). Our findings support the hypothesis of abnormal frontal-striatal-cerebellar circuits in ADHD and the suggestion that sample entropy is a useful tool in revealing abnormalities in the brain dynamics of patients with psychiatric disorders.
There is a need for theoretically-based research on the motivational processes linked to the commencement and continuation of physical activity in patients with schizophrenia. Within the Self-Determination Theory (SDT) framework, we investigated the SDT tenets in these patients by examining the factor structure of the Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire-2 (BREQ-2) and by investigating associations between motivation and PA. The secondary aim was to study differences in motivation according to gender, educational level, treatment setting and disease stage. A total of 129 patients (44) with schizophrenia agreed to participate. Exploratory factor analysis showed sufficient convergence with the original factor for amotivation, external and introjected regulation, while identified and intrinsic regulations loaded on a single factor which we labeled &quot;autonomous regulation&quot;. Significant positive correlations were found between the total physical activity score and the subscales amotivation (r = -0.44, P &lt; 0.001), external regulation (r = -0.27, P &lt; 0.001), and autonomous regulation (r = 0.57, P &lt; 0.001). Outpatients reported more external (P &lt; 0.05) and introjected (P &lt; 0.05) regulations than inpatients. Our results suggest that patients' level of self-determination may play an important role in the adoption and maintenance of health promoting behaviors in patients with schizophrenia.
Heschl's gyrus (HG) is reported to have a normal left&gt;right hemispheric volume asymmetry, and reduced asymmetry in schizophrenia. Primary auditory cortex (A1) occupies the caudal-medial surface of HG, but it is unclear if A1 has normal asymmetry, or whether its asymmetry is altered in schizophrenia. To address these issues, we compared bilateral gray matter volumes of HG and A1, and neuron density and number in A1, in autopsy brains from male subjects with or without schizophrenia. Comparison of diagnostic groups did not reveal altered gray matter volumes, neuron density, neuron number or hemispheric asymmetries in schizophrenia. With respect to hemispheric differences, HG displayed a clear left&gt;right asymmetry of gray matter volume. Area A1 occupied nearly half of HG, but had less consistent volume asymmetry, that was clearly present only in a subgroup of archival brains from elderly subjects. Neuron counts, in layers IIIb-c and V-VI, showed that the A1 volume asymmetry reflected differences in neuron number, and was not caused simply by changes in neuron density. Our findings confirm previous reports of striking hemispheric asymmetry of HG, and additionally show evidence that A1 has a corresponding asymmetry, although less consistent than that of HG.
Fluorodeoxyglucose-F18 positron emission tomography studies (FDG-PET) have shown similar corticolimbic metabolic dysregulation in bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, with hypoactive prefrontal cortex coupled with hyperactive anterior limbic areas. However, it is not clear whether white matter metabolism connecting these regions is differently affected in the two disorders. Twenty-six patients with schizophrenia (mean age  S.D.=30.23  9.7 year-old; 19 males; mean weight  S.D.=71  3 kg) and 26 patients with bipolar disorder (mean age  S.D.=48.73  13 year-old; 18 males; mean weight  S.D.=75  15 kg) underwent an FDG-PET scan. Normalized datasets the two groups of patients were compared on a voxel-by-voxel basis using a two-sample t statistic test as implemented in SPM8, and adding age as covariate. Group differences were assessed applying a threshold of p&lt;0.0005. White matter metabolic rates significantly differed between schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, whereas no differences were shown for cortical activity. This is the first FDG-PET, to our best knowledge, directly comparing subjects with schizophrenia to those with bipolar disorder. It reports decreased activity in the center of large fronto-temporal and cerebellar white matter tracts in patients with schizophrenia in respect to those with bipolar disorder. This feature may characterize and differentiate the regional brain metabolism of the two illnesses.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a chronic and severe psychiatric condition with an underlying component of genetic susceptibility. Mounting evidence suggests a potential role of the endogenous cannabinoid (eCB) system in the pathogenesis of BD. Here we investigated the role of genes encoding for key eCB elements on the risk of developing BD in a sample of 357BD patients and 422 healthy controls of Sardinian ancestry. Using the HapMap CEU population SNP database, we selected 25 tag Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (tSNPs) in N-acyl phosphatidylethanolamine phospholipase D (NAPE-PLD), cannabinoid receptor 1 (CNR1) and fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) genes. No significant association was reported for FAAH or CNR1. SNPs rs11487077 and rs6465903 in NAPE-PLD showed nominal association (p=0.033 and p=0.026, respectively) with BD, not significant after permutation testing. These SNPs were also tested for association with lithium response in 204 BD patients characterized for response to long-term lithium treatment, reporting no significant findings. As a whole, our results do not support a clear role of FAAH, CNR1 and NAPE-PLD in BD and lithium response. Additional studies on independent, larger samples are warranted to further explore the involvement of the eCB system in BD.
Psychiatrists pay more attention to the social functioning outcome of schizophrenia nowadays. How to evaluate the real world function among schizophrenia is a challenging task due to culture difference, there is no such kind of instrument in terms of the Chinese setting. This study aimed to report the validation of an ecologically valid performance-based everyday functioning assessment for schizophrenia, namely the Beijing Performance-based Functional Ecological Test (BJ-PERFECT). Fifty community-dwelling adults with schizophrenia and 37 healthy controls were recruited. Fifteen of the healthy controls were re-tested one week later. All participants were administered the University of California, San Diego, Performance-based Skill Assessment-Brief version (UPSA-B) and the MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB). The finalized assessment included three subdomains: transportation, financial management and work ability. The test-retest and inter-rater reliabilities were good. The total score significantly correlated with the UPSA-B. The performance of individuals with schizophrenia was significantly more impaired than healthy controls, especially in the domain of work ability. Among individuals with schizophrenia, functional outcome was influenced by premorbid functioning, negative symptoms and neurocognition such as processing speed, visual learning and attention/vigilance.
Although the majority of randomised controlled trials suggest that major depressive disorder (MDD, major depression) and treatment-resistant depression can be effectively treated by applying either high- (HF) or low-frequency (LF) repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to the left and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), respectively, it is not clear which rTMS approach is more effective or safer. This systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted on randomised controlled trials on HF and LF rTMS applied to the left and right DLPFC, respectively, for the treatment of MDD. Eight randomised controlled trials composed of 249 patients were selected to compare the effects of LF ( 1 Hz) rTMS over the right DLPFC to HF (10-20 Hz) rTMS over the left DLPFC. The therapeutic effects of both approaches were similar (odds ratio (OR) = 1.15; 95% confidence interval = 0.65-2.03). Dropout analysis based on only two studies was insufficient to draw a conclusion on the tolerability of LF rTMS. The pooled examination demonstrated that both rTMS methods were equally effective therapies for MDD. However, considering that LF right-sided rTMS produces fewer side effects and is more protective against seizures, its clinical applicability shows greater promise and should be explored further.
Schizophrenia is considered a neurodevelopmental disorder with a multifactorial pathogenesis where autoimmune factors may play a significant role. The aim of this study was to verify the presence of anti-brain autoantibodies in the serum of schizophrenic patients compared to healthy controls. Autoantibodies against brain were detected by the immunofluorescence method, utilizing sections of rat hippocampus and hypothalamus and of monkey cerebellum. Three different fluorescence patterns were observed, staining the nucleus-cytoplasm of neurons, the neuroendothelial of blood vessel and the neurofilaments. Search for other organ-specific and non organ-specific autoantibodies was performed in all sera by indirect immunofluorescence method, enzyme linked immunosorbent assay and chemiluminescence immunoassay. Results showed a significant association between schizophrenia and anti-brain autoantibodies against the neuroendothelium of blood vessel in hypothalamus, hippocampus and cerebellum; a significant nuclear and cytoplasmic staining of neurons was assessed only for the hippocampus. No other significant association was found, except between schizophrenia and anti-nuclear autoantibodies on HEp-2 cells. In conclusion, these results support the hypothesis of a significant association between schizophrenia and circulating anti-brain autoantibodies, suggesting a diffuse reactivity against the neuroendothelium of blood vessel and highlighting a nuclear and cytoplasmic staining of the neurons of hippocampus.
Neurobiological mechanisms underlying the development of major depressive disorder (MDD) may differ depending on age-of-onset. Our aim was to compare patients who differ in age-of-onset, while controlling for illness duration, and number of depressive episodes. By directly comparing early-(EOD) and late-onset (LOD) patients, we examined whether age-of-onset is associated with changes in the extent or spatial pattern of cortical thickness. Cross-sectional comparison of cortical thickness in EOD vs. LOD. Age-of-onset was determined based on self-report, with EOD defined as onset prior to age 25. Reduced cortical thickness in the dorsal-lateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), pre- and postcentral gyrus, and the lingual gyrus were found in EOD compared to healthy controls (p&lt;0.001). In linear regression models controlling for number of episodes, illness duration, severity, and sex, differences (at p&lt;0.001) were found between EOD and LOD in the bilateral posterior cingulate, parahippocampal gyri, right precuneus, lingual, and fusiform gyri, but not the DLPFC. EOD is associated with greater disturbances in cortical thickness than LOD, even when duration of illness and other factors are controlled. These results provide novel insights on how development of depression is differentiated by age.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is the most potent biological therapy in depression. Animal studies suggest that ECT acts via neuroplasticity effects on limbic structures involved in the pathophysiology of depression but in vivo evidence at the human system level is scarce. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of ECT on hippocampus and amygdala volume in 15 antidepressant-free patients with treatment refractory depression (seven males, range 42-63 years). ECT treatment was successful as indexed by a significant decrease in depressive symptoms (t14=13.6; p&lt;0.001). Analysis of normalized volumetric data before and after ECT treatment revealed a significant volume increase of both hippocampus and amygdala (minimum p&lt;0.005) with no evidence for a change in global brain volume. Though this change in volume cannot be clearly related to treatment effects, ECT is associated with broader neurotrophic effects other than mere adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus, which has been previously suggested as a core mechanism on the basis of animal data.
Early life stress (ELS) confers risk for psychiatric illness. Previous literature suggests ELS is associated with decreased resting-state functional connectivity (rs-FC) in adulthood, but there are no studies of resting-state neuronal activity in this population. This study investigated whether ELS-exposed individuals demonstrate resting-state activity patterns similar to those found in PTSD. Twenty-seven adults (14 with at least moderate ELS), who were medication-free and without psychiatric or medical illness, underwent MRI scans during two 4-minute rest periods. Resting-state activity was examined using regional homogeneity (ReHo), which estimates regional activation patterns through indices of localized concordance. ReHo values were compared between groups, followed by rs-FC analyses utilizing ReHo-localized areas as seeds to identify other involved regions. Relative to controls, ELS subjects demonstrated diminished ReHo in the inferior parietal lobule (IPL) and superior temporal gyrus (STG). ReHo values were inversely correlated with ELS severity. Secondary analyses revealed decreased rs-FC between the IPL and right precuneus/posterior cingulate, left fusiform gyrus, cerebellum and caudate in ELS subjects. These findings indicate that ELS is associated with altered resting-state activity and connectivity in brain regions involved in trauma-related psychiatric disorders. Future studies are needed to evaluate whether these associations represent potential imaging biomarkers of stress exposure.
Excessive exercise (EE) is an important symptom of eating disorders (ED) and is a likely risk factor for developing ED, however, no population-based studies have been performed on the relationship between EE and obtaining ED diagnosis. The aim of this study was to examine the co-occurrence of EE and ED diagnosis in a general population of women. Data for 778 females (age min=30, max=55) from the Saint Thomas Twin Registry, London were used. Phenotypes analyzed included self-reported time spent on physical activity per week, ED diagnosis, Eating Disorder Inventory results (EDI-III), age, BMI and kinship (twin pair). Generalized Estimating Equation analysis showed that only EE (&gt;5 h of exercise per week) and Bulimia Subscale of EDI-III were significantly associated with obtaining ED diagnosis throughout the life. These data revealed that the odds of ever being diagnosed with an ED are more than 2.5 times higher for excessive exercisers compared to individuals with lower activity levels. These data support the notion that EE may be an important risk factor for developing an ED in women.
Although it is now well documented that bipolar disorder (BD) often presents with cognitive deficits and suboptimal social adjustment, the social cognitive profile of the illness throughout its three phases remains unclear. An extensive search was conducted through the online databases EBSCO, PsychInfo, PubMed, ScienceDirect, and Wiley-Blackwell, covering the period between 1990 and 2012. Fifty-one studies comparing the social cognitive performance of bipolar patients with that of healthy controls were identified. Deficits in emotion recognition and theory of mind were found in manic, depressed, and euthymic bipolar subjects. Furthermore, altered face emotion recognition and brain-related abnormalities were noted both in euthymic patients and subjects at risk for BD. The influence of clinical and neurocognitive variables on the social cognitive performance of bipolar patients remains to be ascertained. Future directions for research are discussed.
We investigated the association between ST8SIAII and schizophrenia in a sample of Spanish origin. We found that the G allele (P=0.044) and the AG genotype (P=0.040) of rs3759916 were associated in females. The ACAG haplotype (rs3759914, rs3759915, rs3759916 and rs2305561) was associated in males (P=0.028).
Low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to supplementary motor area (SMA) showed clinical benefit in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Here we tested whether clinical improvement was associated with enhanced cortical inhibition as measured by single and paired-pulse TMS variables. In 18 OCD patients receiving 4 weeks of either active or sham rTMS in a double-blind randomized trial, we assessed bilateral resting and active motor thresholds (RMT and AMT), cortical silent period (CSP), short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF). We tested correlations between changes in Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale-Self-report (Y-BOCS-SR), Clinical Global Impression-Severity subscale (CGI-S) and cortical excitability measures. Active rTMS increased right hemisphere RMT whose change correlated with Y-BOCS-SR improvement. Baseline RMT hemispheric asymmetry, defined as the difference between left and right hemispheres RMT, and its normalization after active rTMS correlated with Y-BOCS-SR and CGI-S improvements. Active rTMS also increased right hemisphere SICI whose change correlated with Y-BOCS-SR and CGI-S at week 4, and with normalization of baseline RMT hemispheric asymmetry. Treatment-induced changes in cortical excitability measures are consistent with an inhibitory action of SMA rTMS on dysfunctional motor circuits in OCD. Correlations of neurophysiology measures with therapeutic outcome are supportive of the role of SMA in the modulation of OCD symptoms.
Children of depressed parents are at increased risk of developing mood disorders but mechanisms of intrafamilial transmission are currently unclear. One rarely investigated area is the impact of depression on a parent's everyday functioning. Currently there are no validated assessments of depression-specific parental impairment. The creation of such a measure would complement depression symptom counts, providing a more comprehensive account of the parent's depression. We therefore aimed to develop a valid and reliable measure of impairment specifically associated with parental depression. In a longitudinal study of parents with recurrent unipolar depression and their offspring, we collected data from 337 parents. These participants completed the Depression Impairment Scale for Parents (DISP), a questionnaire assessing depression-associated impairment in multiple domains of functioning. Factor analysis revealed that this measure consisted of two factors - impairment in routine tasks/activities and impairment in family functioning - that together accounted for 51.04% of variance. The scale evidenced good internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha=0.82). The DISP also displayed good construct and criterion validity as evidenced by significant associations with established measures of depression severity and global impairment. These results demonstrate that the DISP is a valid and reliable measure of depression-associated impairment in parents.
Violent offending has often been associated with a lack of empathy, but experimental investigations are rare. The present study aimed at clarifying whether violent offenders show a general empathy deficit or specific deficits regarding the separate subcomponents. To this end, we assessed three core components of empathy (emotion recognition, perspective taking, affective responsiveness) as well as skin conductance response (SCR) in a sample of 30 male violent offenders and 30 healthy male controls. Data analysis revealed reduced accuracy in violent offenders compared to healthy controls only in emotion recognition, and that a high number of violent assaults was associated with decreased accuracy in perspective taking for angry scenes. SCR data showed reduced physiological responses in the offender group specifically for fear and disgust stimuli during emotion recognition and perspective taking. In addition, higher psychopathy scores in the violent offender group were associated with reduced accuracy in affective responsiveness. This is the first study to show that mainly emotion recognition is deficient in violent offenders whereas the other components of empathy are rather unaffected. This divergent impact of violent offending on the subcomponents of empathy suggests that all three empathy components can be targeted by therapeutic interventions separately.
The aim of this study was to evaluate personality in transsexuals. The Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) profiles of 166 male-to-female (MF) and 88 female-to-male (FM) transsexuals were compared with those of a control group of males and females. MF and FM transsexuals scored significantly lower than males and females in RD4 (more independent) and C3 (more self-centeredness). MF transsexuals scored higher than males and females in HA4 (more fatigable), ST and ST3 (more spiritual acceptance), and lower in C5 (more opportunistic); moreover, they showed higher scores than males in RD1 (more sentimental) and lower than females in C (less cooperativeness). FM transsexuals scored lower than females in HA2 (more daring and confident), RD (less sentimental), and C5 (more opportunistic). Compared with FM, MF transsexuals scored higher on HA2 (more fearful), RD, RD1 (more sentimental), ST, ST2 and ST3 (more spiritual). All these differences were less than half a standard deviation except for C3. Data show that transsexuals and controls display a similar personality profile, even though there are some differential personality traits. Moreover, the personality profile of transsexuals was closer to the profile of subjects who shared their gender identity than those who shared their anatomical sex.
The study examined the prevalence and correlates of heavy smoking and nicotine dependence in adolescents with bipolar and cannabis use disorders. Participants were 80 adolescents between 13 and 22 years of age with co-occurring bipolar I disorder and cannabis abuse or dependence who reported ever trying a cigarette. Diagnostic and symptom severity measures were completed as part of the baseline assessments for a clinical trial. Almost half (49%) of these participants who ever tried a cigarette were current heavy smokers (10 cigarettes/day), and 70% met DSM-IV-TR lifetime criteria for nicotine dependence. Heavy smoking was associated with older age, heavier marijuana use and greater compulsive craving, lifetime diagnoses of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, conduct disorder, illicit drug use disorders, and poorer overall functioning. Nicotine dependence was related to White race, higher current mania severity, and poorer overall functioning. These findings suggest that heavy smoking and nicotine dependence were highly prevalent among these adolescents. Although both were associated with greater physical and psychosocial problems, only heavy smoking was linked to a clear pattern of more severe substance-related and psychiatric problems. Further research to elucidate mechanisms and develop interventions to address early, entrenched patterns of co-use of tobacco and marijuana is warranted.



Increased production of neurotrophic factors (NTFs) is one of the key responses seen following peripheral nerve injury, making them an attractive choice for pro-regenerative gene therapies. However, the downside of over-expression of certain NTFs, including glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), was earlier found to be the trapping and misdirection of regenerating axons, the so-called 'candy-store' effect. We report a proof-of-principle study on the application of conditional GDNF expression system in injured peripheral nerve. We engineered Schwann cells (SCs) using dendrimers or lentiviral transduction with the vector providing doxycycline-regulated GDNF expression. Injection of GDNF-modified cells into the injured peripheral nerve followed by time-restricted administration of doxycycline demonstrated that GDNF expression in SCs can also be controlled locally in the peripheral nerves of the experimental animals. Cell-based GDNF therapy was shown to increase the extent of axonal regeneration, while controlled deactivation of GDNF effectively prevented trapping of regenerating axons in GDNF-enriched areas, and was associated with improved functional recovery.
Doxorubicin (DXR) and daunorubicin (DNR) inhibit hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) transcriptional activity by blocking its binding to DNA. Intraocular injections of DXR or DNR suppressed choroidal and retinal neovascularization (NV), but also perturbed retinal function as demonstrated by electroretinograms (ERGs). DXR was conjugated to novel copolymers of branched polyethylene glycol and poly(sebacic acid) (DXR-PSA-PEG3) and formulated into nanoparticles that when placed in aqueous buffer, slowly released small DXR-conjugates. Intraocular injection of DXR-PSA-PEG3 nanoparticles (1 or 10 g DXR content) reduced HIF-1-responsive gene products, strongly suppressed choroidal and retinal NV, and did not cause retinal toxicity. In transgenic mice that express VEGF in photoreceptors, intraocular injection of DXR-PSA-PEG3 nanoparticles (10 g DXR content) suppressed NV for at least 35 days. Intraocular injection of DXR-PSA-PEG3 nanoparticles (2.7 mg DXR content) in rabbits resulted in sustained DXR-conjugate release with detectable levels in aqueous humor and vitreous for at least 105 days. This study demonstrates a novel HIF-1-inhibitor-polymer conjugate formulated into controlled-release particles that maximizes efficacy and duration of activity, minimizes toxicity, and provides a promising new chemical entity for treatment of ocular NV.





Circadian rhythm is a biological rhythm governing physiology and behavior with a period of 24 h. At the molecular level, circadian output is controlled by a molecular clock composed of positive and negative feedback loops in transcriptional and post-translational processes. CLOCK is a transcription factor known as a central component of the molecular clock feedback loops generating circadian oscillation. Although CLOCK is known to undergo multiple post-translational modifications, the knowledge of their entities remains limited. Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a proline-directed serine-threonine kinase that is involved in various neuronal processes. Here, we report that Cdk5 is a novel regulator of CLOCK protein. Cdk5 phosphorylates CLOCK at the Thr-451 and Thr-461 residues in association with transcriptional activation of CLOCK. The Cdk5-dependent regulation of CLOCK function is mediated by alterations of its stability and subcellular distribution. These results suggest that Cdk5 is a novel regulatory component of the core molecular clock machinery.




Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by cerebral deposition of -amyloid (A) peptides, which are generated from amyloid precursor protein (APP) by - and -secretases. APP and the secretases are membrane associated, but whether membrane trafficking controls A levels is unclear. Here, we performed an RNAi screen of all human Rab-GTPases, which regulate membrane trafficking, complemented with a Rab-GTPase-activating protein screen, and present a road map of the membrane-trafficking events regulating A production. We identify Rab11 and Rab3 as key players. Although retromers and retromer-associated proteins control APP recycling, we show that Rab11 controlled -secretase endosomal recycling to the plasma membrane and thus affected A production. Exome sequencing revealed a significant genetic association of Rab11A with late-onset AD, and network analysis identified Rab11A and Rab11B as components of the late-onset AD risk network, suggesting a causal link between Rab11 and AD. Our results reveal trafficking pathways that regulate A levels and show how systems biology approaches can unravel the molecular complexity underlying AD.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of visual impairment worldwide. Aberrant DNA methylation within the promoter of IL17RC in peripheral blood mononuclear cells has recently been reported in AMD. To validate this association, we examined DNA methylation of the IL17RC promoter in peripheral blood. First, we used Illumina Human Methylation450 Bead Arrays, a widely accepted platform for measuring global DNA methylation. Second, methylation status at multiple sites within the IL17RC promoter was determined by bisulfite pyrosequencing in two cohorts. Third, a methylation-sensitive quantitative PCR-based assay was performed on a subset of samples. In contrast to previous findings, we did not find evidence of differential methylation between AMD cases and age-matched controls. We conclude that hypomethylation within the IL17RC gene promoter in peripheral blood is not suitable for use as a clinical biomarker of AMD. This study highlights the need for considerable replication of epigenetic association studies prior to clinical application.
The visual system is poorly sensitive to arbitrary accelerations, but accurately detects the effects of gravity on a target motion. Here we review behavioral and neuroimaging data about the neural mechanisms for dealing with object motion and egomotion under gravity. The results from several experiments show that the visual estimates of a target motion under gravity depend on the combination of a prior of gravity effects with on-line visual signals on target position and velocity. These estimates are affected by vestibular inputs, and are encoded in a visual-vestibular network whose core regions lie within or around the Sylvian fissure, and are represented by the posterior insula/retroinsula/temporo-parietal junction. This network responds both to target motions coherent with gravity and to vestibular caloric stimulation in human fMRI studies. Transient inactivation of the temporo-parietal junction selectively disrupts the interception of targets accelerated by gravity.
Magnetoencephalography and electroencephalography (M/EEG) measure the weak electromagnetic signals generated by neuronal activity in the brain. Using these signals to characterize and locate neural activation in the brain is a challenge that requires expertise in physics, signal processing, statistics, and numerical methods. As part of the MNE software suite, MNE-Python is an open-source software package that addresses this challenge by providing state-of-the-art algorithms implemented in Python that cover multiple methods of data preprocessing, source localization, statistical analysis, and estimation of functional connectivity between distributed brain regions. All algorithms and utility functions are implemented in a consistent manner with well-documented interfaces, enabling users to create M/EEG data analysis pipelines by writing Python scripts. Moreover, MNE-Python is tightly integrated with the core Python libraries for scientific comptutation (NumPy, SciPy) and visualization (matplotlib and Mayavi), as well as the greater neuroimaging ecosystem in Python via the Nibabel package. The code is provided under the new BSD license allowing code reuse, even in commercial products. Although MNE-Python has only been under heavy development for a couple of years, it has rapidly evolved with expanded analysis capabilities and pedagogical tutorials because multiple labs have collaborated during code development to help share best practices. MNE-Python also gives easy access to preprocessed datasets, helping users to get started quickly and facilitating reproducibility of methods by other researchers. Full documentation, including dozens of examples, is available at http://martinos.org/mne.

Presynaptic voltage-gated calcium Ca(V)2.2 channels play a privileged role in spinal level sensitization following peripheral nerve injury. Direct and indirect inhibitors of Ca(V)2.2 channel activity in spinal dorsal horn are analgesic in chronic pain states. Ca(V)2.2 channels represent a family of splice isoforms that are expressed in different combinations according to cell-type. A pair of mutually exclusive exons in the Ca(V)2.2 encoding Cacna1b gene, e37a and e37b, differentially influence morphine analgesia. In mice that lack exon e37a, which is enriched in nociceptors, the analgesic efficacy of intrathecal morphine against noxious thermal stimuli is reduced. Here we ask if sequences unique to e37a influence: the development of abnormal thermal and mechanical sensitivity associated with peripheral nerve injury; and the actions of two other classes of analgesics that owe part or all of their efficacy to Ca(V)2.2 channel inhibition. We find that: i) the analgesic efficacy of morphine, but not ziconotide or gabapentin, is reduced in mice lacking e37a, ii) the induction and maintenance of behaviors associated with sensitization that accompany peripheral nerve injury, do not require e37a-specific sequence, iii) intrathecal morphine, but not ziconotide or gabapentin analgesia to thermal stimuli is significantly lower in wild-type mice after peripheral nerve injury, iv) the analgesic efficacy of ziconotide and gabapentin to mechanical stimuli is reduced following nerve injury, and iv) intrathecal morphine analgesia to thermal stimuli in mice lacking e37a is not further reduced by peripheral nerve injury. Our findings show that the analgesic action of morphine, but not ziconotide or gabapentin, to thermal stimuli is linked to which Cacna1b exon, e37a or e37b, is selected during alternative pre-mRNA splicing.
Recovery of consciousness has been associated with connectivity in the frontal cortex and parietal regions modulated by the thalamus. To examine this model and to relate alterations to deficits in cognitive functioning and conscious processing, we investigated topological network properties in patients with chronic disorders of consciousness recovered from coma. Resting state fMRI data of 34 patients with unresponsive wakefulness syndrome and 25 in minimally conscious state were compared to 28 healthy controls. We investigated global and local network characteristics. Additionally, behavioral measures were correlated with the local metrics of 28 regions within the fronto-parietal network and the thalamus. In chronic disorders of consciousness, modularity at the global level was reduced suggesting a disturbance in the optimal balance between segregation and integration. Moreover, network properties were altered in several regions which are associated with conscious processing (particularly, in medial parietal, and frontal regions, as well as in the thalamus). Between minimally conscious and unconscious patients the local efficiency of medial parietal regions differed. Alterations in the thalamus were particularly evident in non-conscious patients. Most of the regions affected in patients with impaired consciousness belong to the so-called 'rich club' of highly interconnected central nodes. Disturbances in their topological characteristics have severe impact on information integration and are reflected in deficits in cognitive functioning probably leading to a total breakdown of consciousness.
To our knowledge, the present data are the first to demonstrate that activation of membrane estrogen receptors (mERs) abolishes opioid receptor-like 1 (ORL1) receptor-mediated analgesia via extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-dependent non-genomic mechanisms. Estrogen was shown previously to both attenuate ORL1-mediated antinociception and down-regulate the ORL1 gene expression. The present study investigated whether non-genomic mechanisms contribute to estrogen-induced attenuation of ORL1-mediated antinociception by the mERs GPR30, Gq-coupled mER, ER, and ER. E2BSA [-estradiol-6-(O-carboxymethyl)oxime: bovine serum albumin] (0.5mM), a membrane impermeant analog of estradiol, injected intrathecally immediately prior to orphanin FQ (OFQ;10 nmol), the endogenous ligand for the ORL1 receptor, abolished OFQ's antinociceptive effect in both male and ovariectomized (OVX) female rats, assessed using the heat-induced tail-flick assay. This effect was not altered by protein synthesis inhibitor, anisomycin (125 g), given intrathecally 15 min prior to E2BSA and OFQ. Intrathecal application of selective receptor agonists permitted the relative contributions of various estrogen receptors in mediating this blockade of the antinociceptive response of OFQ. Activation of GPR30, Gq-mER, ER, but not ER abolished ORL1-mediated antinociception in males and OVX females. E2BSA produced a parallel and significant increase in the phosphorylation of ERK 2 only in OVX females, and pre-treatment with MEK/ERK 1/2 inhibitor, U0126 (10 g), blocked the mER-mediated abolition of ORL1-mediated antinociception in OVX females. Taken together, the data are consistent with the interpretations that mER activation attenuates ORL1-mediated antinociception through a non-genomic, ERK 2-dependent mechanism in females.
Most investigations into the role of the body axis in vertebrate locomotion have focused on the trunk, although in most tetrapods, the tail also plays an active role. In salamanders, the tail contributes to propulsion during swimming and to dynamic balance and maneuverability during terrestrial locomotion. The aim of the present study was to obtain information concerning the neural mechanisms that produce tail muscle contractions during locomotion in the salamander Pleurodeles waltlii. We recorded the ventral root activities in in vitro spinal cord preparations in which locomotor-like activity was induced via bath application of N-methyl-d-aspartate (20M) and d-serine (10M). Recordings showed that the tail spinal cord is capable of producing propagated waves of motor activity that alternate between the left and right sides. Lesion experiments further revealed that the tail rhythmogenic network is composed of a double chain of identical hemisegmental oscillators. Finally, using spinal cord preparations bathed in a chamber partitioned into two pools, we revealed efficient short-distance coupling between the trunk and tail networks. Together, our results demonstrate the existence of a pattern generator for rhythmic tail movements in the salamander and show that the global architecture of the tail network is similar to that previously proposed for the mid-trunk locomotor network in the salamander. Our findings further support the view that salamanders can control their trunk and tail independently during stepping movements. The relevance of our results in relation to the generation of tail muscle contractions in freely moving salamanders is discussed.
Numerous studies have reported that the hippocampus in schizophrenia patients is reduced in volume compared to the normal population. Antipsychotic medications have had mixed benefits in maintaining hippocampal volume or reversing volume loss. Recent evidence indicates that routine aerobic exercise represents a promising intervention for reversing hippocampal loss and cognitive deficits. In the present study, we measured the effects of chronic treatment with olanzapine and daily exercise on the hippocampal volumes of rats. Adult female rats were treated during the week with either olanzapine (10mg/kg) or vehicle for 9 consecutive weeks. Subgroups of animals were provided access to exercise running wheels for 1 or 3h per day during the same period, or were sedentary. Metabolic indices, including glucose tolerance, were measured on a weekly basis. At the conclusion of the study, brains were perfused and hippocampal sections were Nissl stained. Total hippocampal volume was measured using the Cavalieri estimator. Treatment with olanzapine caused a significant decrease in hippocampal volume in sedentary rats. However, exercise was able to reverse most of this volume loss. The hippocampal sub-regions of the dentate gyrus and CA1 were most strongly affected by olanzapine and exercise. Of interest, there was a strong and highly significant negative correlation between glucose intolerance and hippocampal volume, whereby greater glucose intolerance was associated with a smaller hippocampal volume. These findings indicate that exercise may have beneficial effects on the hippocampus when antipsychotic medication can contribute to changes in volume.
Not only is the inferior colliculus (IC) a highly important center of integration within the central auditory pathway, but it may also play a modulatory role in sensory-motor circuitry. Previous evidence from our laboratory relating the IC to motor behavior shows that glutamate-mediated mechanisms within the IC modulate haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The high density of GABAergic receptors in the IC led to this study of a possible link between these receptors, haloperidol-induced catalepsy, and a possible involvement of the blockade of dopaminergic receptors. Catalepsy was evaluated by positioning both forepaws of rats on an elevated horizontal wooden bar and recording the time that the animal maintained this position. The present study shows that haloperidol-induced catalepsy was enhanced by local microinjection into the IC of midazolam (20nmol/0.5l), a benzodiazepine receptor agonist, whereas animals receiving a microinjection of bicuculline (40 or 80ng/0.5l), a GABAergic antagonist, showed a reduction in the time of catalepsy. However, the microinjection of haloperidol (2.5 or 5.0g/0.5l) bilaterally into the IC did not induce catalepsy. Therefore, our results suggest the involvement of the IC in the modulation of catalepsy induced by haloperidol, even though the dopaminergic mechanisms of the IC are unable to induce catalepsy when blocked by the direct microinjection of haloperidol. It is thus possible that the IC plays a role in sensorimotor gating and that GABA-mediated mechanisms are involved.
Individual differences in the locomotor response to novelty have been linked to basal differences in dopaminergic neurotransmission. Mesolimbic dopaminergic outputs are regulated by cholecystokinin (CCK), a neuropeptide implicated in anxiety. In turn, CCK expression is regulated by fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2), which has recently been identified as an endogenous regulator of anxiety. FGF2 binds to the high-affinity fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 (FGF-R1) to regulate the development and maintenance of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). However, the relationship between the FGF and CCK systems in the VTA is not well understood. Therefore, we utilized the selectively-bred low-responder (bLR; high-anxiety) and high-responder (bHR; low-anxiety) rats to examine the effects of repeated (21-day) FGF2 treatment on CCK and FGF-R1 mRNA in the rostral VTA (VTAr). In vehicle-treated controls, both CCK and FGF-R1 mRNA levels were increased in the VTAr of bLR rats relative to bHR rats. Following FGF2 treatment, however, bHR-bLR differences in CCK and FGF-R1 mRNA expression were eliminated, due to decreased CCK mRNA levels in the VTAr of bLR rats and increased FGF-R1 expression in bHR rats. Differences after FGF2 treatment may denote distinct interactions between the CCK and FGF systems in the VTAr of bHR vs. bLR rats. Indeed, significant correlations between CCK and FGF-R1 mRNA expression were found in bHR, but not bLR rats. Colocalization studies suggest that CCK and FGF-R1 are coexpressed in some VTAr neurons. Taken together, our findings suggest that the FGF system is poised to modulate both CCK and FGF-R1 expression in the VTAr, which may be associated with individual differences in mesolimbic pathways associated with anxiety-like behavior.
Food hoarding, especially scatter hoarding and retrieving food caches, requires spatial learning and memory and is an adaptive behavior important for an animal's survival and reproductive success. In the present study, we examined the effects of hoarding behavior on cell proliferation and survival in the hippocampus of male and female Siberian chipmunks (Tamias sibiricus). We found that chipmunks in a semi-natural enclosure displayed hoarding behavior with large individual variations. Males ate more scatter-hoarded seeds than females. In addition, the display of hoarding behavior was associated with increased cell proliferation in the hippocampus and this increase occurred in a brain region-specific manner. These data provide further evidence to support the notion that new cells in the adult hippocampus are affected by learning and memory tasks and may play an important role in adaptive behavior.
Cholinergic interneurons, which provide the main source of acetylcholine (ACh) in the striatum, control the striatal local circuits and deeply involve in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) is a crucial kinase with diverse fundamental functions and accepted that deregulation of GSK-3 activity also plays important roles in diverse neurodegenerative diseases. However, up to now, there is no direct proof indicating whether GSK-3 activation is responsible for cholinergic dysfunction. In the present study, with combined intracerebroventricular injection of Wortmannin and GF-109203X, we activated GSK-3 and demonstrated the increased phosphorylation level of microtubule-associated protein tau and neurofilaments (NFs) in the rat striatum. The activated GSK-3 consequently decreased ACh level in the striatum as a result of the reduction of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity. The alteration of ChAT activity was due to impaired ChAT distribution rather than its expression. Furthermore, we proved that cellular ChAT distribution was dependent on low phosphorylation level of NFs. Nevertheless, the cholinergic dysfunction in the striatum failed to induce significant neuronal number reduction. In summary, our data demonstrates the link between GSK-3 activation and cholinergic dysfunction in the striatum and provided beneficial evidence for the pathogenesis study of relevant neurodegenerative diseases.
Individuals have different levels of stress sensitivity. An individual's predisposition to experience negative life events (NLEs) may make him/her more vulnerable to a series of psychopathological and physical diseases. However, the neuroanatomical correlates of individual differences in sensitivity to NLEs remain unknown. In this study, voxel-based morphometry was used to identify the gray matter (GM) associations of individual differences in sensitivity to NLEs measured by adolescent self-rating life events checklist. Results showed that there was a positive association between individual NLEs sensitivity and regional GM volume (rGMV) in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC). GM was mostly evident in the left frontal operculum and a small part of the left middle frontal gyrus. This region was thought to play an important role in introception. Importantly, our study revealed that rumination served as a mediator between the rGMV of the VLPFC and individual NLEs sensitivity. These findings suggest that people with greater VLPFC might be more inclined to ruminate and the ruminative response style might make them more sensitive to NLEs.
The expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which is found in the pro-BDNF, truncated-BDNF and mature-BDNF isoforms, changes with learning. Mature-BDNF shows a peak of late expression in the hippocampus that is involved in the persistence of aversive memory in rodents. However, the role of BDNF in the hippocampal synaptic mechanisms involved in the classical conditioning aversive memory in birds still needs clarification. This study investigated the late expression of BDNF in the hippocampus and amygdala of pigeons trained with tone-shock conditioning and the effects of intra-hippocampal infusion of anisomycin (Ani) in these changes. Seven days after implantation of intra-hippocampal microcannulae, adult pigeons trained with three tone-shock pairings were assigned to one of three groups: Conditioning and Ani (CondANI), Conditioning and saline vehicle (CondSAL) and Conditioning only (Cond). NAIVE group had no treatment or conditioning. Homogenates of tissues from the hippocampus and amygdala, obtained 12h after training, were used to determine the content of mature-BDNF, truncated-BDNF and pro-BDNF using Western blotting. Higher values for mature-BDNF than for truncated- and pro-BDNF content were seen in the hippocampus of Cond and CondSAL birds, but not in the hippocampus of CondANI or NAIVE birds (p&lt;0.05). The values of mature-BDNF in the amygdala of all the three conditioned groups were higher than those observed for truncated- and pro-BDNF (p&lt;0.05), which indicates that the activation of this protein in the amygdala was not affected by the infusion of Ani in the hippocampus. The data indicate that the tone-shock conditioning induced the activation of molecular pathways of BDNF in the hippocampus and amygdala of the pigeons. The decreases in the content of truncated- and pro-BDNF isoforms found in conditioned pigeons may suggest cleavage mechanisms induced by the training. Our data confirm previous observations of rodent studies and extend these observations to pigeons, revealing that, in spite of the anatomical differences between the hippocampus of rodents and pigeons, there are functional and molecular mechanisms that are conservative between the species.
The quality of motion perception depends on visual input during early development. Even 1month of binocular deprivation (BD) from birth impairs motion coherence thresholds when tested in kittens; conversely BD with a 1-month delayed onset does not impair it (Mitchell et al., 2009). We showed that 6months of BD applied from birth induces a selective impairment in a Global Motion Detection task, but not in global form perception, when tested in adulthood (Burnat et al., 2002, 2005). In these animals cell counts of the retinal motion-sensitive alpha ganglion revealed a life-long increase in OFF-type ganglion cell (Burnat et al., 2012). Here we examined in adult cats the effect of BD on global motion perception using an array of tasks with gradually increasing perceptual difficulty. Two conditions of BD were applied: from birth, lasting for 1, 2, 4 or 6months, and with a delayed onset with first 2months of normal vision followed by 2months of BD. Cats deprived from birth for a 6-month period had Global Motion Detection impaired, as compared to the normal group. Velocity and low contrast-defined motion processing was impaired when BD was applied exclusively in months 3-4 of life. The cats deprived from birth for 1 or 2months were not impaired in any of the tested motion tasks. Motion coherence thresholds, when tested at the end of a long motion training were not affected by BD and did not differ from those obtained for the normal group. Impaired extraction of low contrast-defined motion signal was found in cats deprived solely in months 3-4 of life. Surprisingly, binocular pattern deprivation during the first 2months of life did not weaken motion sensitivity, revealing the occurrence of a critical period for motion perception later in development than previously suggested.
Brain machine interfaces (BMI) have become important in systems neuroscience with the goal to restore motor function in paralyzed patients. We assess the current ability of BMI devices to move objects. The topics discussed include: (1) the bits of information generated by a BMI signal, (2) the limitations of including more neurons for generating a BMI signal, (3) the superiority of a BMI signal using single cells versus electroencephalography, (4) plasticity and BMI, (5) the selection of a neural code for generating BMI, (6) the suppression of body movements during BMI, and (7) the role of vision in BMI. We conclude that further research on understanding how the brain generates movement is necessary before BMI can become a reasonable option for paralyzed patients.
The dopamine (DA), noradrenalin (NA) and serotonin (5-HT) monoaminergic systems are deeply involved in cognitive processes via their influence on cortical and subcortical regions. The widespread distribution of these monoaminergic networks is one of the main difficulties in analyzing their functions and interactions. To address this complexity, we assessed whether inter-individual differences in monoamine tissue contents of various brain areas could provide information about their functional relationships. We used a sensitive biochemical approach to map endogenous monoamine tissue content in 20 rat brain areas involved in cognition, including 10 cortical areas and examined correlations within and between the monoaminergic systems. Whereas DA content and its respective metabolite largely varied across brain regions, the NA and 5-HT contents were relatively homogenous. As expected, the tissue content varied among individuals. Our analyses revealed a few specific relationships (10%) between the tissue content of each monoamine in paired brain regions and even between monoamines in paired brain regions. The tissue contents of NA, 5-HT and DA were inter-correlated with a high incidence when looking at a specific brain region. Most correlations found between cortical areas were positive while some cortico-subcortical relationships regarding the DA, NA and 5-HT tissue contents were negative, in particular for DA content. In conclusion, this work provides a useful database of the monoamine tissue content in numerous brain regions. It suggests that the regulation of these neuromodulatory systems is achieved mainly at the terminals, and that each of these systems contributes to the regulation of the other two.
Cervical proprioception plays a key role in postural control, but its specific contribution is controversial. Postural impairment was shown in whiplash injuries without demonstrating the sole involvement of the cervical spine. The consequences of degenerative cervical spine diseases are underreported in posture-related scientific literature in spite of their high prevalence. No report has focused on the two different mechanisms underlying cervicobrachial pain: herniated discs and spondylosis. This study aimed to evaluate postural control of two groups of patients with degenerative cervical spine diseases with or without optokinetic stimulation before and after surgical treatment. Seventeen patients with radiculopathy were recruited and divided into two groups according to the spondylotic or discal origin of the nerve compression. All patients and a control population of 31 healthy individuals underwent a static posturographic test with 12 recordings; the first four recordings with the head in 0 position: eyes closed, eyes open without optokinetic stimulation, with clockwise and counter clockwise optokinetic stimulations. These four sensorial situations were repeated with the head rotated 30 to the left and to the right. Patients repeated these 12 recordings 6weeks postoperatively. None of the patients reported vertigo or balance disorders before or after surgery. Prior to surgery, in the eyes closed condition, the herniated disc group was more stable than the spondylosis group. After surgery, the contribution of visual input to postural control in a dynamic visual environment was reduced in both cervical spine diseases whereas in a stable visual environment visual contribution was reduced only in the spondylosis group. The relative importance of visual and proprioceptive inputs to postural control varies according to the type of pathology and surgery tends to reduce visual contribution mostly in the spondylosis group.
Clinical stimulation of preterm infant breathing with methylxanthines like caffeine and theophylline can evoke seizures. It is unknown whether underlying neuronal hyperexcitability involves the rhythmogenic inspiratory active pre-Btzinger complex (preBtC) in the brainstem or preBtC-driven motor networks. Inspiratory-related preBtC interneuronal plus spinal (cervical/phrenic) or cranial hypoglossal (XII) motoneuronal bursting was studied in newborn rat en bloc brainstem-spinal cords and brainstem slices, respectively. Non-respiratory bursting perturbed inspiratory cervical nerve activity in en bloc models at &gt;0.25mM theophylline or caffeine. Rhythm in the exposed preBtC of transected en bloc preparations was less perturbed by 10mM theophylline than cervical root bursting which was more affected than phrenic nerve activity. In the preBtC of slices, even 10mM methylxanthine did not evoke seizure-like bursting whereas &gt;1mM masked XII rhythm via large amplitude 1-10Hz oscillations. Blocking A-type -aminobutyric (GABAA) receptors evoked seizure-like cervical activity whereas in slices neither XII nor preBtC rhythm was disrupted. Methylxanthines (2.5-10mM), but not blockade of adenosine receptors, phosphodiesterase-4 or the sarcoplasmatic/endoplasmatic reticulum ATPase countered inspiratory depression by muscimol-evoked GABAA receptor activation that was associated with a hyperpolarization and input resistance decrease silencing preBtC neurons in slices. The latter blockers did neither affect preBtC or cranial/spinal motor network bursting nor evoke seizure-like activity or mask corresponding methylxanthine-evoked discharges. Our findings show that methylxanthine-evoked hyperexcitability originates from motor networks, leaving preBtC activity largely unaffected, and suggest that GABAA receptors contribute to methylxanthine-evoked seizure-like perturbation of spinal motoneurons whereas non-respiratory XII motoneuron oscillations are of different origin.
Responses during a simple reaction time task are influenced by temporal expectation, or the ability to anticipate when a stimulus occurs in time. Here, we test the hypothesis that prefrontal D1 dopamine signaling is necessary for temporal expectation during simple reaction time task performance. We depleted dopamine projections to the medial prefrontal circuits by infusing 6-hydroxidopamine, a selective neurotoxin, into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of rats, and studied their performance on a simple reaction time task with two delays. VTA dopamine depletion did not change movements or learning of the reaction time task. However, VTA dopamine-depleted animals did not develop delay-dependent speeding of reaction times, suggesting that mesocortical dopamine signaling is required for temporal expectation. Next, we manipulated dopamine signaling within the medial prefrontal cortex using local pharmacology. We found that SCH23390, a D1-type dopamine receptor antagonist, specifically attenuated delay-dependent speeding, while sulpiride, a D2-type receptor antagonist, did not. These data suggest that prefrontal D1 dopamine signaling is necessary for temporal expectation during performance of a simple reaction time task. Our findings provide insight into temporal processing of the prefrontal cortex, and how dopamine signaling influences prefrontal circuits that guide goal-directed behavior.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the relative contribution of cannabinoid receptors (CBRs) subtypes and to analyze cannabimimetic mechanisms involved in the inhibition of anandamide (AEA) and 2-arachidonoyl glycerol degradation on the antihyperalgesic effect of ankle joint mobilization (AJM). Mice (25-35g) were subjected to plantar incision (PI) and 24h after surgery animals received the following treatments, AJM for 9min, AEA (10mg/kg, intraperitoneal [i.p.]), WIN 55,212-2 (1.5mg/kg, i.p.), URB937 (0.01-1mg/kg, i.p.; a fatty acid amide hydrolase [FAAH] inhibitor) or JZL184 (0.016-16mg/kg, i.p.; a monoacylglycerol lipase [MAGL] inhibitor). Withdrawal frequency to mechanical stimuli was assessed 24h after PI and at different time intervals after treatments. Receptor specificity was investigated using selective CB1R (AM281) and CB2R (AM630) antagonists. In addition, the effect of the FAAH and MAGL inhibitors on the antihyperalgesic action of AJM was investigated. AJM, AEA, WIN 55,212-2, URB937 and JZL184 decreased mechanical hyperalgesia induced by PI. The antihyperalgesic effect of AJM was reversed by pretreatment with AM281 given by intraperitoneal and intrathecal routes, but not intraplantarly. Additionally, intraperitoneal and intraplantar, but not intrathecal administration of AM630 blocked AJM-induced antihyperalgesia. Interestingly, in mice pretreated with FAAH or the MAGL inhibitor the antihyperalgesic effect of AJM was significantly longer. This article presents data addressing the CBR mechanisms underlying the antihyperalgesic activity of joint mobilization as well as of the endocannabinoid catabolic enzyme inhibitors in the mouse postoperative pain model. Joint mobilization and these enzymes offer potential targets to treat postoperative pain.
Aged ovariectomized (OVX) female monkeys, a model for menopause in humans, show a decline in spine density in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) and diminished performance in cognitive tasks requiring this brain region. Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that long-term cyclic treatment with 17-estradiol (E) produces an increase in spine density and in the proportion of thinner spines in layer III pyramidal neurons in the dlPFC of both young and aged OVX rhesus monkeys. Here we used 3D reconstruction of Lucifer yellow-loaded neurons to investigate whether clinically relevant schedules of hormone therapy would produce similar changes in prefrontal cortical neuronal morphology as long-term cyclic E treatment in young female monkeys. We found that continuously delivered E, with or without a cyclic progesterone treatment, did not alter spine density or morphology in the dlPFC of young adult OVX rhesus monkeys. We also found that the increased density of thinner spines evident in the dlPFC 24h after E administration in the context of long-term cyclic E therapy is no longer detectable 20days after E treatment. When compared with the results of our previously published investigations, our results suggest that cyclic fluctuations in serum E levels may cause corresponding fluctuations in the density of thin spines in the dlPFC. By contrast, continuous administration of E does not support sustained increases in thin spine density. Physiological fluctuations in E concentration may be necessary to maintain the morphological sensitivity of the dlPFC to E.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is critically involved in synaptic plasticity and neurotransmission. Our lab has previously found that BDNF activation of neurotrophic tyrosine kinase, receptor, type 2 (TrkB) is required for fear memory formation and that GABAA receptor (GABAAR) subunits and the GABAA clustering protein gephyrin are dynamically regulated during fear memory consolidation. We hypothesize that TrkB-dependent internalization of GABAARs may partially underlie a transient period of amygdala hyperactivation during fear memory consolidation. We have previously reported that BDNF modulates GABAAR 1 subunit sequestration in cultured hippocampal and amygdala neurons by differential phosphorylation pathways. At present, no studies have investigated the regulation of gephyrin and GABAAR 1 subunits following BDNF activation in the amygdala. In this study, we confirm the association of GABAAR 1 and 2 subunits with gephyrin on mouse amygdala neurons by coimmunoprecipitation and immunocytochemistry. We then demonstrate that rapid BDNF treatment, as well as suppression of gephyrin protein levels on amygdala neurons, induced sequestration of surface 1 subunits. Further, we find that rapid exposure of BDNF to primary amygdala cultures produced decreases in gephyrin levels, whereas longer exposure resulted in an eventual increase. While total 1 subunit levels remained unchanged, gephyrin was downregulated in whole cell homogenates, but enhanced in complexes with GABAARs. Our data with anisomycin suggest that BDNF may rapidly induce gephyrin protein degradation, with subsequent gephyrin synthesis occurring. Together, these findings suggest that gephyrin may be a key factor in BDNF-dependent GABAAR regulation in the amygdala. This work may inform future studies aimed at elucidating the pathways connecting BDNF, GABAA systems, gephyrin, and their role in underlying amygdala-dependent learning.
In the present study, we addressed the question of whether the distinct patterns of heat shock protein (HSP) 70 and HSP90 expressions in the brain region represents the regional specific responses to status epilepsticus (SE) in an effort to better understand the role of HSPs in epileptogenic insult. HSP70 immunoreactivity was increased in CA3 pyramidal cells as well as dentate granule cells at 12h-1week after SE. HSP70 immunoreactivity was transiently increased in neurons within the piriform cortex (PC) following SE. Linear regression analysis showed no correlation between the intensity of NeuN and that of HSP70. In contrast to HSP70, HSP90 immunoreactivity was decreased in CA1-3 pyramidal cells at 4days-4weeks after SE. In addition, HSP90 immunoreactivity was decreased in PC neurons at 12h-4weeks after SE. linear regression analysis showed a direct proportional relationship between the intensity of NeuN and that of HSP90. Therefore, these findings suggest that HSP90 degradation may be closely related to neuronal vulnerability to SE insult.
N-Acetyl cysteine, a glutathione precursor, has been shown to benefit patients with Alzheimer's disease and reduce the symptoms of traumatic brain injury in soldiers. Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease are both characterized by stress from protein misfolding, or proteotoxicity. We have developed a high-throughput model of proteotoxicity by treating neuroblastoma N2a cells with the proteasome inhibitor MG132 and performing three independent assays for viability. Our previous study showed that N-acetyl cysteine protects N2a cells against two sequential treatments of MG132 and raises glutathione levels in a two-hit model of synergistic neurodegeneration. In the present study, however, N-acetyl cysteine was found to reduce the toxicity of a single hit of MG132 independent of its effect on glutathione. All three viability assays confirmed this protection. We measured heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) levels because Hsp70 is a protective chaperone that helps refold proteins or guides ubiquitinated proteins toward degradation by the proteasome. Hsp70 levels were higher in MG132-treated cells when N-acetyl cysteine was applied. No parallel change in heat shock cognate 70 (Hsc70) was elicited. Inhibition of Hsp70/Hsc70 activity with VER 155008 attenuated the protection afforded by N-acetyl cysteine in a dose-responsive manner. MG132 induced a large rise in ubiquitinated proteins and N-acetyl cysteine reduced this effect. Consistent with the chaperone functions of Hsp70, VER 155008 also prevented the reduction in ubiquitin-conjugated proteins by N-acetyl cysteine. These data reveal a new role for N-acetyl cysteine: this compound may reduce misfolded protein levels and ameliorate proteotoxicity through heat shock proteins. These findings broaden the potential mechanisms of action for this dietary supplement in neurodegenerative proteinopathies.
In rodents, olfactory bulbectomy (OBX) results in several behavioral and biochemical changes, useful as a screening model for antidepressants. Recent evidences suggest that quercetin; a bioflavonoid exhibits a variety of behavioral effects including anxiolytic, antidepressant, etc. Since microglia are commonly implicated in the neuroinflammation cascade of depression, we hypothesized that quercetin might involve microglial inhibition pathway in its antidepressant-like effects. To support such a possibility, we investigated the interaction of quercetin with a known microglial inhibitor (minocycline) against OBX-induced depression in male Wistar rats. In our study, ablation of olfactory bulbs caused hyperactivity in open field arena and increased immobility time in forced swim test (FST) which was coupled with enhanced serum corticosterone levels. Additionally, there were increased oxidative-nitrosative stress markers, inflammatory mediators (tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) and interleukin-6 (IL-6)) along with enhanced apoptotic factor (caspase-3) in both cerebral cortex and hippocampal brain regions of OBX animals. These results were further supported by reports from histopathological analysis. After a surgical recovery period of 2weeks, treatment with quercetin (40, 80mg/kg; per oral (p.o.) p.o., 14days) significantly prevented OBX-induced behavioral, biochemical, molecular and histopathological alterations. Further, combination of sub effective doses of quercetin (20, 40mg/kg; p.o.) with minocycline (25mg/kg; p.o.) significantly potentiated their protective effects as compared to their effects alone. Based on our results, we propose that microglial inhibitory pathway might be involved in the neuroprotective effects of quercetin and suppression of oxidative-nitrosative stress mediated neuroinflammation-apoptotic cascade associated with OBX rat model of depression.
The ability of local infusions of the alpha 7 nicotinic acetycholine receptor (7 nAChR) partial agonist SSR180711 to evoke glutamate release in prefrontal cortex was determined in awake rats using a microelectrode array. Infusions of SSR180711 produced dose-dependent increases in glutamate levels. The lower dose (1.0g in 0.4L) evoked a rapid rise (1.0s) in glutamate (1.410.30M above baseline). The higher dose (5.0g) produced a similarly rapid, yet larger increase (3.510.36M above baseline). After each dose, the glutamate signal was cleared to basal levels within 7-18s. SSR180711-evoked glutamate was mediated by the 7 nAChR as co-infusion of the selective 7 nAChR antagonist -bungarotoxin (10.0M)+SSR1808711 (5.0g) reduced the effect of 5.0g alone by 87% (2.62 vs. 0.35M). Finally, the clearance of the SSR180711 (5.0g)-evoked glutamate was bidirectionally affected by drugs that inhibited (threo-beta-benzyl-oxy-aspartate (TOA), 100.0M) or facilitated (ceftriaxalone, 200mg/kg, i.p.) excitatory amino acid transporters. TOA slowed both the clearance (s) and rate of clearance (M/s) by 10-fold, particularly at the mid-late stages of the return to baseline. Ceftriaxone reduced the magnitude of the SSR180711-evoked increase by 65%. These results demonstrate that pharmacological stimulation of 7 nAChRs within the prefrontal cortex is sufficient to evoke rapid yet transient increases in glutamate levels. Such increases may underlie the cognition-enhancing effects of the drug in animals; further justifying studies on the use of 7 nAChR-positive modulators in treating cognition-impairing disorders in humans.
Electrophysiological properties of lumbar -motoneurons change after chronic increases and decreases in hindlimb neuromuscular activity. Although modeling of these changes suggests that motoneurons probably alter gene expression in these situations, there is no evidence that this is the case. In this study, we measured the content of several mRNAs in lumbar motoneurons, harvested using laser capture microdissection, from rats previously subjected to normal cage activity, voluntary wheel exercise for 16weeks, and forced treadmill training for 7days and 16weeks. As a result of the prolonged daily treadmill training, but not the voluntary wheel training, significant increases occurred in muscle peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, coactivator 1 alpha (PGC-1) mRNA, and in muscle PGC-1 and cytochrome oxidase proteins, in soleus and plantaris muscles. Significant changes in mRNA contents (decreases) were evident for the receptors 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor 1A (5HT1a), GABA A receptor, subunit alpha 2 (GABAA2), and for the potassium conductance calcium-activated channel protein (SK2) in the motoneurons from 16-week-trained rats, and for glutamate receptor, metabotropic 1 (mGluR1) in the voluntary wheel-trained rats. Motoneurons from 16-week treadmill-trained rats also did not demonstrate the decreases in several mRNAs that were evident after 7days of treadmill exercise, suggesting an adaptation of motoneurons to acute stress. The mRNA changes following prolonged daily treadmill training are consistent with a reduction in inhibitory influences onto motoneurons, and a transition toward motoneurons that innervate slower contracting muscle fibers. These results demonstrate that the previously reported physiological changes in motoneurons with altered activity are accompanied by changes in gene expression.
Neonatal hypoxia-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) remains a major cause of brain damage, leading to high disability and mortality rates in neonates. In vitro studies have shown that hesperidin, a flavanone glycoside found abundantly in citrus fruits, acts as an antioxidant. Although hesperidin has been considered as a potential treatment for HIE, its effects have not been fully evaluated. In this study, the protective effect of hesperidin pretreatment against hypoxia-ischemic (HI) brain injury and possible signal pathways were investigated using in vivo and in vitro models. In vivo HI model employed unilateral carotid ligation in postnatal day 7 rat with exposure to 8% hypoxia for 2.5h, whereas in vitro model employed primary cortical neurons of neonatal rats subjected to oxygen and glucose deprivation for 2.5h. Hesperidin pretreatment significantly reduced HI-induced brain tissue loss and improved neurological outcomes as shown in 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride monohydrate staining and foot-fault results. The neuroprotective effects of hesperidin are likely the results of preventing an increase in intracellular reactive oxygen species and lipid peroxide levels. Hesperidin treatment also activated a key survival signaling kinase, Akt, and suppressed the P-FoxO3 level. Hesperidin pretreatment protected neonatal HIE by reducing free radicals and activating phosphorylated Akt.
Forebrain neuronal circuits containing hypocretin-1 (hcrt-1) and norepinephrine (NE) are important components of central arousal-related processes. Recently, these two systems have been shown to have an overlapping distribution within the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST), a limbic structure activated by stressful challenges, and which functions to adjust arterial pressure (AP) and heart rate (HR) to the stressor. However, whether hcrt-1 and NE interact in BST to alter cardiovascular function is unknown. Experiments were done in urethane--chloralose anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated male Wistar rats to investigate the effect of hcrt-1 and NE on the cardiovascular responses elicited by l-glutamate (Glu) stimulation of BST neurons. Microinjections of hcrt-1, NE or tyramine into BST attenuated the decrease in AP and HR to Glu stimulation of BST. Additionally, combined injections of hcrt-1 with NE or tyramine did not elicit a greater attenuation than either compound alone. Furthermore, injections into BST of the 2-adrenergic receptor (2-AR) antagonist yohimbine, but not the 1-AR antagonist 2-{[-(4-hydroxyphenyl)ethyl]aminomethyl}-1-tetralone hydrochloride, blocked both the hcrt-1 and NE-induced inhibition of the BST cardiovascular depressors responses. Finally, injections into BST of the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline, but not the GABAB receptor antagonist phaclofen, blocked the hcrt-1 and NE attenuation of the BST Glu-induced depressor and bradycardia responses. These data suggest that hcrt-1 effects in BST are mediated by NE neurons, and hcrt-1 likely acts to facilitate the synaptic release of NE. NE neurons, acting through 2-AR may activate Gabaergic neurons in BST, which in turn through the activation of GABAA receptors inhibit a BST sympathoinhibitory pathway. Taken together, these data suggest that hcrt-1 pathways to BST through their interaction with NE and Gabaergic neurons may function in the coordination of cardiovascular responses associated with different behavioral states.
Chronic neuropathic pain is a frequent comorbidity following spinal cord injury (SCI) and often fails to respond to conventional pain management strategies. Preventive administration of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) or the consumption of a diet rich in omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (O3PUFAs) confers potent prophylaxis against SCI and improves functional recovery. The present study examines whether this novel dietary strategy provides significant antinociceptive benefits in rats experiencing SCI-induced pain. Rats were fed control chow or chow enriched with O3PUFAs for 8weeks before being subjected to sham or cord contusion surgeries, continuing the same diets after surgery for another 8 more weeks. The paw sensitivity to noxious heat was quantified for at least 8weeks post-SCI using the Hargreaves test. We found that SCI rats consuming the preventive O3PUFA-enriched diet exhibited a significant reduction in thermal hyperalgesia compared to those consuming the normal diet. Functional neurometabolomic profiling revealed a distinctive deregulation in the metabolism of endocannabinoids (eCB) and related N-acyl ethanolamines (NAEs) at 8weeks post-SCI. We found that O3PUFAs consumption led to a robust accumulation of novel NAE precursors, including the glycerophospho-containing docosahexaenoyl ethanolamine (DHEA), docosapentaenoyl ethanolamine (DPEA), and eicosapentaenoyl ethanolamine (EPEA). The tissue levels of these metabolites were significantly correlated with the antihyperalgesic phenotype. In addition, rats consuming the O3PUFA-rich diet showed reduced sprouting of nociceptive fibers containing CGRP and dorsal horn neuron p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) expression, well-established biomarkers of pain. The spinal cord levels of inositols were positively correlated with thermal hyperalgesia, supporting their role as biomarkers of chronic neuropathic pain. Notably, the O3PUFA-rich dietary intervention reduced the levels of these metabolites. Collectively, these results demonstrate the prophylactic value of dietary O3PUFA against SCI-mediated chronic pain.



Social decision-making is often complex, requiring the decision-maker to make inferences of others' mental states in addition to engaging traditional decision-making processes like valuation and reward processing. A growing body of research in neuroeconomics has examined decision-making involving social and non-social stimuli to explore activity in brain regions such as the striatum and prefrontal cortex, largely ignoring the power of the social context. Perhaps more complex processes may influence decision-making in social vs. non-social contexts. Years of social psychology and social neuroscience research have documented a multitude of processes (e.g., mental state inferences, impression formation, spontaneous trait inferences) that occur upon viewing another person. These processes rely on a network of brain regions including medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), superior temporal sulcus (STS), temporal parietal junction, and precuneus among others. Undoubtedly, these social cognition processes affect social decision-making since mental state inferences occur spontaneously and automatically. Few studies have looked at how these social inference processes affect decision-making in a social context despite the capability of these inferences to serve as predictions that can guide future decision-making. Here we review and integrate the person perception and decision-making literatures to understand how social cognition can inform the study of social decision-making in a way that is consistent with both literatures. We identify gaps in both literatures-while behavioral economics largely ignores social processes that spontaneously occur upon viewing another person, social psychology has largely failed to talk about the implications of social cognition processes in an economic decision-making context-and examine the benefits of integrating social psychological theory with behavioral economic theory.









Astrocytes are a predominant glial cell type in the nervous systems, and are becoming recognized as important mediators of normal brain function as well as neurodevelopmental, neurological, and neurodegenerative brain diseases. Although numerous potential mechanisms have been proposed to explain the role of astrocytes in the normal and diseased brain, research into the physiological relevance of these mechanisms in vivo is just beginning. In this review, we will summarize recent developments in innovative and powerful molecular approaches, including knockout mouse models, transgenic mouse models, and astrocyte-targeted gene transfer/expression, which have led to advances in understanding astrocyte biology in vivo that were heretofore inaccessible to experimentation. We will examine the recently improved understanding of the roles of astrocytes - with an emphasis on astrocyte signaling - in the context of both the healthy and diseased brain, discuss areas where the role of astrocytes remains debated, and suggest new research directions.
Neuropsychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia and bipolar illness alter the structure and function of distributed neural networks. Functional neuroimaging tools have evolved sufficiently to reliably detect system-level disturbances in neural networks. This review focuses on recent findings in schizophrenia and bipolar illness using resting-state neuroimaging, an advantageous approach for biomarker development given its ease of data collection and lack of task-based confounds. These benefits notwithstanding, neuroimaging does not yet allow the evaluation of individual neurons within local circuits, where pharmacological treatments ultimately exert their effects. This limitation constitutes an important obstacle in translating findings from animal research to humans and from healthy humans to patient populations. Integrating new neuroscientific tools may help to bridge some of these gaps. We specifically discuss two complementary approaches. The first is pharmacological manipulations in healthy volunteers, which transiently mimic some cardinal features of psychiatric conditions. We specifically focus on recent neuroimaging studies using the NMDA receptor antagonist, ketamine, to probe glutamate synaptic dysfunction associated with schizophrenia. Second, we discuss the combination of human pharmacological imaging with biophysically informed computational models developed to guide the interpretation of functional imaging studies and to inform the development of pathophysiologic hypotheses. To illustrate this approach, we review clinical investigations in addition to recent findings of how computational modeling has guided inferences drawn from our studies involving ketamine administration to healthy subjects. Thus, this review asserts that linking experimental studies in humans with computational models will advance to effort to bridge cellular, systems, and clinical neuroscience approaches to psychiatric disorders.




Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are serious and debilitating psychiatric conditions and each constitutes a significant public health concern, particularly in children. Both of these conditions are highlighted by the repeated expression of meaningless behaviors. Individuals with OCD often show checking, frequent hand washing, and counting. Children with ASDs also engage in repetitive tapping, arm or hand flapping, and rocking. These behaviors can vary widely in intensity and frequency of expression. More intense forms of repetitive behaviors can even result in injury (e.g.excessive grooming, hand washing, and self-stimulation). These behaviors are therefore very disruptive and make normal social discourse difficult. Treatment options for repetitive behaviors in OCD and ASDs are somewhat limited and there is great interest in developing more effective therapies for each condition. Numerous animal models for evaluating compulsive-like behaviors have been developed over the past three decades. Perhaps the animal models with the greatest validity and ease of use are the marble burying test and the nestlet shredding test. Both tests take advantage of the fact that the target behaviors occur spontaneously in mice. In the marble burying test, 20 marbles are arrayed on the surface of clean bedding. The number of marbles buried in a 30 min session is scored by investigators blind to the treatment or status of the subjects. In the nestlet shredding test, a nestlet comprised of pulped cotton fiber is preweighed and placed on top of cage bedding and the amount of the nestlet remaining intact after a 30 min test session is determined. Presently, we describe protocols for and show movie documentation of marble burying and nestlet shredding. Both tests are easily and accurately scored and each is sensitive to small changes in the expression of compulsive-like behaviors that result from genetic manipulations, disease, or head injury.



Mutations in receptors, ion channels, and enzymes are frequently recognized by the cellular quality control system as misfolded and retained in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) or otherwise misrouted. Retention results in loss of function at the normal site of biological activity and disease. Pharmacoperones are target-specific small molecules that diffuse into cells and serve as folding templates that enable mutant proteins to pass the criteria of the quality control system and route to their physiologic site of action. Pharmacoperones of the gonadotropin releasing hormone receptor (GnRHR) have efficacy in cell culture systems, and their cellular and biochemical mechanisms of action are known. Here, we show the efficacy of a pharmacoperone drug in a small animal model, a knock-in mouse, expressing a mutant GnRHR. This recessive mutation (GnRHR E(90)K) causes hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (failed puberty associated with low or apulsatile luteinizing hormone) in both humans and in the mouse model described. We find that pulsatile pharmacoperone therapy restores E(90)K from ER retention to the plasma membrane, concurrently with responsiveness to the endogenous natural ligand, gonadotropin releasing hormone, and an agonist that is specific for the mutant. Spermatogenesis, proteins associated with steroid transport and steroidogenesis, and androgen levels were restored in mutant male mice following pharmacoperone therapy. These results show the efficacy of pharmacoperone therapy in vivo by using physiological, molecular, genetic, endocrine and biochemical markers and optimization of pulsatile administration. We expect that this newly appreciated approach of protein rescue will benefit other disorders sharing pathologies based on misrouting of misfolded protein mutants.
The neural circuits that mediate behavioral choice evaluate and integrate information from the environment with internal demands and then initiate a behavioral response. Even circuits that support simple decisions remain poorly understood. In Drosophila melanogaster, oviposition on a substrate containing ethanol enhances fitness; however, little is known about the neural mechanisms mediating this important choice behavior. Here, we characterize the neural modulation of this simple choice and show that distinct subsets of dopaminergic neurons compete to either enhance or inhibit egg-laying preference for ethanol-containing food. Moreover, activity in '' neurons of the mushroom body and a subset of ellipsoid body ring neurons (R2) is required for this choice. We propose a model where competing dopaminergic systems modulate oviposition preference to adjust to changes in natural oviposition substrates.
Osteocytes in the lacunar-canalicular system of the bone are thought to be the cells that sense mechanical loading and transduce mechanical strain into biomechanical responses. The goal of this study was to evaluate the extent to which focal mechanical stimulation of osteocyte cell body and process led to activation of the cells, and determine whether integrin attachments play a role in osteocyte activation. We use a novel Stokesian fluid stimulus probe to hydrodynamically load osteocyte processes vs. cell bodies in murine long bone osteocyte Y4 (MLO-Y4) cells with physiological-level forces &lt;10 pN without probe contact, and measured intracellular Ca(2+) responses. Our results indicate that osteocyte processes are extremely responsive to piconewton-level mechanical loading, whereas the osteocyte cell body and processes with no local attachment sites are not. Ca(2+) signals generated at stimulated sites spread within the processes with average velocity of 5.6 m/s. Using the near-infrared fluorescence probe IntegriSense 750, we demonstrated that inhibition of V3 integrin attachment sites compromises the response to probe stimulation. Moreover, using apyrase, an extracellular ATP scavenger, we showed that Ca(2+) signaling from the osteocyte process to the cell body was greatly diminished, and thus dependent on ATP-mediated autocrine signaling. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that osteocytes in situ are highly polarized cells, where mechanotransduction occurs at substrate attachment sites along the processes at force levels predicted to occur at integrin attachment sites in vivo. We also demonstrate the essential role of V3 integrin in osteocyte-polarized mechanosensing and mechanotransduction.
Following intranasal administration of oxytocin (OT), we measured, via functional MRI, changes in brain activity during judgments of socially (Eyes) and nonsocially (Vehicles) meaningful pictures in 17 children with high-functioning autism spectrum disorder (ASD). OT increased activity in the striatum, the middle frontal gyrus, the medial prefrontal cortex, the right orbitofrontal cortex, and the left superior temporal sulcus. In the striatum, nucleus accumbens, left posterior superior temporal sulcus, and left premotor cortex, OT increased activity during social judgments and decreased activity during nonsocial judgments. Changes in salivary OT concentrations from baseline to 30 min postadministration were positively associated with increased activity in the right amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex during social vs. nonsocial judgments. OT may thus selectively have an impact on salience and hedonic evaluations of socially meaningful stimuli in children with ASD, and thereby facilitate social attunement. These findings further the development of a neurophysiological systems-level understanding of mechanisms by which OT may enhance social functioning in children with ASD.
Human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs), including human embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells, are promising for numerous biomedical applications, such as cell replacement therapies, tissue and whole-organ engineering, and high-throughput pharmacology and toxicology screening. Each of these applications requires large numbers of cells of high quality; however, the scalable expansion and differentiation of hPSCs, especially for clinical utilization, remains a challenge. We report a simple, defined, efficient, scalable, and good manufacturing practice-compatible 3D culture system for hPSC expansion and differentiation. It employs a thermoresponsive hydrogel that combines easy manipulation and completely defined conditions, free of any human- or animal-derived factors, and entailing only recombinant protein factors. Under an optimized protocol, the 3D system enables long-term, serial expansion of multiple hPSCs lines with a high expansion rate (~20-fold per 5-d passage, for a 10(72)-fold expansion over 280 d), yield (~2.0  10(7) cells per mL of hydrogel), and purity (~95% Oct4+), even with single-cell inoculation, all of which offer considerable advantages relative to current approaches. Moreover, the system enabled 3D directed differentiation of hPSCs into multiple lineages, including dopaminergic neuron progenitors with a yield of ~8  10(7) dopaminergic progenitors per mL of hydrogel and ~80-fold expansion by the end of a 15-d derivation. This versatile system may be useful at numerous scales, from basic biological investigation to clinical development.

OPC (oligodendrocyte progenitor cell) death contributes significantly to the pathology and functional deficits following hypoxic-ischemic injury in the immature brain and to deficits resulting from demyelinating diseases, trauma and degenerative disorders in the adult CNS. Glutamate toxicity is a major cause of oligodendroglial death in diverse CNS disorders, and previous studies have demonstrated that AMPA/kainate receptors require the pro-apoptotic protein Bax in OPCs undergoing apoptosis. The goal of the present study was to define the pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic effectors that regulate Bax in healthy OPCs and after exposure to excess glutamate in vitro and following H-I (hypoxia-ischemia) in the immature rat brain. We show that Bax associates with a truncated form of Bid, a BH3-only domain protein, subsequent to glutamate treatment. Furthermore, glutamate exposure reduces Bax association with the anti-apoptotic Bcl family member, Bcl-xL. Cell fractionation studies demonstrated that both Bax and Bid translocate from the cytoplasm to mitochondria during the early stages of cell death consistent with a role for Bid as an activator, whereas Bcl-xL, which normally complexes with both Bax and Bid, disassociates from these complexes when OPCs are exposed to excess glutamate. Bax remained unactivated in the presence of insulin-like growth factor-1, and the Bcl-xL complexes were protected. Our data similarly demonstrate loss of Bcl-xL-Bax association in white matter following H-I and implicate active Bad in Bax-mediated OPC death. To identify other Bax-binding partners, we used proteomics and identified cofilin as a Bax-associated protein in OPCs. Cofilin and Bax associated in healthy OPCs, whereas the Bax-cofilin association was disrupted during glutamate-induced OPC apoptosis.


Apoptotic cells are observed in the early developing brain. Apoptosis deficiency is proposed to cause brain overgrowth, but here we show that brain malformations in apoptosis-deficient mutants are due to insufficient brain ventricle expansion as a result of uncompleted cranial neural tube closure. Apoptosis eliminates Fgf8-expressing cells in the anterior neural ridge (ANR), which acts as an organizing center of the forebrain by producing FGF8 morphogen. Deficiency of apoptosis leads to the accumulation of undead and nonproliferative cells in the ventral part of the ANR. The undead cells inapoptosis-deficient mutants express Fgf8 continuously, which perturbs gene expression in the ventralforebrain. Thus, apoptosis within a specific subdomain of the ANR is required for correct temporalelimination of an FGF8-producing region withinalimited developmental time window, thereby ensuring proper forebrain development.


Recent interest in the neural bases of spatial navigation stems from the discovery of neuronal populations with strong, specific spatial signals. The regular firing field arrays of medial entorhinal grid cells suggest that they may provide place cells with distance information extracted from the animal's self-motion, a notion we critically review by citing new contrary evidence. Next, we question the idea that grid cells provide a rigid distance metric. We also discuss evidence that normal navigation is possible using only landmarks, without self-motion signals. We then propose a model that supposes that information flow in the navigational system changes between light and dark conditions. We assume that the true map-like representation is hippocampal and argue that grid cells have a crucial navigational role only in the dark. In this view, their activity in the light is predominantly shaped by landmarks rather than self-motion information, and so follows place cell activity; in the dark, their activity is determined by self-motion cues and controls place cell activity. A corollary is that place cell activity in the light depends on non-grid cells in ventral medial entorhinal cortex. We conclude that analysing navigational system changes between landmark and no-landmark conditions will reveal key functional properties.
The hippocampus receives its major cortical input from the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) and the lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC). It is commonly believed that the MEC provides spatial input to the hippocampus, whereas the LEC provides non-spatial input. We review new data which suggest that this simple dichotomy between 'where' versus 'what' needs revision. We propose a refinement of this model, which is more complex than the simple spatial-non-spatial dichotomy. MEC is proposed to be involved in path integration computations based on a global frame of reference, primarily using internally generated, self-motion cues and external input about environmental boundaries and scenes; it provides the hippocampus with a coordinate system that underlies the spatial context of an experience. LEC is proposed to process information about individual items and locations based on a local frame of reference, primarily using external sensory input; it provides the hippocampus with information about the content of an experience.
The theta oscillation is a neuroscience enigma. When a rat runs through an environment, large-amplitude theta oscillations (4-10 Hz) reliably appear in the hippocampus's electrical activity. The consistency of this pattern led to theta playing a central role in theories on the neural basis of mammalian spatial navigation and memory. However, in fact, hippocampal oscillations at 4-10 Hz are rare in humans and in some other species. This presents a challenge for theories proposing theta as an essential component of the mammalian brain, including models of place and grid cells. Here, I examine this issue by reviewing recent research on human hippocampal oscillations using direct brain recordings from neurosurgical patients. This work indicates that the human hippocampus does indeed exhibit rhythms that are functionally similar to theta oscillations found in rodents, but that these signals have a slower frequency of approximately 1-4 Hz. I argue that oscillatory models of navigation and memory derived from rodent data are relevant for humans, but that they should be modified to account for the slower frequency of the human theta rhythm.
We examined the accuracy with which the location of an agent moving within an environment could be decoded from the simulated firing of systems of grid cells. Grid cells were modelled with Poisson spiking dynamics and organized into multiple 'modules' of cells, with firing patterns of similar spatial scale within modules and a wide range of spatial scales across modules. The number of grid cells per module, the spatial scaling factor between modules and the size of the environment were varied. Errors in decoded location can take two forms: small errors of precision and larger errors resulting from ambiguity in decoding periodic firing patterns. With enough cells per module (e.g. eight modules of 100 cells each) grid systems are highly robust to ambiguity errors, even over ranges much larger than the largest grid scale (e.g. over a 500 m range when the maximum grid scale is 264 cm). Results did not depend strongly on the precise organization of scales across modules (geometric, co-prime or random). However, independent spatial noise across modules, which would occur if modules receive independent spatial inputs and might increase with spatial uncertainty, dramatically degrades the performance of the grid system. This effect of spatial uncertainty can be mitigated by uniform expansion of grid scales. Thus, in the realistic regimes simulated here, the optimal overall scale for a grid system represents a trade-off between minimizing spatial uncertainty (requiring large scales) and maximizing precision (requiring small scales). Within this view, the temporary expansion of grid scales observed in novel environments may be an optimal response to increased spatial uncertainty induced by the unfamiliarity of the available spatial cues.
Head direction (HD) cell responses are thought to be derived from a combination of internal (or idiothetic) and external (or allothetic) sources of information. Recent work from the Jeffery laboratory shows that the relative influence of visual versus vestibular inputs upon the HD cell response depends on the disparity between these sources. In this paper, we present simulation results from a model designed to explain these observations. The model accurately replicates the Knight et al. data. We suggest that cue conflict resolution is critically dependent on plastic remapping of visual information onto the HD cell layer. This remap results in a shift in preferred directions of a subset of HD cells, which is then inherited by the rest of the cells during path integration. Thus, we demonstrate how, over a period of several minutes, a visual landmark may gain cue control. Furthermore, simulation results show that weaker visual landmarks fail to gain cue control as readily. We therefore suggest a second longer term plasticity in visual projections onto HD cell areas, through which landmarks with an inconsistent relationship to idiothetic information are made less salient, significantly hindering their ability to gain cue control. Our results provide a mechanism for reliability-weighted cue averaging that may pertain to other neural systems in addition to the HD system.
Oscillations and synchrony are often used synonymously. However, oscillatory mechanisms involving both excitation and inhibition can generate non-synchronous yet coordinated firing patterns. Using simultaneous recordings from multiple layers of the entorhinal-hippocampal loop, we found that coactivation of principal cell pairs (synchrony) was lowest during exploration and rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep, associated with theta oscillations, and highest in slow wave sleep. Individual principal neurons had a wide range of theta phase preference. Thus, while theta oscillations reduce population synchrony, they nevertheless coordinate the phase (temporal) distribution of neurons. As a result, multiple cell assemblies can nest within the period of the theta cycle.
A neural model proposes how entorhinal grid cells and hippocampal place cells may develop as spatial categories in a hierarchy of self-organizing maps (SOMs). The model responds to realistic rat navigational trajectories by learning both grid cells with hexagonal grid firing fields of multiple spatial scales, and place cells with one or more firing fields, that match neurophysiological data about their development in juvenile rats. Both grid and place cells can develop by detecting, learning and remembering the most frequent and energetic co-occurrences of their inputs. The model's parsimonious properties include: similar ring attractor mechanisms process linear and angular path integration inputs that drive map learning; the same SOM mechanisms can learn grid cell and place cell receptive fields; and the learning of the dorsoventral organization of multiple spatial scale modules through medial entorhinal cortex to hippocampus (HC) may use mechanisms homologous to those for temporal learning through lateral entorhinal cortex to HC ('neural relativity'). The model clarifies how top-down HC-to-entorhinal attentional mechanisms may stabilize map learning, simulates how hippocampal inactivation may disrupt grid cells, and explains data about theta, beta and gamma oscillations. The article also compares the three main types of grid cell models in the light of recent data.
Data show a relationship of cellular resonance and network oscillations in the entorhinal cortex to the spatial periodicity of grid cells. This paper presents a model that simulates the resonance and rebound spiking properties of entorhinal neurons to generate spatial periodicity dependent upon phasic input from medial septum. The model shows that a difference in spatial periodicity can result from a difference in neuronal resonance frequency that replicates data from several experiments. The model also demonstrates a functional role for the phenomenon of theta cycle skipping in the medial entorhinal cortex.
We introduce a grid cell microcircuit hypothesis. We propose the 'grid in the world' (evident in grid cell discharges) is generated by a 'grid in the cortex'. This cortical grid is formed by patches of calbindin-positive pyramidal neurons in layer 2 of medial entorhinal cortex (MEC). Our isomorphic mapping hypothesis assumes three types of isomorphism: (i) metric correspondence of neural space (the two-dimensional cortical sheet) and the external two-dimensional space within patches; (ii) isomorphism between cellular connectivity matrix and firing field; (iii) isomorphism between single cell and population activity. Each patch is a grid cell lattice arranged in a two-dimensional map of space with a neural : external scale of approximately 1 : 2000 in the dorsal part of rat MEC. The lattice behaves like an excitable medium with neighbouring grid cells exciting each other. Spatial scale is implemented as an intrinsic scaling factor for neural propagation speed. This factor varies along the dorsoventral cortical axis. A connectivity scheme of the grid system is described. Head direction input specifies the direction of activity propagation. We extend the theory to neurons between grid patches and predict a rare discharge pattern (inverted grid cells) and the relative location and proportion of grid cells and spatial band cells.
Neurons in the medial entorhinal cortex fire action potentials at regular spatial intervals, creating a striking grid-like pattern of spike rates spanning the whole environment of a navigating animal. This remarkable spatial code may represent a neural map for path integration. Recent advances using patch-clamp recordings from entorhinal cortex neurons in vitro and in vivo have revealed how the microcircuitry in the medial entorhinal cortex may contribute to grid cell firing patterns, and how grid cells may transform synaptic inputs into spike output during firing field crossings. These new findings provide key insights into the ingredients necessary to build a grid cell.
The mammalian space circuit is known to contain several functionally specialized cell types, such as place cells in the hippocampus and grid cells, head-direction cells and border cells in the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC). The interaction between the entorhinal and hippocampal spatial representations is poorly understood, however. We have developed an optogenetic strategy to identify functionally defined cell types in the MEC that project directly to the hippocampus. By expressing channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) selectively in the hippocampus-projecting subset of entorhinal projection neurons, we were able to use light-evoked discharge as an instrument to determine whether specific entorhinal cell groups--such as grid cells, border cells and head-direction cells--have direct hippocampal projections. Photoinduced firing was observed at fixed minimal latencies in all functional cell categories, with grid cells as the most abundant hippocampus-projecting spatial cell type. We discuss how photoexcitation experiments can be used to distinguish the subset of hippocampus-projecting entorhinal neurons from neurons that are activated indirectly through the network. The functional breadth of entorhinal input implied by this analysis opens up the potential for rich dynamic interactions between place cells in the hippocampus and different functional cell types in the entorhinal cortex (EC).
The hippocampal region contains several principal neuron types, some of which show distinct spatial firing patterns. The region is also known for its diversity in neural circuits and many have attempted to causally relate network architecture within and between these unique circuits to functional outcome. Still, much is unknown about the mechanisms or network properties by which the functionally specific spatial firing profiles of neurons are generated, let alone how they are integrated into a coherently functioning meta-network. In this review, we explore the architecture of local networks and address how they may interact within the context of an overarching space circuit, aiming to provide directions for future successful explorations.
How the brain combines information from different sensory modalities and of differing reliability is an important and still-unanswered question. Using the head direction (HD) system as a model, we explored the resolution of conflicts between landmarks and background cues. Sensory cue integration models predict averaging of the two cues, whereas attractor models predict capture of the signal by the dominant cue. We found that a visual landmark mostly captured the HD signal at low conflicts: however, there was an increasing propensity for the cells to integrate the cues thereafter. A large conflict presented to naive rats resulted in greater visual cue capture (less integration) than in experienced rats, revealing an effect of experience. We propose that weighted cue integration in HD cells arises from dynamic plasticity of the feed-forward inputs to the network, causing within-trial spatial redistribution of the visual inputs onto the ring. This suggests that an attractor network can implement decision processes about cue reliability using simple architecture and learning rules, thus providing a potential neural substrate for weighted cue integration.
One of the major breakthroughs in neuroscience is the emerging understanding of how signals from the external environment are extracted and represented in the primary sensory cortices of the mammalian brain. The operational principles of the rest of the cortex, however, have essentially remained in the dark. The discovery of grid cells, and their functional organization, opens the door to some of the first insights into the workings of the association cortices, at a stage of neural processing where firing properties are shaped not primarily by the nature of incoming sensory signals but rather by internal self-organizing principles. Grid cells are place-modulated neurons whose firing locations define a periodic triangular array overlaid on the entire space available to a moving animal. The unclouded firing pattern of these cells is rare within the association cortices. In this paper, we shall review recent advances in our understanding of the mechanisms of grid-cell formation which suggest that the pattern originates by competitive network interactions, and we shall relate these ideas to new insights regarding the organization of grid cells into functionally segregated modules.
Over the past four decades, research has revealed that cells in the hippocampal formation provide an exquisitely detailed representation of an animal's current location and heading. These findings have provided the foundations for a growing understanding of the mechanisms of spatial cognition in mammals, including humans. We describe the key properties of the major categories of spatial cells: place cells, head direction cells, grid cells and boundary cells, each of which has a characteristic firing pattern that encodes spatial parameters relating to the animal's current position and orientation. These properties also include the theta oscillation, which appears to play a functional role in the representation and processing of spatial information. Reviewing recent work, we identify some themes of current research and introduce approaches to computational modelling that have helped to bridge the different levels of description at which these mechanisms have been investigated. These range from the level of molecular biology and genetics to the behaviour and brain activity of entire organisms. We argue that the neuroscience of spatial cognition is emerging as an exceptionally integrative field which provides an ideal test-bed for theories linking neural coding, learning, memory and cognition.














Obesity is a major concern in the aging population and degrades health, motor functions and cognition in older adults. The effects of obesity are pervasive and challenging to health-care systems, making this a widespread and critically important public health dilemma. In this review, we examine the relationship between obesity, cognitive aging, and related dysfunctions. Potential neural mechanisms underlying such relationship are described. We propose that cost-effective exercises can be employed to cope with obesity and cognitive declines in older adults. Finally, we discuss implications and future research directions.
Fruit flies (Drosophila melanogaster) rely on their olfactory system to process environmental information. This information has to be transmitted without system-relevant loss by the olfactory system to deeper brain areas for learning. Here we study the role of several parameters of the fly's olfactory system and the environment and how they influence olfactory information transmission. We have designed an abstract model of the antennal lobe, the mushroom body and the inhibitory circuitry. Mutual information between the olfactory environment, simulated in terms of different odor concentrations, and a sub-population of intrinsic mushroom body neurons (Kenyon cells) was calculated to quantify the efficiency of information transmission. With this method we study, on the one hand, the effect of different connectivity rates between olfactory projection neurons and firing thresholds of Kenyon cells. On the other hand, we analyze the influence of inhibition on mutual information between environment and mushroom body. Our simulations show an expected linear relation between the connectivity rate between the antennal lobe and the mushroom body and firing threshold of the Kenyon cells to obtain maximum mutual information for both low and high odor concentrations. However, contradicting all-day experiences, high odor concentrations cause a drastic, and unrealistic, decrease in mutual information for all connectivity rates compared to low concentration. But when inhibition on the mushroom body is included, mutual information remains at high levels independent of other system parameters. This finding points to a pivotal role of inhibition in fly information processing without which the system efficiency will be substantially reduced.

The kappa opioid receptor (KOR) is widely expressed in the CNS and can serve as a means to modulate pain perception, stress responses, and affective reward states. Therefore, the KOR has become a prominent drug discovery target toward treating pain, depression, and drug addiction. Agonists at KOR can promote G protein coupling and arrestin2 recruitment as well as multiple downstream signaling pathways, including ERK1/2 MAPK activation. It has been suggested that the physiological effects of KOR activation result from different signaling cascades, with analgesia being G protein-mediated and dysphoria being mediated through arrestin2 recruitment. Dysphoria associated with KOR activation limits the therapeutic potential in the use of KOR agonists as analgesics; therefore, it may be beneficial to develop KOR agonists that are biased toward G protein coupling and away from arrestin2 recruitment. Here, we describe two classes of biased KOR agonists that potently activate G protein coupling but weakly recruit arrestin2. These potent and functionally selective small molecule compounds may prove to be useful tools for refining the therapeutic potential of KOR-directed signaling in vivo.
The use of ion-pair ultra-high performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC) coupled with electrochemical detection (ECD) is of great interest for the fast and sensitive determination of the monoamine neurotransmitters dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin in microdialysis samples. However, when applying high flow rates in ion-pair UHPLC, other peaks than the initial compound peaks appear on the chromatogram. This peak-splitting phenomenon is caused by disturbed ion-pair retention mechanisms. The influence of several chromatographic parameters is investigated. Peak-splitting is delayed to higher flow rates when increasing the concentration of ion-pair reagent or buffering agent in the mobile phase, when decreasing the percentage of organic modifier in the mobile phase, when applying a stationary phase with a smaller amount of packing material or when increasing the separation temperature. One or a combination of these conditions can be applied to analyze the monoamine neurotransmitters using ion-pair UHPLC-ECD at high flow rates.
Although much research has investigated the visual development of lower (local) and higher levels (global) of processing in isolation, less is known about the developmental interactions between mechanisms mediating early- and intermediate-level vision. The objective of this study was to evaluate the development of intermediate-level vision by assessing the ability to discriminate circular shapes (global) whose contour was defined by different local attributes: luminance and texture. School-aged children, adolescents, and adults were asked to discriminate a deformed circle (radial frequency patterns or RFP) from a circle. RFPs varied as a function of (a) number of bumps or curvatures (radial frequency of three, five, and 10) and (b) the physical attribute (luminance or texture) that defined the contour. Deformation thresholds were measured for each radial frequency and attribute condition. In general, results indicated that when compared to adolescents and adults children performed worse only when luminance-defined shapes had fewer curvatures (i.e., three and five), but for texture-defined shapes, children performed worse across all types of radial frequencies (three, five, and 10). This suggests that sensitivity to global shapes mediated by intermediate level vision is differentially affected by the type of local information defining the global shape at different periods of development.
The 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAchR) and NMDA glutamate receptor (NMDAR) are both ligand-gated ion channels permeable to Ca2+ and Na+. Previous studies have demonstrated functional modulation of NMDARs by nAchRs, although the molecular mechanism remains largely unknown. We have previously reported that 7nAchR forms a protein complex with the NMDAR through a protein-protein interaction. We also developed an interfering peptide that is able to disrupt the 7nAchR-NMDAR complex and blocks cue-induced reinstatement of nicotine-seeking in rat models of relapse. In the present study, we investigated whether the 7nAchR-NMDAR interaction is responsible for the functional modulation of NMDAR by 7nAchR using both electrophysiological and behavioral tests. We have found that activation of 7nAchR upregulates NMDAR-mediated whole cell currents and LTP of mEPSC in cultured hippocampal neurons, which can be abolished by the interfering peptide that disrupts the 7nAchR-NMDAR interaction. Moreover, administration of the interfering peptide in mice impairs novel object recognition but not Morris water maze performance. Our results suggest that 7nAchR/NMDAR coupling may selectively affect some aspects of learning and memory.


The inbred mouse C57BL/6J is the reference strain for genome sequence and for most behavioral and physiological phenotypes. However, the International Knockout Mouse Consortium uses an embryonic stem cell line derived from a related C57BL/6N substrain. We found that C57BL/6N has a lower acute and sensitized response to cocaine and methamphetamine. We mapped a single causative locus and identified a nonsynonymous mutation of serine to phenylalanine (S968F) in Cytoplasmic FMRP interacting protein 2 (Cyfip2) as the causative variant. The S968F mutation destabilizes CYFIP2, and deletion of the C57BL/6N mutant allele leads to acute and sensitized cocaine-response phenotypes. We propose that CYFIP2 is a key regulator of cocaine response in mammals and present a framework to use mouse substrains to identify previously unknown genes and alleles regulating behavior.


Ever since eukaryotes subsumed the bacterial ancestor of mitochondria, the nuclear and mitochondrial genomes have had to closely coordinate their activities, as each encode different subunits of the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system. Mitochondrial dysfunction is a hallmark of aging, but its causes are debated. We show that, during aging, there is a specific loss of mitochondrial, but not nuclear, encoded OXPHOS subunits. We trace the cause to an alternate PGC-1/-independent pathway of nuclear-mitochondrial communication that is induced by a decline in nuclear NAD(+) and the accumulation of HIF-1 under normoxic conditions, with parallels to Warburg reprogramming. Deleting SIRT1 accelerates this process, whereas raising NAD(+) levels in old mice restores mitochondrial function to that of a young mouse in a SIRT1-dependent manner. Thus, a pseudohypoxic state that disrupts PGC-1/-independent nuclear-mitochondrial communication contributes to the decline in mitochondrial function with age, a process that is apparently reversible.
Microglia are the resident macrophages of the CNS, and their functions have been extensively studied invarious brain pathologies. The physiological rolesof microglia in brain plasticity and function, however, remain unclear. To address this question,we generated CX3CR1(CreER) mice expressing tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase that allow for specific manipulation of gene function in microglia. Using CX3CR1(CreER) to drive diphtheria toxin receptor expression in microglia, we found that microglia could be specifically depleted from the brain upon diphtheria toxin administration. Mice depleted of microglia showed deficits in multiple learning tasks and a significant reduction in motor-learning-dependent synapse formation. Furthermore, Cre-dependent removal of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) from microglia largely recapitulated the effects of microglia depletion. Microglial BDNF increases neuronal tropomyosin-related kinase receptor B phosphorylation, a key mediator of synaptic plasticity. Together, our findings reveal that microglia serve important physiological functions in learning and memory by promoting learning-related synapse formation through BDNF signaling.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short RNA gene regulators typically produced from primary transcripts that arecleaved by the nuclear microprocessor complex, with the resulting precursor miRNA hairpins exported by exportin 5 and processed by cytoplasmic Dicer toyield two (5p and 3p) miRNAs. Here, we documentmicroprocessor-independent 7-methylguanosine (m(7)G)-capped pre-miRNAs, whose 5' ends coincide with transcription start sites and 3' ends are most likely generated by transcription termination. By establishing a small RNA Cap-seq method that employs the cap-binding protein eIF4E, we identified a group of murine m(7)G-capped pre-miRNAs genome wide. The m(7)G-capped pre-miRNAs are exported via the PHAX-exportin 1 pathway. After Dicer cleavage, only the 3p-miRNA is efficiently loaded onto Argonaute to form a functional microRNP. Thisunusual miRNA biogenesis pathway, which differs in pre-miRNA synthesis, nuclear-cytoplasmic transport, and guide strand selection, enables the development of shRNA expression constructs that produce a single 3p-siRNA.
Neurotransmitters and neuromodulators, such as dopamine, participate in a wide range of behavioral and cognitive functions in the adult brain, including movement, cognition, and reward. Dopamine-mediated signaling plays a fundamental neurodevelopmental role in forebrain differentiation and circuit formation. These developmental effects, such as modulation of neuronal migration and dendritic growth, occur before synaptogenesis and demonstrate novel roles for dopaminergic signaling beyond neuromodulation at the synapse. Pharmacologic and genetic disruptions demonstrate that these effects are brain region- and receptor subtype-specific. For example, the striatum and frontal cortex exhibit abnormal neuronal structure and function following prenatal disruption of dopamine receptor signaling. Alterations in these processes are implicated in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders, and emerging studies of neurodevelopmental disruptions may shed light on the pathophysiology of abnormal neuronal circuitry in neuropsychiatric disorders.
Competition is ubiquitous among social animals. Vying against a conspecific to achieve a particular outcome often requires one to act aggressively, but this is a costly and inherently risky behavior. So why do we aggressively compete, or at the extreme, fight against others? Early work suggested that competitive aggression might stem from an innate aggressive tendency, emanating from subcortical structures. Later work highlighted key cortical regions that contribute toward an instrumental aggression network, one that is recruited or suppressed as needed to achieve a goal. Recent neuroimaging work hints that competitive aggression is upmost a cost-benefit decision, in that it appears to recruit many components of traditional, non-social decision-making networks. This review provides a historical glimpse into the neuroscience of competitive aggression, and proposes a conceptual advancement for studying competitive behavior by outlining how utility calculations of contested-for resources are skewed, pre- and post-competition. A basic multi-factorial model of utility assessment is proposed to account for competitive endowment effects that stem from the presence of peers, peer salience and disposition, and the tactical effort required for victory. In part, competitive aggression is a learned behavior that should only be repeated if positive outcomes are achieved. However, due to skewed utility assessments, deviations of associative learning occur. Hence truly careful cost-benefit analysis is warranted before choosing to vie against another.



Myocardial infarction is one of the leading causes of death in the Western world. The similarity of the mouse heart to the human heart has made it an ideal model for testing novel therapeutic strategies. In vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) gives excellent views of the heart noninvasively with clear anatomical detail, which can be used for accurate functional assessment. Contrast agents can provide basic measures of tissue viability but these are nonspecific. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a complementary technique that is highly specific for molecular imaging, but lacks the anatomical detail of MRI. Used together, these techniques offer a sensitive, specific and quantitative tool for the assessment of the heart in disease and recovery following treatment. In this paper we explain how these methods are carried out in mouse models of acute myocardial infarction. The procedures described here were designed for the assessment of putative protective drug treatments. We used MRI to measure systolic function and infarct size with late gadolinium enhancement, and PET with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) to assess metabolic function in the infarcted region. The paper focuses on practical aspects such as slice planning, accurate gating, drug delivery, segmentation of images, and multimodal coregistration. The methods presented here achieve good repeatability and accuracy maintaining a high throughput.

Deficits in eye contact have been a hallmark of autism since the condition's initial description. They are cited widely as a diagnostic feature and figure prominently in clinical instruments; however, the early onset of these deficits has not been known. Here we show in a prospective longitudinal study that infants later diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) exhibit mean decline in eye fixation from 2 to 6 months of age, a pattern not observed in infants who do not develop ASD. These observations mark the earliest known indicators of social disability in infancy, but also falsify a prior hypothesis: in the first months of life, this basic mechanism of social adaptive action--eye looking--is not immediately diminished in infants later diagnosed with ASD; instead, eye looking appears to begin at normative levels prior to decline. The timing of decline highlights a narrow developmental window and reveals the early derailment of processes that would otherwise have a key role in canalizing typical social development. Finally, the observation of this decline in eye fixation--rather than outright absence--offers a promising opportunity for early intervention that could build on the apparent preservation of mechanisms subserving reflexive initial orientation towards the eyes.


Mller cells are not only the main glial cell type in the retina but also latent progenitor/stem cells, which in pathological conditions can transdifferentiate to a neuronal phenotype and regenerate the neurons lost in a mature retina. Several signal transduction pathways can induce the dedifferentiation of mature Mller cells to a progenitor-like state, including that stimulated by glutamate. However, the precise molecular mechanisms by which terminally differentiated cells are initially primed to acquire multipotency remain unclear. In the present study, we have characterized early genetic and epigenetic events that occur immediately after glutamate-induced dedifferentiation of fully differentiated Mller cells is initiated. Using Mller cell-enriched cultures from postnatal rats, we demonstrate that glutamate triggers a rapid dedifferentiation response characterized by changes in cell morphology coupled to the induction of progenitor cell marker gene expression (e.g., nestin, lin28 and sox2) within 1h. Dedifferentiation involved the activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate and type II metabotropic glutamate receptors, as well as global DNA demethylation (evident through the decrease in methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 immunoreactivity) and an increase in gadd45- gene expression; although, early progenitor gene expression was only partially inhibited by pharmacological impairment of DNA methylation. Importantly, the expression of Mller glia identity genes (i.e., glutamine synthetase; cellular retinaldehyde binding protein, CRALBP) is retained through the process. Dedifferentiated Mller cells held an early neuronal differentiation potential similar to that observed in retinal progenitor-enriched cultures but, contrary to the latter, dedifferentiated Mller cells failed to further differentiate into mature photoreceptor lineages. We speculate that, in spite of the initial triggering of the dedifferentiation pathways, these cells may exhibit a certain degree of epigenetic memory that precludes them from further differentiation.
Astrocytes are plastic cells that play key roles in brain physiology and pathology, including via their glutamate transporters, excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT)1 and EAAT2, maintaining low extracellular glutamate concentrations and protecting against excitotoxic neuronal injury. Alterations in cell surface expression of EAATs and astrocytic cytoskeleton are important for regulating transporter activity. This study employed the actions of rottlerin, to interrogate the regulation of EAAT activity, expression and localization, and interfaces with Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase and astrocytic morphology. EAAT activity and expression were determined in primary cultures of mouse astrocytes in the presence of and after rottlerin removal, with or without trafficking inhibitors, using uptake ([(3)H]d-aspartate, (86)Rb(+)) and molecular analyses. Astrocytic morphology and EAAT localization were investigated using Western blotting and immunocytochemistry, in concert with image analysis of glial fibrillary acidic protein, F-actin and EAAT1/2. Rottlerin induced a time-dependent inhibition of glutamate transport (Vmax). Rapid changes in cytoskeletal arrangement were observed and immunoblotting revealed increases in EAAT2 total and cell surface expression, despite reduced EAAT activity. Rottlerin-induced inhibition was reversible and its rate was increased by monensin co-treatment. Rottlerin inhibited, while monensin stimulated Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase. Removal of rottlerin rapidly elevated Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity beyond control levels, while co-treatment with monensin failed to stimulate the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase. These data reveal inhibition of EAAT activity by rottlerin is not associated with loss of EAATs at the cell surface, but rather linked to cytoskeletal rearrangement, and inhibition of the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase. Rapid recovery of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity, and subsequent restoration of glutamate uptake indicates that astrocytic morphology and EAAT activity are co-regulated by a tightly coupled, homeostatic relationship between l-glutamate uptake, the electrochemical gradient and the activity of the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) augments the excitability of isolated rat sensory neurons through activation of the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) and its downstream sphingomyelin signaling cascade, wherein neutral sphingomyelinase(s) (nSMase), ceramide, and the atypical protein-kinase C (aPKC), protein-kinase M zeta (PKM), are key mediators. Here we examined these same receptor-pathways in vivo for their role in mechanical hyperalgesia from exogenous NGF. Mechanical sensitivity was tested by the number of paw withdrawals in response to 10 stimuli (PWF=n/10) by a 4-g von Frey hair (VFH, testing &quot;allodynia&quot;) and by 10 and 15g VFHs (testing &quot;hyperalgesia&quot;). NGF (500ng/10L) injected into the male rat's plantar hind paw induced long-lasting ipsilateral mechanical hypersensitivity. Mechano-hypersensitivity, relative to baseline responses and to those of the contralateral paw, developed by 0.5-1.5h and remained elevated at least for 21-24h, Acute intraplantar pre-treatment with nSMase inhibitors, glutathione (GSH) or GW4869, prevented the acute hyperalgesia from NGF (at 1.5h) but not that at 24h. A single injection of N-acetyl sphingosine (C2-ceramide), simulating the ceramide produced by nSMase activity, induced ipsilateral allodynia that persisted for 24h, and transient hyperalgesia that resolved by 2h. Intraplantar injection of hydrolysis-resistant mPro-NGF, selective for the p75(NTR) over the tyrosine kinase (TrkA) receptor, gave very similar results to NGF and was susceptible to the same inhibitors. Hyperalgesia from both NGF and mPro-NGF was prevented by paw pre-injection with blocking antibodies to rat p75(NTR) receptor. Finally, intraplantar (1day before NGF) injection of mPSI, the myristolated pseudosubstrate inhibitor of PKC/PKM, decreased the hyperalgesia resulting from NGF or C2-ceramide, although scrambled mPSI was ineffective. The findings indicate that mechano-hypersensitivity from peripheral NGF involves the sphingomyelin signaling cascade activated via p75(NTR), and that a peripheral aPKC is essential for this sensitization.
Does skill with a difficult task, such as tightrope walking, lead to improved balance through altered movement strategies or through altered weighting of sensory inputs? We approached this question by comparing tandem stance (TS) data between seven tightrope walkers and 12 untrained control subjects collected under different sensory conditions. All subjects performed four TS tasks with eyes open or closed, on a normal firm or foam surface (EON, ECN, EOF, ECF); tightrope walkers were also tested on a tightrope (EOR). Head, upper trunk and pelvis angular velocities were measured with gyroscopes in pitch and roll. Power spectral densities (PSDs) ratios, and transfer function gains (TFG) between these body segments were calculated. Center of mass (CoM) excursions and its virtual time to contact a virtual base of support boundary (VTVBS) were also estimated. Gain nonlinearities, in the form of decreased trunk to head and trunk to pelvis PSD ratios and TFGs, were present with increasing sensory task difficulty for both groups. PSD ratios and TFGs were less in trained subjects, though, in absolute terms, trained subjects moved their head, trunk, pelvis and CoM faster than controls, and had decreased VTVBS. Head roll amplitudes were unchanged with task or training, except above 3Hz. CoM amplitude deviations were not less for trained subjects. For the trained subjects, EOR measures were similar to those of ECF. Training standing on a tightrope induces a velocity modification of the same TS movement strategy used by untrained controls. More time is spent exploring the limits of the base of support with an increased use of fast trunk movements to control balance. Our evidence indicates an increased reliance on neck and pelvis proprioceptive inputs. The similarity of TS on foam to that on the tightrope suggests that the foam tasks are useful for effective training of tightrope walking.
The elongation of neuron is highly dependent on membrane trafficking. Brefeldin A (BFA)-inhibited guanine nucleotide-exchange protein 1 (BIG1) functions in the membrane trafficking between the Golgi apparatus and the plasma membrane. BFA, an uncompetitive inhibitor of BIG1 can inhibit neurite outgrowth and polarity development. In this study, we aimed to define the possible role of BIG1 in neurite development and to further investigate the potential mechanism. By immunostaining, we found that BIG1 was extensively colocalized with synaptophysin, a marker for synaptic vesicles in soma and partly in neurites. The amount of both protein and mRNA of BIG1 were up-regulated during rat brain development. BIG1 depletion significantly decreased the neurite length and inhibited the phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) and protein kinase B (AKT). Inhibition of BIG1 guanine nucleotide-exchange factor (GEF) activity by BFA or overexpression of the dominant-negative BIG1 reduced PI3K and AKT phosphorylation, indicating regulatory effects of BIG1 on PI3K-AKT signaling pathway is dependent on its GEF activity. BIG1 siRNA or BFA treatment also significantly reduced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation. Overexpression of wild-type BIG1 significantly increased ERK phosphorylation, but the dominant-negative BIG1 had no effect on ERK phosphorylation, indicating the involvement of BIG1 in ERK signaling regulation may not be dependent on its GEF activity. Our result identified a novel function of BIG1 in neurite development. The newly recognized function integrates the function of BIG1 in membrane trafficking with the activation of PI3K-AKT and ERK signaling pathways which are critical in neurite development.
Lateral lemniscus, a relay nucleus of auditory sensation, is involved in the control of phonatory movements such as human speech and vocalization of animals. The present study was designed to test whether neurons in the lateral lemniscus contributed to the control of swallowing, one of non-phonic oro-pharyngolaryngeal movements. In acutely decerebrated cats (n=15), swallowing was induced by electrical stimulation (20-80A at 10Hz for 20s with rectangular pulses of 0.2ms duration) delivered to the superior laryngeal nerve (SLN). Repetitive electrical stimulation (30-50A at 50Hz for 10-20s) applied to the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (LLD) increased the number and reduced the latency to the onset of the SLN-induced swallowing. On the other hand, stimulation of the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus and the paralemniscal area, corresponding to the ventrolateral part of the parabrachial nucleus and the Klliker-Fuse nucleus, often suppressed the SLN-induced swallowing. Microinjection of NMDA (0.1-0.15l, 5.0-10mM) into the LLD through a stereotaxically placed glass micropipette facilitated the SLN-induced swallowing, i.e., the number was increased and the latency of swallowing was reduced. We also injected muscimol (a gamma amino-butyric acid (GABA)A receptor agonist), bicuculline (a GABAA receptor antagonist) and baclofen (a GABAB receptor agonist) into the LLD (0.1-0.15l and 5.0mM for each substance). It was observed that an injection of muscimol suppressed the SLN-induced swallowing. However, an injection of bicuculline facilitated the swallowing. An injection of baclofen did not alter the swallowing. These results suggest the presence of functional topography in the lateral lemniscus and the paralemniscal area in relation to the control of swallowing. The facilitatory LLD-effects on swallowing are modulated by glutamatergic and GABAergic receptors on neurons in the LLD.
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in nerve-injury-induced neuropathic pain, but the explicit molecular mechanisms of neuroinflammation in neuropathic pain remain unclear. As one of the most critical inflammatory cytokines, interleukin-1 (IL-1) has been regarded as broadly involved in the pathology of neuropathic pain. The inflammasome caspase-1 platform is one primary mechanism responsible for the maturation of IL-1. Lipoxins, a type of endogenous anti-inflammatory lipid, have proved to be effective in relieving neuropathic pain behaviors. The present study was designed to examine whether the inflammasome caspase-1 IL-1 platform is involved in chronic constriction injury (CCI)-induced neuropathic pain and in lipoxin-induced analgesia. After rats were subjected to the CCI surgery, mature IL-1 was significantly increased in the ipsilateral spinal cord, and the inflammasome platform consisting of NALP1 (NAcht leucine-rich-repeat protein 1), caspase-1 and ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase-activating recruitment domain) was also activated in spinal astrocytes and neurons, especially at the superficial laminae of the spinal dorsal horn; The aspirin-triggered-15-epi-lipoxin A4 (ATL), which shares the potent actions of the endogenous lipoxins, was administered to the CCI rats. Repeated intrathecal injection with ATL markedly attenuated the CCI-induced thermal hyperalgesia and significantly inhibited NALP1 inflammasome activation, caspase-1 cleavage, and IL-1 maturation. These results suggested that spinal NALP1 inflammasome was involved in the CCI-induced neuropathic pain and that the analgesic effect of ATL was associated with suppressing NALP1 inflammasome activation.
Here we investigated whether changes in neurogenesis and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression are possible mechanisms involved in the depression-like symptom during the withdrawal/abstinence period after chronic binge-pattern alcohol consumption given the limited number of studies addressing the link between these factors in the adolescent brain. Forty-seven male Sprague-Dawley rats were used in the study and the experimental protocol started when rats were 25-days old. Rats were assigned to either: (a) ethanol or (b) control group. Animals in each group were further randomized to receive either: BDNF receptor agonist or vehicle. Rats were trained to self-administer ethanol and the binge protocol consisted of daily 30-min experimental sessions 4h into the dark period for 12days. Two days after the last drinking session, rats were tested in the sucrose preference test to evaluate anhedonia and the open field test after habituation to evaluate behavioral despair. Our data showed that: (1) self-administration of alcohol in a binge-like pattern causes inebriation as defined by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and this pattern of alcohol exposure is associated with the development of a depression-like symptom; (2) no significant difference in blood alcohol levels between the two ethanol groups; and (3) chronic binge drinking resulted in the development of a depressive phenotype, decreased survival and neuronal differentiation of neural progenitor cells in the hippocampus, and decreased BDNF effect during the withdrawal period. But the most important finding in our study is that augmenting BDNF actions through the use of tyrosine kinase B (TrkB, a BDNF receptor) agonist restored neurogenesis and abolished the alcohol-induced anhedonia and despair behaviors seen during the withdrawal/abstinence period. Our results suggest that BDNF might be a molecule that can be targeted for interventions in alcoholism-depression co-incidence.
In the first week of postnatal life of all examined mammalian species, there is a wave of apoptosis in the cerebral cortex, accounting for a loss of up to 30% of neuronal content from birth to adulthood. In this review we examine recent advances in the understanding of this curious phenomenon. We survey the phenomenological literature and elaborate a putative relationship between the formation of active neuronal networks and selective apoptosis of non-participatory neurons. The underlying reason for this apoptotic wave remains unclear, but molecular mechanisms are starting to be elucidated that account for its mechanism, including a role for insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-1) and the Rho GTPases RhoA and RhoB. In addition, we discuss pathophysiological situations in which a variety of common drugs used either recreationally or for medical purposes, or pharmacological blockade of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) function, can also cause massive levels of apoptosis in this same developmental window. Experimentation linking molecular causes of developmental and pathophysiological apoptosis in postnatal cerebral cortex is discussed.
During early brain development, N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are involved in cell migration, neuritogenesis, axon guidance and synapse formation, but the mechanisms which regulate NMDA receptor density and function remain unclear. The kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism includes an agonist (quinolinic acid) and an antagonist (kynurenic acid) at NMDA receptors and we have previously shown that inhibition of the pathway using the kynurenine-3-monoxygenase inhibitor Ro61-8048 in late gestation produces rapid changes in protein expression in the embryos and effects on synaptic transmission lasting until postnatal day 21 (P21). The present study sought to determine whether any of these effects are maintained into adulthood. After prenatal injections of Ro61-8048 the litter was allowed to develop to P60 when some offspring were euthanized and the brains removed for examination. Analysis of protein expression by Western blotting revealed significantly reduced expression of the GluN2A subunit (32%) and the morphogenetic protein sonic hedgehog (31%), with a 29% increase in the expression of doublecortin, a protein associated with neurogenesis. No changes were seen in mRNA abundance using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Neuronal excitability was normal in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices but paired-pulse stimulation revealed less inhibition at short interpulse intervals. The amount of long-term potentiation was decreased by 49% in treated pups and recovery after low-frequency stimulation was delayed. The results not only strengthen the view that basal, constitutive kynurenine metabolism is involved in normal brain development, but also show that changes induced prenatally can affect the brains of adult offspring and those changes are quite different from those seen previously at weaning (P21). Those changes may be mediated by altered expression of NMDAR subunits and sonic hedgehog.
Paclitaxel (taxol) is a first-line chemotherapy-drug used to treat many types of cancers. Neuropathic pain and sensory dysfunction are the major toxicities, which are dose-limiting and significantly reduce the quality of life in patients. Two known critical spinal mechanisms underlying taxol-induced neuropathic pain are an increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-1 (IL-1) and suppressed glial glutamate transporter activities. In this study, we uncovered that increased activation of glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3) in the spinal dorsal horn was concurrently associated with increased protein expressions of GFAP, IL-1 and a decreased protein expression of glial glutamate transporter 1 (GLT-1), as well as the development and maintenance of taxol-induced neuropathic pain. The enhanced GSK3 activities were supported by the concurrently decreased AKT and mTOR activities. The changes of all these biomarkers were basically prevented when animals received pre-emptive lithium (a GSK3 inhibitor) treatment, which also prevented the development of taxol-induced neuropathic pain. Further, chronic lithium treatment, which began on day 11 after the first taxol injection, reversed the existing mechanical and thermal allodynia induced by taxol. The taxol-induced increased GSK3 activities and decreased AKT and mTOR activities in the spinal dorsal horn were also reversed by lithium. Meanwhile, protein expressions of GLT-1, GFAP and IL-1 in the spinal dorsal horn were improved. Hence, suppression of spinal GSK3 activities is a key mechanism used by lithium to reduce taxol-induced neuropathic pain, and targeting spinal GSK3 is an effective approach to ameliorate GLT-1 expression and suppress the activation of astrocytes and IL-1 over-production in the spinal dorsal horn.
In the previous report (Sonia Angeline et al., 2012), we showed an altered expression of protective proteins in rotenone-induced Parkinson's disease (PD)-like rat model. This model exhibited a marked attenuation in the expression of parkin, C terminus Hsp70 interacting protein (CHIP) and PARK 7 protein (DJ1) while enhanced levels of caspases and ubiquitin were seen. Herein, we confirmed the neuroprotective role of sesamol and naringenin individually on rotenone-induced rodent model of PD. Rotenone administration was given for 11days to generate the PD model (Sonia Angeline et al., 2012). From 11th day onward individual doses of sesamol (15mg/kg) and naringenin (10mg/kg) drugs were given orally to the rotenone PD rat model for 10 consecutive days. The impact of drugs markedly improved the motor skills, body weight, expression of parkin, DJ1, tyrosine hydroxylase and CHIP compared to the group treated with rotenone alone in the striatum and substantia nigra. These results were correlated with the reduction in caspase and ubiquitin levels by immunostaining and immunoblotting. Moreover, improved morphology and survivability of neurons were seen upon sesamol and naringenin treatment in the same rat PD model. Further we confirmed the efficacy of neuroprotective biomolecule administration on muscle from the above PD model and observed the restoration in muscle morphology, elevated level of parkin, DJ1, differential expression of heat shock proteins and reduced cell death. To conclude, for the first time we are demonstrating the comprehensive role of sesamol and naringenin (rotenone-induced PD model) in neuro and myoprotection that would have great clinical significance.
The purpose of this study was to examine the dose-response effectiveness of d-methionine (d-met) in rescuing a noise-induced permanent threshold shift (PTS) and cochlear biochemistry following noise exposure. One hour after being exposed to continuous broadband white noise at 105dB sound pressure level (SPL) for 6h, guinea-pigs were treated five times at 12-h intervals with 200, 400, or 600mg/kg d-met or sterile 0.9% saline (each group, N=6) by intraperitoneal injection. Six guinea-pigs with normal hearing that were not exposed to noise served as control animals. Although administration of d-met 200mg/kg did not significantly reduce the mean PTS, treatment with d-met 600mg/kg achieved a complete rescue response. The level of rescue from noise-induced PTS following treatment with 200, 400, or 600mg/kg d-met was dose dependent. The attenuation of the noise-induced decreases in the activities of the Na(+), K(+)-ATPase and Ca(2+)-ATPase following treatment with 200, 400, or 600mg/kg d-met was also dose dependent. Likewise, d-met-dose-dependent decreases in mean lipid peroxidation and nitric oxide levels were observed in the d-met treated groups. Significant attenuation of increased oxidative stress and decreased ATPase activities was concurrent with the d-met-mediated improvements in noise-induced auditory dysfunction.
In the present study, we investigated the effects of lesions of A2 neurons of the commissural nucleus of the solitary tract (cNTS) alone or combined with the blockade of angiotensinergic mechanisms on the recovery of arterial pressure (AP) to hemorrhage in conscious rats. Male Holtzman rats (280-320g) received an injection of anti-dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-saporin (12.6ng/60nl; cNTS/A2-lesion, n=28) or immunoglobulin G (IgG)-saporin (12.6ng/60nl, sham, n=24) into the cNTS and 15-21days later had a stainless steel cannula implanted in the lateral ventricle. After 6days, rats were submitted to hemorrhage (four blood withdrawals, 2ml/300g of body weight every 10min). Both cNTS/A2-lesioned and sham rats had similar hypotension to hemorrhage (-627 and -737mmHg, respectively), however cNTS/A2-lesioned rats rapidly recovered from hypotension (-53mmHg at 30min), whereas sham rats did not completely recover until the end of the recording (-203mmHg at 60min). Losartan (angiotensin type 1 receptor antagonist) injected intracerebroventricularly (100g/1l) or intravenously (i.v.) (10mg/kg of body weight) impaired the recovery of AP in cNTS/A2-lesioned rats (-246 and -357mmHg at 30min, respectively). In sham rats, only i.v. losartan affected the recovery of AP (-396mmHg at 60min). The results suggest that lesion of the A2 neurons in the cNTS facilitates the activation of the angiotensinergic pressor mechanisms in response to hemorrhage.
Neurogenesis continues to occur in restricted regions of the brain throughout adulthood and can be modulated by dietary factors. Liquid or &quot;soft&quot; diets are commonly used for the administration of drugs in experimental models of disease, making it critical to determine whether dietary composition itself can affect neurogenesis. In this study Sprague-Dawley rats were fed either a liquid or a solid diet of identical composition from weaning until young adulthood. No differences in neuronal differentiation and survival of newly born cells were observed between rats that were fed a liquid diet and those that received a solid diet. However, a significant reduction in hippocampal cell proliferation was observed in the liquid diet-fed group, as assessed by the expression of two endogenous proliferation markers, Ki67 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). The method of feeding did not alter the basal function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in these animals, as no changes in circulating levels of corticosterone (CORT) were detected between liquid and solid diet-fed groups. There was also a significant reduction in cellular proliferation in the hypothalamus of liquid diet-fed rats, a brain region known to be involved in feeding-related behaviors. These findings indicate that liquid diets themselves can directly impact rates of cellular proliferation, but this does not seem to impact levels of overall neurogenesis in the adult brain.
Exposure of mice to a brief light stimulus during their nocturnal active phase induces several simultaneous behavioral or physiological responses, including circadian rhythm phase shifts, a drop in core body temperature (Tc), suppression of locomotor activity and sleep. Each response is triggered by light, endures for a relatively fixed interval and does not require additional light for expression. The present studies address the ability of the psychostimulant drugs, methamphetamine (MA), modafinil (MOD) or caffeine (CAF), to modify the light-induced responses. Drug or vehicle (VEH) was injected at CT11 into constant dark-housed mice then exposed to 5-min 100W/cm(2) light or no light at CT13. Controls (VEH/Light) showed approximately 60-min phase delays. In contrast, response was substantially attenuated by each drug (only 12-15min delays). Under a 12-h light:12-h dark (LD12:12) photoperiod, VEH/light-treated mice experienced a Tc drop of about 1.3C coincident with locomotor suppression and both effects were abolished by drug pre-treatment. Each drug elevated activity during the post-injection interval, but there was also evidence for CAF-induced hypoactivity in the dark prior to the photic test stimulus. CAF acutely elevated Tc; MA acutely lowered it, but both drugs reduced Tc during the early dark (ZT12.5-ZT13). The ability of the psychostimulant drugs to block the several effects of light exposure is not the result of drug-induced hyperactivity. The results raise questions concerning the manner in which drugs, activity, sleep and Tc influence behavioral and physiological responses to light.
The effect of Parkinson's disease (PD) on hand-eye coordination and corrective response control during reach-to-grasp tasks remains unclear. Moderately impaired PD patients (n=9) and age-matched controls (n=12) reached to and grasped a virtual rectangular object, with haptic feedback provided to the thumb and index fingertip by two 3-degree of freedom manipulanda. The object rotated unexpectedly on a minority of trials, requiring subjects to adjust their grasp aperture. On half the trials, visual feedback of finger positions disappeared during the initial phase of the reach, when feedforward mechanisms are known to guide movement. PD patients were tested without (OFF) and with (ON) medication to investigate the effects of dopamine depletion and repletion on eye-hand coordination online corrective response control. We quantified eye-hand coordination by monitoring hand kinematics and eye position during the reach. We hypothesized that if the basal ganglia are important for eye-hand coordination and online corrections to object perturbations, then PD patients tested OFF medication would show reduced eye-hand spans and impoverished arm-hand coordination responses to the perturbation, which would be further exasperated when visual feedback of the hand was removed. Strikingly, PD patients tracked their hands with their gaze, and their movements became destabilized when having to make online corrective responses to object perturbations exhibiting pauses and changes in movement direction. These impairments largely remained even when tested in the ON state, despite significant improvement on the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. Our findings suggest that basal ganglia-cortical loops are essential for mediating eye-hand coordination and adaptive online responses for reach-to-grasp movements, and that restoration of tonic levels of dopamine may not be adequate to remediate this coordinative nature of basal ganglia-modulated function.
Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are pressing medical issues for the Warfighter. Symptoms of mTBI can overlap with those of PTSD, suggesting the possibility of a causal or mediating role of mTBI in PTSD. To address whether mTBI can exacerbate the neurobiological processes associated with traumatic stress, we evaluated the impact of mTBI from a blast overpressure (BOP) on the expression of a conditioned fear. In the rat, conditioned fear models are used to evaluate the emotional conditioning processes that are known to become dysfunctional in PTSD. Rats were first trained on a variable interval (VI), food maintained, operant conditioning task that established a general measure of performance. Inescapable electric shock (IES) was paired with an audio-visual conditioned stimulus (CS) and followed 1day later by three daily exposures to BOP (75kPa). Subsequently, the CS alone was presented once every 7days for 2months, beginning 4days following the last BOP. The CS was presented during the VI sessions allowing a concurrent measure of performance. Treatment groups (n=10, each group) received IES+BOP, IES+sham-BOP, sham-IES+BOP or sham-IES+sham-BOP. As expected, pairing the CS with IES produced a robust conditioned fear that was quantified by a suppression of responding on the VI. BOP significantly decreased the expression of the conditioned fear. No systematic short- or long-term performance deficits were observed on the VI from BOP. These results show that mTBI from BOP can affect the expression of a conditioned fear and suggests that BOP caused a decrease in inhibitory behavioral control. Continued presentation of the CS produced progressively less response suppression in both fear conditioned treatments, consistent with extinction of the conditioned fear. Taken together, these results show that mTBI from BOP can affect the expression of a conditioned fear but not necessarily in a manner that increases the conditioned fear or extends the extinction process.
Hypobaric hypoxia (HH), an environmental stress resulting from ascent to high altitude, affects perception, memory, judgment, and attention, resulting in degradation of many aspects of normal functioning. Alpha 2A adrenergic agonist, guanfacine proved to be beneficial in the amelioration of neurological outcomes of many neuropsychiatric disorders involving adrenergic imbalance and neurodegeneration. Adrenergic dysregulation and neuronal damage have been implicated in hypoxia-induced cognitive deficits, however, efficacy of guanfacine as a countermeasure for HH-induced cognitive decline remains to be evaluated. We, therefore, have studied the effect of this drug on the HH-induced cognitive deficits, adrenergic dysfunction and neuronal damage. Rats were exposed to HH at a simulated altitude of 25,000 feet for 7days and received an IM injection of either saline or guanfacine at a dose of 1mg/kg. Adrenergic transmission was evaluated by biomarkers i.e. norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) by biochemical and immunohistochemical assays. Spine and dendritic morphology of pyramidal neurons in layer II of medial PFC was studied using Golgi-Cox staining and Neurolucida neuronal tracing. The cognitive performance was assessed by Delayed Alternation Task using a T-Maze. There was a significant reduction in HH-induced increases in NE, DA and TH levels with guanfacine treatment. Guanfacine rescued HH-induced dendritic atrophy and mushroom type spine loss. The spatial working memory deficits induced by HH were significantly ameliorated with guanfacine treatment. Furthermore, the cognitive performance showed a positive correlation with dendritic arbors and spine numbers. These results showed that the HH-induced cognitive decline is associated with adrenergic dysregulation and neuronal damage in layer II of medial PFC, and that guanfacine treatment during HH ameliorated these functional and morphological deficits. The study suggests a potential role of the alpha-2A adrenergic agonist, guanfacine, in amelioration of PFC dysfunction caused by high altitude exposure.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated in the regulation of sleep. The perifornical-lateral hypothalamic area (PF-LHA) is a key wake-promoting region and contains neurons that are active during behavioral or cortical activation. Recently, we found higher levels of NO metabolites (NOx), an indirect measure of NO levels, in the PF-LHA during prolonged waking (SD). However, NO is highly reactive and diffuses rapidly and the NOx assay is not sensitive enough to detect rapid-changes in NO levels across spontaneous sleep-waking states. We used a novel Nafion-modified Platinum (NF-PT) electrode for real-time detection of NO levels in the PF-LHA across sleep-wake cycles, dark-light phases, and during SD. Sprague-Dawley male rats were surgically prepared for chronic sleep-wake recording and implantation of NF-PT electrode into the PF-LHA. Electroencephalogram (EEG), electromyogram (EMG), and electrochemical current generated by NF-PT electrode were continuously acquired for 5-7days including one day with 3h of SD. In the PF-LHA, NO levels exhibited a waking&gt;rapid eye movement (REM)&gt;non-rapid eye movement (nonREM) sleep pattern (0.560.03M&gt;0.470.02M&gt;0.420.02M; p&lt;0.01). NO levels were also higher during the dark- as compared to the light-phase (0.530.03M vs. 0.440.02M; p&lt;0.01). NO levels increased during 3h of SD as compared to undisturbed control (0.580.04M vs. 0.470.01M; p&lt;0.05). The findings indicate that in the PF-LHA, NO is produced during behavioral or cortical activation. Since elevated levels of NO inhibits most of the PF-LHA neurons that are active during cortical activation, these findings support a hypothesis that NO produced in conjunction with the activation of PF-LHA neurons during waking/SD, inhibits the same neuronal population to promote sleep.
Synaptic decay and neurodegeneration are hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease that are thought to precede dementia. Recently, we have reported that the first signs of neuritic dystrophy in a new transgenic mouse model of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) called the &quot;5xFAD&quot; are axonal dystrophy followed by loss of spines on basal dendrites. The 5xFAD mouse has profound loss of layer 5 neurons by 12months, and these initial structural insults appear between 4 and 6months of age. Here, we test, for the first time, if synaptic failure of layer 5 neurons in the 5xFAD mouse precedes these structural changes. We used longitudinal, in vivo two-photon fluorescence imaging of bigenic 5xFAD/YFP mice to assess the overall structural stability of layer 5 neurons in young mice (age less than 14weeks). We found these neurons to be structurally and morphologically sound. In parallel, we used in vitro, whole-cell patch clamp electrophysiology of layer 5 pyramidal neurons, from mice aged 8-12weeks, to reveal significant pre- and postsynaptic defects in these cells. Thus our data suggest that layer 5 neurons in the 5xFAD mouse model have synaptic deficits at an early time point, before any overt structural dystrophy, and that such synaptic failure, with co-temporal biochemical changes, may be an early step in neuronal loss.
Previous results from our lab suggest that hypofunctioning of the serotonergic (5-HT) dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) is involved in stress-induced opiate reinstatement. To further investigate the effects of morphine dependence and withdrawal on the 5-HT DRN system, we measured gene expression at the level of mRNA in the DRN during a model of morphine dependence, withdrawal and post withdrawal stress exposure in rats. Morphine pellets were implanted for 72h and then either removed or animals were injected with naloxone to produce spontaneous or precipitated withdrawal, respectively. Animals exposed to these conditions exhibited withdrawal symptoms including weight loss, wet dog shakes and jumping behavior. Gene expression for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), tyrosine kinase receptor B (TrkB), corticotrophin releasing-factor (CRF)-R1, CRF-R2, alpha 1 subunit of the GABAA receptor (GABAA-1), -opioid receptor (MOR), 5-HT1A receptor, tryptophan hydroxylase2 (TPH2) and the 5-HT transporter was then measured using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction at multiple time-points across the model of morphine exposure, withdrawal and post withdrawal stress. Expression levels of BDNF, TrkB and CRF-R1 mRNA were decreased during both morphine exposure and following 7days of withdrawal. CRF-R2 mRNA expression was elevated after 7days of withdrawal. 5-HT1A receptor mRNA expression was decreased following 3h of morphine exposure, while TPH2 mRNA expression was decreased after 7days of withdrawal with swim stress. There were no changes in the expression of GABAA-1, MOR or 5-HT transporter mRNA. Collectively these results suggest that alterations in neurotrophin support, CRF-dependent stress signaling, 5-HT synthesis and release may underlie 5-HT DRN hypofunction that can potentially lead to stress-induced opiate relapse.
The maintenance of neural circuit stability is a dynamic process that requires the plasticity of many cellular and synaptic components. By changing the excitatory/inhibitory balance, inhibitory GABAergic plasticity can regulate excitability, and contribute to neural circuit function and refinement in learning and memory. Increased inhibitory GABAergic neurotransmission has been shown in brain structures involved in the learning process. Previously, we showed that classical conditioning in which tactile stimulation of one row of vibrissae (conditioned stimulus, CS) was paired with a tail shock (unconditioned stimulus, UCS) in adult mice results in the increased density of GABAergic interneurons and increased expression of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)-67 in barrels of the &quot;trained&quot; row cortical representation. In inhibitory neurons of the rat cortex GAD co-localizes with several proteins and peptides. We found previously that the density of the parvalbumin (GAD+/Prv+)-containing subpopulation is not changed after conditioning. In the present study, we examined GABAergic somatostatin (Som)-, calbindin (CB)- and calretinin (CR)-positive interneurons in the cortical representation of &quot;trained&quot; vibrissae after training. Cells showing double immunostaining for GAD/Som, GAD/CR and GAD/CB were counted in the barrels representing vibrissae activated during the training and in control, untouched rows. We found a substantial increase of GAD/Som-containing cells in the trained row representation. No changes in the density of GAD/CR or GAD/CB neurons were observed. These results suggest that Som-containing interneurons are involved in learning-induced changes in the inhibitory cortical network.
We have previously shown that anti-hyperalgesic effects of cannabinoid agonists under inflammatory condition are much greater in male than female, and that inflammatory cytokines upregulate cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) expression in male, but not female, trigeminal ganglia (TG) in a testosterone-dependent manner. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms underlying the testosterone-mediated regulation of peripheral CB1 expression. We hypothesized that testosterone upregulates CB1 through transcriptional modulation by androgen receptor (AR). Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1), a pro-inflammatory cytokine, upregulated CB1 mRNA expression in TG of male rats. The cytokine-induced upregulation was prevented by the pretreatment with flutamide, a specific antagonist for AR, but not by ICI 182,780, a specific antagonist for estrogen receptor, suggesting that the effects of testosterone are not mediated by estradiol, a testosterone metabolite. The expression levels of AR and IL-1 receptors were comparable between male and female TG, suggesting that the male specific IL-1 effects on CB1 upregulation occurs downstream to these receptors. The chromatin immunoprecipitation assay showed AR binding to the CB1 promoter in the rat TG. Furthermore, luciferase reporter assay revealed that AR activated the CB1 gene in response to testosterone or dihydrotestosterone treatment. These experiments provided compelling evidence that testosterone regulates CB1 gene transcription in TG through AR following cytokine stimulation. These results should provide mechanistic bases for understanding cytokine-hormone-neuron interactions in peripheral cannabinoid systems, and have important clinical implications for pain patients in whom testosterone level is naturally low, gradually declining or pharmacologically compromised.
Neuronal circuitries in the hippocampus are involved in navigation and memory and are controlled by major networks of GABAergic interneurons. Parvalbumin (PV)-expressing interneurons in the dentate gyrus (DG) are identified as fast-spiking cells, playing a crucial role in network oscillation and synchrony. The inhibitory modulation of these interneurons is thought to be mediated mainly through GABAA receptors, the major inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors in the brain. Here we show that all PV-positive interneurons in the granular/subgranular layer (GL/SGL) of the mouse DG express high levels of the GABAA receptor  subunit. PV-containing interneurons in the hilus and the molecular layer, however, express the  subunit to a lower extent. Only 8% of the somatostatin-containing interneurons express the  subunit, whereas calbindin- or calretinin-containing interneurons in the DG seem not to express the GABAA receptor  subunit at all. Hence, these cells receive a GABAergic control different from that of PV-containing interneurons in the GL/SGL. Experiments investigating a possible co-expression of GABAA receptor 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 1, 2, 3, or 2 subunits with PV and  subunits indicated that 1 and 2 subunits are co-expressed with  subunits along the extrasynaptic membranes of PV-interneurons. These results suggest a robust tonic GABAergic control of PV-containing interneurons in the GL/SGL of the DG via  subunit-containing receptors. Our data are important for better understanding of the neuronal circuitries in the DG and the role of specific cell types under pathological conditions.
Chemical communication is widely used among various organisms to obtain essential information from their environment required for life. Although a large variety of molecules have been shown to act as chemical cues, the molecular and neural basis underlying the behaviors elicited by these molecules has been revealed for only a limited number of molecules. Here, we review the current knowledge regarding the signaling molecules whose flow from receptor to specific behavior has been characterized. Discussing the molecules utilized by mice, insects, and the worm, we focus on how each organism has optimized its reception system to suit its living style. We also highlight how the production of these signaling molecules is regulated, an area in which considerable progress has been recently made.
Using structural magnetic resonance imaging in a clinical scanner at 3.0T, we describe results showing that following 12weeks on a diet of 2% cholesterol, rabbits experience a significant increase in the volume of the third ventricle compared to rabbits on a diet of 0% cholesterol. Using time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography, we find cholesterol-fed rabbits also experience a decrease in the diameter of a number of cerebral blood vessels including the basilar, posterior communicating, and internal carotid arteries. Taken together, these data confirm that, despite the inability of dietary cholesterol to cross the blood-brain barrier, it does significantly enlarge ventricular volume and decrease cerebrovascular diameter in the rabbit - effects that are also seen in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Intrinsic connectivity networks (ICNs) are composed of spatial components and time courses. The spatial components of ICNs were discovered with moderate-to-high reliability. So far as we know, few studies focused on the reliability of the temporal patterns for ICNs based their individual time courses. The goals of this study were twofold: to investigate the test-retest reliability of temporal patterns for ICNs, and to analyze these informative univariate metrics. Additionally, a correlation analysis was performed to enhance interpretability. Our study included three datasets: (a) short- and long-term scans, (b) multi-band echo-planar imaging (mEPI), and (c) eyes open or closed. Using dual regression, we obtained the time courses of ICNs for each subject. To produce temporal patterns for ICNs, we applied two categories of univariate metrics: network-wise complexity and network-wise low-frequency oscillation. Furthermore, we validated the test-retest reliability for each metric. The network-wise temporal patterns for most ICNs (especially for default mode network, DMN) exhibited moderate-to-high reliability and reproducibility under different scan conditions. Network-wise complexity for DMN exhibited fair reliability (ICC&lt;0.5) based on eyes-closed sessions. Specially, our results supported that mEPI could be a useful method with high reliability and reproducibility. In addition, these temporal patterns were with physiological meanings, and certain temporal patterns were correlated to the node strength of the corresponding ICN. Overall, network-wise temporal patterns of ICNs were reliable and informative and could be complementary to spatial patterns of ICNs for further study.
In this review we discuss recent advances in the understanding of the development of forebrain projections attending to their origin, fate determination, and axon guidance. Major forebrain connections include callosal, corticospinal, corticothalamic and thalamocortical projections. Although distinct transcriptional programs specify these subpopulations of projecting neurons, the mechanisms involved in their axonal development are similar. Guidance by short- and long-range molecular cues, interaction with intermediate target populations and activity-dependent mechanisms contribute to their development. Moreover, some of these connections interact with each other showing that the development of these axonal tracts is a well-orchestrated event. Finally, we will recapitulate recent discoveries that challenge the field of neural wiring that show that these forebrain connections can be changed once formed. The field of reprogramming has arrived to postmitotic cortical neurons and has showed us that forebrain connectivity is not immutable and might be changed by manipulations in the transcriptional program of matured cells.
Microglia have been implicated in disease progression for several age-related brain disorders. However, while microglia's contribution to the progression of these disorders is accepted, the effect of aging on their endogenous cellular characteristics has received limited attention. In fact, a comprehensive study of how the structure and function of microglia changes as a function of developmental age has yet to be performed. Here, we describe the functional response characteristics of primary microglial cultures prepared from embryonic, neonatal (Neo), 2-3month-old, 6-8month-old, 9-11month-old, and 13-15month-old rats. Microglial morphology, glutamate (GLU) uptake, and release of trophic and inflammatory factors were assessed under basal conditions and in microglia activated with adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) or lipopolysaccharide. We found that microglia from different age groups were both morphologically and functionally distinct. Upon activation by ATP, Neo microglia were the most reactive, upregulating nitric oxide, tumor necrosis factor-, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor release as well as GLU uptake. This upregulation translated into neurotoxicity in microglia-neuron co-cultures that were not observed with microglia of different developmental ages. Interestingly, 13-15month-old microglia exhibited similar activation profiles to Neo microglia, whereas microglia from younger adults and embryos were activated less by ATP. Our data also identify age-dependent differences in purinergic receptor subtype expression that contribute to the regulation of neuronal survival. Combined, our data demonstrate that microglial activation and purinergic receptor profiles vary non-linearly with developmental age, a potentially important finding for studies examining the role of microglia in neurodegenerative disorders.
Harnessing the regenerative capabilities of endogenous precursor cells in the spinal cord may be a useful tool for clinical treatments aimed at replacing cells lost as a consequence of disease or trauma. To better understand the proliferative properties and differentiation potential of the adult spinal cord after injury, we used a mouse model of compression spinal cord injury (SCI). After injury, adult mice were administered BrdU to label mitotic cells and sacrificed at different time-points for immunohistochemical analysis. Our data show that the rate of proliferation increased in all regions of the spinal cord 1day after injury, peaked after 3days, and remained elevated for at least 14days after injury. Proliferation was greater at the injury epicenter than in rostral and caudal adjacent spinal segments. The number of proliferative cells and rate of proliferation varied between dorsal and ventral regions of the spinal cord and between the gray and white matter. Newly generated cells expressed markers for progenitor cells (Nestin and Olig2), oligodendrocytes (Sox10), astrocytes (S100b and glial fibrillary acidic protein), and microglia (Iba1), but not neuronal markers (Map2 and NeuN). Marker expression varied with regard to the dorso-ventral region, rostro-caudal proximity to the injury epicenter, and time after injury. At early time-points after injury, BrdU(+) cells mainly expressed microglial/macrophage and astrocytic markers, while at these same time-points in the control spinal cord the mitotic cells predominately expressed oligodendrocyte and oligodendrocyte progenitor cell markers. The profile of proliferation and cell fate marker expression indicates that after moderate compression, the spinal cord has the capacity to generate a variety of glial cells but not neurons, and that this pattern is space and time specific. Future studies should focus on ways to control proliferation and cell fate after injury to aid the development of cell replacement treatments for SCI.
Sex differences in the visual system have been reported in aspects of human vision, such as color perception, peripheral vision and even in the activation of the primary visual cortex. Similarly sex differences have been identified in the visual system of laboratory animals such as monkeys and rats. On the other hand, environmental enrichment (EE) has long been known to affect visual tissues. Taking into consideration the variation in the experimental approaches concerning EE and the sex differences in the visual system, we investigated in male and female rats the serotonergic and dopaminergic effects of EE in the retina and the visual cortex at different time points (i.e. P0-25, P0-P90 and P90-P150). Early EE in adulthood increased the serotonergic activity of the male visual cortex and the female retina (P0-P90). In addition early enrichment (P0-P90) increased dopaminergic activity in the female retina and in the visual cortex of both sexes. Late enrichment increased the serotonergic activity in the retina and visual cortex of both sexes (P90-P150), but increased the dopaminergic activity in the visual cortex only in male animals. In the present study we expose marked sex differences in the neurochemistry of visual tissues and we demonstrate for the first time that EE can in fact modify the serotonergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission in the retina and visual cortex. Overall, the present study underpins the sex-dependent neurochemical status of the visual system and provides insights into the different mechanisms underlying visual processing in the two sexes.
The Kv7/M current is one of the major mechanisms controlling neuronal excitability, which can be modulated by activation of the G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) via distinct signaling pathways. Membrane microdomains known as lipid rafts have been implicated in the specificity of various cell signaling pathways. The aim of this study was to understand the role of lipid rafts in the specificity of Kv7/M current modulation by activation of GPCR. Methyl--cyclodextrin (MCD), often used to disrupt the integrity of lipid rafts, significantly reduced the bradykinin receptor (B2R)-induced but not muscarinic receptor (M1R)-induced inhibition of the Kv7/M current. B2R and related signaling molecules but not M1R were found in caveolin-containing raft fractions of the rat superior cervical ganglia. Furthermore, activation of B2R resulted in translocation of additional B2R into the lipid rafts, which was not observed for the activation of M1R. The increase of B2R-induced intracellular Ca(2+) was also greatly reduced after MCD treatment. Finally, B2R but not M1R was found to interact with the IP3 receptor. In conclusion, the present study implicates an important role for lipid rafts in mediating specificity for GPCR-mediated inhibition of the Kv7/M current.
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a demyelinating disease which causes inflammation, demyelination, and axonal injury. Currently, there is no cure for the disease. The endocannabinoid system has recently emerged as a promising therapeutic target for MS. The protective mechanisms of cannabinoids are thought to be mediated by the activation of the cannabinoid type 1 (CB1) and type 2 (CB2) receptors expressed primarily in neurons and immune cells, respectively. However, the molecular mechanisms and the contribution of each receptor in ameliorating disease progression are still debatable. Although CB1 and CB2 receptors are expressed in oligodendrocytes, the myelin producing cells in the central nervous system, the role of cannabinoids in oligodendrocyte survival has not been well investigated. Using primary cultures of mature oligodendrocytes, we tested the effect of a novel synthetic cannabinoid CB52 on oligodendrocyte toxicity induced by peroxynitrite, the primary toxic species released by microglia. Interestingly, we found that CB52 is more potent than a number of broad and selective CB1 and CB2 agonists in protecting oligodendrocytes against peroxynitrite-induced toxicity. The protection provided by CB52 is likely due to its reduction of ERK1/2 phosphorylation and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in these cells. Using experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of MS, we found that CB52 reduces microglia activation, nitrotyrosine formation, T cell infiltration, oligodendrocyte toxicity, myelin loss and axonal damage in the mouse spinal cord white matter and alleviates the clinical scores when given either before or after disease onset. These effects are reversed by the CB1 receptor antagonist, but not by the CB2 receptor antagonist, suggesting that the activation of CB1 receptors contributes significantly to the anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects of cannabinoids on MS.
Studies involving therapeutic combinations reveal an important benefit in the rehabilitation of neglect patients when compared to single therapies. In light of these observations our present work examines, in healthy individuals, sensorimotor and cognitive after-effects of prism adaptation and neck muscle vibration applied individually or simultaneously. We explored sensorimotor after-effects on visuo-manual open-loop pointing, visual and proprioceptive straight-ahead estimations. We assessed cognitive after-effects on the line bisection task. Fifty-four healthy participants were divided into six groups designated according to the exposure procedure used with each: 'Prism' (P) group; 'Vibration with a sensation of body rotation' (Vb) group; 'Vibration with a move illusion of the LED' (Vl) group; 'Association with a sensation of body rotation' (Ab) group; 'Association with a move illusion of the LED' (Al) group; and 'Control' (C) group. The main findings showed that prism adaptation applied alone or combined with vibration showed significant adaptation in visuo-manual open-loop pointing, visual straight-ahead and proprioceptive straight-ahead. Vibration alone produced significant after-effects on proprioceptive straight-ahead estimation in the Vl group. Furthermore all groups (except C group) showed a rightward neglect-like bias in line bisection following the training procedure. This is the first demonstration of cognitive after-effects following neck muscle vibration in healthy individuals. The simultaneous application of both methods did not produce significant greater after-effects than prism adaptation alone in both sensorimotor and cognitive tasks. These results are discussed in terms of transfer of sensorimotor plasticity to spatial cognition in healthy individuals.
Extracellular local field potentials (LFPs) and multiunit activity (MUA) reflect the spatially integrated activity of multiple neurons in a given cortical structure. In the cat and primate visual cortices, these signals exhibit selectivity for visual stimulus features, such as orientation, direction of motion or spatial frequency. In the mouse visual cortex, a model which has been increasingly used in visual neuroscience, the visual stimulus selectivity of population signals has not been examined in detail. We recorded LFPs and MUA using multielectrode arrays and two derived measures, the high-pass filtered continuous MUA and the bipolar first spatial derivative of the LFP, in the visual cortex of isoflurane-anesthetized C57Bl/6 mice. We analyzed the onset latency and characterized the receptive fields in addition to the direction, orientation, and spatial and temporal frequency preferences of these signals. Population signals exhibited onset latencies as short as 30ms and possessed receptive fields as large as 38 with MUA receptive fields smaller than those of LFPs. All four population signals exhibited similar spatial frequency preferences (0.1 cycles per degree) and temporal frequency preferences (1 cycle per second). However, for all population signals, spatial and frequency tunings were broad and orientation and direction of motion preferences were absent. The characterization of the visual stimulus selectivity of LFPs and MUA in the mouse visual cortex should provide information regarding their usability in characterizing stimulus properties and disclose possible limitations.
Methamphetamine (METH) is an addictive stimulant drug. In addition to drug craving and lethargy, METH withdrawal is associated with stress-triggered anxiety. However, the cellular basis for this stress-triggered anxiety is not understood. The present results suggest that during METH withdrawal (24h) following chronic exposure (3mg/kg, i.p. for 3-5weeks) of adult, male mice, the effect of one neurosteroid released by stress, 3,5-THP (3-OH-5-pregnan-20-one), and its 3,5 isomer reverse to trigger anxiety assessed by the acoustic startle response (ASR), in contrast to their usual anti-anxiety effects. This novel effect of 3,5-THP was due to increased (three-fold) hippocampal expression of 4 GABAA receptors (GABARs) during METH withdrawal (24h-4weeks) because anxiogenic effects of 3,5-THP were not seen in 4-/- mice. 3,5-THP reduces current at these receptors when it is hyperpolarizing, as observed during METH withdrawal. As a result, 3,5-THP (30nM) increased neuronal excitability, assessed with current clamp and cell-attached recordings in CA1hippocampus, one CNS site which regulates anxiety. 4 GABARs were first increased 1h after METH exposure and recovered 6weeks after METH withdrawal. Similar increases in 4 GABARs and anxiogenic effects of 3,5-THP were noted in rats during METH withdrawal (24h). In contrast, the ASR was increased by chronic METH treatment in the absence of 3,5-THP administration due to its stimulant effect. Although 4 GABARs were increased by chronic METH treatment, the GABAergic current recorded from hippocampal neurons at this time was a depolarizing, shunting inhibition, which was potentiated by 3,5-THP. This steroid reduced neuronal excitability and anxiety during chronic METH treatment, consistent with its typical effect. Flumazenil (10mg/kg, i.p., 3) reduced 4 expression and prevented the anxiogenic effect of 3,5-THP after METH withdrawal. Our findings suggest a novel mechanism underlying stress-triggered anxiety after METH withdrawal mediated by 4 GABARs.
Decreases of the sex steroids, testosterone and estrogen, are associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease. Testosterone and estrogen supplementation improves cognitive deficits in animal models of Alzheimer's disease. Sex hormones play a role in the regulation of amyloid- via induction of the amyloid- degrading enzymes neprilysin and insulin-degrading enzyme. To mimic the effect of dihydrotestosterone (DHT), we administered a selective androgen receptor agonist, ACP-105, alone and in combination with the selective estrogen receptor  (ER) agonist AC-186 to male gonadectomized triple transgenic mice. We assessed long-term spatial memory in the Morris water maze, spontaneous locomotion, and anxiety-like behavior in the open field and in the elevated plus maze. We found that ACP-105 given alone decreases anxiety-like behavior. Furthermore, when ACP-105 is administered in combination with AC-186, they increase the amyloid- degrading enzymes neprilysin and insulin-degrading enzyme and decrease amyloid- levels in the brain as well as improve cognition. Interestingly, the androgen receptor level in the brain was increased by chronic treatment with the same combination treatment, ACP-105 and AC-186, not seen with DHT or ACP-105 alone. Based on these results, the beneficial effect of the selective ER agonist as a potential therapeutic for Alzheimer's disease warrants further investigation.

Traumatic injury or disease of the spinal cord and brain elicits multiple cellular and biochemical reactions that together cause or are associated with neuropathology. Specifically, injury or disease elicits acute infiltration and activation of immune cells, death of neurons and glia, mitochondrial dysfunction, and the secretion of substrates that inhibit axon regeneration. In some diseases, inflammation is chronic or non-resolving. Ligands that target PPARs (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors), a group of ligand-activated transcription factors, are promising therapeutics for neurologic disease and CNS injury because their activation affects many, if not all, of these interrelated pathologic mechanisms. PPAR activation can simultaneously weaken or reprogram the immune response, stimulate metabolic and mitochondrial function, promote axon growth and induce progenitor cells to differentiate into myelinating oligodendrocytes. PPAR activation has beneficial effects in many pre-clinical models of neurodegenerative diseases and CNS injury; however, the mechanisms through which PPARs exert these effects have yet to be fully elucidated. In this review we discuss current literature supporting the role of PPAR activation as a therapeutic target for treating traumatic injury and degenerative diseases of the CNS.






Intracranial chemical injection (ICI) methods have been used to identify the locations in the brain where feeding behavior can be controlled acutely. Scientists conducting ICI studies often document their injection site locations, thereby leaving kernels of valuable location data for others to use to further characterize feeding control circuits. Unfortunately, this rich dataset has not yet been formally contextualized with other published neuroanatomical data. In particular, axonal tracing studies have delineated several neural circuits originating in the same areas where ICI injection feeding-control sites have been documented, but it remains unclear whether these circuits participate in feeding control. Comparing injection sites with other types of location data would require careful anatomical registration between the datasets. Here, a conceptual framework is presented for how such anatomical registration efforts can be performed. For example, by using a simple atlas alignment tool, a hypothalamic locus sensitive to the orexigenic effects of neuropeptide Y (NPY) can be aligned accurately with the locations of neurons labeled by anterograde tracers or those known to express NPY receptors or feeding-related peptides. This approach can also be applied to those intracranial &quot;gene-directed&quot; injection (IGI) methods (e.g., site-specific recombinase methods, RNA expression or interference, optogenetics, and pharmacosynthetics) that involve viral injections to targeted neuronal populations. Spatial alignment efforts can be accelerated if location data from ICI/IGI methods are mapped to stereotaxic brain atlases to allow powerful neuroinformatics tools to overlay different types of data in the same reference space. Atlas-based mapping will be critical for community-based sharing of location data for feeding control circuits, and will accelerate our understanding of structure-function relationships in the brain for mammalian models of obesity and metabolic disorders.



A fundamental challenge for maintaining spatial orientation and interacting with the world is knowledge of our orientation relative to gravity, i.e., head tilt. Sensing gravity is complicated because of Einstein's equivalence principle, in which gravitational and translational accelerations are physically indistinguishable. Theory has proposed that this ambiguity is solved by tracking head tilt through multisensory integration. Here we identify a group of Purkinje cells in the caudal cerebellar vermis with responses that reflect an estimate of head tilt. These tilt-selective cells are complementary to translation-selective Purkinje cells, such that their population activities sum to the net gravitoinertial acceleration encoded by the otolith organs, as predicted by theory. These findings reflect the remarkable ability of the cerebellum for neural computation and provide quantitative evidence for a neural representation of gravity, whose calculation relies on long-postulated theoretical concepts such as internal models and Bayesian priors.
Primary sensory cortex discriminates incoming sensory information and generates multiple processing streams toward other cortical areas. However, the underlying cellular mechanisms remain unknown. Here, by making whole-cell recordings in primary somatosensory barrel cortex (S1) of behaving mice, we show that S1 neurons projecting to primary motor cortex (M1) and those projecting to secondary somatosensory cortex (S2) have distinct intrinsic membrane properties and exhibit markedly different membrane potential dynamics during behavior. Passive tactile stimulation evoked faster and larger postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) in M1-projecting neurons, rapidly driving phasic action potential firing, well-suited for stimulus detection. Repetitive active touch evoked strongly depressing PSPs and only transient firing in M1-projecting neurons. In contrast, PSP summation allowed S2-projecting neurons to robustly signal sensory information accumulated during repetitive touch, useful for encoding object features. Thus, target-specific transformation of sensory-evoked synaptic potentials by S1 projection neurons generates functionally distinct output signals for sensorimotor coordination and sensory perception.
The spinal cord contains many descending and ascending longitudinal tracts whose development appears to be controlled by distinct guidance systems. We identified a population of dorsal spinal neurons marked by coexpression of the transcription factor Zic2 and the guidance receptor EphA4. Zic2+;EphA4+ neurons are surrounded by mechanosensory terminals, suggesting innervation by mechanoreceptor afferents. Their axons form an ipsilateral ascending pathway that develops during embryogenesis and projects within the ventral aspect of the dorsal funiculus, the same location as the descending corticospinal tract (CST), which develops postnatally. Interestingly, the same guidance mechanism, namely, ephrinB3-induced EphA4 forward signaling, is required for the guidance of both ascending and descending axon tracts. Our analysis of conditional EphA4 mutant mice also revealed that the development of the dorsal funiculus occurs independently of EphA4 expression in descending CST axons and is linked to the distribution of Zic2+;EphA4+ spinal neurons and the formation of the ascending pathway.
The posterior cingulate cortex (CGp) is a major hub of the default mode network (DMN), a set of cortical areas with high resting activity that declines during task performance. This relationship suggests that DMN activity contributes to mental processes that are antagonistic to performance. Alternatively, DMN may detect conditions under which performance is poor and marshal cognitive resources for improvement. To test this idea, we recorded activity of CGp neurons in monkeys performing a learning task while varying reward size and novelty. We found that CGp neurons responded to errors, and this activity was magnified by small reward and novel stimuli. Inactivating CGp with muscimol impaired new learning when rewards were small but had no effect when rewards were large; inactivation did not affect performance on well-learned associations. Thus, CGp, and by extension the DMN, may support learning, and possibly other cognitive processes, by monitoring performance and motivating exploration.
Recent development of molecular genetic techniques are rapidly advancing understanding of the functional role of brain circuits in behavior. Critical to this approach is the ability to target specific neuron populations and circuits. The collection of over 250 BAC Cre-recombinase driver lines produced by the GENSAT project provides a resource for such studies. Here we provide characterization of GENSAT BAC-Cre driver lines with expression inspecific neuroanatomical pathways within the cerebral cortex and basal ganglia.
Dissociating the source and function of value-related signals is a major challenge for understanding the roleof reward in neural processing. In this issue of Neuron, Rudebeck etal. (2013) provide insight into the neuroanatomical origins of a subset of these signals.
Multisensory plasticity enables us to dynamically adapt sensory cues to one another and to the environment. Without external feedback, &quot;unsupervised&quot; multisensory calibration reduces cue conflict in a manner largely independent of cue reliability. But environmental feedback regarding cue accuracy (&quot;supervised&quot;) also affects calibration. Here we measured the combined influence of cue accuracy and cue reliability on supervised multisensory calibration, using discrepant visual and vestibular motion stimuli. When the less reliable cue was inaccurate, it alone got calibrated. However, when the more reliable cue was inaccurate, cues were yoked and calibrated together in the same direction. Strikingly, the less reliable cue shifted away from external feedback, becoming less accurate. A computational model in which supervised and unsupervised calibration work in parallel, where the former only relies on the multisensory percept, but the latter can calibrate cues individually, accounts for the observed behavior. In combination, they could ultimately achieve the optimal solution of both external accuracy and internal consistency.
Human foetal brain tissue has been used in experimental and clinical trials to develop cell replacement therapy in neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. These pioneering clinical studies have shown proof of principle that cell replacement therapy can be effective and is worthwhile to develop as a therapeutic strategy for repairing the damaged brain. However, because of the limited availability of foetal brain material, and difficulties in producing standardized and quality-tested cell preparations from this source, there have been extensive efforts in investigating the potential use of alternative cell sources for generating a large number of transplantable, authentic neural progenitors and neurons. In this review, we highlight the value of using human foetal tissue as a reference material for quality control of acquired cell fate of in vitro generated neurons before and after transplantation.
The myelin-associated protein Nogo-A and its receptor Nogo-receptor 1 (NgR1) are known as potent growth inhibitors of the adult central nervous system (CNS). Nogo-A is mostly expressed on the surface of oligodendrocytes, but is also found in neurons of the adult and developing CNS. This observation suggests that Nogo-A serves additional functions in the brain. Hence, in the present study, we investigated the effects of antagonizing NgR1 on cultured organotypic and dissociated dopaminergic neurons. For that purpose ventral mesencephalic cultures from E14 rat embryos were grown in absence or presence of the NgR1 antagonist NEP1-40 for 1 week. Treatment with NEP1-40 significantly increased cell densities of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons. Moreover, organotypic ventral mesencephalic cultures displayed a significantly bigger volume after NEP1-40 treatment. Morphological analysis of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons disclosed longer neurites and higher numbers of primary neurites in dissociated cultures incubated with NEP1-40, whereas soma size was not changed. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that interfering with Nogo-A signaling by antagonizing NgR1 modulates dopaminergic neuron properties during development. These observations highlight novel aspects of the role of Nogo-A in the CNS and might have an impact in the context of Parkinson's disease.
Astrocytes are an exceptionally complex type of cell observed throughout the brain and the spinal cord. They reveal heterogeneous identities and largely participate in brain activity. In this article we review astrocyte heterogeneity and function in the brain. We have also focused on their involvement in neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, discussing the contribution of this type of glial cell toward mechanisms that can lead to neuronal death, which was previously attributed exclusively to neurons. Furthermore, we also highlight the latest progress with stem cell technology for the generation of astrocytes from embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells. We allude to the need for developing new models that better recapitulate astrocyte heterogeneity and their diverse function within the brain. Those models will greatly contribute in understanding astrocytes' contribution toward molecular mechanisms occurring in neurodegenerative pathologies affecting specific brain regions such as in Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases.
Despite all recent advances in symptomatic therapy of Parkinson's disease (PD), the underlying neurodegenerative process cannot yet be slowed and the long-term clinical picture is characterized by severe motor as well as nonmotor disability, loss of independent function and premature death. This has a major and increasing social and economic burden on ageing populations. There is a pressing unmet need for developing therapies capable of not only providing symptomatic relief, but that can also modify or slow down the progression of disability in PD. In this article we discuss our own experience of the long-term effects of fetal cell transplantation used as experimental restorative treatment in PD, and we consider these observations in relation to the long-term clinical course of PD as we currently comprehend it in the era of symptomatic treatment.
The mainstay of treatment of patients suffering from epilepsies involves antiepileptic drug therapy. However, about one-third of patients continue to have seizures or show intolerable adverse effects despite appropriate medication. Neuronal transplantation into key brain regions involved in seizure generation, propagation, or modulation is a promising alternative experimental approach to treat drug-resistant epilepsies. Especially for patients with multiple-epileptic foci, or without a clear focal onset, therapeutic manipulation of brain structures remote to the focus but significantly involved in seizure modulation may be a more advantageous strategy. Using animal experiments, we recently showed that the subthalamic nucleus (STN) may be an auspicious target region in this respect. The STN repeatedly showed up to be highly sensitive to changes in GABAergic transmission, which can be achieved by localized microinjection of GABA-elevating drugs or by grafting GABA-releasing cells. However, there are many hurdles to overcome and questions to resolve before clinical translation of this approach appears realistic. This commentary discusses potential benefits as well as concerns associated with grafting of inhibitory cells into the STN.
An essential aspect of normal brain function is the bidirectional interaction and communication between neurons and neighbouring glial cells. To this end, the brain has evolved ligand-receptor partnerships that facilitate crosstalk between different cell types. The chemokine, fractalkine (FKN), is expressed on neuronal cells, and its receptor, CX(3)CR1, is predominantly expressed on microglia. This review focuses on several important functional roles for FKN/CX(3)CR1 in both health and disease of the central nervous system. It has been posited that FKN is involved in microglial infiltration of the brain during development. Microglia, in turn, are implicated in the developmental synaptic pruning that occurs during brain maturation. The abundance of FKN on mature hippocampal neurons suggests a homeostatic non-inflammatory role in mechanisms of learning and memory. There is substantial evidence describing a role for FKN in hippocampal synaptic plasticity. FKN, on the one hand, appears to prevent excess microglial activation in the absence of injury while promoting activation of microglia and astrocytes during inflammatory episodes. Thus, FKN appears to be neuroprotective in some settings, whereas it contributes to neuronal damage in others. Many progressive neuroinflammatory disorders that are associated with increased microglial activation, such as Alzheimer's disease, show disruption of the FKN/CX(3)CR1 communication system. Thus, targeting CX(3)CR1 receptor hyperactivation with specific antagonists in such neuroinflammatory conditions may eventually lead to novel neurotherapeutics.
The discrimination of polarized light is widespread in the natural world. Its use for specific, large-field tasks, such as navigation and the detection of water bodies, has been well documented. Some species of cephalopod and crustacean have polarization receptors distributed across the whole visual field and are thought to use polarized light cues for object detection. Both object-based polarization vision systems and large field detectors rely, at least initially, on an orthogonal, two-channel receptor organization. This may increase to three-directional analysis at subsequent interneuronal levels. In object-based and some of the large-field tasks, the dominant e-vector detection axes are often aligned (through eye, head and body stabilization mechanisms) horizontally and vertically relative to the outside world. We develop Bernard and Wehner's 1977 model of polarization receptor dynamics to apply it to the detection and discrimination of polarized objects against differently polarized backgrounds. We propose a measure of 'polarization distance' (roughly analogous to 'colour distance') for estimating the discriminability of objects in polarized light, and conclude that horizontal/vertical arrays are optimally designed for detecting differences in the degree, and not the e-vector axis, of polarized light under natural conditions.
Molecular abnormalities within the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) stress signaling pathway may confer, or reflect, susceptibility to stress in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, but the extent of such abnormalities in the brain is not known. Using RNA-Seq and qPCR in two postmortem cohorts totaling 55 schizophrenia, 34 bipolar disorder and 55 control individuals, we identified increased FKBP5 and PTGES3 mRNA expression, and decreased BAG1 mRNA expression, in the prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia cases relative to controls (68.0% [p &lt; 0.001], 26.0% [p &lt; 0.01] and 12.1% [p &lt; 0.05] respectively). We also observed increased FKBP5 and decreased BAG1 mRNA expression in bipolar disorder (47.5% [p &lt; 0.05] and 14.9% [p &lt; 0.005]). There were no diagnostic differences in steady-state FKBP51 protein levels, nor in HSPA1A, HSP90AA1, DNAJB1 or HSPB1 mRNA levels. GR, co-factor and chaperone mRNA levels were strongly correlated. These results reveal coordinated cortical dysregulation of FKBP5, PTGES3, BAG1 and GR genes within the glucocorticoid signaling pathway in psychotic illness.
When investigating perceptual learning (PL), most researchers use real figures as stimuli, but PL can occur when subjects are trained with virtual stimuli or even without any visual stimuli at all. Here, we first demonstrated that virtual lines have the same perceptual attributes as real lines by confirming that there is also an oblique effect in virtual lines (formed by a pair of circles) in an orientation discrimination task. Then, our ERP study showed that orientation discrimination learning and its transfer across real and virtual lines were associated with more negative parietal-occipital P1-N1 (reduced P1 and enhanced N1), which indicated the involvement of high-level stages of visual information processing or the involvement of top-down influences. At the same time, the specific ERP changes in the frontal ERP components were differently associated with real versus virtual line orientation learning. That is, real line learning was characterized by an early and short-lasting frontal N1 (120-140 ms) reduction, in contrast to a much later, widespread, and long-lasting P150-300 decrease in virtual line learning. These results contribute to the understanding of the neural basis of perceptual learning and the distinction between real and virtual stimulus learning.
The contrast asynchrony is a stimulus configuration that illustrates the visual system's separable responses to luminance and luminance contrast information (Shapiro, 2008; Shapiro et al., 2004). When two disks, whose luminances modulate in phase with each other, are each surrounded by a disk, one light and one dark, observers can see both the in-phase brightness signals and the antiphase contrast signals and can separate the two. Here we present the results of experiments in which observers viewed a similar stimulus dichoptically. We report that no asynchrony is perceived when one eye is presented with modulating disks and the other eye is presented with the black and white surround rings, nor is an asynchrony perceived in gradient versions of the contrast asynchrony. We also explore the &quot;window shade illusion&quot; (Shapiro, Charles, &amp; Shear-Heyman, 2005) dichoptically and find that when a modulating disk is presented to one eye and a horizontally split black/white annulus is presented to the other, observers perceive a &quot;shading&quot; motion up and down the disk. This shading can be seen in either direction in the binocular condition, but it is almost always seen as moving towards low contrast in the monocular condition. These findings indicate the presence of separable retinal and cortical networks for contrast processing at different temporal and spatial scales.
Holistic processing, the decoding of the global structure of a stimulus while the local parts are not explicitly represented, is a basic characteristic of object perception. The current study was aimed to test whether such a representation could be created even for objects that violate fundamental principles of spatial organization, namely impossible objects. Previous studies argued that these objects cannot be represented holistically in long-term memory because they lack coherent 3D structure. Here, we utilized Garner's speeded classification task to test whether the perception of possible and impossible objects is mediated by similar holistic processing mechanisms. To this end, participants were asked to make speeded classifications of one object dimension while an irrelevant dimension was kept constant (baseline condition) or when this dimension varied (filtering condition). It is well accepted that ignoring the irrelevant dimension is impossible when holistic perception is mandatory, thus the extent of Garner interference in performance between the baseline and filtering conditions serves as an index of holistic processing. Critically, in Experiment 1, similar levels of Garner interference were found for possible and impossible objects implying holistic perception of both object types. Experiment 2 extended these results and demonstrated that even when depth information was explicitly processed, participants were still unable to process one dimension (width/depth) while ignoring the irrelevant dimension (depth/width, respectively). The results of Experiment 3 replicated the basic pattern found in Experiments 1 and 2 using a novel set of object exemplars. In Experiment 4, we used possible and impossible versions of the Penrose triangles in which information about impossibility is embedded in the internal elements of the objects which participant were explicitly asked to judge. As in Experiments 1-3, similar Garner interference was found for possible and impossible objects. Taken together, these findings emphasize the centrality of holistic processing style in object perception and suggest that it applies even for atypical stimuli such as impossible objects.
Over the last 25 years, researchers have developed exogenously expressed, genetically engineered, semi-synthetic, and entirely synthetic ion channels. These structures have sufficient fidelity to serve as unique tools that can reveal information about living organisms. One of the most exciting success stories is optogenetics: the use of light-gated channels to trigger action potentials in specific neurons combined with studies of the response from networks of cells or entire live animals. Despite this breakthrough, the use of molecularly engineered ion channels for studies of biological systems is still in its infancy. Historically, researchers studied ion channels in the context of their own function in single cells or in multicellular signaling and regulation. Only recently have researchers considered ion channels and pore-forming peptides as responsive tools to report on the chemical and physical changes produced by other biochemical processes and reactions. This emerging class of molecular probes has a number of useful characteristics. For instance, these structures can greatly amplify the signal of chemical changes: the binding of one molecule to a ligand-gated ion channel can result in flux of millions of ions across a cell membrane. In addition, gating occurs on sub-microsecond time scales, resulting in fast response times. Moreover, the signal is complementary to existing techniques because the output is ionic current rather than fluorescence or radioactivity. And finally, ion channels are also localized at the membrane of cells where essential processes such as signaling and regulation take place. This Account highlights examples, mostly from our own work, of uses of ion channels and pore-forming peptides such as gramicidin in chemical biology. We discuss various strategies for preparing synthetically tailored ion channels that range from de novo designed synthetic molecules to genetically engineered or simply exogenously expressed or reconstituted wild-type channels. Next we consider aspects of experimental design by comparing various membrane environments or systems that make it possible to quantify the response of ion channels to biochemical processes of interest. We present applications of ion channels to answer questions in chemical biology, and propose potential future developments and applications of these single molecule probes. Finally we discuss the hurdles that impede the routine use of ion channel probes in biochemistry and cell biology laboratories and developments and strategies that could overcome these problems. Optogenetics has facilitated breakthroughs in neuroscience, and these results give a dramatic idea of what may lie ahead for designed ion channels as a functional class of molecular probes. If researchers can improve molecular engineering to increase ion channel versatility and can overcome the barriers to collaborating across disciplines, we conclude that these structures could have tremendous potential as novel tools for chemical biology studies.


Measurements of inter- and intramolecular distances are important for monitoring structural changes and understanding protein interaction networks. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer and functionalized chemical spacers are the two predominantly used strategies to map short-range distances in living cells. Here, we describe the development of a hybrid approach that combines the key advantages of spectroscopic and chemical methods to estimate dynamic distance information from labeled proteins. Bifunctional spectroscopic probes were designed to make use of adaptable-anchor and length-varied spacers to estimate molecular distances by exploiting short-range collisional electron transfer. The spacers were calibrated using labeled polyproline peptides of defined lengths and validated by molecular simulations. This approach was extended to estimate distance restraints that enable us to evaluate the resting-state model of the Shaker potassium channel.






Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a motor neuron disease characterized by degeneration and loss of upper and lower motor neurons from the motor cortex, brainstem and spinal cord although evidence is suggesting that there is further involvement of other cell types in the surrounding tissue. Transcriptomic analysis by gene expression profiling using microarray technology has enabled the determination of patterns of cell death in the degenerating tissues. This work has examined gene expression at the level of the tissue and individual cell types in both sporadic and familial forms of the disease. In addition, further studies have examined the differential vulnerability of neuronal cells in different regions of the central nervous system. Model systems have also provided further information to help unravel the mechanisms that lead to death of the motor neurons in disease and also provided novel insights. In this review we shall describe the methods that have been used in these investigations and describe how they have contributed to our knowledge of the cell death mechanisms in ALS.



The watermaze delayed matching-to-place (DMP) task was modified to include probe trials, to quantify search preference for the correct place. Using a zone analysis of search preference, a gradual decay of one-trial memory in rats was observed over 24 h with weak memory consistently detected at a retention interval of 6 h, but unreliably at 24 h. This forgetting function in the watermaze was similar to that found using a search-preference measure in a food-reinforced dry-land DMP task in a previous study. In a search for strong and weak encoding conditions, essential for a later behavioral tagging study, three encoding trials gave strong 6-h and 24-h memory when trials were separated by 10 min (spaced training) but not 15 sec (massed training). The use of six encoding trials gave good 6-h memory with both spaced and massed training. With respect to weak encoding, placement on the escape platform, instead of the rat swimming to it, resulted in detectable memory at 30 min but this had faded to chance within 24 h. In contrast to the search-preference measure, latencies to cross the correct place revealed neither the gradual forgetting of place memory nor the benefit of spaced training.
The formation of associations between items and their context has been proposed to rely on mechanisms distinct from those supporting memory for a single item. Although emotional experiences can profoundly affect memory, our understanding of how it interacts with different aspects of memory remains unclear. We performed three experiments to examine the effects of emotion on memory for items and their associations. By presenting neutral and negative items with background contexts, Experiment 1 demonstrated that item memory was facilitated by emotional affect, whereas memory for an associated context was reduced. In Experiment 2, arousal was manipulated independently of the memoranda, by a threat of shock, whereby encoding trials occurred under conditions of threat or safety. Memory for context was equally impaired by the presence of negative affect, whether induced by threat of shock or a negative item, relative to retrieval of the context of a neutral item in safety. In Experiment 3, participants were presented with neutral and negative items as paired associates, including all combinations of neutral and negative items. The results showed both above effects: compared to a neutral item, memory for the associate of a negative item (a second item here, context in Experiments 1 and 2) is impaired, whereas retrieval of the item itself is enhanced. Our findings suggest that negative affect impairs associative memory while recognition of a negative item is enhanced. They support dual-processing models in which negative affect or stress impairs hippocampal-dependent associative memory while the storage of negative sensory/perceptual representations is spared or even strengthened.

Mutations in the gene encoding superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) account for about 20% of the cases of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (fALS). It is well established that mutations in SOD1, associated with fALS, heighten the propensity of the protein to misfold and aggregate. Although aggregation appears to be a factor in the toxicity of mutant SOD1s, the precise nature of this toxicity has not been elucidated. A number of other studies have now firmly established that raising the levels of wild-type (WT) human SOD1 (hSOD1) proteins can in some manner augment the toxicity of mutant hSOD1 proteins. However, a recent study demonstrated that raising the levels of WT-hSOD1 did not affect disease in mice that harbor a mouse Sod1 gene (mSod1) encoding a well characterized fALS mutation (G86R). In the present study, we sought a potential explanation for the differing effects with WT-hSOD1 on the toxicity of mutant hSOD1 versus mutant mSod1. In the cell culture models used here, we observe poor interactions between WT-hSOD1 and misfolded G86R-mSod1, possibly explaining why over-expression of WT-hSOD1 does not synergize with mutant mSod1 to accelerate the course of the disease in mice.


Studies have demonstrated the relationship between the histaminergic system and the cerebellum, and we intend to investigate the role of the cerebellar histaminergic system on memory consolidation. This study investigated the effect of intra-cerebellar microinjection of histamine on memory retention of inhibitory avoidance in mice, and the role of H1 and H2 receptors in it. The cerebellar vermis of male mice were implanted with guide cannulae, and after three days of recovery, the inhibitory avoidance test was performed. Immediately after a training session, animals received a microinjection of histaminergic drugs: in the experiment 1, saline (SAL) or histamine (HA 0.54, 1.36, 2.72 or 4.07 nmol); experiment 2, SAL or 1.36 nmol HA 5 min after a pretreatment with 0.16 nmol chlorpheniramine (CPA) or SAL; and experiment 3, SAL or 1.36 nmol HA 5 min after a pretreatment with 2.85 nmol ranitidine (RA) or SAL. Twenty-four hours later, a retention test was performed. The data were analyzed using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Duncan's tests. In experiment 1, animals microinjected with 1.36 nmol HA showed a higher latency to cross to the dark compartment compared to controls and to 2.72 and 4.07 nmol HA groups. In experiment 2, the combined infusions revealed difference between control (SAL+SAL) and SAL+HA and CPA+HA; while in the experiment 3 the analysis indicated differences in retention latency between mice injected with SAL+SAL and SAL+HA. The groups that received the H2 antagonist RA did not show difference compared to control. These results indicate that 1.36 nmol HA enhances memory consolidation of inhibitory avoidance learning in mice and that the pretreatment with H2 antagonist RA was able to prevent this effect.
Multiple lines of evidence support the notion that much if not most chronic pain is dependent on on-going peripheral activity in nociceptors. This is not to say that central changes are unimportant, only that much of the central change is supported by a peripheral drive. This begs the question of what causes this peripheral drive. In some instances, particularly in association with peripheral nerve injury, nociceptors may become spontaneously active because of alterations in ion channel function or expression. But in most cases nociceptor activity arises because of the actions of peripheral mediators released by injured or damaged tissue. Some of these mediators are well known, such as the prostanoids. Others have more recently been identified, such as nerve growth factor (NGF). However, the limited efficacy of existing analgesic therapies strongly suggests that other important pain mediators exist. Here we discuss the evidence that a family of secreted proteins, the chemokines - well known for their actions in regulating immune cell migration - also play an important role in sustaining abnormal nociceptor activity in persistent pain states.
Neuronal inhibition in nociceptive relays of the spinal cord is essential for the proper processing of nociceptive information. In the spinal cord dorsal horn, the activity of synaptic and extrasynaptic GABAA and glycine receptors generates rapid, Cl(-)-dependent neuronal inhibition. A loss of this ionotropic inhibition, particularly through the collapse of the inhibitory Cl(-)-gradient, is a key mechanism by which pathological pain conditions develop. This review summarizes the roles of ionotropic inhibition in the regulation of nociception, and explores recent evidence that the potentiation of GABAA or glycine receptor activity or the enhancement of inhibitory drive can reverse pathological pain.
Microglia are key cellular mediators of plasticity in the spinal cord that drives the development and maintenance of pain hypersensitivity following peripheral nerve damage. An essential reactive microglial phenotype is characterized by induced expression of purinergic P2X4 receptors. Activation of these receptors initiates a core microglial-neuronal signalling pathway which through disinhibition transforms the output of dorsal horn neurons projecting to the brain pain networks. Here we describe recent advances in elucidating molecules that regulate key aspects of this core pathway, and opportunities for targeting critical signalling hubs to treat neuropathic pain.
The inflammatory response is a natural response of the body that occurs immediately following tissue damage, which may be due to injury, infection or disease. The acute inflammatory response is an essential mechanism that promotes healing and a key aspect is the ensuing pain, which warns the subject to protect the site of injury. Thus, it is common to see a zone of primary sensitization as well as consequential central sensitization that generally, is maintained by a peripheral drive from the zone of tissue injury. Inflammation associated with chronic pain states, such as rheumatoid and osteoarthritis, cancer and migraine etc. is deleterious to health and often debilitating for the patient. Thus there is a large unmet clinical need. The mechanisms underlying both acute and chronic inflammatory pain are extensive and complex, involving a diversity of cell types, receptors and proteins. Among these the contribution of voltage gated sodium and calcium channels on peripheral nociceptors is critical for nociceptive transmission beyond the peripheral transducers and changes in their distribution, accumulation, clustering and functional activities have been linked to both inflammatory and neuropathic pain. The latter has been the main area for trials and use of drugs that modulate ion channels such as carbamazepine and gabapentin, but given the large peripheral drive that follows tissue damage, there is a clear rationale for blocking voltage gated sodium and calcium channels in these pain states. It has been hypothesized that pain of inflammatory origin may evolve into a condition that resembles neuropathic pain, but mixed pains such as low back pain and cancer pain often include elements of both pain states. This review considers the therapeutic potential for sodium and calcium channel blockers for the treatment of chronic inflammatory pain states.
Chronic pain is a critical medical problem afflicting hundreds of millions of people worldwide with costly effects on society and health care systems. Novel therapeutic avenues for the treatment of pain are needed that are directly targeted to the molecular mechanisms that promote and maintain chronic pain states. Recent evidence suggests that peripheral pain plasticity is promoted and potentially maintained via changes in translation control that are mediated by mTORC1 and MAPK pathways. While these pathways can be targeted individually, stimulating the AMPK pathway with direct or indirect activators achieves inhibition of these pathways via engagement of a single kinase. Here we review the form, function and pharmacology of AMPK with special attention to its emerging role as a potential target for pain therapeutics. We present the existing evidence supporting a role of AMPK activation in alleviating symptoms of peripheral nerve injury- and incision-induced pain plasticity and the blockade of the development of chronic pain following surgery. We argue that these preclinical findings support a strong rationale for clinical trials of currently available AMPK activators and further development of novel pharmacological strategies for more potent and efficacious manipulation of AMPK in the clinical setting. Finally, we posit that AMPK represents a unique opportunity for drug development in the kinase area for pain because it is pharmacologically manipulated via activation rather than inhibition potentially offering a wider therapeutic window with interesting additional pharmacological opportunities. Altogether, the physiology, pharmacology and therapeutic opportunities surrounding AMPK make it an attractive target for novel intervention for chronic pain and its prevention.

Relapse and hazardous drinking represent the most difficult clinical problems in treating patients with alcohol use disorders. Using a rat model of alcohol use and alcohol-seeking, we demonstrated that central administration of peptide antagonists for relaxin family peptide 3 receptor (RXFP3), the cognate receptor for the highly conserved neuropeptide, relaxin-3, decreased self-administration of alcohol in a dose-related manner and attenuated cue- and stress-induced reinstatement following extinction. By comparison, RXFP3 antagonist treatment did not significantly attenuate self-administration or reinstatement of sucrose-seeking, suggesting a selective effect for alcohol. RXFP3 is densely expressed in the stress-responsive bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and bilateral injections of RXFP3 antagonist into the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis significantly decreased self-administration and stress-induced reinstatement of alcohol, suggesting that this brain region may, at least in part, mediate the effects of RXFP3 antagonism. RXFP3 antagonist treatment had no effect on general ingestive behavior, activity, or procedural memory for lever pressing in the paradigms assessed. These data suggest that relaxin-3/RXFP3 signaling regulates alcohol intake and relapse-like behavior, adding to current knowledge of the brain chemistry of reward-seeking.
Voltage-gated sodium (Nav) channels are embedded in a multicomponent membrane signaling complex that plays a crucial role in cellular excitability. Although the mechanism remains unclear, -subunits modify Nav channel function and cause debilitating disorders when mutated. While investigating whether -subunits also influence ligand interactions, we found that 4 dramatically alters toxin binding to Nav1.2. To explore these observations further, we solved the crystal structure of the extracellular 4 domain and identified (58)Cys as an exposed residue that, when mutated, eliminates the influence of 4 on toxin pharmacology. Moreover, our results suggest the presence of a docking site that is maintained by a cysteine bridge buried within the hydrophobic core of 4. Disrupting this bridge by introducing a 1 mutation implicated in epilepsy repositions the (58)Cys-containing loop and disrupts 4 modulation of Nav1.2. Overall, the principles emerging from this work (i) help explain tissue-dependent variations in Nav channel pharmacology; (ii) enable the mechanistic interpretation of -subunit-related disorders; and (iii) provide insights in designing molecules capable of correcting aberrant -subunit behavior.
Adipogenesis, the conversion of precursor cells into adipocytes, is associated with obesity and is mediated by glucocorticoids acting via hitherto poorly characterized mechanisms. Dexras1 is a small G protein of the Ras family discovered on the basis of its marked induction by the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone. We show that Dexras1 mediates adipogenesis and diet-induced obesity. Adipogenic differentiation of 3T3-L1 cells is abolished with Dexras1 depletion, whereas overexpression of Dexras1 elicits adipogenesis. Adipogenesis is markedly reduced in mouse embryonic fibroblasts from Dexras1-deleted mice, whereas adiposity and diet-induced weight gain are diminished in the mutant mice.
The finding that a GGGGCC (G4C2) hexanucleotide repeat expansion in the chromosome 9 ORF 72 (C9ORF72) gene is a common cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) links ALS/FTD to a large group of unstable microsatellite diseases. Previously, we showed that microsatellite expansion mutations can be bidirectionally transcribed and that these mutations express unexpected proteins by a unique mechanism, repeat-associated non-ATG (RAN) translation. In this study, we show that C9ORF72 antisense transcripts are elevated in the brains of C9ORF72 expansion-positive [C9(+)] patients, and antisense GGCCCC (G2C4) repeat-expansion RNAs accumulate in nuclear foci in brain. Additionally, sense and antisense foci accumulate in blood and are potential biomarkers of the disease. Furthermore, we show that RAN translation occurs from both sense and antisense expansion transcripts, resulting in the expression of six RAN proteins (antisense: Pro-Arg, Pro-Ala, Gly-Pro; and sense: Gly-Ala, Gly-Arg, Gly-Pro). These proteins accumulate in cytoplasmic aggregates in affected brain regions, including the frontal and motor cortex, hippocampus, and spinal cord neurons, with some brain regions showing dramatic RAN protein accumulation and clustering. The finding that unique antisense G2C4 RNA foci and three unique antisense RAN proteins accumulate in patient tissues indicates that bidirectional transcription of expanded alleles is a fundamental pathologic feature of C9ORF72 ALS/FTD. Additionally, these findings suggest the need to test therapeutic strategies that target both sense and antisense RNAs and RAN proteins in C9ORF72 ALS/FTD, and to more broadly consider the role of antisense expression and RAN translation across microsatellite expansion diseases.
Neuro- and myotoxicological signs and symptoms are significant clinical features of envenoming snakebites in many parts of the world. The toxins primarily responsible for the neuro and myotoxicity fall into one of two categories--those that bind to and block the post-synaptic acetylcholine receptors (AChR) at the neuromuscular junction and neurotoxic phospholipases A2 (PLAs) that bind to and hydrolyse membrane phospholipids of the motor nerve terminal (and, in most cases, the plasma membrane of skeletal muscle) to cause degeneration of the nerve terminal and skeletal muscle. This review provides an introduction to the biochemical properties of secreted sPLA2s in the venoms of many dangerous snakes and a detailed discussion of their role in the initiation of the neurologically important consequences of snakebite. The rationale behind the experimental studies on the pharmacology and toxicology of the venoms and isolated PLAs in the venoms is discussed, with particular reference to the way these studies allow one to understand the biological basis of the clinical syndrome. The review also introduces the involvement of PLAs in inflammatory and degenerative disorders of the central nervous system (CNS) and their commercial use in the food industry. It concludes with an introduction to the problems associated with the use of antivenoms in the treatment of neuro-myotoxic snakebite and the search for alternative treatments.
Adolescence is a period of heightened susceptibility to psychiatric disorders of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) dysfunction and cognitive impairment. mPFC dopamine (DA) projections reach maturity only in early adulthood, when their control over cognition becomes fully functional. The mechanisms governing this protracted and unique development are unknown. Here we identify dcc as the first DA neuron gene to regulate mPFC connectivity during adolescence and dissect the mechanisms involved. Reduction or loss of dcc from DA neurons by Cre-lox recombination increased mPFC DA innervation. Underlying this was the presence of ectopic DA fibers that normally innervate non-cortical targets. Altered DA input changed the anatomy and electrophysiology of mPFC circuits, leading to enhanced cognitive flexibility. All phenotypes only emerged in adulthood. Using viral Cre, we demonstrated that dcc organizes mPFC wiring specifically during adolescence. Variations in DCC may determine differential predisposition to mPFC disorders in humans. Indeed, DCC expression is elevated in brains of antidepressant-free subjects who committed suicide.
Substance dependence is characterized by compulsive drug-taking despite negative consequences. Animal research suggests an underlying imbalance between goal-directed and habitual action control with chronic drug use. However, this imbalance, and its associated neurophysiological mechanisms, has not yet been experimentally investigated in human drug abusers. The aim of the present study therefore was to assess the balance between goal-directed and habit-based learning and its neural correlates in abstinent alcohol-dependent (AD) patients. A total of 31 AD patients and 19 age, gender and education matched healthy controls (HC) underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during completion of an instrumental learning task designed to study the balance between goal-directed and habit learning. Task performance and task-related blood oxygen level-dependent activations in the brain were compared between AD patients and healthy matched controls. Findings were additionally associated with duration and severity of alcohol dependence. The results of this study provide evidence for an overreliance on stimulus-response habit learning in AD compared with HC, which was accompanied by decreased engagement of brain areas implicated in goal-directed action (ventromedial prefrontal cortex and anterior putamen) and increased recruitment of brain areas implicated in habit learning (posterior putamen) in AD patients. In conclusion, this is the first human study to provide experimental evidence for a disturbed balance between goal-directed and habitual control by use of an instrumental learning task, and to directly implicate cortical dysfunction to overreliance on inflexible habits in ADpatients.
Clinical reports have highlighted a role for retinoids in the etiology of mood disorders. Although we had shown that recruitment of the nuclear receptor retinoic acid receptor- (RAR-) to corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) promoter is implicated in activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, further insight into how retinoids modulate HPA axis activity is lacking. Here we show that all-trans retinoic acid (RA)-induced HPA activation involves impairments in glucocorticoid receptor (GR) negative feedback. RA was applied to rats chronically through intracerebroventricular injection. A 19-day RA exposure induced potent HPA axis activation and typical depression-like behavior. Dexamethasone failed to suppress basal corticosterone (CORT) secretion, which is indicative of a disturbed GR negative feedback. In the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, increased CRH and c-fos cells were found while a negative R-2/ER correlation was present between the number of RAR- and GR cells. This was paralleled by increased RAR- and decreased GR protein expression in the hypothalamus. Additional in vitro studies confirmed that RA abolished GR-mediated glucocorticoid-induced suppression of CRH expression, indicating a negative cross-talk between RAR- and GR signaling pathways. Finally, the above changes could be rapidly normalized by treatment with GR antagonist mifepristone. We conclude that in addition to the 'classic' RAR--mediated transcriptional control of CRH expression, disturbances in GR negative feedback constitute a novel pathway that underlies RA-induced HPA axis hyperactivity. The rapid normalization by mifepristone may be of potential clinical interest in this respect.
We have recently shown that chronic alcohol consumption in a rhesus macaque model of ethanol self-administration significantly modulates the serum cytokine profile. In this study, we extended these observations by investigating the impact of chronic ethanol exposure on the immune response to Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA). All animals were vaccinated with MVA before ethanol exposure to ethanol and then again after 7 months of 22 h/day of &quot;open-access&quot; drinking of 4% (w/v) ethanol. Our results indicate that animals whose blood ethanol concentration (BEC) chronically exceeded 80 mg/dl had lower CD4 and CD8 T cell proliferation as well as IgG responses following MVA booster than control animals. In contrast, relatively moderate drinkers whose BEC remained below 80 mg/ml exhibited more robust MVA-specific IgG and CD8 T cell responses than controls. To begin to uncover mechanisms underlying the differences in MVA-specific responses between the three groups, we analyzed plasma cytokine levels and microRNA expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells following MVA booster. Our findings suggest that moderate ethanol consumption results in higher levels of antiviral cytokines and an expression profile of microRNAs linked to CD8 T cell differentiation. In summary, moderate alcohol consumption enhances recall vaccine responses, whereas chronic alcohol intoxication suppresses this response.

Particulate matter (PM) is emitted during thermal decomposition of waste. During this process, aromatic compounds chemisorb to the surface of metal-oxide-containing PM, forming a surface-stabilized environmentally persistent free radical (EPFR). We hypothesized that EPFR-containing PM redox cycle to produce ROS and that this redox cycle is maintained in biological environments. To test our hypothesis, we incubated model EPFRs with the fluorescent probe dihydrorhodamine (DHR). Marked increases in DHR fluorescence were observed. Using a more specific assay, hydroxyl radicals (()OH) were also detected, and their level was further increased by cotreatment with thiols or ascorbic acid (AA), known components of epithelial lining fluid. Next, we incubated our model EPFR in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) or serum. Detection of EPFRs and ()OH verified that PM generate ROS in biological fluids. Moreover, incubation of pulmonary epithelial cells with EPFR-containing PM increased ()OH levels compared to those in PM lacking EPFRs. Finally, measurements of oxidant injury in neonatal rats exposed to EPFRs by inhalation suggested that EPFRs induce an oxidant injury within the lung lining fluid and that the lung responds by increasing antioxidant levels. In summary, our EPFR-containing PM redox cycle to produce ROS, and these ROS are maintained in biological fluids and environments. Moreover, these ROS may modulate toxic responses of PM in biological tissues such as the lung.

A recent study provides new insights into how the very different response characteristics of the main visual pathways from the eye to the brain may directly result from the presence or absence of a 'spike trigger-zone' in retinal bipolar cells.
A recent study shows that neural circuits from vertebrates and invertebrates use common strategies to stabilize odor representations across a wide range of concentrations.

The brain directs its limited processing resources through various selection mechanisms, broadly referred to as attention. The present study investigated the temporal dynamics of two such selection mechanisms: space- and object-basedselection. Previous evidence has demonstrated that preferential processing resulting from a spatial cue (i.e., space-based selection) spreads to uncued locations if those locations are part of the same object (i.e., resulting in object-based selection), but little is known about the relationship between these fundamental selection mechanisms. Here, we used human behavioral data to determine how space- and object-based selection simultaneously evolve under conditions that promote sustained attention at a cued location, varying the cue-to-target interval from 300 to 1100ms. We tracked visual-target detection at a cued location (i.e., space-based selection), at an uncued location that was part of the same object (i.e., object-based selection), and at an uncued location that was part of a different object (i.e., in the absence of space- and object-based selection). The data demonstrate that even under static conditions, there is a moment-to-moment reweighting of attentional priorities based on object properties. This reweighting is revealed through rhythmic patterns of visual-target detection both within (at 8Hz) and between (at 4Hz) objects.


The 5-HT3 receptor, the only ionotropic 5-HT receptor, is expressed in limbic regions, including the hippocampus, amygdala, and cortex. However, it is not known whether it has a role in fear memory processes. Analysis of 5-HT3A receptor knockout mice in fear conditioning paradigms revealed that the 5-HT3A receptor is not required for the acquisition or retention of fear memory but is essential for the extinction of contextual and tone-cued fear. Our data suggest that the 5-HT3A receptor could be a key molecule regulating fear memory processes and a potential therapeutic target for fear disorders.





Heat dissipation from the rat's tail is reduced in response to cold and during fever. The sympathetic premotor neurons for this mechanism, located in the medullary raph, are under tonic inhibitory control from the preoptic area. In parallel with the inhibitory pathway, an excitatory pathway from the rostromedial preoptic region (RMPO) to the medullary raph mediates the vasoconstrictor response to cold skin. Whether this applies also to the tail vasoconstrictor response in fever is unknown. Single- or a few-unit tail sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) was recorded in urethane-anesthetized, artificially ventilated rats. Experimental fever was induced by PGE2 injected into the lateral cerebral ventricle (50 ng in 1.5 l icv) or into the RMPO (0.2 ng in 60 nl); in both cases, there was a robust increase in tail SNA and a delayed rise in core temperature. Microinjection of glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenate (50 mM, 120 nl) into the medullary raph completely reversed the tail SNA response to intracerebroventricular or RMPO PGE2 injection. Inhibiting RMPO neurons by microinjecting glycine (0.5 M, 60 nl) or the GABAA receptor agonist, muscimol (2 mM, 30-60 nl), reduced the tail SNA response to PGE2 injected into the same site by approximately half. Vehicle injections into the medullary raph or RMPO were without effect. These results suggest that the tail vasoconstrictor response during experimental fever depends on a glutamatergic excitatory synaptic relay in the medullary raph and that an excitatory output signal from the RMPO contributes to the tail vasoconstrictor response during fever.
Feeding a diet high in fat and sucrose (HFS) during pregnancy and lactation is known to increase susceptibility to develop metabolic derangements later in life. A trait for increased behavioral activity may oppose these effects, since this would drain energy from milk produced to be made available to the offspring. To investigate these interactions, we assessed several components of behavioral energetics during lactation in control mice (C) and in mice of two lines selectively bred for high wheel-running activity (S1, S2) subjected to a HFS diet or a low-fat (LF) diet. Energy intake, litter growth, and milk energy output at peak lactation (MEO; assessed by subtracting maternal metabolic rate from energy intake) were elevated in HFS-feeding dams across all lines compared with the LF condition, an effect that was particularly evident in the S dams. This effect was not preceded by improved lactation behaviors assessed between postnatal days 1 and 7 (PND 1-7). In fact, S1 dams had less high-quality nursing, and S2 dams showed poorer pup retrieval than C dams during PND 1-7, and S dams had generally higher levels of physical activity at peak lactation. These data demonstrate that HFS feeding increases MEO underlying increased litter and pup growth, particularly in mice with a trait for increased behavioral physical activity.

The maintenance of energetic homeostasis in the face of limited available nutrients is a complex problem faced by all organisms. One important mechanism to maintain energetic homeostasis involves the activation of the energy sensor AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). AMPK is a cell-autonomous energy sensor that is highly sensitive to and regulated by the ATP to ADP and ATP to AMP ratios. However, the genetic analysis of AMPK signaling in vertebrates has been complicated by the existence of multiple redundant AMPK subunits. Here, we describe the identification of mutations in the single Drosophila melanogaster AMPK catalytic subunit (AMPK) and their implications for neural maintenance and integrity. This article provides a citation replacement for previously published ampk alleles, transgenes and neuronal phenotypes, which remain accurate; however, they were used in a previously published study that has subsequently been retracted (Mirouse et al., 2013).
Since the 1990s, treadmills have been equipped with multi-axis force transducers to measure the three components of the ground reaction forces during walking and running. These measurements are correctly performed if the whole treadmill (including the motor) is mounted on the transducers. In this case, the acceleration of the treadmill centre of mass relative to the reference frame of the laboratory is nil. The external forces exerted on one side of the treadmill are thus equal in magnitude and opposite in direction to the external forces exerted on the other side. However, uncertainty exists about the accuracy of these measures: due to friction between the belt and the tread-surface, due to the motor pulling the belt, some believe that it is not possible to correctly measure the horizontal components of the forces exerted by the feet on the belt. Here, we propose a simple model of an instrumented treadmill and we demonstrate (1) that the forces exerted by the subject moving on the upper part of the treadmill are accurately transmitted to the transducers placed under it and (2) that all internal forces - including friction - between the parts of the treadmill are cancelling each other.




Phosphodiesterase inhibition has received much attention in the past 20 years for the potential treatment of CNS disorders. A primary focus of this work is the enhancement of memory and/or cognitive functioning. The role of PDEs in the augmentation of cyclic nucleotide signaling makes these enzymes attractive targets for enhancing the effects of neuronal communication. This review focuses on recent findings with respect to the role of PDE2 inhibition in cognitive functioning. Special attention is paid to recently disclosed, selective tool compounds and the use of these tool compounds to support the role of PDE2 inhibition in cognition. Recently reported SAR and modeling work will be presented along with discussion of the entry of new PDE2 inhibitors into the clinic.






The experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an autoimmune disease of the central nervous system commonly used to study multiple sclerosis (MS). We combined clinical EAE phenotypes with genome-wide expression profiling in spleens from 150 backcross rats between susceptible DA and resistant PVG rat strains during the chronic EAE phase. This enabled correlation of transcripts with genotypes, other transcripts and clinical EAE phenotypes and implicated potential genetic causes and pathways in EAE. We detected 2285 expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs). Sixty out of 599 cis-eQTLs overlapped well-known EAE QTLs and constitute positional candidate genes, including Ifit1 (Eae7), Atg7 (Eae20-22), Klrc3 (eEae22) and Mfsd4 (Eae17). A trans-eQTL that overlaps Eae23a regulated a large number of small RNAs and implicates a master regulator of transcription. We defined several disease-correlated networks enriched for pathways involved in cell-mediated immunity. They include C-type lectins, G protein coupled receptors, mitogen-activated protein kinases, transmembrane proteins, suppressors of transcription (Jundp2 and Nr1d1) and STAT transcription factors (Stat4) involved in interferon signaling. The most significant network was enriched for T cell functions, similar to genetic findings in MS, and revealed both established and novel gene interactions. Transcripts in the network have been associated with T cell proliferation and differentiation, the TCR signaling and regulation of regulatory T cells. A number of network genes and their family members have been associated with MS and/or other autoimmune diseases. Combining disease and genome-wide expression phenotypes provides a link between disease risk genes and distinct molecular pathways that are dysregulated during chronic autoimmune inflammation.
Phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomer (PMO)-mediated exon skipping is among the more promising approaches to the treatment of several neuromuscular disorders including Duchenne muscular dystrophy. The main weakness of this approach arises from the low efficiency and sporadic nature of the delivery of charge-neutral PMO into muscle fibers, the mechanism of which is unknown. In this study, to test our hypothesis that muscle fibers take up PMO more efficiently during myotube formation, we induced synchronous muscle regeneration by injection of cardiotoxin into the tibialis anterior muscle of Dmd exon 52-deficient mdx52 and wild-type mice. Interestingly, by in situ hybridization, we detected PMO mainly in embryonic myosin heavy chain-positive regenerating fibers. In addition, we showed that PMO or 2'-O-methyl phosphorothioate is taken up efficiently into C2C12 myotubes when transfected 24-72 h after the induction of differentiation but is poorly taken up into undifferentiated C2C12 myoblasts suggesting efficient uptake of PMO in the early stages of C2C12 myotube formation. Next, we tested the therapeutic potential of PMO for laminin-2 chain-null dy(3K)/dy(3K) mice: a model of merosin-deficient congenital muscular dystrophy (MDC1A) with active muscle regeneration. We confirmed the recovery of laminin-2 chain and slightly prolonged life span following skipping of the mutated exon 4 in dy(3K)/dy(3K) mice. These findings support the idea that PMO entry into fibers is dependent on a developmental stage in myogenesis rather than on dystrophinless muscle membranes and provide a platform for developing PMO-mediated therapies for a variety of muscular disorders, such as MDC1A, that involve active muscle regeneration.
The mitochondrial influx and efflux of Ca(2+) play a relevant role in cytosolic and mitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis, and contribute to the regulation of mitochondrial functions in neurons. The mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger, which was first postulated in 1974, has been primarily investigated only from a functional point of view, and its identity and localization in the mitochondria have been a matter of debate over the past three decades. Recently, a Li(+)-dependent Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger extruding Ca(2+) from the matrix has been found in the inner mitochondrial membrane of neuronal cells. However, evidence has been provided that the outer membrane is impermeable to Ca(2+) efflux into the cytoplasm. In this study, we demonstrate for the first time that the nuclear-encoded NCX3 isoform (1) is located on the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) of neurons; (2) colocalizes and immunoprecipitates with AKAP121 (also known as AKAP1), a member of the protein kinase A anchoring proteins (AKAPs) present on the outer membrane; (3) extrudes Ca(2+) from mitochondria through AKAP121 interaction in a PKA-mediated manner, both under normoxia and hypoxia; and (4) improves cell survival when it works in the Ca(2+) efflux mode at the level of the OMM. Collectively, these results suggest that, in neurons, NCX3 regulates mitochondrial Ca(2+) handling from the OMM through an AKAP121-anchored signaling complex, thus promoting cell survival during hypoxia.

Seminal work in Gary Van Hoesen's laboratory at Iowa in the early 1980s established that the hallmark neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD; neurofibrillary tangles) had its first foothold in specific parts of the hippocampal formation and entorhinal cortex, effectively isolating the hippocampus from much of its input and output and causing the distinctive impairment of new learning that is the leading early characteristic of the disease (Hyman et al., 1984). The boundaries and conditions of the anterograde memory defect in patients with AD have been a topic of intense research interest ever since (e.g., Graham and Hodges, 1977; Nestor et al., 2006). For example, it has been shown that patients with AD may acquire some new semantic information through methods such as errorless learning, but learning under these conditions is typically slow and inefficient. Drawing on a learning paradigm (a collaborative referencing task) that was previously shown to induce robust and enduring learning in patients with hippocampal amnesia, we investigated whether this task would be effective in promoting new learning in patients with AD. We studied five women with early-stage AD and 10 demographically matched healthy comparison participants, each interacting with a familiar communication partner. AD pairs displayed significant and enduring learning across trials, with increased accuracy and decreased time to complete trials, in a manner indistinguishable from healthy comparison pairs, resulting in efficient and economical communication. The observed learning here most likely draws on neural resources outside the medial temporal lobes. These interactive communication sessions provide a potent learning environment with significant implications for memory intervention.
Homologizing between human and nonhuman area 32 has been impaired since Brodmann said he could not homologize with certainty human area 32 to a specific cortical domain in other species. Human area 32 has four divisions, however, and two can be structurally homologized to nonhuman species with cytoarchitecture and receptor architecture: pregenual (p32) and subgenual (s32) in human and macaque monkey and areas d32 and v32 in rat and mouse. Cytoarchitecture showed that areas d32/p32 have a dysgranular layer IV in all species and that areas v32/s32 have large and dense neurons in layer V, whereas a layer IV is not present in area v32. Areas v32/s32 have the largest neurons in layer Va. Features unique to humans include large layer IIIc pyramids in both divisions, sparse layer Vb in area p32, and elongated neurons in layer VI, with area s32 having the largest layer Va neurons. Receptor fingerprints of both subdivisions of area 32 differed between species in size and shape, although AMPA/GABAA and NMDA/GABAA ratios were comparable among humans, monkeys, and rats and were significantly lower than in mice. Layers I-III of primate and rodent area 32 subdivisions share more similarities in their receptor densities than layers IV-VI. Monkey and human subdivisions of area 32 are more similar to each other than to rat and mouse subdivisions. In combination with intracingulate connections, the location, cytoarchitecture, and ligand binding studies demonstrate critical homologies among the four species.
The subicular-parahippocampal projection has been proposed as the major output pathway of the hippocampus. This projection shows a striking topographic organization along its three-dimensional axes. Here we aimed to study the development of this projection system. We found that an adult-like topography of subiculum-to-parahippocampal projections is present by postnatal day 7 (P7). The cellular morphology in the subiculum is immature at this age, reaching maturity by P15-19. The density of projections increases from P7 to P15-19 but does so within the constraints of the adult topography. Projections to the entorhinal cortex show a clear arrangement in line with the adult data, in that distal portions of the subiculum project to the medial entorhinal cortex, whereas proximal portions project to the lateral entorhinal cortex. Our results add new details to the proximodistal organization of projections to the pre- and parasubiculum. We show that these projections arise exclusively from the more distal part, sharing their origin with that of medial entorhinal projections. Within this distal portion of the subiculum, a proximodistal gradient of origin maps onto a presubicular termination gradient starting in proximal presubiculum and extending gradually until it covers the proximodistal extent. Proximally located neurons in the distal part of the subiculum target the distal portion of the parasubiculum, and distal subicular neurons target the proximal most portion of parasubiculum. Given the specificity of the known topographic projections this early in development, we expect that these newly described topographic features will be maintained in the adult.
Early observations of the patterns of neurofibrillary tangles and amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease suggested a hierarchical vulnerability of neurons for tangles, and a widespread nonspecific pattern of plaques that nonetheless seemed to correlate with the terminal zone of tangle-bearing neurons in some instances. The first neurofibrillary cortical lesions in Alzheimer's disease occur in the entorhinal cortex, thereby disrupting the origin of the perforant pathway projection to the hippocampus, and amyloid deposits are often found in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, which is the terminal zone of the entorhinal cortex. We modeled these anatomical changes in a transgenic mouse model that overexpresses both P301L tau (uniquely in the medial entorhinal cortex) and mutant APP/PS1 (in a widespread distribution) to examine the anatomical consequences of early tangles, plaques, or the combination. We find that tau uniformly occupies the terminal zone of the perforant pathway in tau-expressing mice. By contrast, the addition of amyloid deposits in this area leads to disruption of the perforant pathway terminal zone and apparent aberrant distribution of tau-containing axons. Moreover, human P301L tau-containing axons appear to increase the extent of dystrophic axons around plaques. Thus, the presence of amyloid deposits in the axonal terminal zone of pathological tau-containing neurons profoundly impacts their normal connectivity.
Predator-induced stress responses are thought to reduce an animal's risk of being eaten. Therefore, these stress responses should enhance anti-predator behaviour. We found that individual insects (the cricket Gryllus texensis) show reliable behavioural responses (i.e. behavioural types) in a plus-shaped maze. An individual's behaviour in the plus maze remained consistent for at least 1/2 of its adult life. However, after exposure to a model predator, both male and female crickets showed a reduced period of immobility and an increased amount of time spent under shelter compared with controls. These changes could be mimicked by injections of the insect stress neurohormone octopamine. These behavioural changes probably aid crickets in evading predators. Exposure to a model predator increased the ability of crickets to escape a live predator (a bearded dragon, Pogona vitticeps). An injection of octopamine had the same effect, showing that stress hormones can reduce predation. Using crickets to study the fitness consequences of predator-induced stress responses will help integrate ecological and biomedical concepts of 'stress'.
Innate and adaptive immune responses can speed nigrostriatal neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease (PD). We posit that GM-CSF can attenuate such responses. In 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) intoxicated mice, GM-CSF given prior to MPTP protected nigral dopaminergic neurons coincident with altered microglial morphologies and regulatory T cell (Treg) induction. Adoptive transfer of GM-CSF-induced Treg to MPTP mice protected nigral neurons. Gene expression analyses revealed novel immune-based neuronal protection pathways linked to the upregulation of IL-27. The results provide evidence that GM-CSF modulation of immunity could be of clinical benefit for PD.
Autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS) are thought to develop due to a dysregulation in the normal T(H)1-T(H)17/T(H)2 immune system balance, where pro-inflammatory responses with a T(H)1/T(H)17 prevalence develop. Some therapeutic treatments in MS promote a shift toward a TH2-prevalent environment and this has been shown to be protective. However, not all patients respond to current immunomodulatory treatments in MS so that new immunomodulatory drugs that can promote a shift of the immune system into an anti-inflammatory T(H)2 status are needed. IL-25 is a cytokine of the IL-17 family with powerful anti-inflammatory properties. This study demonstrates that IL-25 exerts neuroprotective functions by reducing T cell-mediated killing of human fetal neurons. The mechanism of action of this IL-25-mediated neuroprotective effect appears to be linked to reduction in the expression of the adhesion molecule LFA-1, which is relevant in stabilizing the immune synapse during cytotoxicity.
Leucine-rich glioma inactivated 1 (LGI1) was recently identified as a target protein in autoimmune synaptic encephalitis, a rare condition associated with autoantibodies against structures in the neuronal synapse. Studies dealing with LGI1 are small in number and the various outcomes of different therapeutic regimens are not well studied. Here, we analyzed clinical characteristics of 14 patients with LGI1 antibodies, and outcomes according to therapeutic strategies. Most patients exhibited abnormal brain positron emission tomography and that patients treated with steroids alone were more likely to relapse and had less favorable outcomes than those treated with steroids and intravenous immunoglobulins.


We report a case with genetically confirmed hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with spheroids with distinctive MRI features. A 52-year-old woman with a family history of juvenile dementia presented with an 18-month history of progressive cognitive decline. Longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging studies of the brain revealed increasing and persistent white matter hyperintensities on diffusion-weighted images. Linear high intensity signal along axonal fibers arisen from the cerebral cortex was also shown. Finding of subcortical calcifications was noted on brain CT scan. Sequence analysis of CSF1R showed a novel missense mutation c.2467C&gt;T (p.Ala823Val). Persistent and increasing diffusion on magnetic resonance image, presumably reflecting intramyelinic oedema in regions of neurodegeneration, is a distinctive feature observed in this case. The presence of this unique finding can be a diagnostic clue in the early stage of the disease.
Essential tremor (ET) is one of the most common neurological diseases; but aetio-pathogenesis of ET is largely unknown. Major advances in neuroimaging may help us understand the mechanisms and networks involved in ET. Most commonly employed techniques include functional and structural neuroimaging. Functional imaging studies suggest that tremors in ET are of central origin with role of olivo-cerebellar and cerebello-thalamo-cortical pathways in tremor generation. Apart from tremors, ET is also characterised by cognitive dysfunction. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies suggest the role of cerebellum posterior lobules, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and parietal lobules in cognitive impairment in ET. Positron emission tomography studies indicate the role of gamma-aminobutyric-acid dysfunction in tremor generation while most of the structural imaging studies (diffusion tensor imaging, voxel based morphometry, T2*-relaxometry on magnetic resonance imaging) along with magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging point toward neurodegeneration. This review focuses on recent findings in the field of imaging in ET which may help understand the disease pathogenesis and mechanisms.

Lactate has been regarded as a waste product of anaerobic metabolism of glucose. Evidence also suggests, however, that the brain may use lactate as an alternative fuel. Our aim was to determine the extent of lactate uptake from the circulation into the brain after traumatic brain injury (TBI) and to compare it with levels of lactate in the brain extracellular fluid. We recruited 19 patients with diffuse TBI, monitored with cerebral microdialysis and jugular bulb catheters. Serial arteriovenous (AV) concentration differences of glucose and lactate were calculated from arterial and jugular blood samples, providing a measure of net uptake or export by the brain. Microdialysis was used to measure brain extracellular glucose and lactate. In 17/19 patients studied for 5 days post-injury, there were periods of net lactate uptake into the brain, most frequently on day 3 after injury. Brain microdialysate lactate had a median (interquartile range [IQR]) concentration of 2.5 (1.5-3.2) mmol/L during lactate uptake and 2.2 (1.7-3.0) mmol/L during lactate export. Lactate uptake into the brain occurred at a median (IQR) arterial lactate concentration of 1.6 (1.0-2.2) mmol/L. Lactate uptake was associated with significantly higher AV difference in glucose values with a median (IQR) of 0.4 (0.03-0.7) mmol/L during uptake and 0.1 (-0.2-0.3) mmol/L during lactate export (Mann-Whitney U p=0.003). Despite relatively high brain lactate compared with arterial lactate concentrations, the brain appears to up-regulate lactate transport into the brain after TBI. This may serve to satisfy greater demands for energy substrate from the brain after TBI.

Multiple lines of evidence demonstrate that schizophrenia patients may perform worse than normal controls in several cognitive tasks. However, little is known on putative differences in cognitive functioning between schizophrenia patients responding to antipsychotics and those resistant to the treatment. In this cross-sectional study, 63 subjects (41 schizophrenia and schizoaffective patients and 22 age and sex-matched controls) were enrolled. Patients were divided in resistant (TRS, n=19) and non-resistant to pharmacological treatment (non-TRS, n=22) according to the American Psychiatric Association (APA) criteria for treatment resistance. The Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia (BACS) was administered to patients and controls. The following rating scales were administered to schizophrenia patients: the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), the Drug Attitude Inventory (DAI) and the Subjective Well-being under Neuroleptics (SWN). Statistically significant differences among non-TRS patients, TRS ones, and controls were detected at the BACS. TRS patients performed significantly worse than non-TRS ones on Verbal Memory task, exhibited higher PANSS total and subscales scores and were prescribed higher antipsychotic doses. Poorer performances at the BACS significantly correlated with more severe negative symptoms in TRS but not in non-TRS patients. These results may suggest that TRS patients suffer from a form of the disease with prominent cognitive impairment possibly related to negative symptoms.
Reduced cognitive test performance has been demonstrated in patients with bipolar disorder (BD), even when euthymic. Several studies have explored aspects of attention, including sustained attention, and reported patients show lower accuracy compared to controls. It is necessary to modify existing attentional paradigms to fully characterise such deficits. The present study sought to examine if there are changes in the profile of performance and error-types during a sustained attention task in BD. Twenty-two euthymic patients with DSM-IV diagnosed BD and 21 healthy controls were recruited. Participants completed a modified CPT-AX paradigm with a high proportion of target trials (70%) with cues and probes presented at continuous intervals. This modification increases the demands on response inhibition and permits the deconstruction of attentional/executive deficits previously described. Overall, BD patients showed significantly poorer target discriminability compared to controls. In block one (first quarter) of the task, patients showed no significant differences to controls, but by the final fourth block (last quarter) they made significantly fewer hits and more errors (both 'AX' misses and 'BX' false alarms). BD patients completed initial stages of the task similarly to controls, but as demands on the attentional system continued difficulties emerged, consistent with problems in context-maintenance.
The aim of this study was to investigate theory of mind (ToM) in a sample of depressed patients with mild symptom severity using a measure with varied cognitive processing demands. Patients demonstrated impaired performance on second-order, cognitively demanding ToM scenarios. Reduced ToM ability was associated with poor psychosocial functioning.
All guidelines on major depressive disorder (MDD) and anxiety disorders recommend pharmacotherapy and/or psychological treatment for moderate to severe disease. The aim of this cross-sectional study was to investigate treatment inadequacy, both pharmacological and psychological, in a large naturalistic cohort of subjects with MDD and anxiety disorders from the Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety. All subjects with a current 6-month diagnosis were included (n=1662). Demographic data, clinical features and actual medication use were assessed in face-to-face interviews. In moderate to severe MDD, 43% of the subjects were not treated sufficiently with antidepressants or psychological treatment. In primary health care patients, this undertreatment was 70%. In moderate to severe anxiety disorders, 44% of the subjects were not treated sufficiently with antidepressants, benzodiazepines or psychological treatment. Among antidepressant users with moderate to severe MDD, 21% of the pharmacotherapy was inadequate with respect to drug choice, dose and every day use. Undertreatment and pharmacotherapeutic inadequacy are common in moderate to severe MDD and anxiety disorders. Both are more pronounced in primary care than in specialized care. This may be partly due to differences in disease recognition and help seeking behaviour.

Animal venoms are important sources for finding new pharmaceutical lead molecules. We used an analytical platform for initial rapid screening and identification of bioactive compounds from these venoms followed by fast and straightforward LC-MS only guided purification to obtain bioactives for further chemical and biological studies. The analytical platform consists of a nano-LC separation coupled post-column to high-resolution mass spectrometry and parallel on-line bioaffinity profiling for the acetylcholine binding protein (AChBP) in a chip based fluorescent enhancement based bioassay. AChBP is a stable structural homologue of the extracellular ligand binding domain of the 7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (7-nAChR). This receptor is an extensively studied medicinal target, previously associated with epilepsy, Alzheimer's, schizophrenia and anxiety. The workflow is demonstrated with the venom of the Naja mossambica mossambica. Two medium affinity AChBP ligands were found. After subsequent LC-MS guided purification of the respective venom peptides, the purified peptides were sequenced and confirmed as Cytotoxin 1 and 2. These peptides were not reported before to have affinity for the AChBP. The purified peptides can be used for further biological studies.
Canine distemper virus (CDV) infection causes immunosuppression and demyelinating leukoencephalitis in dogs. In viral diseases, an ambiguous function of regulatory T cells (Treg), with both beneficial effects by reducing immunopathology and detrimental effects by inhibiting antiviral immunity, has been described. However, the role of Treg in the pathogenesis of canine distemper remains unknown. In order to determine the effect of CDV upon immune homeostasis, the amount of Foxp3(+) Treg in spleen and brain of naturally infected dogs has been determined by immunohistochemistry. In addition, splenic cytokine expression has been quantified by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Splenic depletion of Foxp3(+) Treg was associated with an increased mRNA-expression of tumor necrosis factor and decreased transcription of interleukin-2 in the acute disease phase, indicative of disturbed immunological counter regulation in peripheral lymphoid organs. In the brain, a lack of Foxp3(+) Treg in predemyelinating and early demyelinating lesions and significantly increased infiltrations of Foxp3(+) Treg in chronic demyelinating lesions were observed. In conclusion, disturbed peripheral and CNS immune regulation associated with a reduction of Treg represents a potential prerequisite for excessive neuroinflammation and early lesion development in canine distemper leukoencephalitis.










Multiple Ca(2+)-dependent processes are involved in capsaicin-induced desensitization of transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), but desensitization of TRPV1 by heat occurs even in the absence of extracellular Ca(2+), although the mechanisms are unknown. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that capsaicin and heat desensitize TRPV1 through distinct mechanisms involving distinct structural segments of TRPV1. In HEK293 cells that heterologously express TRPV1, we found that heat-induced desensitization was not affected by the inclusion of intracellular ATP or alanine mutation of Lys(155), both of which attenuate capsaicin-induced desensitization, suggesting that heat-induced desensitization occurs through mechanisms distinct from capsaicin-induced desensitization. To determine protein domains involved in heat-induced desensitization, we generated chimeric proteins between TRPV1 and TRPV3, a heat-gated channel lacking heat-induced desensitization. We found that TRPV1 with the carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD) of TRPV3 retained heat activation but was impaired in heat-induced desensitization. Further experiments using chimeric or deletion mutants within TRPV1 CTD indicated that the distal half of CTD regulates the activation and desensitization of TRPV1 in modality-specific manners. Within the distal CTD, we identified two segments that distinctly regulated capsaicin- and heat-induced desensitization. The results suggest that the activation and desensitization of TRPV1 by capsaicin and heat can be modulated differentially and disproportionally through different regions of TRPV1 CTD. Identifying the domains involved in thermal regulation of TRPV1 may facilitate the development of novel anti-hyperalgesic approaches aimed at attenuating activation and enhancing desensitization of TRPV1 by thermal stimuli.



Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the huntingtin (HTT) gene. Both central and peripheral innate immune activation have been described as features of the disease. Isolated human HD monocytes have been shown to produce more cytokines upon LPS stimulation compared to control monocytes. Understanding alterations in the signalling cascades responsible and activated by this increase in pro-inflammatory cytokine production is crucial in understanding the molecular basis of this phenomenon. Here we investigated the signalling cascade most commonly activated by pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-6 - the JAK/STAT signalling cascade. Using flow cytometry, we show that one out of three key transcription factors activated by JAK/STAT signalling is altered in primary human HD innate immune cells, suggesting that this pathway may only play a minor, additive role in the immune cell dysfunction in HD.


The central nervous system rapidly learns that particular stimuli predict imminent danger. This learning is thought to involve associations between neutral and harmful stimuli in cortical and limbic brain regions, though associative neuroplasticity in sensory structures is increasingly appreciated. We observed the synaptic output of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) in individual mice before and after they learned that a particular odor indicated an impending foot shock. OSNs are the first cells in the olfactory system, physically contacting the odor molecules in the nose and projecting their axons to the brain's olfactory bulb. OSN output evoked by the shock-predictive odor was selectively facilitated after fear conditioning. These results indicate that affective information about a stimulus can be encoded in its very earliest representation in the nervous system.

Dural arteriovenous fistulas (dAVFs) represent approximately 10-15% of all cerebral vascular malformations. Although dAVFs can occur anywhere in the brain, they occur most frequently in the cavernous and transverse-sigmoid sinuses. Posterior fossa dAVFs presenting clinically as carotid-cavernous fistulae (CCF) are rarely encountered in clinical practice. We discuss and illustrate an unusual case of a left posterior fossa dAVF that presented clinically with chemosis and early visual impairment, similar to that of CCF. This was subsequently treated by a direct access cavernous sinus approach. We describe the technique used to access the cavernous sinus directly in cases where conventional transvenous and transarterial routes have been exhausted.
Radiotherapy is an effective tool in the treatment of pediatric malignancies but it is associated with adverse side effects, both short- and long-term. One common long-term side effect after cranial radiotherapy is cognitive impairment and this is, at least partly, thought to be caused by reduced hippocampal neurogenesis. Neuroinflammation and a perturbed microenvironment are thought to be important in the dysregulation of neurogenesis seen after irradiation (IR). We investigated the effects of a pre-existing, lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced systemic inflammation at the time of IR in both males and females. A single dose of 8Gy to the brain of postnatal day 14 mice caused an upregulation of cytokines/chemokines (IL-1, MIP-1, IL-12, GM-CSF, MIP-1, IL-17, CCL2 and KC) 6h after IR, more so in females. Caspase-3 activity, reflecting apoptosis and possibly microglia activation, was elevated 6h after IR. Females treated with LPS before IR showed a higher caspase-3 activity compared with males. During the chronic phase (3 months post IR), we found that LPS-induced inflammation at the time of IR aggravated the IR-induced injury in both male and female mice, as judged by reduced bromodeoxyuridine incorporation and neurogenesis (doublecortin-positive cells) in the hippocampus. At this late time point, the microglia density was increased by IR, more so in females, indicating long-term effects on the microenvironment. IR increased anxiety-related behavior in vehicle-, but not LPS-, treated animals. However, exploratory behavior was affected by IR in both vehicle- and LPS-treated mice. In conclusion, we found that LPS administration before IR of the young mouse brain aggravated the injury, as judged by reduced hippocampal neurogenesis. This supports the clinical practice to postpone radiotherapy if the patient shows signs of infection. Systemic inflammation is not always obvious, though, for example because of concurrent corticosteroid treatment, so careful monitoring of inflammation is warranted.
Highly conserved microRNA-9 (miR-9) has a critical role in various cellular processes including neurogenesis. However, its regulation by neurotropins that are known to mediate neurogenesis remains poorly defined. In this study, we identify platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB)-mediated upregulation of miR-9, which in turn downregulates its target gene monocyte chemotactic protein-induced protein 1 (MCPIP1), as a key player in modulating proliferation, neuronal differentiation as well as migration of neuronal progenitor cells (NPCs). Results indicate that miR-9-mediated NPC proliferation and neuronal differentiation involves signaling via the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-B) and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) pathways, and that NPC migration involves CREB but not the NF-B signaling. These findings thus suggest that miR-9-mediated downregulation of MCPIP1 acts as a molecular switch regulation of neurogenesis.
Satellite cell (SC) proliferation and differentiation have critical roles in skeletal muscle recovery after injury and adaptation in response to hypertrophic stimuli. Normal ageing hinders SC proliferation and differentiation, and is associated with increased expression of a number of pro-apoptotic factors in skeletal muscle. In light of previous studies that have demonstrated age-related altered expression of genes involved in SC antioxidant and repair activity, this investigation was aimed at evaluating the incidence of apoptotic features in human SCs. Primary cells were obtained from vastus lateralis of nine young (27.32.0 years old) and nine old (71.11.8 years old) subjects, and cultured in complete medium for analyses at 4, 24, 48, and 72h. Apoptosis was assessed using AnnexinV/propidium iodide staining, the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labelling technique, RT-PCR, DNA microarrays, flow cytometry, and immunofluorescence analysis. There was an increased rate of apoptotic cells in aged subjects at all of the experimental time points, with no direct correlation between AnnexinV-positive cells and caspase-8 activity. On the other hand, CASP2, CASP6, CASP7, and CASP9 and a number of cell death genes were upregulated in the aged SCs. Altogether, our data show age-related enhanced susceptibility of human SCs to apoptosis, which might be responsible for their reduced response to muscle damage.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by a deficiency in the survival motor neuron (SMN) protein. SMN mediates the assembly of spliceosomal small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs) and possibly other RNPs. Here, we investigated SMN requirement for the biogenesis and function of U7--an snRNP specialized in the 3'-end formation of replication-dependent histone mRNAs that normally are not polyadenylated. We show that SMN deficiency impairs U7 snRNP assembly and decreases U7 levels in mammalian cells. The SMN-dependent U7 reduction affects endonucleolytic cleavage of histone mRNAs leading to abnormal accumulation of 3'-extended and polyadenylated transcripts followed by downstream changes in histone gene expression. Importantly, SMN deficiency induces defects of histone mRNA 3'-end formation in both SMA mice and human patients. These findings demonstrate that SMN is essential for U7 biogenesis and histone mRNA processing in vivo and identify an additional RNA pathway disrupted in SMA.
Genetic screens in invertebrates have discovered many synaptogenic genes and pathways. However, similar genetic studies have not been possible in mammals. We have optimized an automated high-throughput platform that employs automated liquid handling and imaging of primary mammalian neurons. Using this platform, we have screened 3,200 shRNAs targeting 800 proteins. One of the hits identified was LRP6, a coreceptor for canonical Wnt ligands. LRP6 regulates excitatory synaptogenesis and is selectively localized to excitatory synapses. Invivo knockdown of LRP6 leads to a reduction in the number of functional synapses. Moreover, we show that the canonical Wnt ligand, Wnt8A, promotes synaptogenesis via LRP6. These results provide a proof of principle for using a high-content approach to screen for synaptogenic factors in the mammalian nervous system and identify and characterize a Wnt ligand receptor complex that is critical for the development of functional synapses invivo.
The GGGGCC (G4C2) intronic repeat expansion within C9ORF72 is the most common genetic cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Intranuclear neuronal RNA focihave been observed in ALS and FTD tissues, suggesting that G4C2 RNA may be toxic. Here, we demonstrate that the expression of 38 and 72 G4C2 repeats form intranuclear RNA foci that initiate apoptotic cell death in neuronal cell lines and zebrafish embryos. The foci colocalize with a subset of RNA binding proteins, including SF2, SC35, and hnRNP-H in transfected cells. Only hnRNP-H binds directly to G4C2 repeats following RNA immunoprecipitation, and only hnRNP-H colocalizes with 70% of G4C2 RNA foci detected in C9ORF72 mutant ALS and FTD brain tissues. We show that expanded G4C2 repeats are potently neurotoxic and bind hnRNP-H and other RNA binding proteins. We propose that RNA toxicity and protein sequestration may disrupt RNA processing and contribute to neurodegeneration.

Insulin-like peptide 5 (INSL5) is a complex two-chain peptide hormone constrained by three disulfide bonds in a pattern identical to insulin. High expression of INSL5 in the colon suggests roles in activation of colon motility and appetite control. A more recent study indicates it may have significant roles in the regulation of insulin secretion and -cell homeostasis. This peptide thus has considerable potential for the treatment of eating disorders, obesity, and/or diabetes. However, the synthesis of INSL5 is extremely challenging either by chemical or recombinant means. The A-chain is very poorly soluble and the B-chain is highly aggregating in nature which, together, makes their postsynthesis handling and purification very difficult. Given these difficulties, we have developed a highly active INSL5 analogue that has a much simpler structure with two disulfide bonds and is thus easier to assemble compared to native INSL5. This minimized peptide represents an attractive new mimetic for investigating the functional role of INSL5.


A primary cilium is a solitary, slender, non-motile protuberance of structured microtubules (9+0) enclosed by plasma membrane. Housing components of the cell division apparatus between cell divisions, primary cilia also serve as specialized compartments for calcium signalling and hedgehog signalling pathways. Specialized sensory cilia such as retinal photoreceptors and olfactory cilia use diverse ion channels. An ion current has been measured from primary cilia of kidney cells, but the responsible genes have not been identified. The polycystin proteins (PC and PKD), identified in linkage studies of polycystic kidney disease, are candidate channels divided into two structural classes: 11-transmembrane proteins (PKD1, PKD1L1 and PKD1L2) remarkable for a large extracellular amino terminus of putative cell adhesion domains and a G-protein-coupled receptor proteolytic site, and the 6-transmembrane channel proteins (PKD2, PKD2L1 and PKD2L2; TRPPs). Evidence indicates that the PKD1 proteins associate with the PKD2 proteins via coiled-coil domains. Here we use a transgenic mouse in which only cilia express a fluorophore and use it to record directly from primary cilia, and demonstrate that PKD1L1 and PKD2L1 form ion channels at high densities in several cell types. In conjunction with an accompanying manuscript, we show that the PKD1L1-PKD2L1 heteromeric channel establishes the cilia as a unique calcium compartment within cells that modulates established hedgehog pathways.
Fibroblasts are the major mesenchymal cell type in connective tissue and deposit the collagen and elastic fibres of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Even within a single tissue, fibroblasts exhibit considerable functional diversity, but it is not known whether this reflects the existence of a differentiation hierarchy or is a response to different environmental factors. Here we show, using transplantation assays and lineage tracing in mice, that the fibroblasts of skin connective tissue arise from two distinct lineages. One forms the upper dermis, including the dermal papilla that regulates hair growth and the arrector pili muscle, which controls piloerection. The other forms the lower dermis, including the reticular fibroblasts that synthesize the bulk of the fibrillar ECM, and the preadipocytes and adipocytes of the hypodermis. The upper lineage is required for hair follicle formation. In wounded adult skin, the initial wave of dermal repair is mediated by the lower lineage and upper dermal fibroblasts are recruited only during re-epithelialization. Epidermal -catenin activation stimulates the expansion of the upper dermal lineage, rendering wounds permissive for hair follicle formation. Our findings explain why wounding is linked to formation of ECM-rich scar tissue that lacks hair follicles. They also form a platform for discovering fibroblast lineages in other tissues and for examining fibroblast changes in ageing and disease.

To sustain neurotransmission, synaptic vesicles and their associated proteins must be recycled locally at synapses. Synaptic vesicles are thought to be regenerated approximately 20s after fusion by the assembly of clathrin scaffolds or in approximately 1s by the reversal of fusion pores via 'kiss-and-run' endocytosis. Here we use optogenetics to stimulate cultured hippocampal neurons with a single stimulus, rapidly freeze them after fixed intervals and examine the ultrastructure using electron microscopy--'flash-and-freeze' electron microscopy. Docked vesicles fuse and collapse into the membrane within 30ms of the stimulus. Compensatory endocytosis occurs within 50 to 100ms at sites flanking the active zone. Invagination is blocked by inhibition of actin polymerization, and scission is blocked by inhibiting dynamin. Because intact synaptic vesicles are not recovered, this form of recycling is not compatible with kiss-and-run endocytosis; moreover, it is 200-fold faster than clathrin-mediated endocytosis. It is likely that 'ultrafast endocytosis' is specialized to restore the surface area of the membrane rapidly.



Spatial navigation comprises a widely-studied complex of animal behaviors. Its study offers many methodological advantages over other approaches, enabling assessment of a variety of experimental questions and the possibility to compare the results across different species. Spatial navigation in laboratory animals is often considered a model of higher human cognitive functions including declarative memory. Almost fifteen years ago, a novel dry-arena task for rodents was designed in our laboratory, originally named the place avoidance task, and later a modification of this approach was established and called active place avoidance task. It employs a continuously rotating arena, upon which animals are trained to avoid a stable sector defined according to room-frame coordinates. This review describes the development of the place avoidance tasks, evaluates the cognitive processes associated with performance and explores the application of place avoidance in the testing of spatial learning after neuropharmacological, lesion and other experimental manipulations.
Physical activity facilitates neurogenesis of dentate cells in the rodent hippocampus, a brain region critical for memory formation and spatial representation. Recent findings in humans also suggest that aerobic exercise can lead to increased hippocampal volume and enhanced cognitive functioning in children and elderly adults. However, the association between physical activity and hippocampal volume during the period from early adulthood through middle age has not been effectively explored. Here, we correlated the number of minutes of self-reported exercise per week with gray matter volume of the hippocampus using voxel-based morphometry (VBM) in 61 healthy adults ranging from 18 to 45 years of age. After controlling for age, gender, and total brain volume, total minutes of weekly exercise correlated significantly with volume of the right hippocampus. Findings highlight the relationship between regular physical exercise and brain structure during early to middle adulthood.

The intrinsic electrocatalytic properties of functionalized graphene sheets (FGSs) in nitric oxide (NO) sensing are determined by cyclic voltammetry with FGS monolayer electrodes. The degrees of reduction and defectiveness of the FGSs are varied by employing different heat treatments during their fabrication. FGSs with intermediate degrees of reduction and high Raman ID to IG peak ratios exhibit an NO oxidation peak potential of 794 mV (vs 1 M Ag/AgCl), closely matching values obtained with a platinized Pt control (791 mV) as well as recent results from the literature on porous or biofunctionalized electrodes. We show that the peak potential obtained with FGS electrodes can be further reduced to 764 mV by incorporation of electrode porosity using a drop-casting approach, indicating a stronger apparent electrocatalytic effect on porous FGS electrodes as compared to platinized Pt. Taking into consideration effects of electrode morphology, we thereby demonstrate that FGSs are intrinsically as catalytic toward NO oxidation as platinum. The lowered peak potential of porous FGS electrodes is accompanied by a significant increase in peak current, which we attribute either to pore depletion effects or an amplification effect due to subsequent electrooxidation reactions. Our results suggest that the development of sensor electrodes with higher sensitivity and lower detection limits should be feasible with FGSs.

Cytosine DNA methylation is an epigenetic mark in most eukaryotic cells that regulates numerous processes, including gene expression and stress responses. We performed a genome-wide analysis of DNA methylation in the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. We mapped the positions of methylated cytosines and identified a single functional DNA methyltransferase (Plasmodium falciparum DNA methyltransferase; PfDNMT) that may mediate these genomic modifications. These analyses revealed that the malaria genome is asymmetrically methylated and shares common features with undifferentiated plant and mammalian cells. Notably, core promoters are hypomethylated, and transcript levels correlate with intraexonic methylation. Additionally, there are sharp methylation transitions at nucleosome and exon-intron boundaries. These data suggest that DNA methylation could regulate virulence gene expression and transcription elongation. Furthermore, the broad range of action of DNA methylation and the uniqueness of PfDNMT suggest that the methylation pathway is a potential target for antimalarial strategies.
The spontaneous transition of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) from latency to productive infection is infrequent, making its analysis in the resulting mixed cell populations difficult. We engineered cells to support this transition efficiently and developed EBV DNA variants that could be visualized and measured as fluorescent signals over multiple cell cycles. This approach revealed that EBV's productive replication began synchronously for viral DNAs within a cell but asynchronously between cells. EBV DNA amplification was delayed until early S phase and occurred in factories characterized by the absence of cellular DNA and histones, by a sequential redistribution of PCNA, and by localization away from the nuclear periphery. The earliest amplified DNAs lacked histones accompanying a decline in four histone chaperones. Thus, EBV transits from being dependent on the cellular replication machinery during latency to commandeering both that machinery and nuclear structure for its own reproductive needs.


From october 25th - 27th 2013, the 5th NEUROWIND e.V. meeting was held in Motzen, Brandenburg, Germany. This year more than 60 doctoral students and postdocs from over 25 different groups working in German university hospitals or research institutes attended the meeting to discuss their latest findings in the fields of neuroimmunology, neurodegeneration and neurovascular research. All participants appreciated the stimulating environment in Motzen, Brandenburg, and people took the opportunity for scientific exchange, discussion about ongoing projects and already started further collaborations. Like in the previous years, the symposium was regarded as a very well organized platform to support research of young investigators in Germany.According to the major aim of NEUROWIND e.V. to support younger researchers in Germany the 3rd NEUROWIND YOUNG SCIENTIST AWARD for experimental neurology was awarded to Ruth Stassart working in the group of Klaus Armin Nave and Wolfgang Brck (MPI Gttingen and Department of Neuropathology, Gttingen Germany). The successful work was published in Nature Neuroscience entitled &quot;A role for Swann cell-derived neuregulin-1 in remyelination&quot;. This outstanding paper deals with the function of Schwann cell neuregulin as an endogenous factor for myelin repair. The award is endowed with 20.000 Euro sponsored by Merck Serono GmbH, Darmstadt, Germany (unrestricted educational grant).This year's keynote lecture was given by Albert Ludolph, Head of the Department of Neurology at the University Clinic of Ulm. Dr. Ludolph highlighted the particular role of individual scientists for the development of research concepts in Alzheimers disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD).
In recent decades, scientific understanding of the many roles of oxytocin (OT) in social behavior has advanced tremendously. The focus of this research has been on maternal attachments and reproductive pair-bonds, and much less is known about the substrates of sociality outside of reproductive contexts. It is now apparent that OT influences many aspects of social behavior including recognition, trust, empathy, and other components of the behavioral repertoire of social species. This review provides a comparative perspective on the contributions of OT to life in mammalian social groups. We provide background on the functions of OT in maternal attachments and the early social environment, and give an overview of the role of OT circuitry in support of different mating systems. We then introduce peer relationships in group-living rodents as a means for studying the importance of OT in non-reproductive affiliative behaviors. We review species differences in oxytocin receptor (OTR) distributions in solitary and group-living species of South American tuco-tucos and in African mole-rats, as well as singing mice. We discuss variation in OTR levels with seasonal changes in social behavior in female meadow voles, and the effects of OT manipulations on peer huddling behavior. Finally, we discuss avenues of promise for future investigation, and relate current findings to research in humans and non-human primates. There is growing evidence that OT is involved in social selectivity, including increases in aggression toward social outgroups and decreased huddling with unfamiliar individuals, which may support existing social structures or relationships at the expense of others. OT's effects reach beyond maternal attachment and pair bonds to play a role in affiliative behavior underlying &quot;friendships&quot;, organization of broad social structures, and maintenance of established social relationships with individuals or groups.





erbb4 is a susceptibility gene for schizophrenia and ErbB4 signals have been hypothesized to function in a number of cortical developmental processes (Silberberg et al., 2006; Mei and Xiong, 2008). Several recent studies show that the expression of ErbB4 is mainly restricted to GABAergic interneurons (Yau et al., 2003; Woo et al., 2007), specifically, to parvalbumin-positive (PV) fast-spiking (FS) interneurons (Vullhorst et al., 2009; Fazzari et al., 2010), a large majority of which are PV FS basket cells (Kawaguchi, 1995; Taniguchi et al., 2013). However, in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), a brain region that is closely associated with neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia, little is known about the roles of ErbB4 signals during the development of GABAergic circuitry particularly that associated with PV FS basket cells. Here, using molecular genetics, biochemistry, and electrophysiology, we deleted ErbB4 receptors in GABAergic forebrain neurons during the embryonic period and demonstrated that in the mouse mPFC, ErbB4 signals were dispensable for the development of GABAergic synapses by PV FS basket cells. Interestingly, they were required for the final maturation rather than the initial formation of glutamatergic synapses on PV FS basket cells. Furthermore, activity-dependent GABAergic PV FS pyramidal neuron transmission was decreased, whereas activity of pyramidal neurons was increased in KO mice. Together, these data indicate that ErbB4 signals contribute to the development of GABAergic circuitry associated with FS basket cells in component- and stage-dependent manners in the mPFC in vivo, and may suggest a mechanism for neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is the most common inherited intellectual disability. FXS results from a mutation that causes silencing of the FMR1 gene, which encodes the fragile X mental retardation protein. Patients with FXS exhibit a range of neurological deficits, including motor skill deficits. Here, we have investigated motor skill learning and its synaptic correlates in the fmr1 knock-out (KO) mouse. We find that fmr1 KO mice have impaired motor skill learning of a forelimb-reaching task, compared with their wild-type (WT) littermate controls. Electrophysiological recordings from the forelimb region of the primary motor cortex demonstrated reduced, training-induced synaptic strengthening in the trained hemisphere. Moreover, long-term potentiation (LTP) is impaired in the fmr1 KO mouse, and motor skill training does not occlude LTP as it does in the WT mice. Whereas motor skill training induces an increase of synaptic AMPA-type glutamate receptor subunit 1 (GluA1), there is a delay in GluA1 increase in the trained hemisphere of the fmr1 KO mice. Using transcranial in vivo multiphoton microscopy, we find that fmr1 KO mice have similar spine density but increased dendritic spine turnover compared with WT mice. Finally, we report that motor skill training-induced formation of dendritic spines is impaired in fmr1 KO mice. We conclude that FMRP plays a role in motor skill learning and that reduced functional and structural synaptic plasticity might underlie the behavioral deficit in the fmr1 KO mouse.
Transient receptor potential &quot;canonical&quot; cation channels (TRPC) are involved in many cellular activities, including neuronal synaptic transmission. These channels couple lipid metabolism, calcium homeostasis, and electrophysiological properties as they are calcium permeable and activated through the phospholipase C pathway and by diacylglycerol. The TRPC3 subunit is abundantly expressed in Purkinje cells (PCs), where it mediates slow metabotropic glutamate receptor-mediated synaptic responses. Recently, it has been shown that heterozygous moonwalker mice, which are a model of cerebellar ataxia, carry a dominant gain-of-function mutation (T635A) in the TRPC3 gene. This mutation leads to PC loss and dysmorphism, which have been suggested to cause the ataxia. However, the ataxic phenotype is present from a very early stage (before weaning), whereas PC loss does not appear until several months of age. Here we show that another class of cerebellar neurons, the type II unipolar brush cells (UBCs), express functional TRPC3 channels; intriguingly, these cells are ablated in moonwalker mice by 1 month of age. Additionally, we show that in moonwalker mice, intrinsic excitability of PCs is altered as early as 3 weeks after birth. We suggest that this altered excitability and the TRPC3-mediated loss of type II UBCs may both contribute to the ataxic phenotype of these mice and that different calcium handling in PCs and type II UBCs may account for the dramatic differences in sensitivity to the moonwalker mutation between these cell types.
Axon regeneration is hindered by a decline of intrinsic axon growth capability in mature neurons. Reversing this decline is associated with the induction of a large repertoire of regeneration-associated genes (RAGs), but the underlying regulatory mechanisms of the transcriptional changes are largely unknown. Here, we establish a correlation between diminished axon growth potential and histone 4 (H4) hypoacetylation. When neurons are triggered into a growth state, as in the conditioning lesion paradigm, H4 acetylation is restored, and RAG transcription is initiated. We have identified a set of target genes of Smad1, a proregenerative transcription factor, in conditioned DRG neurons. We also show that, during the epigenetic reprogramming process, histone-modifying enzymes work together with Smad1 to facilitate transcriptional regulation of RAGs. Importantly, targeted pharmacological modulation of the activity of histone-modifying enzymes, such as histone deacetylases, leads to induction of multiple RAGs and promotion of sensory axon regeneration in a mouse model of spinal cord injury. Our findings suggest epigenetic modulation as a potential therapeutic strategy to enhance axon regeneration.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) exerts a coordinated modulation of the psychoneuroendocrine responses to stress. However, how acute stress impacts on BNST in vivo plasticity is a crucial question that still remains unanswered. Here, neurons from the anterior portion of the BNST (aBNST) were recorded in vivo during and after stimulation of their medial prefrontal cortical (mPFC) afferents. In C57BL/6N mice, a 1 h restraint stress induced a switch from long-term depression (LTD) to long-term potentiation (LTP) in the aBNST after a 10 Hz mPFC stimulation. This switch was independent from glucocorticoid receptor stimulation. Because the endocannabinoid system regulates aBNST activity, we next examined the role of cannabinoid type-1 receptors (CB1-Rs) in these changes. Mutant mice lacking CB1-Rs (CB1(-/-) mice) displayed a marked deficit in the ability to develop plasticity under control and stress conditions, compared with their wild-type littermates (CB1(+/+) mice). This difference was not accounted for by genetic differences in stress sensitivity, as revealed by Fos immunohistochemistry analyses. Local blockade of CB1-Rs in the aBNST and the use of mutant mice bearing a selective deletion of CB1-Rs in cortical glutamatergic neurons indicated that stress-elicited LTP involved CB1-Rs located on aBNST excitatory terminals. These results show that acute stress reverts LTD into LTP in the aBNST and that the endocannabinoid system plays a key role therein.
Large-scale neural activation dynamics in the hippocampal-entorhinal circuit local field potential, observable as theta and gamma rhythms and coupling between these rhythms, is predictive of encoding success. Behavioral studies show that systemic administration of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists selectively impairs encoding, suggesting that they may also disrupt the coupling between the theta and gamma bands. Here, we tested the hypothesis that muscarinic antagonists selectively disrupt coupling between theta and gamma. Specifically, we characterized the effects of systemically administered scopolamine on movement-induced theta and gamma rhythms recorded in the superficial layers of the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) of freely moving rats. We report the novel result that gamma power at the peak of theta was most reduced following muscarinic blockade, significantly shifting the phase of maximal gamma power to occur at later phases of theta. We also characterize the existence of multiple distinct gamma bands in the superficial layers of the MEC. Further, we observed that theta frequency was significantly less modulated by movement speed following muscarinic blockade. Finally, the slope relating speed to theta frequency, a correlate of familiarity with a testing enclosure, increased significantly less between the preinjection and recovery trials when scopolamine was administered during the intervening injection session than when saline was administered, suggesting that scopolamine reduced encoding of the testing enclosure. These data are consistent with computational models suggesting that encoding and retrieval occur during the peak and trough of theta, respectively, and support the theory that acetylcholine regulates the balance between encoding versus retrieval.
Slow waves represent one of the prominent EEG signatures of non-rapid eye movement (non-REM) sleep and are thought to play an important role in the cellular and network plasticity that occurs during this behavioral state. These slow waves of natural sleep are currently considered to be exclusively generated by intrinsic and synaptic mechanisms within neocortical territories, although a role for the thalamus in this key physiological rhythm has been suggested but never demonstrated. Combining neuronal ensemble recordings, microdialysis, and optogenetics, here we show that the block of the thalamic output to the neocortex markedly (up to 50%) decreases the frequency of slow waves recorded during non-REM sleep in freely moving, naturally sleeping-waking rats. A smaller volume of thalamic inactivation than during sleep is required for observing similar effects on EEG slow waves recorded during anesthesia, a condition in which both bursts and single action potentials of thalamocortical neurons are almost exclusively dependent on T-type calcium channels. Thalamic inactivation more strongly reduces spindles than slow waves during both anesthesia and natural sleep. Moreover, selective excitation of thalamocortical neurons strongly entrains EEG slow waves in a narrow frequency band (0.75-1.5 Hz) only when thalamic T-type calcium channels are functionally active. These results demonstrate that the thalamus finely tunes the frequency of slow waves during non-REM sleep and anesthesia, and thus provide the first conclusive evidence that a dynamic interplay of the neocortical and thalamic oscillators of slow waves is required for the full expression of this key physiological EEG rhythm.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult-onset neurodegenerative disease that leads invariably to fatal paralysis associated with motor neuron degeneration and muscular atrophy. One gene associated with ALS encodes the DNA/RNA-binding protein Fused in Sarcoma (FUS). There now exist two Drosophila models of ALS. In one, human FUS with ALS-causing mutations is expressed in fly motor neurons; in the other, the gene cabeza (caz), the fly homolog of FUS, is ablated. These FUS-ALS flies exhibit larval locomotor defects indicative of neuromuscular dysfunction and early death. The locus and site of initiation of this neuromuscular dysfunction remain unclear. We show here that in FUS-ALS flies, motor neuron cell bodies fire action potentials that propagate along the axon and voltage-dependent inward and outward currents in the cell bodies are indistinguishable in wild-type and FUS-ALS motor neurons. In marked contrast, the amplitude of synaptic currents evoked in the postsynaptic muscle cell is decreased by &gt;80% in FUS-ALS larvae. Furthermore, the frequency but not unitary amplitude of spontaneous miniature synaptic currents is decreased dramatically in FUS-ALS flies, consistent with a change in quantal content but not quantal size. Although standard confocal microscopic analysis of the larval neuromuscular junction reveals no gross abnormalities, superresolution stimulated emission depletion (STED) microscopy demonstrates that the presynaptic active zone protein bruchpilot is aberrantly organized in FUS-ALS larvae. The results are consistent with the idea that defects in presynaptic terminal structure and function precede, and may contribute to, the later motor neuron degeneration that is characteristic of ALS.
A diverse array of interneuron types regulates activity in the mammalian neocortex. Two of the most abundant are the fast-spiking, parvalbumin-positive (PV(+)) interneurons, which target the axosomatic region of pyramidal cells, and the somatostatin-positive (SOM(+)) interneurons, which target the dendrites. Recent work has focused on the influence of PV(+) and SOM(+) interneurons on pyramidal cells. However, the connections among PV(+) and SOM(+) interneurons are poorly understood and could play an important role in cortical circuitry, since their interactions may alter the net influence on pyramidal cell output. We used an optogenetic approach to investigate the effect of SOM(+) interneurons on pyramidal cells and PV(+) interneurons during visual stimulation in mouse primary visual cortex. We find that SOM(+) interneuron activation suppresses PV(+) cell spiking at least twice as potently as pyramidal cell spiking during visual stimulation. This differential effect of SOM(+) cell stimulation is detectable even when only two to three SOM(+) cells are activated. Importantly, the remaining responses to oriented gratings in PV(+) cells are more orientation tuned and temporally modulated, suggesting that SOM(+) activity unmasks this tuning by suppressing untuned input. Our results highlight the importance of SOM(+) inhibition of PV(+) interneurons during sensory processing. This prominent competitive inhibition between interneuron types leads to a reconfiguration of inhibition along the somatodendritic axis of pyramidal cells, and enhances the orientation selectivity of PV(+) cells.
Adverse early-life experiences, such as poor maternal care, program an abnormal stress response that may involve an altered balance between excitatory and inhibitory signals. Here, we explored how early-life stress (ELS) affects excitatory and inhibitory transmission in corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF)-expressing dorsal-medial (mpd) neurons of the neonatal mouse hypothalamus. We report that ELS associates with enhanced excitatory glutamatergic transmission that is manifested as an increased frequency of synaptic events and increased extrasynaptic conductance, with the latter associated with dysfunctional astrocytic regulation of glutamate levels. The neurosteroid 5-pregnan-3-ol-20-one (53-THPROG) is an endogenous, positive modulator of GABAA receptors (GABAARs) that is abundant during brain development and rises rapidly during acute stress, thereby enhancing inhibition to curtail stress-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis. In control mpd neurons, 53-THPROG potently suppressed neuronal discharge, but this action was greatly compromised by prior ELS exposure. This neurosteroid insensitivity did not primarily result from perturbations of GABAergic inhibition, but rather arose functionally from the increased excitatory drive onto mpd neurons. Previous reports indicated that mice (dams) lacking the GABAAR  subunit ((0/0)) exhibit altered maternal behavior. Intriguingly, (0/0) offspring showed some hallmarks of abnormal maternal care that were further exacerbated by ELS. Moreover, in common with ELS, mpd neurons of (0/0) pups exhibited increased synaptic and extrasynaptic glutamatergic transmission and consequently a blunted neurosteroid suppression of neuronal firing. This study reveals that increased synaptic and tonic glutamatergic transmission may be a common maladaptation to ELS, leading to enhanced excitation of CRF-releasing neurons, and identifies neurosteroids as putative early regulators of the stress neurocircuitry.
MECP2 duplication syndrome is a childhood neurological disorder characterized by intellectual disability, autism, motor abnormalities, and epilepsy. The disorder is caused by duplications spanning the gene encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein-2 (MeCP2), a protein involved in the modulation of chromatin and gene expression. MeCP2 is thought to play a role in maintaining the structural integrity of neuronal circuits. Loss of MeCP2 function causes Rett syndrome and results in abnormal dendritic spine morphology and decreased pyramidal dendritic arbor complexity and spine density. The consequences of MeCP2 overexpression on dendritic pathophysiology remain unclear. We used in vivo two-photon microscopy to characterize layer 5 pyramidal neuron spine turnover and dendritic arborization as a function of age in transgenic mice expressing the human MECP2 gene at twice the normal levels of MeCP2 (Tg1; Collins et al., 2004). We found that spine density in terminal dendritic branches is initially higher in young Tg1 mice but falls below control levels after postnatal week 12, approximately correlating with the onset of behavioral symptoms. Spontaneous spine turnover rates remain high in older Tg1 animals compared with controls, reflecting the persistence of an immature state. Both spine gain and loss rates are higher, with a net bias in favor of spine elimination. Apical dendritic arbors in both simple- and complex-tufted layer 5 Tg1 pyramidal neurons have more branches of higher order, indicating that MeCP2 overexpression induces dendritic overgrowth. P70S6K was hyperphosphorylated in Tg1 somatosensory cortex, suggesting that elevated mTOR signaling may underlie the observed increase in spine turnover and dendritic growth.
A hallmark of executive control is the brain's agility to shift between different tasks depending on the behavioral rule currently in play. In this work, we propose a &quot;tweaking hypothesis&quot; for task switching: a weak rule signal provides a small bias that is dramatically amplified by reverberating attractor dynamics in neural circuits for stimulus categorization and action selection, leading to an all-or-none reconfiguration of sensory-motor mapping. Based on this principle, we developed a biologically realistic model with multiple modules for task switching. We found that the model quantitatively accounts for complex task switching behavior: switch cost, congruency effect, and task-response interaction; as well as monkey's single-neuron activity associated with task switching. The model yields several testable predictions, in particular, that category-selective neurons play a key role in resolving sensory-motor conflict. This work represents a neural circuit model for task switching and sheds insights in the brain mechanism of a fundamental cognitive capability.
Learning a novel motor skill is associated with well characterized structural and functional plasticity in the rodent motor cortex. Furthermore, neuroimaging studies of visuomotor learning in humans have suggested that structural plasticity can occur in white matter (WM), but the biological basis for such changes is unclear. We assessed the influence of motor skill learning on WM structure within sensorimotor cortex using both diffusion MRI fractional anisotropy (FA) and quantitative immunohistochemistry. Seventy-two adult (male) rats were randomly assigned to one of three conditions (skilled reaching, unskilled reaching, and caged control). After 11 d of training, postmortem diffusion MRI revealed significantly higher FA in the skilled reaching group compared with the control groups, specifically in the WM subjacent to the sensorimotor cortex contralateral to the trained limb. In addition, within the skilled reaching group, FA across widespread regions of WM in the contralateral hemisphere correlated significantly with learning rate. Immunohistological analysis conducted on a subset of 24 animals (eight per group) revealed significantly increased myelin staining in the WM underlying motor cortex in the hemisphere contralateral (but not ipsilateral) to the trained limb for the skilled learning group versus the control groups. Within the trained hemisphere (but not the untrained hemisphere), myelin staining density correlated significantly with learning rate. Our results suggest that learning a novel motor skill induces structural change in task-relevant WM pathways and that these changes may in part reflect learning-related increases in myelination.
More than 80 human X-linked genes have been associated with mental retardation and deficits in learning and memory. However, most of the identified mutations induce limited morphological alterations in brain organization and the molecular bases underlying neuronal clinical features remain elusive. We show here that neurons cultured from mice lacking ribosomal S6 kinase 2 (Rsk2), a model for the Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS), exhibit a significant delay in growth in a similar way to that shown by neurons cultured from phospholipase D1 (Pld1) knock-out mice. We found that gene silencing of Pld1 or Rsk2 as well as acute pharmacological inhibition of PLD1 or RSK2 in PC12 cells strongly impaired neuronal growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth. Expression of a phosphomimetic PLD1 mutant rescued the inhibition of neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells silenced for RSK2, revealing that PLD1 is a major target for RSK2 in neurite formation. NGF-triggered RSK2-dependent phosphorylation of PLD1 led to its activation and the synthesis of phosphatidic acid at sites of neurite growth. Additionally, total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy experiments revealed that RSK2 and PLD1 positively control fusion of tetanus neurotoxin insensitive vesicle-associated membrane protein (TiVAMP)/VAMP-7 vesicles at sites of neurite outgrowth. We propose that the loss of function mutations in RSK2 that leads to CLS and neuronal deficits are related to defects in neuronal growth due to impaired RSK2-dependent PLD1 activity resulting in a reduced vesicle fusion rate and membrane supply.
We frequently need to make timely decisions based on sensory evidence that is weak, ambiguous, or noisy resulting from conditions in the external environment (e.g., a cluttered visual scene) or within the brain itself (e.g., inattention, neural noise). Here we examine how externally and internally driven variations in the quality of sensory evidence affect the build-to-threshold dynamics of a supramodal &quot;decision variable&quot; signal and, hence, the timing and accuracy of decision reports in humans. Observers performed a continuous-monitoring version of the prototypical two-alternative dot-motion discrimination task, which is known to strongly benefit from sequential sampling and temporal accumulation of evidence. A centroparietal positive potential (CPP), which we previously established as a supramodal decision signal based on its invariance to motor or sensory parameters, exhibited two key identifying properties associated with the &quot;decision variable&quot; long described in sequential sampling models: (1) its buildup rate systematically scaled with sensory evidence strength across four levels of motion coherence, consistent with temporal integration; and (2) its amplitude reached a stereotyped level at the moment of perceptual report executions, consistent with a boundary-crossing stopping criterion. The buildup rate of the CPP also strongly predicted reaction time within coherence levels (i.e., independent of physical evidence strength), and this endogenous variation was linked with attentional fluctuations indexed by the level of parieto-occipital -band activity preceding target onset. In tandem with the CPP, build-to-threshold dynamics were also observed in an effector-selective motor preparation signal; however, the buildup of this motor-specific process significantly lagged that of the supramodal process.
Small-conductance calcium-activated potassium (SK) channels play an important role in regulating neuronal excitability. While SK channels at the soma have long been known to contribute to the medium afterhyperpolarization (mAHP), recent evidence indicates they also regulate NMDA receptor activation in dendritic spines. Here we investigate the activation of SK channels in spines and dendrites of rat cortical pyramidal neurons during action potentials (APs), and compare this to SK channel activation at the soma. Using confocal calcium imaging, we demonstrate that the inhibition of SK channels with apamin results in a location-dependent increase in calcium influx into dendrites and spines during backpropagating APs (average increase, ~40%). This effect was occluded by block of R-type voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs), but not by inhibition of N- or P/Q-type VDCCs, or block of calcium release from intracellular stores. During these experiments, we noticed that the calcium indicator (Oregon Green BAPTA-1) blocked the mAHP. Subsequent experiments using low concentrations of EGTA (1 mm) produced the same result, suggesting that somatic SK channels are not tightly colocalized with their calcium source. Consistent with this idea, all known subtypes of VDCCs except R-type were calcium sources for the apamin-sensitive mAHP at the soma. We conclude that SK channels in spines and dendrites of cortical pyramidal neurons regulate calcium influx during backpropagating APs in a distance-dependent manner, and are tightly coupled to R-type VDCCs. In contrast, SK channels activated by APs at the soma of these neurons are weakly coupled to a variety of VDCCs.


Purinergic signaling plays important roles in control of vascular tone and remodeling. There is dual control of vascular tone by ATP released as a cotransmitter with noradrenaline from perivascular sympathetic nerves to cause vasoconstriction via P2X1 receptors, whereas ATP released from endothelial cells in response to changes in blood flow (producing shear stress) or hypoxia acts on P2X and P2Y receptors on endothelial cells to produce nitric oxide and endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor, which dilates vessels. ATP is also released from sensory-motor nerves during antidromic reflex activity to produce relaxation of some blood vessels. In this review, we stress the differences in neural and endothelial factors in purinergic control of different blood vessels. The long-term (trophic) actions of purine and pyrimidine nucleosides and nucleotides in promoting migration and proliferation of both vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells via P1 and P2Y receptors during angiogenesis and vessel remodeling during restenosis after angioplasty are described. The pathophysiology of blood vessels and therapeutic potential of purinergic agents in diseases, including hypertension, atherosclerosis, ischemia, thrombosis and stroke, diabetes, and migraine, is discussed.



Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels enable potassium efflux and membrane repolarization in excitable tissues. Many Kv channels undergo a progressive loss of ion conductance in the presence of a prolonged voltage stimulus, termed slow inactivation, but the atomic determinants that regulate the kinetics of this process remain obscure. Using a combination of synthetic amino acid analogs and concatenated channel subunits we establish two H-bonds near the extracellular surface of the channel that endow Kv channels with a mechanism to time the entry into slow inactivation: an intra-subunit H-bond between Asp447 and Trp434 and an inter-subunit H-bond connecting Tyr445 to Thr439. Breaking of either interaction triggers slow inactivation by means of a local disruption in the selectivity filter, while severing the Tyr445-Thr439 H-bond is likely to communicate this conformational change to the adjacent subunit(s). DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01289.001.
In a study of the incidence of suicide in jails and prisons under increasing conditions of deprivation in Italy from 2004 to 2008, imprisonment involving greater levels of isolation was found to be associated with a higher rate of suicide. Greater care should be taken to ensure that prisoners in isolation do not commit suicide by limiting this option when possible or providing mental health services when isolation is necessary.
Where and how does the brain code reward during social behavior? Almost all elements of the brain's reward circuit are modulated during social behavior. The striatum in particular is activated by rewards in social situations. However, its role in social behavior is still poorly understood. Here, we attempt to review its participation in social behaviors of different species ranging from voles to humans. Human fMRI experiments show that the striatum is reliably active in relation to others' rewards, to reward inequity and also while learning about social agents. Social contact and rearing conditions have long-lasting effects on behavior, striatal anatomy and physiology in rodents and primates. The striatum also plays a critical role in pair-bond formation and maintenance in monogamous voles. We review recent findings from single neuron recordings showing that the striatum contains cells that link own reward to self or others' actions. These signals might be used to solve the agency-credit assignment problem: the question of whose action was responsible for the reward. Activity in the striatum has been hypothesized to integrate actions with rewards. The picture that emerges from this review is that the striatum is a general-purpose subcortical region capable of integrating social information into coding of social action and reward.




Up to 60% of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) experience cognitive dysfunction, with prominent involvement of complex attention, information processing speed, executive functions, episodic memory, and visuospatial abilities. Since MS-related cognitive deficits can substantially affect a wide range of daily life activities (e.g., work, driving, social integration, and adherence to medication regimens), it is imperative that we identify and develop strategies to alleviate them.




The association between lymphopenia and autoimmunity is recognized, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood and have not been studied systematically in humans. People with multiple sclerosis treated with the lymphocyte-depleting monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab offer a unique opportunity to study this phenomenon; one in three people develops clinical autoimmunity, and one in three people develops asymptomatic autoantibodies after treatment. Here, we show that T-cell recovery after alemtuzumab is driven by homeostatic proliferation, leading to the generation of chronically activated (CD28(-)CD57(+)), highly proliferative (Ki67(+)), oligoclonal, memory-like CD4 and CD8 T cells (CCR7(-)CD45RA(-) or CCR7(-)CD45RA(+)) capable of producing proinflammatory cytokines. Individuals who develop autoimmunity after treatment are no more lymphopenic than their nonautoimmune counterparts, but they show reduced thymopoiesis and generate a more restricted T-cell repertoire. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that homeostatic proliferation drives lymphopenia-associated autoimmunity in humans.
Stimulus information is encoded in the spatial-temporal structures of external inputs to the neural system. The ability to extract the temporal information of inputs is fundamental to brain function. It has been found that the neural system can memorize temporal intervals of visual inputs in the order of seconds. Here we investigate whether the intrinsic dynamics of a large-size neural circuit alone can achieve this goal. The network models we consider have scale-free topology and the property that hub neurons are difficult to be activated. The latter is implemented by either including abundant electrical synapses between neurons or considering chemical synapses whose efficacy decreases with the connectivity of the postsynaptic neuron. We find that hub neurons trigger synchronous firing across the network, loops formed by low-degree neurons determine the rhythm of synchronous firing, and the hardness of exciting hub neurons avoids epileptic firing of the network. Our model successfully reproduces the experimentally observed rhythmic synchronous firing with long periods and supports the notion that the neural system can process temporal information through the dynamics of local circuits in a distributed way.
Survival in a dangerous environment requires learning about stimuli that predict harm. Although recent work has focused on the amygdala as the locus of aversive memory formation, the hypothalamus has long been implicated in emotional regulation, and the hypothalamic neuropeptide orexin (hypocretin) is involved in anxiety states and arousal. Nevertheless, little is known about the role of orexin in aversive memory formation. Using a combination of behavioral pharmacology, slice physiology, and optogenetic techniques, we show that orexin acts upstream of the amygdala via the noradrenergic locus coeruleus to enable threat (fear) learning, specifically during the aversive event. Our results are consistent with clinical studies linking orexin levels to aversive learning and anxiety in humans and dysregulation of the orexin system may contribute to the etiology of fear and anxiety disorders.
Controlling learned defensive responses through extinction does not alter the threat memory itself, but rather regulates its expression via inhibitory influence of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) over amygdala. Individual differences in amygdala-PFC circuitry function have been linked to trait anxiety and posttraumatic stress disorder. This finding suggests that exposure-based techniques may actually be least effective in those who suffer from anxiety disorders. A theoretical advantage of techniques influencing reconsolidation of threat memories is that the threat representation is altered, potentially diminishing reliance on this PFC circuitry, resulting in a more persistent reduction of defensive reactions. We hypothesized that timing extinction to coincide with threat memory reconsolidation would prevent the return of defensive reactions and diminish PFC involvement. Two conditioned stimuli (CS) were paired with shock and the third was not. A day later, one stimulus (reminded CS+) but not the other (nonreminded CS+) was presented 10 min before extinction to reactivate the threat memory, followed by extinction training for all CSs. The recovery of the threat memory was tested 24 h later. Extinction of the nonreminded CS+ (i.e., standard extinction) engaged the PFC, as previously shown, but extinction of the reminded CS+ (i.e., extinction during reconsolidation) did not. Moreover, only the nonreminded CS+ memory recovered on day 3. These results suggest that extinction during reconsolidation prevents the return of defensive reactions and diminishes PFC involvement. Reducing the necessity of the PFC-amygdala circuitry to control defensive reactions may help overcome a primary obstacle in the long-term efficacy of current treatments for anxiety disorders.
Categorization is a cornerstone of perception and cognition. Computationally, categorization amounts to applying decision boundaries in the space of stimulus features. We designed a visual categorization task in which optimal performance requires observers to incorporate trial-to-trial knowledge of the level of sensory uncertainty when setting their decision boundaries. We found that humans and monkeys did adjust their decision boundaries from trial to trial as the level of sensory noise varied, with some subjects performing near optimally. We constructed a neural network that implements uncertainty-based, near-optimal adjustment of decision boundaries. Divisive normalization emerges automatically as a key neural operation in this network. Our results offer an integrated computational and mechanistic framework for categorization under uncertainty.
Although the neural circuitry underlying homeostatic sleep regulation is little understood, cortical neurons immunoreactive for neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and the neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1) have been proposed to be involved in this physiological process. By systematically manipulating the durations of sleep deprivation and subsequent recovery sleep, we show that activation of cortical nNOS/NK1 neurons is directly related to non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep time, NREM bout duration, and EEG  power during NREM sleep, an index of preexisting homeostatic sleep drive. Conversely, nNOS knockout mice show reduced NREM sleep time, shorter NREM bouts, and decreased power in the low  range during NREM sleep, despite constitutively elevated sleep drive. Cortical NK1 neurons are still activated in response to sleep deprivation in these mice but, in the absence of nNOS, they are unable to up-regulate NREM  power appropriately. These findings support the hypothesis that cortical nNOS/NK1 neurons translate homeostatic sleep drive into up-regulation of NREM  power through an NO-dependent mechanism.




During the first five rounds of cell division in the mouse embryo, spindles assemble in the absence of centrioles. Spindle formation initiates around chromosomes, but the microtubule nucleating process remains unclear. Here we demonstrate that Plk4, a protein kinase known as a master regulator of centriole formation, is also essential for spindle assembly in the absence of centrioles. Depletion of maternal Plk4 prevents nucleation and growth of microtubules and results in monopolar spindle formation. This leads to cytokinesis failure and, consequently, developmental arrest. We show that Plk4 function depends on its kinase activity and its partner protein, Cep152. Moreover, tethering Cep152 to cellular membranes sequesters Plk4 and is sufficient to trigger spindle assembly from ectopic membranous sites. Thus, the Plk4-Cep152 complex has an unexpected role in promoting microtubule nucleation in the vicinity of chromosomes to mediate bipolar spindle formation in the absence of centrioles.
Focal epilepsy with ictal abdominal pain is an unusual partial epilepsy characterized by paroxysmal episodes of abdominal or visceral pain, disturbance of awareness and electroencephalographic abnormalities. We describe a new case of ictal abdominal pain in which gastrointestinal complaints were the only manifestation of seizures and review the previously described pediatric patients. In our patient clinical findings, ictal EEG abnormalities, and a good response to antiepileptic drugs allowed us to make a diagnosis of focal epilepsy with ictal abdominal pain. This is a rare epileptic phenomenon that should be suspected in patients with unexplained paroxysmal abdominal pain and migraine-like symptoms. We suggest that, after the exclusion of more common etiologies, focal epilepsy with ictal abdominal pain should be considered in patients with paroxysmal abdominal pain and ictal EEG abnormalities.
Synaptic vesicle (SV) release is spatially and temporally regulated by a network of proteins that form the presynaptic active zone (AZ). The hallmark of most AZs is an electron-dense projection (DP) surrounded by SVs. Despite their importance for our understanding of triggered SV release, high-resolution analyses of DP structures are limited. Using electron microscopy, we show that DPs at Caenorhabditis elegans neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) were highly structured, composed of building units forming bays in which SVs are docked to the AZ membrane. Furthermore, larger ribbonlike DPs that were multimers of the NMJ building unit are found at synapses between inter- and motoneurons. We also demonstrate that DP size is determined by the activity of the AZ protein SYD-2/Liprin-. Whereas loss of syd-2 function led to smaller DPs, syd-2 gain-of-function mutants displayed larger ribbonlike DPs through increased recruitment of ELKS-1/ELKS. Therefore, our data suggest that a main role of SYD-2/Liprin- in synaptogenesis is to regulate the polymerization of DPs.

This paper begins with a focus on the task of stem inflection, where participants are given a verb stem and asked to produce the verb's past-tense form, which can produce a neuropsychological double dissociation with respect to regular versus irregular verbs. Two differing theoretical interpretations are outlined: one is based on specifically morphological and separate brain mechanisms for processing regular versus irregular verbs; the other argues that the two sides of the dissociation can arise from one procedure, which is not specifically morphological, and which relies to differing extents on phonological versus semantic information for regular versus irregular verbs. We then present data from a different version of the task, in which patients were given past-tense forms and asked to produce the present-tense or stem forms (talked  talk and ate  eat). This change yielded a very different pattern of performance in four non-fluent aphasic patients as a function of the regular-irregular manipulation, an outcome which is argued to be more compatible with the single- than the dual-mechanism account. Finally, we present a small amount of data from a task in which the patient was asked to judge whether spoken regular and irregular verb stems and past-tense forms indicated actions occurring today or yesterday. This task produced an even more different and intriguing pattern of performance suggesting a deficit in morpho-syntactic knowledge: not how to produce past-tense forms but what such forms mean and how that understanding interacts with verb regularity. The paper concludes with a discussion of how the research field of acquired disorders of tense processing might advance as a result of new approaches, in particular those informed by studies of developmental disorders.
Acquired dyslexia offers a unique window on to the nature of the cognitive and neural architecture supporting skilled reading. This paper provides an integrative overview of recent empirical and computational work on acquired dyslexia within the context of the primary systems framework as implemented in connectionist neuropsychological models. This view proposes that damage to general visual, phonological or semantic processing abilities are the root causes of different forms of acquired dyslexia. Recent case-series behavioural evidence concerning pure alexia, phonological dyslexia and surface dyslexia that supports this perspective is presented. Lesion simulations of these findings within connectionist models of reading demonstrate the viability of this approach. The commitment of such models to learnt representations allows them to capture key aspects of performance in each type of acquired dyslexia, particularly the associated non-reading deficits, the role of relearning and the influence of individual differences in the premorbid state of the reading system. Identification of these factors not only advances our understanding of acquired dyslexia and the mechanisms of normal reading but they are also relevant to the complex interactions underpinning developmental reading disorders.
Conceptual knowledge reflects our multi-modal 'semantic database'. As such, it brings meaning to all verbal and non-verbal stimuli, is the foundation for verbal and non-verbal expression and provides the basis for computing appropriate semantic generalizations. Multiple disciplines (e.g. philosophy, cognitive science, cognitive neuroscience and behavioural neurology) have striven to answer the questions of how concepts are formed, how they are represented in the brain and how they break down differentially in various neurological patient groups. A long-standing and prominent hypothesis is that concepts are distilled from our multi-modal verbal and non-verbal experience such that sensation in one modality (e.g. the smell of an apple) not only activates the intramodality long-term knowledge, but also reactivates the relevant intermodality information about that item (i.e. all the things you know about and can do with an apple). This multi-modal view of conceptualization fits with contemporary functional neuroimaging studies that observe systematic variation of activation across different modality-specific association regions dependent on the conceptual category or type of information. A second vein of interdisciplinary work argues, however, that even a smorgasbord of multi-modal features is insufficient to build coherent, generalizable concepts. Instead, an additional process or intermediate representation is required. Recent multidisciplinary work, which combines neuropsychology, neuroscience and computational models, offers evidence that conceptualization follows from a combination of modality-specific sources of information plus a transmodal 'hub' representational system that is supported primarily by regions within the anterior temporal lobe, bilaterally.




Previous research suggested that EEG markers of mirror neuron system activation may differ, in the normal population as a function of different levels of the autistic spectrum quotient; (AQ). The present study aimed at modulating the EEG sensorimotor reactivity induced by hand movement observation by means of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) applied to the inferior parietal lobule. We examined how the resulting rTMS modulation differed in relation to the self-reported autistic traits in the typically developing population. Results showed that during sham stimulation, all participants had significantly greater sensorimotor alpha reactivity (motor cortex-C electrodes) when observing hand movements compared to static hands. This sensorimotor alpha reactivity difference was reduced during active rTMS stimulation. Results also revealed that in the average AQ group at sham there was a significant increase in low beta during hand movement than static hand observation (pre-motor areas-FC electrodes) and that (like alpha over the C electrodes) this difference is abolished when active rTMS is delivered. Participants with high AQ scores showed no significant difference in low beta sensorimotor reactivity between active and sham rTMS during static hand or hand movement observation. These findings suggest that unlike sham, active rTMS over the IPL modulates the oscillatory activity of the low beta frequency of a distal area, namely the anterior sector of the sensorimotor cortex, when participants observe videos of static hand. Importantly, this modulation differs according to the degree of self-reported traits of autism in a typically developing population.


The amygdala has traditionally been associated with fear, mediating the impact of negative emotions on memory. However, this view does not fully encapsulate the function of the amygdala, nor the impact that processing in this structure has on the motivational limbic corticostriatal circuitry of which it is an important structure. Here we discuss the interactions between different amygdala nuclei with cortical and striatal regions involved in motivation; interconnections and parallel circuitries that have become increasingly understood in recent years. We review the evidence that the amygdala stores memories that allow initially motivationally neutral stimuli to become associated through pavlovian conditioning with motivationally relevant outcomes which, importantly, can be either appetitive (e.g. food) or aversive (e.g. electric shock). We also consider how different psychological processes supported by the amygdala such as conditioned reinforcement and punishment, conditioned motivation and suppression, and conditioned approach and avoidance behavior, are not only psychologically but also neurobiologically dissociable, being mediated by distinct yet overlapping neural circuits within the limbic corticostriatal circuitry. Clearly the role of the amygdala goes beyond encoding aversive stimuli to also encode the appetitive, requiring an appreciation of the amygdala's mediation of both appetitive and fearful behavior through diverse psychological processes.
Humans are experts in face perception. We are better able to distinguish between the differences of faces and their components than between any other kind of objects. Several studies investigating the underlying neural networks provided evidence for deviated face processing in criminal individuals, although results are often confounded by accompanying mental or addiction disorders. On the other hand, face processing in non-criminal healthy persons can be of high juridical interest in cases of witnessing a felony and afterward identifying a culprit. Memory and therefore recognition of a person can be affected by many parameters and thus become distorted. But also face processing itself is modulated by different factors like facial characteristics, degree of familiarity, and emotional relation. These factors make the comparison of different cases, as well as the transfer of laboratory results to real live settings very challenging. Several neuroimaging studies have been published in recent years and some progress was made connecting certain brain activation patterns with the correct recognition of an individual. However, there is still a long way to go before brain imaging can make a reliable contribution to court procedures.
ATP-gated P2X3 receptors are mostly expressed by nociceptive sensory neurons and participate in transduction of pain signals. P2X3 receptors show a combination of fast desensitization onset and slow recovery. Moreover, even low nanomolar agonist concentrations unable to evoke a response, can induce desensitization via a phenomenon called &quot;high affinity desensitization.&quot; We have also observed that recovery from desensitization is agonist-specific and can range from seconds to minutes. The recovery process displays unusually high temperature dependence. Likewise, recycling of P2X3 receptors in peri-membrane regions shows unexpectedly large temperature sensitivity. By applying kinetic modeling, we have previously shown that desensitization characteristics of P2X3 receptor are best explained with a cyclic model of receptor operation involving three agonist molecules binding a single receptor and that desensitization is primarily developing from the open receptor state. Mutagenesis experiments suggested that desensitization depends on a certain conformation of the ATP binding pocket and on the structure of the transmembrane domains forming the ion pore. Further molecular determinants of desensitization have been identified by mutating the intracellular N- and C-termini of P2X3 receptor. Unlike other P2X receptors, the P2X3 subtype is facilitated by extracellular calcium that acts via specific sites in the ectodomain neighboring the ATP binding pocket. Thus, substitution of serine275 in this region (called &quot;left flipper&quot;) converts the natural facilitation induced by extracellular calcium to receptor inhibition. Given their strategic location in nociceptive neurons and unique desensitization properties, P2X3 receptors represent an attractive target for development of new analgesic drugs via promotion of desensitization aimed at suppressing chronic pain.
Many computational models of the basal ganglia (BG) have been proposed over the past twenty-five years. While computational neuroscience models have focused on closely matching the neurobiology of the BG, computational cognitive neuroscience (CCN) models have focused on how the BG can be used to implement cognitive and motor functions. This review article focuses on CCN models of the BG and how they use the neuroanatomy of the BG to account for cognitive and motor functions such as categorization, instrumental conditioning, probabilistic learning, working memory, sequence learning, automaticity, reaching, handwriting, and eye saccades. A total of 19 BG models accounting for one or more of these functions are reviewed and compared. The review concludes with a discussion of the limitations of existing CCN models of the BG and prescriptions for future modeling, including the need for computational models of the BG that can simultaneously account for cognitive and motor functions, and the need for a more complete specification of the role of the BG in behavioral functions.


Tau immunotherapy is effective in transgenic mice, but the mechanisms of Tau clearance are not well known. To this end, Tau antibody uptake was analyzed in brain slice cultures and primary neurons. Internalization was rapid (&lt;1 h), saturable, and substantial compared with control mouse IgG. Furthermore, temperature reduction to 4 C, an excess of unlabeled mouse IgG, or an excess of Tau antibodies reduced uptake in slices by 63, 41, and 62%, respectively (p = 0.002, 0.04, and 0.005). Uptake strongly correlated with total and insoluble Tau levels (r(2) = 0.77 and 0.87 and p = 0.002 and 0.0002), suggesting that Tau aggregates influence antibody internalization and/or retention within neurons. Inhibiting phagocytosis did not reduce uptake in slices or neuronal cultures, indicating limited microglial involvement. In contrast, clathrin-specific inhibitors reduced uptake in neurons ( 78%, p &lt; 0.0001) and slices ( 35%, p = 0.03), demonstrating receptor-mediated endocytosis as the primary uptake pathway. Fluid phase endocytosis accounted for the remainder of antibody uptake in primary neurons, based on co-staining with internalized dextran. The receptor-mediated uptake is to a large extent via low affinity FcII/III receptors and can be blocked in slices (43%, p = 0.04) and neurons (53%, p = 0.008) with an antibody against these receptors. Importantly, antibody internalization appears to be necessary for Tau reduction in primary neurons. Overall, these findings clarify that Tau antibody uptake is primarily receptor-mediated, that these antibodies are mainly found in neurons with Tau aggregates, and that their intracellular interaction leads to clearance of Tau pathology, all of which have major implications for therapeutic development of this approach.
The Cryptochrome (CRY) proteins are critical components of the mammalian circadian clock and act to rhythmically repress the activity of the transcriptional activators CLOCK and BMAL1 at the heart of the clock mechanism. The CRY proteins are part of a large repressive complex, the components of which are not completely known. Using mass spectroscopy, we identified the catalytic subunit of DNA-dependent protein kinase as a CRY-interacting protein and found that loss or inhibition of this kinase results in circadian rhythms with abnormally long periods. We then identified serine 588 in the C-terminal tail of mouse CRY1 as a potential DNA-PK phosphorylation site but surprisingly found that the phosphomimetic mutation S588D also results in long period rhythms, similar to the loss of DNA-PK. Consistent with this, we found that phosphorylation of this site is increased in cells lacking DNA-PK, suggesting that DNA-PK negatively regulates the phosphorylation of this site most likely through indirect means. Furthermore, we found that phosphorylation of this site increases the stability of the CRY1 protein and prevents FBXL3-mediated degradation. The phosphorylation of this site is robustly rhythmic in mouse liver nuclei, peaking in the middle of the circadian day at a time when CRY1 levels are declining. Therefore, these data suggest a new role for the C-terminal tail of CRY1 in which phosphorylation rhythmically regulates CRY1 stability and contributes to the proper circadian period length.
Secondary transporters in the excitatory amino acid transporter family terminate glutamatergic synaptic transmission by catalyzing Na(+)-dependent removal of glutamate from the synaptic cleft. Recent structural studies of the aspartate-specific archaeal homolog, Glt(Ph), suggest that transport is achieved by a rigid body, piston-like movement of the transport domain, which houses the substrate-binding site, between the extracellular and cytoplasmic sides of the membrane. This transport domain is connected to an immobile scaffold by three loops, one of which, the 3-4 loop (3L4), undergoes substrate-sensitive conformational change. Proteolytic cleavage of the 3L4 was found to abolish transport activity indicating an essential function for this loop in the transport mechanism. Here, we demonstrate that despite the presence of fully cleaved 3L4, Glt(Ph) is still able to sample conformations relevant for transport. Optimized reconstitution conditions reveal that fully cleaved Glt(Ph) retains some transport activity. Analysis of the kinetics and temperature dependence of transport accompanied by direct measurements of substrate binding reveal that this decreased transport activity is not due to alteration of the substrate binding characteristics but is caused by the significantly reduced turnover rate. By measuring solute counterflow activity and cross-link formation rates, we demonstrate that cleaving 3L4 severely and specifically compromises one or more steps contributing to the movement of the substrate-loaded transport domain between the outward- and inward-facing conformational states, sparing the equivalent step(s) during the movement of the empty transport domain. These results reveal a hitherto unknown role for the 3L4 in modulating an essential step in the transport process.


The control of motor behavior in animals and humans requires constant adaptation of neuronal networks to signals of various types and strengths. We found that microRNA-128 (miR-128), which is expressed in adult neurons, regulates motor behavior by modulating neuronal signaling networks and excitability. miR-128 governs motor activity by suppressing the expression of various ion channels and signaling components of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase ERK2 network that regulate neuronal excitability. In mice, a reduction of miR-128 expression in postnatal neurons causes increased motor activity and fatal epilepsy. Overexpression of miR-128 attenuates neuronal responsiveness, suppresses motor activity, and alleviates motor abnormalities associated with Parkinson's-like disease and seizures in mice. These data suggest a therapeutic potential for miR-128 in the treatment of epilepsy and movement disorders.








Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by loss of A9 dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). An association has been reported between PD and exposure to mitochondrial toxins, including environmental pesticides paraquat, maneb, and rotenone. Here, using a robust, patient-derived stem cell model of PD allowing comparison of A53T -synuclein (-syn) mutant cells and isogenic mutation-corrected controls, we identify mitochondrial toxin-induced perturbations in A53T -syn A9 DA neurons (hNs). We report a pathway whereby basal and toxin-induced nitrosative/oxidative stress results in S-nitrosylation of transcription factor MEF2C in A53T hNs compared to corrected controls. This redox reaction inhibits the MEF2C-PGC1 transcriptional network, contributing to mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptotic cell death. Our data provide mechanistic insight into gene-environmental interaction (GxE) in the pathogenesis of PD. Furthermore, using small-molecule high-throughput screening, we identify the MEF2C-PGC1 pathway as a therapeutic target to combat PD.
The immaturity of neurons differentiated from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) presents difficulties for modeling late-onset neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease. Now, Miller et al. (2013) provide a strategy for inducing aging-related phenotypes in hiPSC-derived neurons, enabling in vitro study of late-onset neurodegenerative diseases.

Pain management is still challenging in clinic as current analgesics either are not very effective or produce serious adverse effects. This study aimed to examine if old drugs could display the new use and to develop a novel therapy for inflammatory pain. Injection of carrageenan in hindpaw evoked hyperalgesia detected by noxious heat stimulation. Intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY-100635 increased paw withdrawal latency (PWL) above normal level (hypoalgesia) during the late phase of carrageenan-evoked inflammation. The hypoalgesia was completely abolished by systemic injection of naloxone chloride and naloxone methiodide. Moreover, i.pl. injection of a combination of WAY-100635 and ketanserin, a 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, at their minimal doses attenuated hyperalgesia in the late phase of carrageenan-evoked inflammation. Subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of both ketanserin and propranolol dose-dependently inhibited carrageenan-evoked hyperalgesia. The treatment with a combination of ketanserin and propranolol by s.c. injection abolished carrageenan-evoked hyperalgesia at the doses, at which the drugs failed to alter the hypersensitivity when they were given alone. Furthermore, the combination of ketanserin and propranolol was also effective in relieving arthritic hyperalgesia and muscle pain at a minimal dose. The present study suggests that the activation of 5-HT1A receptors suppressed naloxone-reversible antinociception contributing to the maintenance of inflammatory pain, and that the concomitant blockade of 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors in the periphery produced synergistic effects on inflammatory hyperalgesia. It is proposed that the combination of ketanserin and propranolol injected s.c. could be a promising therapy for relieving inflammatory pain with minimal side effects.
Norepinephrine is released in the amygdala following negatively arousing learning conditions. This event initiates a cascade of changes including the transcription of activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc) expression, an early-immediate gene associated with memory encoding. Recent evidence suggests that the valence of emotionally laden encounters may generate lateralized, as opposed to symmetric release of this transmitter in the right or left amygdala. It is currently not clear if valence-induced patterns of selective norepinephrine output across hemispheres are also reproduced in downstream pathways of cellular signaling necessary for memory formation. This question was addressed by determining if Arc expression is differentially distributed across the right and left amygdala following exposure to positively or negatively valenced learning conditions respectively. Male Sprague Dawley rats were randomly assigned to groups exposed to the Homecage only, five auditory tones only, or five auditory tones paired with footshock (0.35 mA) during Pavlovian fear conditioning. Western blot analysis revealed that Arc expression in the right amygdala was elevated significantly above that observed in the left amygdala 60 and 90 min following fear conditioning. Similarly, subjects exposed to a negatively valenced outcome consisting of an unexpected reduction in food rewards showed a greater level of Arc expression in only the right, but not left basolateral amygdala. Presenting a positively valenced event involving an unexpected increase in food reward magnitude following bar pressing, resulted in significantly greater Arc expression in the left, but not right basolateral amygdala (p &lt; 0.01). These findings indicate that the valence of emotionally arousing learning conditions is reflected at later stages of synaptic plasticity involving the transcription of immediate early genes such as Arc.
Tonic inhibitory conductances mediated by GABAA receptors have now been identified and characterized in many different brain regions. Most experimental studies of tonic GABAergic inhibition have been carried out using acute brain slice preparations but tonic currents have been recorded under a variety of different conditions. This diversity of recording conditions is likely to impact upon many of the factors responsible for controlling tonic inhibition and can make comparison between different studies difficult. In this review, we will firstly consider how various experimental conditions, including age of animal, recording temperature and solution composition, are likely to influence tonic GABAA conductances. We will then consider some technical considerations related to how the tonic conductance is measured and subsequently analyzed, including how the use of current noise may provide a complementary and reliable method for quantifying changes in tonic current.
The dorsomedial frontal part of the cerebral cortex is consistently activated when people read the mental states of others, such as their beliefs, desires, and intentions, the ability known as having a theory of mind (ToM) or mentalizing. This ubiquitous finding has led many researchers to conclude that the dorsomedial frontal cortex (DMFC) constitutes a core component in mentalizing networks. Despite this, it remains unclear why the DMFC becomes active during ToM tasks. We argue that key psychological and behavioral aspects in mentalizing are closely associated with DMFC functions. These include executive inhibition, distinction between self and others, prediction under uncertainty, and perception of intentions, all of which are important for predicting others' intention and behavior. We review the literature supporting this claim, ranging in fields from developmental psychology to human neuroimaging and macaque electrophysiology. Because perceiving intentions in others' actions initiates mentalizing and forms the basis of virtually all types of social interaction, the fundamental issue in social neuroscience is to determine the aspects of physical entities that make an observer perceive that they are intentional beings and to clarify the neurobiological underpinnings of the perception of intentionality in others' actions.

The importance of the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) in the nervous system is underscored by its role in a wide variety of physiological and neural functions in both vertebrates and invertebrates. Binding of dopamine to its membrane receptors initiates precise signaling cascades that result in specific cellular responses. Dopamine receptors belong to a super-family of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) that are characterized by seven trans-membrane domains. In mammals, five dopamine receptors have been identified which are grouped into two different categories D1- and D2-like receptors. The interactions of DA receptors with other proteins including specific G subunits are critical in deciding the fate of downstream molecular events carried out by effector proteins. In this mini-review we provide a synopsis of known protein-protein interactions of DA receptors and a perspective on the potential synergistic utility of Caenorhabditis elegans as a model eukaryote with a comparatively simpler nervous system to gain insight on the neuronal and behavioral consequences of the receptor interactions.

Genetic screens conducted using Drosophila melanogaster (fruit fly) have made numerous milestone discoveries in the advance of biological sciences. However, the use of biochemical screens aimed at extending the knowledge gained from genetic analysis was explored only recently. Here we describe a method to purify the protein complex that associates with any protein of interest from adult fly heads. This method takes advantage of the Drosophila GAL4/UAS system to express a bait protein fused with a Tandem Affinity Purification (TAP) tag in fly neurons in vivo, and then implements two rounds of purification using a TAP procedure similar to the one originally established in yeast(1) to purify the interacting protein complex. At the end of this procedure, a mixture of multiple protein complexes is obtained whose molecular identities can be determined by mass spectrometry. Validation of the candidate proteins will benefit from the resource and ease of performing loss-of-function studies in flies. Similar approaches can be applied to other fly tissues. We believe that the combination of genetic manipulations and this proteomic approach in the fly model system holds tremendous potential for tackling fundamental problems in the field of neurobiology and beyond.
HDLs protect pancreatic beta cells against apoptosis induced by several endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stressors, including thapsigargin, cyclopiazonic acid, palmitate and insulin over-expression. This protection is mediated by the capacity of HDLs to maintain proper ER morphology and ER functions such as protein folding and trafficking. Here, we identified a distinct mode of protection exerted by HDLs in beta cells challenged with tunicamycin (TM), a protein glycosylation inhibitor inducing ER stress. HDLs were found to inhibit apoptosis induced by TM in the MIN6 insulinoma cell line and this correlated with the maintenance of a normal ER morphology. Surprisingly however, this protective response was neither associated with a significant ER stress reduction, nor with restoration of protein folding and trafficking in the ER. These data indicate that HDLs can use at least two mechanisms to protect beta cells against ER stressors. One that relies on the maintenance of ER function and one that operates independently of ER function modulation. The capacity of HDLs to activate several anti-apoptotic pathways in beta cells may explain their ability to efficiently protect these cells against a variety of insults.
Pheochromocytoma originates from chromaffin cells in the adrenal medulla and sympathetic paraganglia. 36-53% of pheochromocytoma becomes malignant and, thereafter, resistant to conventional treatments. Pheochromocytoma also causes hyper-secretion of catecholamines that cause severe hypertension. We found that an antidepressant, tianeptine, interfered with normal life cycle of pheochromocytoma cells at its clinical doses. Treatment with tianeptine caused microtubule bundling and specific degradation of cytoplasmic dynein, a retrograde microtubule motor that mediates various microtubule-dependent processes during interphase and mitosis, in the rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. Tianeptine also increased the levels of pro-apoptotic proteins, slowed cell cycle progression, and increased apoptosis in PC12 cells. Importantly, tianeptine treatment decreased high K(+)-stimulated secretion of norepinephrine and chromogranin A in PC12 cells and of epinephrine in the mouse pheochromocytoma MPC cells. Our study demonstrates, for the first time, that tianeptine interferes with normal life cycle of pheochromocytoma cells.




Memory consolidation transforms initially labile memory traces into more stable representations. One putative mechanism for consolidation is the reactivation of memory traces after their initial encoding during subsequent sleep or waking state. However, it is still unknown whether consolidation of individual memory contents relies on reactivation of stimulus-specific neural representations in humans. Investigating stimulus-specific representations in humans is particularly difficult, but potentially feasible using multivariate pattern classification analysis (MVPA). Here, we show in healthy human participants that stimulus-specific activation patterns can indeed be identified with MVPA, that these patterns reoccur spontaneously during postlearning resting periods and sleep, and that the frequency of reactivation predicts subsequent memory for individual items. We conducted a paired-associate learning task with items and spatial positions and extracted stimulus-specific activity patterns by MVPA in a simultaneous electroencephalography and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study. As a first step, we investigated the amount of fMRI volumes during rest that resembled either one of the items shown before or one of the items shown as a control after the resting period. Reactivations during both awake resting state and sleep predicted subsequent memory. These data are first evidence that spontaneous reactivation of stimulus-specific activity patterns during resting state can be investigated using MVPA. They show that reactivation occurs in humans and is behaviorally relevant for stabilizing memory traces against interference. They move beyond previous studies because replay was investigated on the level of individual stimuli and because reactivations were not evoked by sensory cues but occurred spontaneously.
An accurate representation of three-dimensional (3D) object orientation is essential for interacting with the environment. Where and how the brain visually encodes 3D object orientation remains unknown, but prior studies suggest the caudal intraparietal area (CIP) may be involved. Here, we develop rigorous analytical methods for quantifying 3D orientation tuning curves, and use these tools to the study the neural coding of surface orientation. Specifically, we show that single neurons in area CIP of the rhesus macaque jointly encode the slant and tilt of a planar surface, and that across the population, the distribution of preferred slant-tilts is not statistically different from uniform. This suggests that all slant-tilt combinations are equally represented in area CIP. Furthermore, some CIP neurons are found to also represent the third rotational degree of freedom that determines the orientation of the image pattern on the planar surface. Together, the present results suggest that CIP is a critical neural locus for the encoding of all three rotational degrees of freedom specifying an object's 3D spatial orientation.
Pathological, genetic, and biochemical hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are linked to amyloid- (A) peptide aggregation. Especially misfolded A42 peptide is sufficient to promote amyloid plaque formation. However, the cellular compartment facilitating the conversion of monomeric A to aggregated toxic A species remains unknown. In vitro models suggest lipid membranes to be the driving force of A conversion. To this end, we generated two novel mouse models, expressing either membrane-anchored or nonanchored versions of the human A42 peptide. Strikingly, membrane-anchored A42 robustly accelerated A deposition and exacerbated amyloid-associated toxicity upon crossing with A precursor protein transgenic mice. These in vivo findings support the hypothesis that A-membrane interactions play a pivotal role in early-onset AD as well as neuronal damage and provide evidence to study A-membrane interactions as therapeutic targets.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of dementia in the elderly population. Accumulation, aggregation, and deposition of amyloid- (A) peptides generated through proteolytic cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) are likely initiating events in the pathogenesis of AD. While A production is accelerated in familial AD, increasing evidence indicates that impaired clearance of A is responsible for late-onset AD. Because A is mainly generated in neurons, these cells are predicted to have the highest risk of encountering A among all cell types in the brain. However, it is still unclear whether they are also involved in A clearance. Here we show that receptor-mediated endocytosis in neurons by the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1) plays a critical role in brain A clearance. LRP1 is known to be an endocytic receptor for multiple ligands including A. Conditional knock-out of Lrp1 in mouse forebrain neurons leads to increased brain A levels and exacerbated amyloid plaque deposition selectively in the cortex of amyloid model APP/PS1 mice without affecting A production. In vivo microdialysis studies demonstrated that A clearance in brain interstitial fluid is impaired in neuronal Lrp1 knock-out mice. Because the neuronal LRP1-deletion did not affect the mRNA levels of major A degrading enzymes, neprilysin and insulin-degrading enzyme, the disturbed A clearance is likely due to the suppression of LRP1-mediated neuronal A uptake and degradation. Together, our results demonstrate that LRP1 plays an important role in receptor-mediated clearance of A and indicate that neurons not only produce but also clear A.
Axonal degeneration occurs in multiple neurodegenerative disorders of the central and peripheral nervous system. Although the underlying molecular pathways leading to axonal degeneration are incompletely understood, accumulating evidence suggests contributions of impaired mitochondrial function, disrupted axonal transport, and/or dysfunctional intracellular Ca(2+)-homeostasis in the injurious cascade associated with axonal degeneration. Utilizing an in vitro model of axonal degeneration, we studied a subset of mouse peripheral sensory neurons in which neurites were exposed selectively to conditions associated with the pathogenesis of axonal neuropathies in vivo. Rotenone-induced mitochondrial dysfunction resulted in neurite degeneration accompanied by reduced ATP levels and increased ROS levels in neurites. Blockade of voltage-gated sodium channels with TTX and reverse (Ca(2+)-importing) mode of the sodium-calcium exchanger (NCX) with KB-R7943 partially protected rotenone-treated neurites from degeneration, suggesting a contribution of sodium channels and reverse NCX activity to the degeneration of neurites resulting from impaired mitochondrial function. Pharmacological inhibition of the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase with ouabain induced neurite degeneration, which was attenuated by TTX and KB-R7943, supporting a contribution of sodium channels in axonal degenerative pathways accompanying impaired Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity. Conversely, oxidant stress (H2O2)-induced neurite degeneration was not attenuated by TTX. Our results demonstrate that both energetic and oxidative stress targeted selectively to neurites induces neurite degeneration and that blockade of sodium channels and of reverse NCX activity blockade partially protects neurites from injury due to energetic stress, but not from oxidative stress induced by H2O2.
Gesture processing deficits constitute a key symptom of apraxia, a disorder of motor cognition frequently observed after left-hemispheric stroke. The clinical relevance of apraxia stands in stark contrast to the paucity of therapeutic options available. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a promising tool for modulating disturbed network function after stroke. Here, we investigate the effect of parietal tDCS on gesture processing in healthy human subjects. Neuropsychological and imaging studies suggest that the imitation and matching of hand gestures involve the left inferior parietal lobe (IPL). Using neuronavigation based on cytoarchitectonically defined anatomical probability maps, tDCS was applied over left IPL-areas PF, PFm, or PG in healthy participants (n = 26). Before and after tDCS, subjects performed a gesture matching task and a person discrimination task for control. Changes in error rates and reaction times were analyzed for the effects of anodal and cathodal tDCS (compared with sham tDCS). Matching of hand gestures was specifically facilitated by anodal tDCS applied over the cytoarchitectonically defined IPL-area PFm, whereas tDCS over IPL-areas PF and PG did not elucidate significant effects. Taking into account tDCS electrode size and the central position of area PFm within IPL, it can be assumed that the observed effect is rather the result of a combined stimulation of the supramarginal and angular gyrus than an isolated PFm stimulation. Our data confirm the pivotal role of the left IPL in gesture processing. Furthermore, anatomically guided tDCS of the left IPL may constitute a promising approach to neurorehabilitation of apraxic patients with gesture processing deficits.
Motion direction is a crucial cue for predicting future states in natural scenes. In the auditory system, the mechanisms that confer direction selectivity to neurons are not well understood. Neither is it known whether sound motion is encoded independently of stationary sound location. Here we investigated these questions in neurons of the owl's external nucleus of the inferior colliculus, where auditory space is represented in a map. Using a high-density speaker array, we show that the preferred direction and the degree of direction selectivity can be predicted by response adaptation to sounds moving over asymmetric spatial receptive fields. At the population level, we found that preference for sounds moving toward frontal space increased with eccentricity in spatial tuning. This distribution was consistent with larger receptive-field asymmetry in neurons tuned to more peripheral auditory space. A model of suppression based on spatiotemporal summation predicted the observations. Thus, response adaptation and receptive-field shape can explain direction selectivity to acoustic motion and an orderly distribution of preferred direction.
Neuroplasticity is essential to prevent clinical worsening despite continuing neuronal loss in several brain diseases, including multiple sclerosis (MS). The precise nature of the adaptation mechanisms taking place in MS brains, ensuring protection from disability appearance and accumulation, is however unknown. Here, we explored the hypothesis that long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP), potentially able to minimize the effects of neuronal loss by providing extra excitation of denervated neurons, is the most relevant form of adaptive plasticity in stable MS patients, and it is disrupted in progressing MS patients. We found that LTP, explored by means of transcranial magnetic theta burst stimulation over the primary motor cortex, was still possible, and even favored, in stable relapsing-remitting (RR-MS) patients, whereas it was absent in individuals with primary progressive MS (PP-MS). We also provided evidence that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) plays a substantial role in favoring both LTP and brain reserve in MS patients, as this molecule: (1) was reduced in the CSF of PP-MS patients, (2) enhanced LTP emergence in hippocampal mouse brain slices, (3) was associated with more pronounced LTP in RR-MS patients, and (4) was associated with the clinical compensation of new brain lesion formation in RR-MS. Our results show that brain plasticity reserve, in the form of LTP, is crucial to contrast clinical deterioration in MS. Enhancing PDGF signaling might represent a valuable treatment option to maintain brain reserve and to attenuate the clinical consequences of neuronal damage in the progressive phases of MS and in other neurodegenerative disorders.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia and has no cure. Genetic, cell biological, and biochemical studies suggest that reducing amyloid- (A) production may serve as a rational therapeutic avenue to delay or prevent AD progression. Inhibition of RhoA, a Rho GTPase family member, is proposed to curb A production. However, a barrier to this hypothesis has been the limited understanding of how the principal downstream effectors of RhoA, Rho-associated, coiled-coil containing protein kinase (ROCK) 1 and ROCK2, modulate A generation. Here, we report that ROCK1 knockdown increased endogenous human A production, whereas ROCK2 knockdown decreased A levels. Inhibition of ROCK2 kinase activity, using an isoform-selective small molecule (SR3677), suppressed -site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) enzymatic action and diminished production of A in AD mouse brain. Immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy analyses revealed that SR3677 alters BACE1 endocytic distribution and promotes amyloid precursor protein (APP) traffic to lysosomes. Moreover, SR3677 blocked ROCK2 phosphorylation of APP at threonine 654 (T654); in neurons, T654 was critical for APP processing to A. These observations suggest that ROCK2 inhibition reduces A levels through independent mechanisms. Finally, ROCK2 protein levels were increased in asymptomatic AD, mild cognitive impairment, and AD brains, demonstrating that ROCK2 levels change in the earliest stages of AD and remain elevated throughout disease progression. Collectively, these findings highlight ROCK2 as a mechanism-based therapeutic target to combat A production in AD.
How growth cones detect small concentration differences of guidance cues for correct steering remains a long-standing puzzle. Commissural axons engage planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling components to turn anteriorly in a Wnt gradient after midline crossing. We found here that Frizzled3, a Wnt receptor, undergoes endocytosis via filopodia tips. Wnt5a increases Frizzled3 endocytosis, which correlates with filopodia elongation. We discovered an unexpected antagonism between Dishevelleds, which may function as a signal amplification mechanism in filopodia where PCP signaling is activated: Dishevelled2 blocks Dishevelled1-induced Frizzled3 hyperphosphorylation and membrane accumulation. A key component of apical-basal polarity (A-BP) signaling, aPKC, also inhibits Dishevelled1-induced Frizzled3 hyperphosphorylation. Celsr3, another PCP component, is required in commissural neurons for anterior turning. Frizzled3 hyperphosphorylation is increased in Celsr3 mutant mice, where PCP signaling is impaired, suggesting Frizzled3 hyperphosphorylation does correlate with loss of PCP signaling in vivo. Furthermore, we found that the small GTPase, Arf6, which is required for Frizzled3 endocytosis, is essential for Wnt-promoted outgrowth, highlighting the importance of Frizzled3 recycling in PCP signaling in growth cone guidance. In a Wnt5a gradient, more Frizzled3 endocytosis and activation of atypical protein kinase C was observed on the side of growth cones facing higher Wnt5a concentration, suggesting that spatially controlled Frizzled3 endocytosis is part of the key mechanism for growth cone steering.

Both circuit and single-cell properties contribute to network rhythms. In vitro, pyramidal cells exhibit theta-band membrane potential (subthreshold) resonance, but whether and how subthreshold resonance translates into spiking resonance in freely behaving animals is unknown. Here, we used optogenetic activation to trigger spiking in pyramidal cells or parvalbumin immunoreactive interneurons (PV) in the hippocampus and neocortex of freely behaving rodents. Individual directly activated pyramidal cells exhibited narrow-band spiking centered on a wide range of frequencies. In contrast, PV photoactivation indirectly induced theta-band-limited, excess postinhibitory spiking in pyramidal cells (resonance). PV-inhibited pyramidal cells and interneurons spiked at PV-inhibition troughs, similar to CA1 cells during spontaneous theta oscillations. Pharmacological blockade of hyperpolarization-activated (I(h)) currents abolished theta resonance. Inhibition-induced theta-band spiking was replicated in a pyramidal cell-interneuron model that included I(h). Thus, PV interneurons mediate pyramidal cell spiking resonance in intact cortical networks, favoring transmission at theta frequency.
For efficient coding, sensory systems need to adapt to the distribution of signals to which they are exposed. In vision, natural scenes above and below the horizon differ in the distribution of chromatic and achromatic features. Consequently, many species differentially sample light in the sky and on the ground using an asymmetric retinal arrangement of short- (S, &quot;blue&quot;) and medium- (M, &quot;green&quot;) wavelength-sensitive photoreceptor types. Here, we show that in mice this photoreceptor arrangement provides for near-optimal sampling of natural achromatic contrasts. Two-photon population imaging of light-driven calcium signals in the synaptic terminals of cone-photoreceptors expressing a calcium biosensor revealed that S, but not M cones, preferred dark over bright stimuli, in agreement with the predominance of dark contrasts in the sky but not on the ground. Therefore, the different cone types do not only form the basis of &quot;color vision,&quot; but in addition represent distinct (achromatic) contrast-selective channels.
Whereas past work indicates that cortical interneurons (cINs) can be generically produced from stem cells, generating large numbers of specific subtypes of this population has remained elusive. This reflects an information gap in our understanding of the transcriptional programs required for different interneuron subtypes. Here, we have utilized the directed differentiation of stem cells into specific subpopulations of cortical interneurons as a means to identify some of these missing factors. To establish this approach, we utilized two factors known to be required for the generation of cINs, Nkx2-1 and Dlx2. As predicted, their regulated transient expression greatly improved the differentiation efficiency and specificity over baseline. We extended upon this &quot;cIN-primed&quot; model in order to establish a modular system whereby a third transcription factor could be systematically introduced. Using this approach, we identified Lmo3 and Pou3f4 as genes that can augment the differentiation and/or subtype specificity of cINs invitro.
To understand dynamic cognitive processes, the high time resolution of EEG/MEG is invaluable. EEG/MEG signals can play an important role in providing measures of functional and effective connectivity in the brain. After a brief description of the foundations and basic methodological aspects of EEG/MEG signals, the relevance of the signals to obtain novel insights into the neuronal mechanisms underlying cognitive processes is surveyed, with emphasis on neuronal oscillations (ultra-slow, theta, alpha, beta, gamma, and HFOs) and combinations of oscillations. Three main functional roles of brain oscillations are put in evidence: (1) coding specific information, (2) setting and modulating brain attentional states, and (3) assuring the communication between neuronal populations such that specific dynamic workspaces may be created. The latter form the material core of cognitive functions.
Learning models propose a role for both signed and unsigned prediction errors in updating associations between cues and aversive outcomes. In this issue of Neuron, Klavir etal. (2013) show how these errors arise from the interplay between the amygdala and anterior cingulate cortex.
Whether cortical projection neurons (CPNs) are generated by multipotent or fate-restricted progenitors is not completely understood. In this issue of Neuron, Guo etal. (2013) provide evidence that mouse Fezf2-expressing radial glial cells are multipotent progenitors that sequentially generate all major CPN subtypes and glia.
Reference frames are important for understanding how sensory cues from different modalities are coordinated to guide behavior, and the parietal cortex is critical to these functions. We compare reference frames of vestibular self-motion signals in the ventral intraparietal area (VIP), parietoinsular vestibular cortex (PIVC), and dorsal medial superior temporal area (MSTd). Vestibular heading tuning in VIP is invariant to changes in both eye and head positions, indicating a body (or world)-centered reference frame. Vestibular signals in PIVC have reference frames that are intermediate between head and body centered. In contrast, MSTd neurons show reference frames between head and eye centered but not body centered. Eye and head position gain fields were strongest in MSTd and weakest in PIVC. Our findings reveal distinct spatial reference frames for representing vestibular signals and pose new challenges for understanding the respective roles of these areas in potentially diverse vestibular functions.
In the olfactory bulb, odor representations by principal mitral cells are modulated by local inhibitory circuits. While dendrodendritic synapses between mitral and granule cells are typically thought to be a major source of this modulation, the contributions of other inhibitory neurons remain unclear. Here we demonstrate the functional properties of olfactory bulb parvalbumin-expressing interneurons (PV cells) and identify their important role in odor coding. Using paired recordings, we find that PV cells form reciprocal connections with the majority of nearby mitral cells, in contrast to the sparse connectivity between mitral and granule cells. In vivo calcium imaging in awake mice reveals that PV cells are broadly tuned to odors. Furthermore, selective PV cell inactivation enhances mitral cell responses in a linear fashion while maintaining mitral cell odor preferences. Thus, dense connections between mitral and PV cells underlie an inhibitory circuit poised to modulate the gain of olfactory bulb output.
Histone acetyltransferase activity by transcriptional cofactors such as CREB-binding protein (CBP) and post-translational modifications by small ubiquitin-like modifier-1 (SUMO-1) have shown to be relevant for synaptic and neuronal activity. Here, we investigate whether SUMOylation of CBP plays a role in spatial learning. We assessed protein levels of CBP/p300, SUMO-1, and CBP SUMOylation in the hippocampi of rats trained on the Morris water maze task. Furthermore, we evaluated the post-translational modifications at Zif268, BDNF, and Arc/Arg3.1 promoters using chromatin immunoprecipitation with anti-Acetyl-Histone H3-Lys14 (H3K14Ac) and SUMO-1. We found that CBP/p300 protein expression is unchanged in animals trained for 7 days. However, H3K14Ac-specific histone acetyltransferase activity showed specific hyperacetylation at promoters of Zif268 and BDNF-pI but not of Arc/Arg3.1 and BDNF-pIV. In naive animals, CBP is selectively SUMOylated and the Arc/Arg3.1 promoter is differentially occupied by SUMO-1, although SUMO-1 levels are unchanged. These results suggest a specific negative regulation by SUMO-1 on CBP function and its effect on epigenetic changes triggered by spatial learning and memory processes.
Electroencephalography (EEG) and gaze data have traditionally been separated in neurocognitive studies because of the artefacts that even small controlled eye movements produce. Study of gaze control in a visual tracking task provides information about an individual's prospective control. By including gaze events in the EEG analysis, we studied prospective control and its neural correlates during deceleration in a visual tracking task. Adult participants followed with their gaze a small car moving horizontally on a large screen, where the final approach of the car was temporarily occluded, and pushed a button to stop the car at the reappearance point. Two gaze events, the behavioural push button response and the nonbehavioural stimulus onset, were used to time-lock the averaged event-related potential (ERP) waveform. A significant effect of deceleration on peak amplitude in parietal channel Pz (P&lt;0.05) was found when ERP waveforms were time-locked to the prospective gaze shift over the occluder. The peak decreased in amplitude as car deceleration increased when participants successfully stopped the car, indicating successful deceleration discrimination. No such effect was found when ERP waveforms were time-locked to any of the other events. Thus, a traditional stimulus onset time-locking procedure is likely to distort the averaged signal and consequently hide important Pz-peak amplitude differences on the prospective timing of decelerating object motion during occlusion. This study shows the importance of including behavioural data when studying neural correlates of prospective control and proposes active incorporation of behavioural data into the EEG analysis.
Evidences in the central nervous system are in favor that adenosine under basal conditions is released by a direct excitation-secretion modality. However, till now, there is no direct evidence that adenosine is contained in synaptic vesicles. Eight synaptic vesicle fractions were recovered on a discontinuous sucrose gradient after ultracentrifugation of the crude synaptosomal fraction (pellet P2) of rat brain. The adenosine content in each fraction was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled to a fluorescence detector (minimum sensitivity 10 femtomoles). The immunoblot analysis, to detect synaptophysin, a molecular marker for the vesicle membrane, showed that fractions from 3 to 8 were rich in synaptophysin. The sum of adenosine found in fractions 3-8 was (mean  SEM, n = 4) 3325.6  94.6 pmol/mg of tissue protein. We proved that adenosine measured in synaptic vesicle fractions was not contaminated by cytosolic adenosine, as adenosine exogenously added to the P2 preferentially distributed in fractions 1 and 2 that are synaptophysin-free and did not contaminate the vesicle pellet P3. Data provide direct demonstration that adenosine is present in rat brain synaptic vesicle fractions. This information is consistent with the notion that adenosine is stored in synaptic vesicles and is released under normoxic physiological conditions by an excitation-secretion mechanism typical of neuronal cells.

Urinary incontinence is a frequent symptom rarely spontaneously reported. This emphasizes the need to address it in every patient. Once disclosed, its origin needs to be specified so that therapeutic issues may be reached. These being often efficient, patient quality of life will improve significantly. In order to improve urinary incontinence management, a multidisciplinary group of healthcare professionals of our institution have proposed to spread basic knowledge, screening tools and evaluation scales of this bothersome worldwide symptom. This team enables healthcare providers to unite themselves in a network which will help to orientate patients in order to fulfill their needs.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A (CMT1A) is a hereditary demyelinating neuropathy linked with duplication of the peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) gene. Transgenic C22 mice, a model of CMT1A, display many features of the human disease, including slowed nerve conduction velocity and demyelination of peripheral nerves. How overproduction of PMP22 leads to compromised myelin and axonal pathology is not fully understood, but likely involves subcellular alterations in protein homoeostatic mechanisms within affected Schwann cells. The subcellular response to abnormally localized PMP22 includes the recruitment of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), autophagosomes and heat-shock proteins (HSPs). Here we assessed biochemical markers of these protein homoeostatic pathways in nerves from PMP22-overexpressing neuropathic mice between the ages of 2 and 12 months to ascertain their potential contribution to disease progression. In nerves of 3-week-old mice, using endoglycosidases and Western blotting, we found altered processing of the exogenous human PMP22, an abnormality that becomes more prevalent with age. Along with the ongoing accrual of misfolded PMP22, the activity of the proteasome becomes compromised and proteins required for autophagy induction and lysosome biogenesis are up-regulated. Moreover, cytosolic chaperones are consistently elevated in nerves from neuropathic mice, with the most prominent change in HSP70. The gradual alterations in protein homoeostatic response are accompanied by Schwann cell de-differentiation and macrophage infiltration. Together, these results show that while subcellular protein quality control mechanisms respond appropriately to the presence of the overproduced PMP22, with aging they are unable to prevent the accrual of misfolded proteins.

Some higher vertebrates can display unique muscle regenerative abilities through dedifferentiation. Research evidence suggests that induced dedifferentiation can be achieved in mammalian cells. TWIST is a bHLH (basic helix-loop-helix) transcription factor that is expressed during embryonic development and plays critical roles in diverse developmental systems including myogenesis. Several experiments demonstrated its role in inhibition of muscle cell differentiation. We have previously shown that overexpression of TWIST can reverse muscle cell differentiation in the presence of growth factors. Here we show that TWIST reverses muscle cell differentiation through binding and down-regulation of myogenin. Moreover, it can reverse cellular morphology in the absence of growth factors.

Altered insulin signaling and neuroinflammation are emerging features of Alzheimer's disease. Lourenco et al. (2013) identify a pathogenic mechanism that is shared between Alzheimer's disease and diabetes and contributes to memory loss through a common molecular event: the control of protein synthesis by PKR and the downstream phosphorylation of eIF2.



An 83-year-old right-handed woman presented with sudden right-sided hemiparesis, somnolence, and loss of normal speech. Speech was nonfluent with semantic paraphasias and word-finding difficulties. Word repetition and comprehension was normal. MRI brain showed an area of restricted diffusion in the left thalamus consistent with acute infarction (figure 1). Speech fluency returned to normal after 2 days with occasional dysnomia and paraphasias.


Ghrelin is a stomach-derived peptide hormone that acts in the brain to regulate many important physiological functions. Ghrelin receptor, named the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR), is present in many brain areas with or without obvious direct access to ghrelin circulating in the bloodstream. Ghrelin is also present in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) but the brain targets of CSF ghrelin are unclear. Here, we studied which brain areas are accessible to ghrelin present in the CSF. For this purpose, we centrally injected mice with fluorescein-labeled ghrelin (F-ghrelin) peptide tracer and then systematically mapped the distribution of F-ghrelin signal through the brain. Our results indicated that centrally injected F-ghrelin labels neurons in most of the brain areas where GHSR is present. Also, we detected F-ghrelin uptake in the ependymal cells of both wild-type and GHSR-null mice. We conclude that CSF ghrelin is able to reach most of brain areas expressing GHSR. Also, we propose that the accessibility of CSF ghrelin to the brain parenchyma occurs through the ependymal cells in a GHSR-independent manner.
This study was done to investigate the effects of acute intermittent hypoxia (IH) on metabolic factors associated with energy balance and body weight, and on hypothalamic satiety-inducing pathways. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to either 8h IH or normoxic control conditions. Food intake, locomotion and body weights were examined after IH. Additionally, plasma levels of leptin, adiponectin corticosterone, insulin and blood glucose were measured following exposure to IH. Furthermore, adipose tissue was removed and analyzed for leptin and adiponectin content. Finally, the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC) was assessed for alterations in protein signaling associated with satiety. IH reduced body weight, food intake and active cycle locomotion without altering adipose tissue mass. Leptin protein content was reduced while adiponectin content was elevated in adipose tissue after IH. Plasma concentration of leptin was significantly increased while adiponectin decreased after IH. No changes were found in plasma corticosterone, insulin and blood glucose. In ARC, phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 and pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) expression were elevated. In addition, POMC-expressing neurons were activated as determined by immediate early gene FRA-1/2 expression. Finally, ERK1/2 and its phosphorylation were reduced in response to IH. These data suggest that IH induces significant alterations to body energy balance through changes in the secretion of leptin which exert effects on satiety-inducing pathways within the hypothalamus.
Mas oncogene-related gene (Mrg) G protein-coupled receptors are exclusively expressed in small-sized neurons in trigeminal and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) in mammals. The present study investigated the effect of MrgC receptor activation on morphine analgesic potency and addressed its possible mechanisms. Intrathecal (i.t.) administration of the specific MrgC receptor agonist bovine adrenal medulla 8-22 (BAM8-22, 3 nmol) increased morphine-induced analgesia and shifted the morphine dose-response curve to the left in rats. Acute morphine (5 g) reduced the coupling of -opioid receptors (MORs) to Gi-, but not Gs-, protein in the spinal dorsal horn. The i.t. BAM8-22 (3 nmol) prevented this change of G-protein repertoire while the inactive MrgC receptor agonist BAM8-18 (3 nmol, i.t.) failed to do so. A double labeling study showed the co-localization of MrgC and MORs in DRG neurons. The i.t. BAM8-22 also increased the coupling of MORs to Gi-protein and recruited Gi-protein from cytoplasm to the cell membrane in the spinal dorsal horn. Application of BAM8-22 (10nM) in the cultured ganglion explants for 30 min increased Gi-protein mRNA, but not Gs-protein mRNA. The present study demonstrated that acute administration of morphine inhibited the repertoire of MOR/Gi-protein coupling in the spinal dorsal horn in vivo. The findings highlight a novel mechanism by which the activation of MrgC receptors can modulate the coupling of MORs with Gi-protein to enhance morphine-induced analgesia. Hence, adjunct treatment of MrgC agonist BAM8-22 may be of therapeutic value to relieve pain.
Reconsolidation refers to the destabilization/re-stabilization process upon memory reactivation. However, the parameters needed to induce reconsolidation remain unclear. Here we evaluated the capacity of memory retrieval to induce reconsolidation of object recognition memory in rats. To assess whether retrieval is indispensable to trigger reconsolidation, we injected muscimol in the perirhinal cortex to block retrieval, and anisomycin (ani) to impede reconsolidation. We observed that ani impaired reconsolidation in the absence of retrieval. Therefore, stored memory underwent reconsolidation even though it was not recalled. These results indicate that retrieval and reconsolidation of object recognition memory are independent processes.
We have previously shown that chloride ion flux plays an important role in receptor tyrosine kinase A (TrkA)-mediated signaling pathway during nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced differentiation in pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. Here we found out that chloride channel 4 (CLC-4) is responsible for the NGF-induced neurite outgrowth in neuronal cells. Using a patch-clamp technique, we found that NGF treatment increased anionic conductance in PC12 cells, an effect which was blocked by transfection of siRNA of CLC-4. Also, the NGF-induced TrkA phosphorylation and subsequent Akt/moesin phosphorylation was suppressed in the CLC-4 knock down cells. Moreover, CLC-4 knock down also suppressed the neurite outgrowth in response to long-term treatment of NGF in PC12 cells and in primary cortical neurons. In summary, our results suggest that CLC-4 is an important mediator of the TrkA-mediated signaling pathway and thus, the NGF-induced differentiation of neuronal cells.
The neurobiological mechanisms of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) when applied for neuropathic pain are still incompletely known. Previous research indicates that brainstem circuitry is pivotal for the SCS effect. The present study aims at exploring the possible contribution to the SCS effects of the pain controlling system emanating from the locus coeruleus (LC) in the brain stem. Experiments were performed on the rat-spared nerve injury pain model. After evaluation of the attenuation of mechanical hypersensitivity induced by SCS, the effects of SCS on neuronal activity in the LC and on the noradrenaline (NA) content in the dorsal spinal cord were analyzed. SCS produced a significant increase in the discharge rate of LC neurons only in rats behaviorally responding to SCS as compared to non-responding and control animals. The NA content in the dorsal quadrant of the spinal cord ipsilateral to the nerve injury was analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in responding, non-responding and intact control rats both immediately following SCS and without SCS. No differences were found between these groups. In awake animals, lidocaine silencing of the ipsilateral LC or blocking of spinal noradrenergic system by intrathecal administration of 1,2 adrenoceptor antagonists failed to influence the antihypersensitivity effect of SCS. The present results indicate that the SCS-induced control of hypersensitivity in an experimental animal model of peripheral neuropathic pain may not be explained by the activation of direct spinal projections of noradrenergic LC neurons, while supraspinal projections of LC neurons still may play a role in the SCS effect.
Indirect evidence suggests the increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in migraine pathophysiology. In the current study we measured lipid peroxidation product in the rat cortex, trigeminal ganglia and meninges after the induction of cortical spreading depression (CSD), a phenomenon known to be associated with migraine aura, and tested nociceptive firing triggered by ROS in trigeminal nerves ex vivo. Application of KCl to dura mater in anesthetized rats induced several waves of CSD recorded by an extracellular electrode in the cortex. Following CSD, samples of cortex (affected regions were identified with blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)), meninges from left and right hemispheres and trigeminal ganglia were taken for biochemical analysis. We found that CSD increased the level of the lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde (MDA) in the ipsilateral cerebral cortex and meninges, but also in both ipsi- and contralateral trigeminal ganglia. In order to test the pro-nociceptive action of ROS, we applied the mild oxidant hydrogen peroxide to isolated rat hemiskull preparations including preserved trigeminal innervations. Application of hydrogen peroxide to meninges transiently enhanced electrical spiking activity of trigeminal nerves showing a pro-nociceptive action of ROS. In the presence of hydrogen peroxide trigeminal nerves still responded to capsaicin by burst of spiking activity indicating integrity of neuronal structures. The action of hydrogen peroxide was mediated by TRPA1 receptors as it was abolished by the specific TRPA1 antagonist TCS-5861528. Using dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons as test system we found that hydrogen peroxide promoted the release of the migraine mediator calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), which we previously identified as a trigger of delayed sensitization of trigeminal neurons. Our data suggest that, after CSD, oxidative stress spreads downstream within the trigeminal nociceptive system and could be involved in the coupling of CSD with the activation of trigeminovascular system in migraine pathology.
Although elevated matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 levels were highly related to the degradation of tight junction (TJ) proteins and basal lamina and neuronal injury after ischemia, until very recently, little experimental evidence was available to test the role of the MMP-2 knockout (KO) in blood-brain-barrier (BBB) injury and the development of hemorrhage transformation (HT). Here, we assessed the role of the MMP-2 KO in BBB injury, HT and other brain injuries after 1h of ischemia and 23 h of reperfusion. Middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was performed in MMP-2 KO mice. Reperfusion was started 1h after the onset of MCAO. All mice were sacrificed 24h after the MCAO. MMP-2 deficiency reduced the decrease in protein levels of collagen IV and cellular membrane occludin (p&lt;0.01 and 0.05 vs. wild-type (WT), respectively) and attenuated increase in cytosol occludin level in ischemic brain (p&lt;0.01 vs. WT). The hemorrhage volume and brain infarction were significantly decreased in both the cortex and striatum in the MMP-2 KO mice (p&lt;0.01 vs. WT). The MMP-2 KO also had reduced brain swelling in the cortex and improved neurological deficits (p&lt;0.01 vs. WT). These studies provide direct evidence that targeting MMP-2 will effectively protect against collagen and occludin loss and HT after ischemia and reperfusion.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) are involved in the stress response and alterations in eCB signaling may contribute to the etiology of mood disorders. Exposure to chronic mild stress (CMS), a model of depression, produces downregulation of the cannabinoid 1 (CB1) receptor in the hippocampus of male rats. However, it is unknown how this stress-induced change in CB1 levels affects eCB-mediated neurotransmission. In vitro, field potential recordings from CMS-exposed (21-days) rats were performed to assess the effects of stress on eCB-regulated glutamatergic neurotransmission in/on hippocampal area CA1. We observed that application of the CB1 agonist, WIN 55,212-5 (1 M), in stress animals resulted in a 135% increase in excitatory neurotransmission, whereas CB1 activation in non-stress animals leads to a 30% decrease. However, during blockade of GABA(A) neurotransmission with picrotoxin, CB1 activation yielded a 35% decrease in stress animals. These findings indicate that CMS does not directly affect glutamatergic neurotransmission. Rather, CMS sensitizes CB1 function on GABAergic terminals, leading to less inhibition and an increase in excitatory neurotransmission. This finding is reinforced in that induction of weak long-term-potentiation (LTP) is enhanced in CMS-exposed animals compared to controls and this enhancement is CB1-dependent. Lastly, we observed that the LTP-blocking property of WIN 55,212-5 shifts from being glutamate-dependent in non-stress animals to being GABA-dependent in stress animals. These results effectively demonstrate that CMS significantly alters hippocampal eCB-mediated neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity.
Presynaptic functions of the mammalian central neurons are regulated by a network of protein interactions. Synaptic vesicle recycling in and neurotransmitter release from the presynaptic nerve terminals are altered when a glutamate-deleting mutation is present in the torsinA protein (E-torsinA). This mutation is linked with a hereditary form of the movement disorder dystonia known as DYT1 dystonia. Although torsinA expression is prevalent throughout the central nervous system, its subcellular localization - in particular with respect to presynaptic nerve terminals - remains unclear. This information would be useful in narrowing down possible models for how wild-type torsinA affects presynaptic function, as well as the nature of the presynaptic dysfunction that arises in the context of E-torsinA mutation. Here we report on an analysis of the presynaptic localization of torsinA in cultured neurons obtained from a knock-in mouse model of DYT1 dystonia. Primary cultures of neurons were established from heterozygous and homozygous E-torsinA knock-in mice, as well as from their wild-type littermates. Neurons were obtained from the striatum, cerebral cortex and hippocampus of these mice, and were subjected to immunocytochemistry. This analysis revealed the expression of both proteins in the somata and dendrites. However, neither the nerve terminals nor axonal shafts were immunoreactive. These results were confirmed by fluorogram-based quantitation. Our findings indicate that neither the wild-type nor the E-torsinA mutant protein is present at substantial levels in the presynaptic structures of cultured neurons. Thus, the effects of torsinA, in wild-type and mutant forms, appear to influence presynaptic function indirectly, without residing in presynaptic structures.
Three-dimensional changes in the angular orientation of the head were monitored during galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) delivered through electrodes implanted bilaterally in the tensor tympani muscle of the guinea-pig middle ear. Bilateral GVS was delivered by passing current between both ears with the anode situated in one ear and the cathode in the other ear. Unilateral GVS was also delivered between one ear and an indifferent electrode on the skull. Constant-current stimulation caused the head to tilt predominantly within the roll and yaw planes toward an ear stimulated with anodal current and away from an ear stimulated with cathodal current. No significant head tilt in the pitch plane was observed with either bilateral or unilateral GVS. Bilateral GVS was found to induce significantly greater roll head tilt (RHT) and yaw head tilt (YHT) than the same intensity of unilateral anodal or cathodal GVS, but not the sum of responses induced by the two polarities of unilateral GVS. Significant asymmetries were observed in the responses of YHT and RHT for unilateral anodal and cathodal GVS; unilateral cathodal stimulation generated greater head deviation compared with the same intensity of unilateral anodal stimulation. These asymmetric responses are consistent with activation of irregularly discharging afferents, which have been shown previously to exhibit asymmetric responses for anodal and cathodal GVS (Kim and Curthoys, 2004). Together with the observations of previous guinea-pig studies, the results suggest that head movements induced by GVS may be mediated by irregularly discharging afferents innervating the otoliths, and possibly the horizontal semicircular canals.

Perineuronal net (PNN) is a specialized aggregate of the extracellular matrix, which is considered to be involved in regulation of structural plasticity of neuronal circuits. Here we examined the spatial and temporal differences in Wisteria floribunda agglutinin-labeled PNN intensity in single cells in the mouse hippocampus, where the neuronal circuits engaged in cognition and emotion are embedded in the dorsal and ventral parts, respectively. In young mice, the intensity of PNN was very low, and there were no significant dorsoventral differences in all hippocampal regions. Developmental increase in PNN intensity was larger in the dorsal part than in the ventral part. As a result, PNN intensity was higher in the dorsal part than in the ventral part in adult mice. Aging dissimilarly affects different regions of the dorsal hippocampus. Namely, PNN intensity in the dorsal part of old mice declined in the CA1 region, remained unchanged in the CA3 region, increased in the dentate gyrus. By contrast, there were no significant aging-related changes in PNN intensity in the ventral hippocampus. We also examined the intensity of parvalbumin (PV), an EF-hand calcium-binding protein, because it has been shown that PNNs are closely related to PV-containing GABAergic inhibitory neurons. Contrary to expectations, developmental and aging-related changes in PV intensity were not comparable to those seen in PNN intensity. The correlation coefficients between PNN and PV intensities in single cells showed gradual decline during development and aging in the CA1 and CA3 regions, while there were little correlations in the dentate gyrus regardless of age. In summary, PNNs are differentially expressed in the dorsal and ventral hippocampal circuits during development and aging, indicating their possible role for cognition and emotion control.
Cannabinoid CB1 receptor (CB1R) signaling system is extensively distributed in the vertebrate retina. Activation of CB1Rs regulates a variety of functions of retinal neurons through modulating different ion channels. In the present work we studied effects of this receptor signaling on K(+) channels in retinal ganglion cells by patch-clamp techniques. The CB1R agonist WIN55212-2 (WIN) suppressed outward K(+) currents in acutely isolated rat retinal ganglion cells in a dose-dependent manner, with an IC50 of 4.7 M. We further showed that WIN mainly suppressed the tetraethylammonium (TEA)-sensitive K(+) current component. While CB1Rs were expressed in rat retinal ganglion cells, the WIN effect on K(+) currents was not blocked by either AM251/SR141716, specific CB1R antagonists, or AM630, a selective CB2R antagonist. Consistently, cAMP-protein kinase A (PKA) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathways were unlikely involved in the WIN-induced suppression of the K(+) currents because both PKA inhibitors H-89/Rp-cAMP and MAPK/ERK1/2 inhibitor U0126 failed to block the WIN effects. WIN-induced suppression of the K(+) currents was not observed when WIN was intracellularly applied. Furthermore, an endogenous ligand of the cannabinoid receptor anandamide, the specific CB1R agonist ACEA and the selective CB2R agonist CB65 also suppressed the K(+) currents, and the effects were not blocked by AM251/SR141716 or AM630 respectively. All these results suggest that the WIN-induced suppression of the outward K(+) currents in rat retinal ganglion cells, thereby regulating the cell excitability, were not through CB1R/CB2R signaling pathways.
It is reported that the amyloid- protein (A)-induced impairments in synaptic plasticity coincide with memory decline and dementia. Although A-induced inhibition of hippocampal long-term potentiation has been intensively investigated, the underlying mechanism of A-enhanced long-term depression (LTD) is not clear. Here, we report that acute exposure of rat hippocampal slices to soluble A-enhanced LTD induced by weak low-frequency stimulation (wLFS; 1Hz for 3 min, 180 pulses) in granule cells of the dentate gyrus. Application of LY341495 (a non-selective Group I/II metrabotropic glumate receptor (mGluR) antagonist) completely blocked A-enhanced LTD, whereas D-AP5 (a not selective N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist) had no effect on A-enhanced LTD compared with controls. In addition, A-enhanced LTD was occluded by pre-application of 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine, a Group1 mGluR (mGluR1/5) agonist, suggesting A-enhanced LTD depends on mGluR1/5 but not NMDAR. We also report here that p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK) inhibitor SB203580 and postsynaptic protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors phenylarsine oxide and sodium orthovanadate prevented the facilitatory effect of A on LTD. Application of striatal-enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase (STEP) activator MG132 facilitated induction of LTD by wLFS, but did not block following A-enhanced LTD induced by another wLFS. On the other hand, A-enhanced LTD blocked following MG132-LTD by wLFS, suggesting A-enhanced hippocampal LTD involves STEP activation. Application of either non-selective caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK or caspase-3 selective inhibitor Z-DEVD-FMK prevented A-enhanced LTD. However, neither the tumor necrosis factor- converting enzyme inhibitor TAPI-2 nor the mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor rapamycin prevented the enhancement of A on LTD. Therefore, we conclude that soluble A enhances LTD in the hippocampal dentate gyrus region, and the facilitatory effect of A on LTD involves mGluR1/5, p38MAPK, STEP and caspase-3 activation.
Diabetic retinopathy is one of the most frequent causes of blindness in adults in the Western countries. Although diabetic retinopathy is considered a vascular disease, several reports demonstrate that retinal neurons are also affected, leading to vision loss. Tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), an endogenous bile acid, has proven to be neuroprotective in several models of neurodegenerative diseases, including models of retinal degeneration. Since hyperglycemia is considered to play a central role in retinal cell dysfunction and degeneration, underlying the progression of diabetic retinopathy, the purpose of this study was to investigate the neuroprotective effects of TUDCA in rat retinal neurons exposed to elevated glucose concentration. We found that TUDCA markedly decreased cell death in cultured retinal neural cells induced by exposure to elevated glucose concentration. In addition, TUDCA partially prevented the release of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) from the mitochondria, as well as the subsequent accumulation of AIF in the nucleus. Biomarkers of oxidative stress, such as protein carbonyl groups and reactive oxygen species production, were markedly decreased after TUDCA treatment as compared to cells exposed to elevated glucose concentration alone. In conclusion, TUDCA protected retinal neural cell cultures from cell death induced by elevated glucose concentration, decreasing mito-nuclear translocation of AIF. The antioxidant properties of TUDCA might explain its cytoprotection. These findings may have relevance in the treatment of diabetic retinopathy patients.
Neuronal migration during brain development sets the position of neurons for the subsequent wiring of neural circuits. To understand the molecular mechanism regulating the migrating process, we considered the migration of mouse precerebellar neurons. Precerebellar neurons originate in the rhombic lip of the hindbrain and show stereotypic, long-distance tangential migration along the circumference of the hindbrain to form precerebellar nuclei at discrete locations. To identify the molecular components underlying this navigation, we screened for genes expressed in the migrating precerebellar neurons. As a result, we identified the following three genes through the screening; Calm1, Septin 11, and Csde1. We report here functional analysis of one of these genes, Csde1, an RNA-binding protein implicated in the post-transcriptional regulation of a subset of cellular mRNA, by examining its participation in precerebellar neuronal migration. We found that shRNA-mediated inhibition of Csde1 expression resulted in a failure of precerebellar neurons to complete their migration into their prospective target regions, with many neurons remaining in migratory paths. Furthermore, those that did reach their destination failed to invade the depth of the hindbrain via radial migration. These results have uncovered a crucial role of Csde1 in the proper control of both radial and tangential migration of precerebellar neurons.
Neurotransmitter release probability is related by high power to the local concentration of calcium in presynaptic terminals, which in turn is controlled by voltage-gated calcium channels. P/Q- and N-type channels trigger synaptic transmission in the majority of neurons of the central nervous system. However, whether and under which conditions both channel types act cooperatively or independently is still insufficiently understood. Previous studies suggested either a dominance of N- or P/Q-type channels, or a synergistic action of both channels, depending on the experimental paradigms. Thus, to provide insight into the properties of neurotransmitter release in cultured mouse hippocampal neurons, we used quantitative analysis of FM dye release from presynaptic boutons induced by high potassium membrane depolarization. Increasing extracellular potassium concentrations revealed a sigmoid dependence of FM dye release to the stimulation strength. Individual and combined application of the P/Q- and N-type channel-specific blockers -agatoxin-IVA and -conotoxin-GVIA, respectively, allowed us to specifically isolate the contribution of both channel types to release triggered with 40 mM KCl. Analysis of the release kinetics and the fractional release amplitude demonstrate that, whereas in only 15% of the synapses release depended exclusively on P/Q-type channels, the majority of synapses (85%) contained both N- and P/Q-type channels. Nevertheless, the kinetics of FM dye release in synapses containing both channel types was determined by the P/Q-type channels. Together, our data suggest a more direct coupling of P/Q-type channels to synaptic release compared to N-type channels, which may explain the high prevalence of neurological P/Q-type channelopathies.
The spinal cord plays a key role in motor behavior. It relays major sensory information, receives afferents from supraspinal centers and integrates movement in the central pattern generators. Spinal motor output is controlled via corticofugal pathways including corticospinal and cortico-subcortical projections. Spinal cord injury damages descending supraspinal as well as ascending sensory pathways. In adult rodent models, plasticity of the spinal cord is thought to contribute to functional recovery. How much spinal cord function depends on cortical input is not well known. Here, we address this question using Celsr3/Foxg1 mice, in which cortico-subcortical connections (including corticospinal tract (CST) and the terminal sensory pathway, the thalamocortical tract) are genetically ablated during early development. Although Celsr3/Foxg1 mice are able to eat, walk, climb on grids and swim, open-field tests showed them to be hyperactive. When compared with normal littermates, mutant animals had reduced number of spinal motor neurons, with atrophic dendritic trees. Furthermore, motor axon terminals were decreased in number, and this was confirmed by electromyography. The number of cholinergic, calbindin, and calretinin-positive interneurons was moderately increased in the mutant spinal cord, whereas that of reelin and parvalbumin-positive interneurons was unchanged. As far as we know, our study provides the first genetic evidence that the spinal motor network does not mature fully in the absence of corticofugal connections, and that some motor function is preserved despite congenital absence of the CST.
Phosphoinositide 3-kinase  (PI3K) is a shared downstream component of chemokine-mediated signaling pathways and regulates migration, proliferation and activation of inflammatory cells. PI3K has been shown to play a crucial role in regulating inflammatory responses during the progression of several diseases. We investigated the potential function of PI3K in mediating inflammatory reactions and the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model of multiple sclerosis (MS). We found that systemic treatment with selective PI3K inhibitor AS-604850 significantly reduced the number of infiltrated leukocytes in the CNS and ameliorated the clinical symptoms of EAE mice. Treatment with this PI3K inhibitor enhanced myelination and axon number in the spinal cord of EAE mice. Consistently, we demonstrated that PI3K deletion in knockout mice mitigates the clinical sign of EAE compared to PI3K+/+ controls. PI3K deletion increased the number of axons in the lumbar spinal cord, including descending 5-HT-positive serotonergic fiber tracts. Our results indicate that PI3K contributes to development of autoimmune CNS inflammation and that PI3K blockade may provide a great potential for treating patients with MS.
The olfacto-retinal centrifugal system, a constant component of the central nervous system that appears to exist in all vertebrate groups, is part of the terminal nerve (TN) complex. TN allows the integration of different sensory modalities, and its anatomic variability may have functional and evolutionary significance. We propose that the olfacto-retinal branch of TN is an important anatomical link that allows the functional interaction between olfactory and visual systems in Austrolebias. By injecting three different neuronal tracers (biocytin, horseradish peroxidase, and 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'tetramethyl-indocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI)) in the left eye of Austrolebias charrua fishes, we identified the olfacto-retinal branch of TN and related neuronal somas that were differentiable by location, shape, and size. The olfacto-retinal TN branch is composed of numerous thin axons that run ventrally along the olfactory bulb (OB) and telencephalic lobes, and appears to originate from a group of many small monopolar neurons located in the rostral portion of both the ipsi- and contralateral OB (referred to as region 1). Labeled cells were found in two other regions: bipolar and multipolar neurons in the transition between the OB and telencephalic lobes (region 2) and two other groups in the preoptic/pretectal area (region 3). In this last region, the most rostral group is constituted by monopolar pear-shaped neurons and may belong to the septo-preoptic TN complex. The second group, putatively located in the pretectal region, is formed by pseudounipolar neurons and coincides with a conserved vertebrate nucleus of the centrifugal retinal system not involved in the TN complex. The found that connections between the olfactory and visual systems via the olfacto-retinal TN branch suggest an early interaction between these sensory modalities, and contribute to the identification of their currently unknown circuital organization.
GABA is thought to function as a paracrine factor in adrenal medullary (AM) cells. Thus, we electrophysiologically and immunologically examined the properties of GABAA receptors (GABAARs) in guinea-pig AM cells. Bath application of GABA produced an inward current at -60 mV in a dose-dependent manner with an EC50 of 32.3 M. This GABA-induced current was enhanced by allopregnanolone at concentrations of 0.01 M and more. A prior exposure to allopregnanolone resulted in a decrease in an EC50 for GABA in activating GABAARs. The GABA-induced current was suppressed by Zn(2+) in a dose-dependent manner with an IC50 of 18 M, whereas it was enhanced by 100 M La(3+). The benzodiazepine analog diazepam was three times more potent than zolpidem in enhancing the GABA current, and it was also augmented by L-838,417, which has no action on 1-containing GABAARs. The GABAAR 3, but not 1, and 2 subunits were immunologically detected at the cell periphery. The expression of 3 subunits in PC12 cells was enhanced by glucocorticoid activity. The results indicated that GABAARs in guinea-pig AM cells mainly comprise 3, , and 2 subunits and are enhanced by allopreganalone and glucocorticoids may play a major role in the expression of 3 subunits.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) is known to regulate important processes in neuronal cell development, activity and growth. It is associated with the structural stabilization of neuronal processes and synaptic contacts during the maturation of the central nervous system. The remodeling of the ECM during both development and after central nervous system injury has been shown to affect neuronal guidance, synaptic plasticity and their regenerative responses. Particular interest has focused on the inhibitory role of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) and their formation into dense lattice-like structures, termed perineuronal nets (PNNs), which enwrap sub-populations of neurons and restrict plasticity. Recent studies in mammalian systems have implicated CSPGs and PNNs in regulating and restricting structural plasticity. The enzymatic degradation of CSPGs or destabilization of PNNs has been shown to enhance neuronal activity and plasticity after central nervous system injury. This review focuses on the role of the ECM, CSPGs and PNNs; and how developmental and pharmacological manipulation of these structures have enhanced neuronal plasticity and aided functional recovery in regeneration, stroke, and amblyopia. In addition to CSPGs, this review also points to the functions and potential therapeutic value of these and several other key ECM molecules in epileptogenesis and dementia.
The neuropeptide oxytocin (OT) regulates rodent, primate and human social behaviors and stress responses. OT binding studies employing (125)I-d(CH2)5-[Tyr(Me)2,Thr4,Tyr-NH2(9)] ornithine vasotocin ((125)I-OTA), has been used to locate and quantify OT receptors (OTRs) in numerous areas of the rat brain. This ligand has also been applied to locating OTRs in the human brain. The results of the latter studies, however, have been brought into question because of subsequent evidence that (125)I-OTA is much less selective for OTR vs. vasopressin receptors in the primate brain. Previously we used a monoclonal antibody directed toward a region of the human OTR to demonstrate selective immunostaining of cell bodies and fibers in the preoptic-anterior hypothalamic area and ventral septum of a cynomolgus monkey (Boccia et al., 2001). The present study employed the same monoclonal antibody to study the location of OTRs in tissue blocks containing cortical, limbic and brainstem areas dissected from fixed adult, human female brains. OTRs were visualized in discrete cell bodies and/or fibers in the central and basolateral regions of the amygdala, medial preoptic area (MPOA), anterior and ventromedial hypothalamus, olfactory nucleus, vertical limb of the diagonal band, ventrolateral septum, anterior cingulate and hypoglossal and solitary nuclei. OTR staining was not observed in the hippocampus (including CA2 and CA3), parietal cortex, raphe nucleus, nucleus ambiguus or pons. These results suggest that there are some similarities, but also important differences, in the locations of OTRs in human and rodent brains. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) utilizing a monoclonal antibody provides specific localization of OTRs in the human brain and thereby provides opportunity to further study OTR in human development and psychiatric conditions.
Numerous long-term studies have investigated the circadian clock system in mammals, which organizes physiological functions, including metabolism, digestion, and absorption of food, and energy expenditure. Food or nutrition can be a synchronizer for the circadian clock systems, as potent as the external light-dark signal can be. Recent studies have investigated different kinds of food, frequency of consumption, and time of consumption for optimizing body clock and ensuring healthy habits. In this review, we discuss recent studies investigating chronobiology and nutrition, and then summarize available information as &quot;Chrono-nutrition&quot; for the development of a new standardized research strategy.
Cocaine addiction is driven by genetic, neurologic and environmental components. The D1-like (D1 and D5) and D2-like (D2, D3 and D4) families of dopamine receptors play an important role in modulating the effects of cocaine administration on drug-seeking behavior. The advent of bacterial artificial chromosome-eGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein) transgenic mice that express eGFP driven by the endogenous D1-receptor (D1-r) or D2-receptor (D2-r) promoters provides a unique opportunity to distinguish between these subpopulations of cells. In an effort to identify cocaine-induced alterations in D1-r- versus D2-r-expressing cells during the initial stages of addiction, we examined cells that expressed D1-rs in Drd1-eGFP mice, or D2-rs in Drd2-eGFP mice, after an acute, 1-day binge pattern of cocaine administration. We used multiphoton confocal microscopy and Visiopharm software, to conduct unbiased stereological counts of D1-r-labeled or D2-r-labeled cells in various striatal regions. Mice were sacrificed at 30 min and 24-h post cocaine or saline administration. Compared to saline controls, Drd1-eGFP mice that received cocaine had a higher count of D1-r-labeled cells in the dorsolateral (DL) striatum, at the 30-min and 24-h time-points. No changes in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) core or shell were observed in Drd1-eGFP mice. Drd2-eGFP mice that received cocaine had fewer D2-r-labeled cells in the DL striatum and NAc core compared to saline controls. This effect was observed at the 30-min time-point but not at 24h. Drd2-eGFP mice that received cocaine also had fewer numbers of D2-r-labeled cells in the NAc core compared to saline controls, but no significant differences in the number of D2-r-labeled cells in the NAc shell. These results suggest that acute binge pattern cocaine administration may induce region-specific alterations in D1-r or D2-receptor gene expression, and may help elucidate the differential role of dopamine receptors in the initial stages of the addiction cycle.
Molecular and cellular mechanisms of brain injury after exposure to blast overpressure (BOP) are not clearly known. The present study hypothesizes that pro-oxidative and pro-inflammatory pathways in the brain may be responsible for neuronal loss and behavioral deficits following BOP exposure. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized and exposed to calibrated BOP of 129.233.01kPa while controls received only anesthesia. In situ dihydroethidium fluorescence staining revealed that BOP significantly increased the production of reactive oxygen species in the brain. In addition, real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, immunofluorescence staining and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay demonstrated a significant up-regulation of mRNA and protein expressions of pro-inflammatory mediators, such as interferon- and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, in brains collected from BOP-exposed animals compared with the controls. Furthermore, immunoreactivity of neuronal nuclei in brains indicated that fewer neurons were present following BOP exposure. Moreover, novel object recognition paradigm showed a significant impairment in the short-term memory at 2weeks following BOP exposure. These results suggest that pro-oxidative and pro-inflammatory environments in the brain could play a potential role in BOP-induced neuronal loss and behavioral deficits. It may provide a foundation for defining a molecular and cellular basis of the pathophysiology of blast-induced neurotrauma (BINT). It will also contribute to the development of new therapeutic approaches selectively targeting these pathways, which have great potential in the diagnosis and therapy of BINT.
Neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes arise from CNS progenitor cells at defined times and locations during development, with transcription factors serving as key determinants of these different neural cell fates. An emerging theme is that the transcription factors that specify CNS cell fates function in a context-dependent manner, regulated by post-translational modifications and epigenetic alterations that partition the genome (and hence target genes) into active or silent domains. Here we profile the critical roles of the proneural genes, which encode basic-helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors, in specifying neural cell identities in the developing neocortex. In particular, we focus on the proneural genes Neurogenin 1 (Neurog1), Neurog2 and Achaete scute-like 1 (Ascl1), which are each expressed in a distinct fashion in the progenitor cell pools that give rise to all of the neuronal and glial cell types of the mature neocortex. Notably, while the basic functions of these proneural genes have been elucidated, it is becoming increasingly evident that tight regulatory controls dictate when, where and how they function. Current efforts to better understand how proneural gene function is regulated will not only improve our understanding of neocortical development, but are also critical to the future development of regenerative therapies for the treatment of neuronal degeneration or disease.
Ras homolog enriched in striatum (Rhes), is a highly conserved small guanosine-5'-triphosphate (GTP) binding protein belonging to the Ras superfamily. Rhes is involved in the dopamine receptor-mediated signaling and behavior though adenylyl cyclase. The striatum-specific GTPase share a close homology with Dexras1, which regulates iron trafficking in the neurons when activated though the post-translational modification called s-nitrosylation by nitric oxide (NO). We report that Rhes physiologically interacted with Peripheral benzodiazepine receptor-associated protein7 and participated in iron uptake via divalent metal transporter 1 similar to Dexras1. Interestingly, Rhes is not S-nitrosylated by NO-treatment, however phosphorylated by protein kinase A at the site of serine-239. Two Rhes mutants - the phosphomimetic form (serine 239 to aspartic acid) and constitutively active form (alanine 173 to valine) - displayed an increase in iron uptake compared to the wild-type Rhes. These findings suggest that Rhes may play a crucial role in striatal iron homeostasis.
In rodents as well as in many other mammalian and non-mammalian species, the arginine-vasopressin (AVP) system includes a parvocellular sexually dimorphic portion located within the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST), the medial amygdaloid nucleus (MeA) and the lateral septum. In this system, males have more cells and denser projections than females, neurons show androgen and estrogen receptors, and gonadal hormones are required for the activation. However, the role of these hormones for the differentiation of the system is not clear. Previous studies performed on aromatase knockout mice suggested that estradiol is not necessary for the differentiation of the system, but it is important for its activation in adulthood. To elucidate the role of androgens on differentiation and functioning of AVP parvocellular system, we compared male and female rats with a non-functional mutation of androgen receptor (Tfm, testicular feminization mutation) to their control littermates. Our data show that the lack of a functional androgen receptor significantly decreases the expression of AVP immunoreactivity within the BST and MeA of male Tfm. Thus supporting the hypothesis that androgens, through the action of their receptor, should have a relevant role in the organization and modulation of the AVP parvocellular sexually dimorphic system.
Prior adverse experience alters behavioral responses to subsequent stressors. For example, exposure to a brief swim increases immobility in a subsequent swim test 24h later. In order to determine if qualitative differences (e.g. 19C versus 25C) in an initial stressor (15-min swim) impact behavioral, physiological, and associated neural responses in a 5-min, 25C swim test 24h later, rats were surgically implanted with biotelemetry devices 1 week prior to experimentation then randomly assigned to one of six conditions (Day 1 (15 min)/Day 2 (5 min)): (1) home cage (HC)/HC, (2) HC/25C swim, (3) 19C swim/HC, (4) 19C swim/25C swim, (5) 25C swim/HC, (6) 25C swim/25C swim. Core body temperature (Tb) was measured on Days 1 and 2 using biotelemetry; behavior was measured on Day 2. Rats were transcardially perfused with fixative 2h following the onset of the swim on Day 2 for analysis of c-Fos expression in midbrain serotonergic neurons. Cold water (19C) swim on Day 1 reduced Tb, compared to both 25C swim and HC groups on Day 1, and, relative to rats exposed to HC conditions on Day 1, reduced the hypothermic response to the 25C swim on Day 2. The 19C swim on Day 1, relative to HC exposure on Day 1, increased immobility during the 5-min swim on Day 2. Also, 19C swim, relative to HC conditions, on Day 1 reduced swim (25C)-induced increases in c-Fos expression in serotonergic neurons within the dorsal and interfascicular parts of the dorsal raphe nucleus. These results suggest that exposure to a 5-min 19C cold water swim, but not exposure to a 5-min 25C swim alters physiological, behavioral and serotonergic responses to a subsequent stressor.
Intake of a Western diet (WD), which is high in saturated fat and sugar, is associated with deficits in hippocampal-dependent learning and memory processes as well as with markers of hippocampal pathology. In the present study, rats were trained to asymptote on hippocampal-dependent serial feature negative (FN) and hippocampal-independent simple discrimination problems. Performance was then assessed following 7 days on ad libitum chow and after 10, 24, 40, 60, and 90 days of maintenance on WD, on ketogenic (KETO) diet, which is high in saturated fat and low in sugar and other carbohydrates, or continued maintenance on chow (CHOW). Confirming and extending previous findings, diet-induced obese (DIO) rats fed WD showed impaired FN performance, increased blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, and increased fasting blood glucose levels compared to CHOW controls and to diet-resistant (DR) rats that did not become obese when maintained on WD. For rats fed the KETO diet, FN performance and BBB integrity were more closely associated with level of circulating ketone bodies than with obesity phenotype (DR or DIO), with higher levels of ketones appearing to provide a protective effect. The evidence also indicated that FN deficits preceded and predicted increased body weight and adiposity. This research (a) further substantiates previous findings of WD-induced deficits in hippocampal-dependent FN discriminations, (b) suggests that ketones may be protective against diet-induced cognitive impairment, and (c) provides evidence that diet-induced cognitive impairment precedes weight gain and obesity.

Experimental studies show that inflammation reduces the regenerative capacity in the adult brain. Less is known about how early postnatal inflammation affects neurogenesis, stem cell proliferation, cell survival and learning and memory in young adulthood. In this study we examined if an early-life inflammatory challenge alters cell proliferation and survival in distinct anatomical regions of the hippocampus and whether learning and memory were affected. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 1mg/kg) was administered to mice on postnatal day (P) 9 and proliferation and survival of hippocampal cells born either prior to (24h before LPS), or during the inflammatory insult (48 h after LPS) was evaluated. Long-term cell survival of neurons and astrocytes was determined on P 41 and P 60 in the dorsal and ventral horns of the hippocampus. On day 50 the mice were tested in the trace fear conditioning (TFC) paradigm. There was no effect on the survival of neurons and astrocytes that were born before LPS injection. In contrast, the number of neurons and astrocytes that were born after LPS injection were reduced on P 41. The LPS-induced reduction in cell numbers was specific for the dorsal hippocampus. Neither early (48 h after LPS) or late (33 days after LPS) proliferation of cells was affected by neonatal inflammation and neonatal LPS did not alter the behavior of young adult mice in the TFC test. These data highlight that neonatal inflammation specifically affects survival of dividing neurons and astrocytes, but not post-mitotic cells. The reduction in cell survival could be attributed to less cell survival in the dorsal hippocampus, but had no effect on learning and memory in the young adult.
Speech comprehension relies on auditory as well as visual information, and is enhanced in healthy subjects, when audiovisual (AV) information is present. Patients with schizophrenia have been reported to have problems regarding this AV integration process, but little is known about which underlying neural processes are altered. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was performed in 15 schizophrenia patients (SP) and 15 healthy controls (HC) to study functional connectivity of Broca's area by means of a beta series correlation method during perception of audiovisually presented bisyllabic German nouns, in which audio and video either matched or did not match. Broca's area of SP showed stronger connectivity with supplementary motor cortex for incongruent trials whereas HC connectivity was stronger for congruent trials. The right posterior superior temporal sulcus (RpSTS) area showed differences in connectivity for congruent and incongruent trials in HC in contrast to SP where the connectivity was similar for both conditions. These smaller differences in connectivity in SP suggest a less adaptive processing of audiovisually congruent and incongruent speech. The findings imply that AV integration problems in schizophrenia are associated with maladaptive connectivity of Broca's and RpSTS area in particular when confronted with incongruent stimuli. Results are discussed in light of recent AV speech perception models.
Although surgical trauma activates the anterior pituitary gland and elicits an increase in prolactin (PRL) serum levels that can modulate nociceptive responses, the role of PRL and the PRL-receptor (PRL-R) in thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia in postoperative pain is unknown. Acute postoperative pain condition was generated with the use of the hindpaw plantar incision model. Results showed endogenous PRL levels were significantly increased in serum, operated hindpaw and spinal cords of male and female rats 24h after incision. These alterations were especially pronounced in females. We then examined the role of the PRL system in thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia in male and female mice 3-168 h after plantar incision with the use of knock-out (KO) mice with PRL or PRL-R gene ablations and in wild-type (WT) mice. WT mice showed postoperative cold hyperalgesia in a sex-dependent manner (only in females), but with no effect on heat hyperalgesia or mechanical allodynia in either sex. Studies in KO mice showed no effect of PRL and PRL-R gene ablation on heat and cold hyperalgesia in male mice, while heat hyperlgesia were reduced 3-72 h post-surgery in female PRL and PRL-R KO mice. In contrast, PRL and PRL-R ablations significantly attenuated mechanical allodynia 3-72 h post-surgery in both male and female mice. Overall, we found elevated PRL levels in serum, hindpaws and spinal cords after incision, and identify a contributory role for the PRL system in postoperative pain responses to thermal stimuli in females and to mechanical stimuli in both males and females.
Prolonged and repeated periods of maternal separation produce behavioral phenotype of increased vulnerability to neuropsychiatric disorders and drug abuse. Most of the changes in behavior, corticosterone (CORT) and monoamine levels induced by long maternal separation (LMS) are observed after a challenge, but not in basal conditions. LMS increases ethanol-induced locomotor response and self-administration, possibly due to changes in CORT release and/or monoamine concentrations. This study examined the effects of LMS in association with chronic ethanol treatment on plasma CORT and brain monoamine concentrations in male and female Swiss mice, which were kept undisturbed (animal facility rearing - AFR) or separated from their mothers for 3h/day, from 2 to 14 days of age (LMS). As adults, one set of male and female mice received no drug treatment to assess the effect of LMS per se. Another set of animals received saline injections for 20 days and one ethanol injection (2.2g/kg, i.p.) on day 21 (acute) or ethanol for 21 days (chronic). Locomotor activity, plasma CORT levels and monoamines in the frontal cortex, striatum and hippocampus of AFR and LMS mice were evaluated in non-treated, acute and chronic ethanol-treated animals. In non-treated mice, no differences were found in CORT or locomotor activity, with small changes in monoamines content. In LMS females, chronic ethanol increased dopamine and serotonin concentrations in the frontal cortex, relative to acute ethanol LMS and to chronic ethanol-treated AFR groups (p&lt;0.05). In LMS males, chronic ethanol increased hippocampal noradrenaline, dopamine, serotonin and metabolites when compared to respective AFR controls, as well as acute LMS. Moreover, chronic ethanol treatment resulted in higher CORT concentrations in LMS than in AFR males. Overall, these results indicate that LMS mice were more susceptible to the effects of chronic ethanol administration on CORT and brain monoamine concentrations, and that these effects were sex-dependent.
The auditory system continuously monitors the environment for irregularities in an automatic, preattentive fashion. This is presumably accomplished by two mechanisms: a sensory mechanism detects a deviant sound on the basis of differential refractoriness of neural populations sensitive to the standard and deviant sounds, whereas the cognitive mechanism reveals deviance by comparing incoming auditory information with a template derived from previous input. Using fast event-related high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging at 7 Tesla we show that both mechanisms can be mapped to different parts of the auditory cortex both at the group level and the single-subject level. The sensory mechanism is supported by primary auditory areas in Heschl's gyrus whereas the cognitive mechanism is implemented in more anterior secondary auditory areas. Both mechanisms are equally engaged by simple sine-wave tones and speech-related phonemes indicating that streams of speech and non-speech stimuli are processed in a similar fashion.
Neural plasticity has been observed in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) following exposure to both cocaine and androgenic-anabolic steroids. Here we investigated the involvement of the BNST on changes in cardiovascular function and baroreflex activity following either single or combined administration of cocaine and testosterone for 10 consecutive days in rats. Single administration of testosterone increased values of arterial pressure, evoked rest bradycardia and reduced baroreflex-mediated bradycardia. These effects of testosterone were not affected by BNST inactivation caused by local bilateral microinjections of the nonselective synaptic blocker CoCl2. The single administration of cocaine as well as the combined treatment with testosterone and cocaine increased both bradycardiac and tachycardiac responses of the baroreflex. Cocaine-evoked baroreflex changes were totally reversed after BNST inactivation. However, BNST inhibition in animals subjected to combined treatment with cocaine and testosterone reversed only the increase in reflex tachycardia, whereas facilitation of reflex bradycardia was not affected by local BNST treatment with CoCl2. In conclusion, the present study provides the first direct evidence that the BNST play a role in cardiovascular changes associated with drug abuse. Our findings suggest that alterations in cardiovascular function following subchronic exposure to cocaine are mediated by neural plasticity in the BNST. The single treatment with cocaine and the combined administration of testosterone and cocaine had similar effects on baroreflex activity, however the association with testosterone inhibited cocaine-induced changes in the BNST control of reflex bradycardia. Testosterone-induced cardiovascular changes seem to be independent of the BNST.
Noradrenaline (NA) in the hippocampus plays an important role in memory function and has been shown to modulate different forms of synaptic plasticity. Oscillations in the gamma frequency (20-80 Hz) band in the hippocampus have also been proposed to play an important role in memory functions and, evidence from both in vitro and in vivo studies, has suggested this activity can be modulated by NA. However, the role of different NA receptor subtypes in the modulation of gamma frequency activity has not been fully elucidated. We have found that NA (30 M) exerts a bidirectional control on the magnitude of kainate-evoked (50-200 nM) gamma frequency oscillations in the cornu Ammonis (CA3) region of the rat hippocampus in vitro via activation of different receptor subtypes. Activation of alpha-adrenergic receptors (-AR) reduced the power of the gamma frequency oscillation. In contrast, activation of beta-adrenergic receptors (-AR) caused an increase in the power of the gamma frequency oscillations. Using specific agonists and antagonists of AR receptor subtypes we demonstrated that these effects are mediated specifically via 1A-AR and 1-AR subtypes. NA activated both receptor subtypes, but the 1A-AR-mediated effect predominated, resulting in a reversible suppression of gamma frequency activity. These results suggest that NA is able to differentially modulate on-going gamma frequency oscillatory activity that could result in either increased or decreased information flow through the hippocampus.
Microglia, the resident immune cells of the CNS, are known to respond to injuries, infection and inflammation in the CNS by producing proinflammatory cytokines and phagocytosing cell debris and pathogens. In this study, we investigated the expression pattern and role of dihydropyrimidinase-like 3 (Dpysl3), a member of collapsin response mediator protein family, on the inflammatory reaction of microglia. Microarray analysis comparing the global gene expression profile of ameboid and ramified microglia has shown that Dpysl3 is mainly expressed in ameboid microglia in the 5-day postnatal rat brain. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that Dpysl3 was intensely expressed in ameboid microglial cells in the rat brain till postnatal 7th day and then gradually diminished in ramified microglia of 2 weeks postnatal rat brain. Further, in vitro analysis confirmed that Dpysl3 expression was induced in activated BV-2 microglia treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). It is well documented that microglial activation by LPS increased the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and proinflammatory cytokines through the activation of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-B) activity in BV-2 microglia. However, siRNA-mediated knockdown of Dpysl3 prevented the LPS-induced expression of iNOS and cytokines including interleukin-1 beta, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha as well as nuclear translocation of NF-B in microglia. Remarkably, knockdown of Dpysl3 inhibited the migration of activated microglia coupled with deranged actin filament configuration (as revealed by F-actin cytoskeleton expression) in lamellipodia projecting from the cells. Knockdown of Dpysl3 also inhibited the phagocytic ability of activated microglia. These findings suggest that knockdown of Dpysl3 can inhibit activation, migration and phagocytic capability of microglia and consequently reduce neuroinflammation.
Cancer pain, particularly bone cancer pain, affects the quality of life of cancer patients, and current treatments are limited. Interleukin (IL)-33, a new member of the IL-1 super family, has been reported to be involved in the modulation of inflammatory pain. However, studies focused on its role in the modulation of cancer pain have been rare. The present study was designed to investigate whether spinal IL-33/ST2 signaling was involved in bone cancer-induced pain in mice. Bone cancer was induced via intra-femoral inoculation of 4T1 mammary carcinoma cells. The mice inoculated with carcinoma cells showed mechanical allodynia, heat hyperalgesia and a reduction in limb use, whereas phosphate-buffered saline or heat-killed cells-injected mice showed no significant difference compared to non-treated mice. The pain hypersensitive behaviors worsened over time and with bone destruction. Both the mRNA and the protein levels of IL-33 and relative cytokines (IL-1, IL-6, TNF-a) were significantly increased in the spinal cord after the inoculation of carcinoma cells. Intrathecal administration of ST2 antibody to block IL-33/ST2 signaling alleviated pain behaviors in a dose-dependent manner in bone cancer pain mice compared with vehicle-injected mice. Moreover, the ST2(-/-) mice showed a significant amelioration of limb use and heat hyperalgesia compared to wild-type mice. Meanwhile, concentrations of spinal IL-1, IL-6 and TNF-a in the cancer-bearing ST2(-/-) mice had no significant changes. These data further suggested that IL-33/ST2 signaling played a vital role in cancer pain. Our results provided evidence that IL-33 and its receptor ST2 may be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of pain in bone cancer patients.
Sleep is an essential physiological process that underlies crucial cognitive functions as well as emotional reactivity. Thus, sleep deprivation (SD) may exert various deleterious effects. In this study, we aimed to examine the adverse behavioral and hormonal effects of SD and a potential treatment with Plant-derived nanoparticle treatment - cocc 30c. The study was a 4-arm trial with randomization and double-blinding of verum and placebo treatments. SD was induced by using the Multiple Platform Method for 48 h. The effects of SD were evaluated behaviorally (pre-pulse inhibition (PPI), startle response and rotor-rod) at baseline as well as at 6, 12, 24h, and 14 days post deprivation. cocc 30c treatment was administrated Per Os every three hours starting immediately after baseline tests and for a period of 24h. On day 14, blood samples were taken and serum levels of corticosterone, testosterone, serotonin and leptin were tested. We found that cocc 30c improved PPI 12 and 24h post deprivation, likewise, cocc 30c improved motor learning. On day 14 SD led to increased startle response that was ameliorated by cocc 30c. Likewise, SD led to increased levels of corticosterone and serotonin while decreasing testosterone and leptin. Interestingly, cocc 30c treatment has moderated these hormonal alterations. We conclude that the treatment with cocc 30c recovers both short-term behavioral and the long-term hormonal modulations following SD.
Upon retinal injury, zebrafish Mller glia (MG) transition from a quiescent supportive cell to a progenitor cell (MGPC). This event is accompanied by the induction of key transcription and pluripotency factors. Because somatic cell reprogramming during induced pluripotent stem cell generation is accompanied by changes in DNA methylation, especially in pluripotency factor gene promoters, we were interested in determining whether DNA methylation changes also underlie MG reprogramming following retinal injury. Consistent with this idea, we found that genes encoding components of the DNA methylation/demethylation machinery were induced in MGPCs and that manipulating MGPC DNA methylation with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine altered their properties. A comprehensive analysis of the DNA methylation landscape as MG reprogram to MGPCs revealed that demethylation predominates at early times, whereas levels of de novo methylation increase at later times. We found that these changes in DNA methylation were largely independent of Apobec2 protein expression. A correlation between promoter DNA demethylation and injury-dependent gene induction was noted. In contrast to induced pluripotent stem cell formation, we found that pluripotency factor gene promoters were already hypomethylated in quiescent MG and remained unchanged in MGPCs. Interestingly, these pluripotency factor promoters were also found to be hypomethylated in mouse MG. Our data identify a dynamic DNA methylation landscape as zebrafish MG transition to an MGPC and suggest that DNA methylation changes will complement other regulatory mechanisms to ensure gene expression programs controlling MG reprogramming are appropriately activated during retina regeneration.

Neurodevelopmental disorders such as intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder and schizophrenia lack precise boundaries in their clinical definitions, epidemiology, genetics and protein-protein interactomes. This calls into question the appropriateness of current categorical disease concepts. Recently, there has been a rising tide to reformulate neurodevelopmental nosological entities from biology upward. To facilitate this developing trend, we propose that identification of unique proteomic signatures that can be strongly associated with patient's risk alleles and proteome-interactome-guided exploration of patient genomes could define biological mechanisms necessary to reformulate disorder definitions.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) and prefrontal cortex (PFC) are two parts of neuronal reward circuit involved in motivated and goal-directed behaviors. Some data suggest that morphine is toxic to neurons and induces apoptosis, while other evidence shows that morphine could have beneficial effects against cell death. This study was designed to evaluate the effect of morphine on apoptosis by measuring the expression of apoptotic proteins in two important regions, the NAc and PFC, in the rat brain's reward circuitry. Morphine subchronic administration in different doses (0.5, 5 and 10mg/kg) in conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm (3 times in 3 days, for each dose in each group of rats) was used to induce its rewarding effect. Then, the expression of four apoptotic factors; Bax, Bcl2, caspase3 and PARP, in the NAc and PFC were assessed using the Western blot technique. All of morphine-treated groups showed increase of apoptotic factors in these regions. In the NAc, morphine significantly increased the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, caspase3 and PARP in the lowest dose (0.5mg/kg) but in the PFC considerable increase was seen in dose of 5mg/kg. Elevation of apoptotic factors in the NAc and PFC implies that morphine can affect the molecular mechanisms which interfere with apoptosis through different receptors. Our findings suggest that the NAc and PFC may have a different distribution of receptors which become active in different doses of morphine.

Mirror neurons were discovered over twenty years ago in the ventral premotor region F5 of the macaque monkey. Since their discovery much has been written about these neurons, both in the scientific literature and in the popular press. They have been proposed to be the neuronal substrate underlying a vast array of different functions. Indeed so much has been written about mirror neurons that last year they were referred to, rightly or wrongly, as &quot;The most hyped concept in neuroscience&quot;. Here we try to cut through some of this hyperbole and review what is currently known (and not known) about mirror neurons.
In desert locusts, increased population densities drive phenotypic transformation from the solitarious to the gregarious phase within a generation [1-4]. Here we show that when presented with odor-food associations, the two extreme phases differ in aversive but not appetitive associative learning, with solitarious locusts showing a conditioned aversion more quickly than gregarious locusts. The acquisition of new learned aversions was blocked entirely in acutely crowded solitarious (transiens) locusts, whereas appetitive learning and prior learned associations were unaffected. These differences in aversive learning support phase-specific feeding strategies. Associative training with hyoscyamine, a plant alkaloid found in the locusts' habitat [5, 6], elicits a phase-dependent odor preference: solitarious locusts avoid an odor associated with hyoscyamine, whereas gregarious locusts do not. Remarkably, when solitarious locusts are crowded and then reconditioned with the odor-hyoscyamine pairing as transiens, the specific blockade of aversive acquisition enables them to override their prior aversive memory with an appetitive one. Under fierce food competition, as occurs during crowding in the field, this provides a neuroecological mechanism enabling locusts to reassign an appetitive value to an odor that they learned previously to avoid.



The synaptic plasticity and memory hypothesis asserts that activity-dependent synaptic plasticity is induced at appropriate synapses during memory formation and is both necessary and sufficient for the encoding and trace storage of the type of memory mediated by the brain area in which it is observed. Criteria for establishing the necessity and sufficiency of such plasticity in mediating trace storage have been identified and are here reviewed in relation to new work using some of the diverse techniques of contemporary neuroscience. Evidence derived using optical imaging, molecular-genetic and optogenetic techniques in conjunction with appropriate behavioural analyses continues to offer support for the idea that changing the strength of connections between neurons is one of the major mechanisms by which engrams are stored in the brain.
N-Methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-dependent synaptic plasticity is a strong candidate to mediate learning and memory processes that require the hippocampus. This plasticity is bidirectional, and how the same receptor can mediate opposite changes in synaptic weights remains a conundrum. It has been suggested that the NMDAR subunit composition could be involved. Specifically, one subunit composition of NMDARs would be responsible for the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP), whereas NMDARs with a different subunit composition would be engaged in the induction of long-term depression (LTD). Unfortunately, the results from studies that have investigated this hypothesis are contradictory, particularly in relation to LTD. Nevertheless, current evidence does suggest that the GluN2B subunit might be particularly important for plasticity and may make a synapse bidirectionally malleable. In particular, we conclude that the presence of GluN2B subunit-containing NMDARs at the postsynaptic density might be a necessary, though not a sufficient, condition for the strengthening of individual synapses. This is owing to the interaction of GluN2B with calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and is distinct from its contribution as an ion channel.
Understanding the molecular and cellular changes that underlie memory, the engram, requires the identification, isolation and manipulation of the neurons involved. This presents a major difficulty for complex forms of memory, for example hippocampus-dependent declarative memory, where the participating neurons are likely to be sparse, anatomically distributed and unique to each individual brain and learning event. In this paper, I discuss several new approaches to this problem. In vivo calcium imaging techniques provide a means of assessing the activity patterns of large numbers of neurons over long periods of time with precise anatomical identification. This provides important insight into how the brain represents complex information and how this is altered with learning. The development of techniques for the genetic modification of neural ensembles based on their natural, sensory-evoked, activity along with optogenetics allows direct tests of the coding function of these ensembles. These approaches provide a new methodological framework in which to examine the mechanisms of complex forms of learning at the level of the neurons involved in a specific memory.
It is well established that Zif268/Egr1, a member of the Egr family of transcription factors, is critical for the consolidation of several forms of memory; however, it is as yet uncertain whether increasing expression of Zif268 in neurons can facilitate memory formation. Here, we used an inducible transgenic mouse model to specifically induce Zif268 overexpression in forebrain neurons and examined the effect on recognition memory and hippocampal synaptic transmission and plasticity. We found that Zif268 overexpression during the establishment of memory for objects did not change the ability to form a long-term memory of objects, but enhanced the capacity to form a long-term memory of the spatial location of objects. This enhancement was paralleled by increased long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and by increased activity-dependent expression of Zif268 and selected Zif268 target genes. These results provide novel evidence that transcriptional mechanisms engaging Zif268 contribute to determining the strength of newly encoded memories.
Connections between neurons can undergo long-lasting changes in synaptic strength correlating with changes in structure. These events require the synthesis of new proteins, the availability of which can lead to cooperative and competitive interactions between synapses for the expression of plasticity. These processes can occur over limited spatial distances and temporal periods, defining dendritic regions over which activity may be integrated and could lead to the physical rewiring of synapses into functional groups. Such clustering of inputs may increase the computational power of neurons by allowing information to be combined in a greater than additive manner. The availability of new proteins may be a key modulatory step towards activity-dependent, long-term growth or elimination of spines necessary for remodelling of connections. Thus, the aberrant growth or shrinkage of dendritic spines could occur if protein levels are misregulated. Indeed, such perturbations can be seen in several mental retardation disorders, wherein either too much or too little protein translation exists, matching an observed increase or decrease in spine density, respectively. Cellular events which alter protein availability could relieve a constraint on synaptic competition and disturb synaptic clustering mechanisms. These changes may be detrimental to modifications in neural circuitry following activity.
The endocrine hormone leptin plays a key role in regulating food intake and body weight via its actions in the hypothalamus. However, leptin receptors are highly expressed in many extra-hypothalamic brain regions and evidence is growing that leptin influences many central processes including cognition. Indeed, recent studies indicate that leptin is a potential cognitive enhancer as it markedly facilitates the cellular events underlying hippocampal-dependent learning and memory, including effects on glutamate receptor trafficking, neuronal morphology and activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. However, the ability of leptin to regulate hippocampal synaptic function markedly declines with age and aberrant leptin function has been linked to neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we review the evidence supporting a cognitive enhancing role for the hormone leptin and discuss the therapeutic potential of using leptin-based agents to treat AD.
Many endogenous factors influence the time course and extent of the detrimental effects of amyloid -protein (A) on synaptic function. Here, we assessed the impact of varying endogenous glutamatergic and cholinergic transmission by pharmacological means on the disruption of plasticity at hippocampal CA3-to-CA1 synapses in the anaesthetized rat. NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are considered critical in mediating A-induced inhibition of long-term potentiation (LTP). However, intracerebroventricular injection of A1-42 inhibited not only NMDAR-dependent LTP but also voltage-activated Ca(2+)-dependent LTP induced by strong conditioning stimulation during NMDAR blockade. On the other hand, another form of NMDAR-independent synaptic plasticity, endogenous acetylcholine-induced muscarinic receptor-dependent long-term enhancement, was not hindered by A1-42. Interestingly, augmenting endogenous acetylcholine activation of nicotinic receptors prior to the injection of A1-42 prevented the inhibition of NMDAR-dependent LTP, whereas the same intervention when introduced after the infusion of A was ineffective. We also examined the duration of action of A, including water soluble A from Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. Remarkably, the inhibition of LTP induction caused by a single injection of sodium dodecyl sulfate-stable A dimer-containing AD brain extract persisted for at least a week. These findings highlight the need to increase our understanding of non-NMDAR mechanisms and of developing novel means of overcoming, rather than just preventing, the deleterious synaptic actions of A.
We have previously shown that when over-expressed in neurons, green fluorescent protein (GFP) tagged GluA1 (GluA1-GFP) delivery into synapses is dependent on plasticity. A recent study suggests that GluA1 over-expression leads to its incorporation into the synapse, in the absence of additional long-term potentiation-like manipulations. It is possible that a GFP tag was responsible for the difference. Using rectification index as a measure of synaptic delivery of GluA1, we found no difference in the synaptic delivery of GluA1-GFP versus untagged GluA1. We recently published a study showing that while D-APV blocks NMDAr-dependent long-term depression (LTD), MK-801 and 7-chloro kynurenate (7CK) fail to block LTD. We propose a metabotropic function for the NMDA receptor in LTD induction. In contrast to our observations, recent unpublished data suggest that the above antagonists are equally effective in blocking LTD. We noticed different methodology in their study. Here, we show that their methodology has complex effects on synaptic transmission. Therefore, it is not possible to conclude that 7CK is effective in blocking LTD from their type of experiment.
Recent studies of the molecular mechanisms of long-term depression (LTD) suggest a crucial role for the signalling pathways of apoptosis (programmed cell death) in the weakening and elimination of synapses and dendritic spines. With this backdrop, we suggest that LTD can be considered as the electrophysiological aspect of a larger cell biological programme of synapse involution, which uses localized apoptotic mechanisms to sculpt synapses and circuits without causing cell death.
This review focuses on the research that has occurred over the past decade which has solidified a postsynaptic expression mechanism for long-term potentiation (LTP). However, experiments that have suggested a presynaptic component are also summarized. It is argued that the pairing of glutamate uncaging onto single spines with postsynaptic depolarization provides the final and most elegant demonstration of a postsynaptic expression mechanism for NMDA receptor-dependent LTP. The fact that the magnitude of this LTP is similar to that evoked by pairing synaptic stimulation and depolarization leaves little room for a substantial presynaptic component. Finally, recent data also require a revision in our thinking about the way AMPA receptors (AMPARs) are recruited to the postsynaptic density during LTP. This recruitment is independent of subunit type, but does require an adequate reserve pool of extrasynaptic receptors.
In acute hippocampal slices, we found that the presence of extracellular brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is essential for the induction of spike-timing-dependent long-term potentiation (tLTP). To determine whether BDNF could be secreted from postsynaptic dendrites in a spike-timing-dependent manner, we used a reduced system of dissociated hippocampal neurons in culture. Repetitive pairing of iontophoretically applied glutamate pulses at the dendrite with neuronal spikes could induce persistent alterations of glutamate-induced responses at the same dendritic site in a manner that mimics spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP)-the glutamate-induced responses were potentiated and depressed when the glutamate pulses were applied 20 ms before and after neuronal spiking, respectively. By monitoring changes in the green fluorescent protein (GFP) fluorescence at the dendrite of hippocampal neurons expressing GFP-tagged BDNF, we found that pairing of iontophoretic glutamate pulses with neuronal spiking resulted in BDNF secretion from the dendrite at the iontophoretic site only when the glutamate pulses were applied within a time window of approximately 40 ms prior to neuronal spiking, consistent with the timing requirement of synaptic potentiation via STDP. Thus, BDNF is required for tLTP and BDNF secretion could be triggered in a spike-timing-dependent manner from the postsynaptic dendrite.
We summarize the reviews and research papers submitted by speakers at a discussion meeting on Synaptic Plasticity in Health and Disease held at the Royal Society, London on 2-3 December 2013, and a subsequent satellite meeting convened at the Royal Society/Kavli Centre at Chicheley Hall on 4-5 December 2013. Together, these contributions give an overview of current research and controversies in a vibrant branch of neuroscience with important implications for the understanding of many forms of learning and memory, and a wide spectrum of neurological and cognitive disorders.
Olanzapine is widely used in treating multiple domains of schizophrenia symptoms but induces serious metabolic side-effects. Recent evidence has showed that co-treatment of betahistine (a histaminergic H1 receptor agonist and H3 receptor antagonist) is effective for preventing olanzapine-induced weight gain/obesity, however it is not clear whether this co-treatment affects on the primary therapeutic receptor binding sites of olanzapine such as serotonergic 5-HT2A receptors (5-HT2AR) and dopaminergic D2 receptors (D2R). Therefore, this study investigated the effects of this co-treatment on 5-HT2AR, 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) and D2R bindings in various brain regions involved in antipsychotic efficacy. Female Sprague Dawley rats were administered orally (t.i.d.) with either olanzapine (1mg/kg), betahistine (2.7 mg/kg), olanzapine plus betahistine (O+B), or vehicle (control) for 2 weeks. Quantitative autoradiography was used to detect the density of [(3)H]ketanserin, [(3)H]paroxetine and [(3)H]raclopride binding site to 5-HT2AR, 5-HTT and D2R. Compared to the controls, olanzapine significantly decreased [(3)H]ketanserin bindings to 5-HT2AR in the prefrontal cortex, cingulate cortex, and nucleus accumbens. Similar changes in 5-HT2AR bindings in these nuclei were also observed in the O+B co-treatment group. Olanzapine also significantly decreased [(3)H]paroxetine binding to 5-HTT in the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra, however, both olanzapine only and O+B co-treatment did not affect [(3)H]raclopride binding to D2R. The results confirmed the important role of 5-HT2AR in the efficacy of olanzapine, which is not influenced by the O+B co-treatment. Therefore, betahistine co-treatment would be an effective combination therapy to reduce olanzapine-induced weight gain side-effects without affecting olanzapine's actions on 5-HT2AR transmissions.
[(3)H]4-DAMP is a radioligand that has been used to quantify levels of the muscarinic receptor CHRM3 protein in situ. However, in addition to high affinity binding to CHRM3, [(3)H]4-DAMP binds with low affinity to CHRM1 confounding the potential to discriminate between changes in these two muscarinic receptors. We have developed a [(3)H]4-DAMP binding assay, optimised for measuring CHRM3 protein levels in the cortex, with minimal selectivity towards CHRM1. The selectivity of our assay towards CHRM3 was confirmed using recombinant receptor-expressing, cell lysate preparations. [(3)H]4-DAMP binding levels were similar between wildtype and CHRM1 knockout mice, confirming that the amount of [(3)H]4-DAMP binding to CHRM1 was negligible. We used this assay to measure CHRM3 protein levels in the frontal pole, obtained post-mortem from subjects with bipolar disorder (n = 15), major depressive disorder (n = 15) and matched controls (n = 20) and showed that [(3)H]4-DAMP binding was not altered in either bipolar disorder or major depressive disorder. Western blotting confirmed that CHRM3 protein levels were unchanged in these subjects.


Individuals carrying (GGGGCC) expanded repeats in the C9orf72 gene represent a significant portion of patients suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Elucidating how these expanded repeats cause &quot;c9FTD/ALS&quot; has since become an important goal of the field. Toward this end, we sought to investigate whether epigenetic changes are responsible for the decrease in C9orf72 expression levels observed in c9FTD/ALS patients. We obtained brain tissue from ten c9FTD/ALS individuals, nine FTD/ALS cases without a C9orf72 repeat expansion, and nine disease control participants, and generated fibroblastoid cell lines from seven C9orf72 expanded repeat carriers and seven participants carrying normal alleles. Chromatin immunoprecipitation using antibodies for histone H3 and H4 trimethylated at lysines 9 (H3K9), 27 (H3K27), 79 (H3K79), and 20 (H4K20) revealed that these trimethylated residues bind strongly to C9orf72 expanded repeats in brain tissue, but not to non-pathogenic repeats. Our finding that C9orf72 mRNA levels are reduced in the frontal cortices and cerebella of c9FTD/ALS patients is consistent with trimethylation of these histone residues, an event known to repress gene expression. Moreover, treating repeat carrier-derived fibroblasts with 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine, a DNA and histone demethylating agent, not only decreased C9orf72 binding to trimethylated histone residues, but also increased C9orf72 mRNA expression. Our results provide compelling evidence that trimethylation of lysine residues within histones H3 and H4 is a novel mechanism involved in reducing C9orf72 mRNA expression in expanded repeat carriers. Of importance, we show that mutant C9orf72 binding to trimethylated H3K9 and H3K27 is detectable in blood of c9FTD/ALS patients. Confirming these exciting results using blood from a larger cohort of patients may establish this novel epigenetic event as a biomarker for c9FTD/ALS.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are devastating neurodegenerative disorders with clinical, genetic, and neuropathological overlap. A hexanucleotide (GGGGCC) repeat expansion in a non-coding region of C9ORF72 is the major genetic cause of both diseases. The mechanisms by which this repeat expansion causes &quot;c9FTD/ALS&quot; are not definitively known, but RNA-mediated toxicity is a likely culprit. RNA transcripts of the expanded GGGGCC repeat form nuclear foci in c9FTD/ALS, and also undergo repeat-associated non-ATG (RAN) translation resulting in the production of three aggregation-prone proteins. The goal of this study was to examine whether antisense transcripts resulting from bidirectional transcription of the expanded repeat behave in a similar manner. We show that ectopic expression of (CCCCGG)66 in cultured cells results in foci formation. Using novel polyclonal antibodies for the detection of possible (CCCCGG)exp RAN proteins [poly(PR), poly(GP) and poly(PA)], we validated that (CCCCGG)66 is also subject to RAN translation in transfected cells. Of importance, foci composed of antisense transcripts are observed in the frontal cortex, spinal cord and cerebellum of c9FTD/ALS cases, and neuronal inclusions of poly(PR), poly(GP) and poly(PA) are present in various brain tissues in c9FTD/ALS, but not in other neurodegenerative diseases, including CAG repeat disorders. Of note, RNA foci and poly(GP) inclusions infrequently co-occur in the same cell, suggesting these events represent two distinct ways in which the C9ORF72 repeat expansion may evoke neurotoxic effects. These findings provide mechanistic insight into the pathogenesis of c9FTD/ALS, and have significant implications for therapeutic strategies.
Mutations in the gene encoding leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most frequent cause of familial Parkinson's disease (PD). The neuropathology of LRRK2-related PD is heterogeneous and can include aberrant tau phosphorylation or neurofibrillary tau pathology. Recently, LRRK2 has been shown to phosphorylate tau in vitro; however, the major epitopes phosphorylated by LRRK2 and the physiological or pathogenic consequences of these modifications in vivo are unknown. Using mass spectrometry, we identified multiple sites on recombinant tau that are phosphorylated by LRRK2 in vitro, including pT149 and pT153, which are phospho-epitopes that to date have been largely unexplored. Importantly, we demonstrate that expression of transgenic LRRK2 in a mouse model of tauopathy increased the aggregation of insoluble tau and its phosphorylation at T149, T153, T205, and S199/S202/T205 epitopes. These findings indicate that tau can be a LRRK2 substrate and that this interaction can enhance salient features of human disease.


Hearing loss in children causes a deficit in early perceptive and language skills. The objective of this study was to evaluate early receptive and expressive language outcomes in children with hearing loss, identified by hearing screening, compared to the time of diagnosis. We studied 18 severely hearing impaired children who were divided into two groups according to the time of diagnosis. Evaluation of communicative language ability was carried out at 18 month of age using the &quot;MacArthur Child Development Inventory&quot; questionnaire, while evaluation of acoustic-perceptual abilities was assessed with the Genovese-Arslan protocol every three months following diagnosis. The linguistic communicative and acoustic-perceptual outcomes of hearing impaired children diagnosed before 6 months of age followed those expected for normally hearing children, with a trend of temporal progression of skills that were faster than those of children diagnosed after 6 months of age.
Nowadays, drug-induced sleep endoscopy (DISE) is performed widely and its validity and reliability has been demonstrated by several studies; in fact, it provides clinical information not available by routine clinical inspection alone. Its safety and utility are promising, but still needs to be improved to reach the level of excellence expected of gold standard tests used in clinical practice. Our study compares the results of clinical and diagnostic evaluation with those of sleep endoscopy, evaluating the correlation between clinical indexes of routine clinical diagnosis and sites of obstruction in terms of number of sites involved, entity of obstruction and pattern of closure. This study consists in a longitudinal prospective evaluation of 138 patients who successfully underwent sleep endoscopy at our institution. Patients were induced to sleep with a low dose of midazolam followed by titration with propofol. Sedation level was monitored using bispectral index monitoring. Our results suggest that the multilevel complete collapse was statistically significantly associated with higher apnoea hypopnea index values. By including partial sites of obstruction greater than 50%, our results also suggest that multilevel collapse remains statistically and significantly associated with higher apnoea hypopnoea index values. Analyzing BMI distribution based on number of sites with complete and partial obstruction there was no significant difference. Finally, analyzing Epworth Sleepiness Score distribution based on number of sites with complete obstruction, there was a statistically significant difference between patients with 3-4 sites of obstruction compared to those with two sites or uni-level obstruction. In conclusion, our data suggest that DISE is safe, easy to perform, valid and reliable, as previously reported. Furthermore, we found a good correlation between DISE findings and clinical characteristics such as AHI and EPS. Consequently, adequate assessment by DISE of all sites of obstruction is very important, not only in patients with low-moderate AHI and EPS, but also in patients with a high AHI or/and high EPS, in particular to plan multilevel surgery that in these latter situations is more demanding since success may be harder to achieve.



For the vestibular system, aging is associated with degenerated otoconia and loss of hair cells, vestibular afferents, and cells in the vestibular nuclei. Further neurodegenerative processes involve cortical, extrapyramidal motor, and cerebellar structures. Dizziness is quite common in the elderly, limiting their mobility and activities. The role of vestibular rehabilitation in these patients is controversial. The present prospective, randomized, preliminary investigation aimed to compare the effect of a 6-week posturography-assisted vestibular rehabilitation protocol (30 min a week) combined with a home-based exercise program (group A, 14 randomly assigned elderly patients) with the same home-based exercise program alone (group B, 14 randomly assigned elderly patients) for treating dizziness due to central vestibular dysfunction in elderly patients. The outcomes were analyzed using the 25-item Dizziness Handicap Inventory (DHI) and computerized posturography. After rehabilitation, group A scored significantly better in the DHI for the functional (p = 0.0016) and emotional (p = 0.01) domains and total score (p = 0.001); only the emotional domain improved significantly in group B (p = 0.038). Group A improved significantly in some posturographic parameters in the motor tests (reaction time, movement velocity, and endpoint excursion), while group B experienced more limited improvements. Our preliminary results with a program of posturography-assisted vestibular rehabilitation, and home-based exercises are more promising than with home-based exercises alone. A new study on a larger series of elderly patients with central vestibular dysfunctions is currently underway at Padova University, considering the effect of a protocol involving rehabilitation with computerized posturography alone and the relationship between outcomes and the duration of rehabilitation programs.
Neurogenesis diminishes with aging and ischemia-induced neurogenesis also occurs, but reduced in aged brain. Currently, the cellular and molecular pathways mediating these effects remain largely unknown. Our previous study has shown that Notch1 signaling regulates neurogenesis in subventricular zone (SVZ) of young adult brain after focal ischemia, but whether a similar effect occurs in aged normal and ischemic animals is unknown. Here, we used normal and ischemic aged rat brains to investigate whether Notch1 signaling was involved in the reduction of neurogenesis in response to aging and modulates neurogenesis in aged brains after focal ischemia. By Western blot, we found that Notch1 and Jagged1 expression in the SVZ of aged brain was significantly reduced compared with young adult brain. Consistently, the activated form of Notch1 (Notch intracellular domain; NICD) expression was also declined. Immunohistochemistry confirmed that expression and activation of Notch1 signaling in the SVZ of aged brain were reduced. Double or triple immunostaining showed that that Notch1 was mainly expressed in doublecortin (DCX)-positive cells, whereas Jagged1 was predominantly expressed in astroglial cells in the SVZ of normal aged rat brain. In addition, disruption or activation of Notch1 signaling altered the number of proliferating cells labeled by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and DCX in the SVZ of aged brain. Moreover, ischemia-induced cell proliferation in the SVZ of aged brain was enhanced by activating the Notch1 pathway and was suppressed by inhibiting the Notch1 signaling. Reduced infarct volume and improved motor deficits were also observed in Notch1 activator-treated aged ischemic rats. Our data suggest that Notch1 signaling modulates the SVZ neurogenesis in aged brain in normal and ischemic conditions.


Five patients were found to have spontaneous delayed migration/shortening of their Pipeline Embolization Devices on follow-up angiography. The device migrated proximally in 4 patients and distally in 1 patient. One patient had a subarachnoid hemorrhage and died as a result of migration of the Pipeline Embolization Device, and another patient presented with complete MCA occlusion and was left severely disabled. Mismatch in arterial diameter between inflow and outflow vessels was a constant finding. Migration of the Pipeline Embolization Device was managed conservatively, with additional placement of the device, or with parent vessel occlusion. Obtaining complete expansion of the embolization device by using a longer device, increasing vessel coverage, using adjunctive aneurysm coiling, and avoiding dragging and stretching of the device are important preventive measures. Neurointerventionalists should be aware of this potentially fatal complication and take all necessary preventive measures.
The 2012 meeting of the Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders Study Group (FASDSG) focused on the development and ethics of biomarkers for fetal alcohol exposure. This one-day international conference brought students and trainees together with clinicians and researchers to discuss the latest research on FASD. One keynote speaker discussed the value of profiling epigenetic modifications in readily available fetal tissues to diagnose fetal exposure to environmental agents, while the second speaker discussed the ethics of biomarker development within the context of core principles of justice, autonomy, beneficence and non-maleficence. Three sessions of short data talks informed the audience of research advances with particular emphasis on the diagnosis of FASD. Other activities included updates on FASD-related activities by representatives of government agencies, a report on the implementation FASD-related diagnostic criteria in the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM-5) of the American Psychiatric Association and a networking lunch, and the presentation of the &quot;Merit Award&quot; to Dr. Nathan Muraski for his work on behavioral outcomes of fetal alcohol exposure. The capstone of the meeting was the presentation of the &quot;Henri Rosett&quot; award to Dr. Denis Viljoen, in recognition of his role in raising awareness about the incidence of FASD in South Africa and in promoting FASD prevention and treatment programs as chairperson and chief executive officer of the Foundation for Alcohol Related Research (FARR).
Age-related differences in sensitivity to the acute effects of alcohol may play an important role in the increased risk for the development of alcoholism seen in teens that begin drinking at an early age. The present study evaluated the acute and protracted (hangover) effects of ethanol in adolescent (P33-P40) and adult (P100-P107) Wistar rats, using the cortical electroencephalogram (EEG). Six minutes of EEG was recorded during waking, 15 min after administration of 0, 1.5, or 3.0 g/kg ethanol, and for 3 h at 20 h post ethanol, during the rats' next sleep cycle. Significantly higher overall frontal and parietal cortical power was seen in a wide range of EEG frequencies in adolescent rats as compared to adult rats in their waking EEG. Acute administration of ethanol did not produce differences between adolescents and adults on behavioral measures of acute intoxication. However, it did produce a significantly less intense acute EEG response to ethanol in the theta frequencies in parietal cortex in the adolescents as compared to the adults. At 20 h following acute ethanol administration, during the rats' next sleep cycle, a decrease in slow-wave frequencies (1-4 Hz) was seen and the adolescent rats were found to display more reduction in the slow-wave frequencies than the adults did. The present study found that adolescent rats, as compared to adults, demonstrate low sensitivity to acute ethanol administration in the theta frequencies and more susceptibility to disruption of slow-wave sleep during hangover. These studies may lend support to the idea that these traits may contribute to increased risk for alcohol use disorders seen in adults who begin drinking in their early teenage years.



FG syndrome, Lujan syndrome, and Ohdo syndrome, the Maat-Kievit-Brunner type, have been described as distinct syndromes with overlapping non-specific features and different missense mutations of the MED12 gene have been reported in all of them. We report a family including 10 males and 1 female affected with profound non-specific intellectual disability (ID) which was linked to a 30-cM region extending from Xp11.21 (ALAS2) to Xq22.3 (COL4A5). Parallel sequencing of all X-chromosome exons identified a frameshift mutation (c.5898dupC) of MED12. Mutated mRNA was not affected by non-sense mediated RNA decay and induced an additional abnormal isoform due to activation of cryptic splice-sites in exon 41. Dysmorphic features common to most affected males were long narrow face, high forehead, flat malar area, high nasal bridge, and short philtrum. Language was absent or very limited. Most patients had a friendly personality. Cognitive impairment, varying from borderline to profound ID was similarly observed in seven heterozygous females. There was no correlation between cognitive function and X-chromosome inactivation profiles in blood cells. The severe degree of ID in male patients, as well as variable cognitive impairment in heterozygous females suggests that the duplication observed in the present family may have a more severe effect on MED12 function than missense mutations. In a cognitively impaired male from this family, who also presented with tall stature and dysmorphism and did not have the MED12 mutation, a 600-kb duplication at 17p13.3 including the YWHAE gene, was found in a mosaic state.

Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) activation in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) is physiologically relevant for the control of palatable food intake. Here, we tested whether the food intake-suppressive effects of VTA GLP-1R activation are mediated by glutamatergic signaling within the VTA. Intra-VTA injections of the GLP-1R agonist exendin-4 (Ex-4) reduced palatable high-fat food intake in rats primarily by reducing meal size; these effects were mediated in part via glutamatergic AMPA/kainate but not NMDA receptor signaling. Additional behavioral data indicated that GLP-1R expressed specifically within the VTA can partially mediate the intake- and body weight-suppressive effects of systemically administered Ex-4, offering the intriguing possibility that this receptor population may be clinically relevant for food intake control. Intra-VTA Ex-4 rapidly increased tyrosine hydroxylase levels within the VTA, suggesting that GLP-1R activation modulates VTA dopaminergic signaling. Further evidence for this hypothesis was provided by electrophysiological data showing that Ex-4 increased the frequency of AMPA-mediated currents and reduced the paired/pulse ratio in VTA dopamine neurons. Together, these data provide novel mechanisms by which GLP-1R agonists in the mesolimbic reward system control for palatable food intake.
The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) harbors, close to Phe-508, whose deletion is the commonest cause of cystic fibrosis, a conserved potential CK2 phospho-acceptor site (Ser511), which however is not susceptible to phosphorylation by CK2. To shed light on this apparent paradox, a series of systematically substituted peptides encompassing Ser511 were assayed for their ability to be phosphorylated. The main outcomes of our study are the following: (a) Tyr512 plays a prominent role as a negative determinant as its replacement by Ala restores Ser511 phosphorylation by CK2; (b) an even more pronounced phosphorylation of Ser511 is promoted if Tyr512 is replaced by phospho-tyrosine instead of alanine; (c) Tyr512 and, to a lesser extent, Tyr515 are readily phosphorylated by Lyn, a protein tyrosine kinase of the Src family, in a manner which is enhanced by the concomitant Phe508 deletion. Collectively taken, our data, in conjunction with the notion that Tyr515 is phosphorylated in vivo, disclose the possibility that CFTR Ser511 can be phosphorylated by the combined action of tyrosine kinases and CK2 and disclose a new mechanism of hierarchical phosphorylation where the role of the priming kinase is that of removing negative determinant(s).
Linkage analysis in Brazilian families with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) revealed that a missense mutation p.Pro56Ser in a conserved gene VAMP-associated protein type B and C (VAPB) cosegregates with disease. Blood samples were studied from 973 Swedish, 126 Portuguese and 19 Icelandic ALS patients, and from 644 control subjects. We identified five VAPB mutations, two of which are novel, in 14 Swedish ALS patients and in nine control individuals from Sweden and Portugal. The 14 patients with VAPB mutations all carried a diagnosis of sporadic ALS. Mutations were also found in healthy adult relatives. The p.Asp130Glu VAPB mutation was also found in two patients from an Icelandic ALS family, but the mutation did not cosegregate with disease. All patients were instead found to be heterozygous for a p.Gly93Ser SOD1 mutation. There were no clinical differences between them, suggesting that the p.Asp130Glu VAPB mutation is unrelated to the disease process. In conclusion, the VAPB mutations were as frequent in control individuals as in patients. This observation, in combination with the finding of several healthy relatives carrying the VAPB mutations and no ancestors with ALS disease, suggests that it is unlikely that these VAPB mutations are pathogenic.
Our objective was to better understand UK-wide practice in managing sialorrhoea in motor neuron disease among specialist clinicians. We used a survey of neurologists in the UK with a special interest in motor neuron disease designed to establish clinicians' attitudes towards treatment options and resources for sialorrhoea management. Twenty-three clinicians replied, representing 21 centres. Sixteen centres were specialist MND Care Centres. Clinicians estimated seeing a total of 1391 newly diagnosed patients with MND in 2011. One hundred and ninety-three patients were described. Forty-two percent of patients reviewed in clinicians' last clinic had sialorrhoea and 46% of those with sialorrhoea had uncontrolled symptoms. Clinicians' preferred drugs were hyoscine patches, amitriptyline, carbocisteine and botulinum toxin. Botulinum toxin was used in 14 centres. Risk of dysphagia and staff skills were identified as the main barriers to botulinum toxin use. This survey suggests that there may be as many as 1700 patients with MND in the UK who have symptoms of sialorrhoea and that symptoms may be poorly controlled in nearly half. Treatment strategies varied, reflecting the lack of evidence based guidelines. The use of specialist treatments was influenced by local infrastructure. This study highlights the need for further work to develop evidence based guidance.



The psychedelic experience has been reported since antiquity, but there is relatively little known about the underlying neural mechanisms. A recent neuroimaging study on psilocybin revealed a pattern of decreased cerebral blood flow and functional disconnections that is surprisingly similar to that caused by various anesthetics. In this article, the authors review historical examples of psychedelic experiences induced by general anesthetics and then contrast the mechanisms by which these two drug classes generate altered states of consciousness.

Powered hand prostheses with many degrees of freedom are moving from research into the market for prosthetics. In order to make use of the prostheses' full functionality, it is essential to study efficient ways of high dimensional myoelectric control. Human subjects can rapidly learn to employ electromyographic (EMG) activity of several hand and arm muscles to control the position of a cursor on a computer screen, even if the muscle-cursor map contradicts directions in which the muscles would act naturally. But can a similar control scheme be translated into real-time operation of a dexterous robotic hand? We found that despite different degrees of freedom in the effector output, the learning process for controlling a robotic hand was surprisingly similar to that for a virtual two-dimensional cursor. Control signals were derived from the EMG in two different ways, with a linear and a Bayesian filter, to test how stable user intentions could be conveyed through them. Our analysis indicates that without visual feedback, control accuracy benefits from filters that reject high EMG amplitudes. In summary, we conclude that findings on myoelectric control principles, studied in abstract, virtual tasks can be transferred to real-life prosthetic applications.
Parkinson disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease after Alzheimer disease with a lifetime risk in the UK population of almost 5%. An association between PD and Gaucher disease (GD) derived from the observation that GD patients and their heterozygous carrier relatives were at increased risk of PD. GD is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by homozygous mutations in the gene encoding glucocerebrosidase (GBA). Approximately 5%-10% of PD patients have GBA mutations, making these mutations numerically the most important genetic predisposing risk factor for the development of PD identified to date. GBA mutations result in a phenotype that is virtually indistinguishable clinically, pharmacologically, and pathologically from sporadic PD, except GBA mutations result in a slightly earlier age of onset and more frequent cognitive impairment among PD patients. The mechanisms by which GBA mutations result in PD are not yet understood. Both reduced glucocerebrosidase enzyme (GCase) activity with lysosomal dysfunction, and unfolded protein response (UPR) with endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD) and stress are considered contributory.
Decoding neural algorithms is one of the major goals of neuroscience. It is generally accepted that brain computations rely on the orchestration of neural activity at local scales, as well as across the brain through long-range connections. Understanding the relationship between brain activity and connectivity is therefore a prerequisite to cracking the neural code. In the past few decades, tremendous technological advances have been achieved in connectivity measurement techniques. We now possess a battery of tools to measure brain activity and connections at all available scales. A great source of excitement are the new in vivo tools that allow us to measure structural and functional connections noninvasively. Here, we discuss how these new technologies may contribute to deciphering the neural code.
Robotic and automation technologies have played a huge role in in vitro biological science, having proved critical for scientific endeavors such as genome sequencing and high-throughput screening. Robotic and automation strategies are beginning to play a greater role in in vivo and in situ sciences, especially when it comes to the difficult in vivo experiments required for understanding the neural mechanisms of behavior and disease. In this perspective, we discuss the prospects for robotics and automation to influence neuroscientific and intact-system biology fields. We discuss how robotic innovations might be created to open up new frontiers in basic and applied neuroscience and present a concrete example with our recent automation of in vivo whole-cell patch clamp electrophysiology of neurons in the living mouse brain.





Curcumin, an important component of the culinary spice turmeric, has been shown to harbor anticancer properties against a wide range of cancer cells with minimal toxicity toward normal cells. Two general tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) sunitinib and sorafenib are currently used in treating renal cancer. Though the use of these TKIs has significantly improved survival, both elicit distressing side effects, limiting their long-term use. We tested the activity of sunitinib and sorafenib to eliminate 786-O renal cancer cells and the efficacy of curcumin to enhance this process. A four-fold decrease in the IC50 of sunitinib, from 4.5 M to 1.2 M, was observed in the presence of 20-M curcumin. However, curcumin did not potentiate the activity of sorafenib. The sunitinib-curcumin (SunC) combination sharply inhibited hyperphosphorylation of the tumor suppressor protein Rb within 8 hours of SunC treatment. Although the levels of cyclin D1 did not change in 8 hours, its expression was dramatically inhibited after 24 hours of SunC exposure. Since curcumin is known to inhibit the cyclin D1-dependent G1/S-phase kinase CDK4 and the cyclin B-dependent G2/M-phase kinase CDK1 that catalyze phosphorylation-mediated inactivation of Rb, our results indicate that SunC containing a lower dose of sunitinib would be effective in restoring the tumor suppressor activity of Rb, thereby truncating cell cycle and triggering cell death. Our results submit the possibility of using SunC as an effective antitumor formulation to reduce the dose and risk of adverse effects of sunitinib.
There is a general assumption that weight loss associated with cocaine use reflects its appetite suppressing properties. We sought to determine whether this was justified by characterizing, in detail, alterations in dietary food intake and body composition in actively using cocaine-dependent individuals. We conducted a cross-sectional case-control comparison of 65 male volunteers from the local community, half of whom satisfied the DSM-IV-TR criteria for cocaine dependence (n=35) while the other half had no personal or family history of a psychiatric disorder, including substance abuse (n=30). Assessments were made of eating behavior and dietary food intake, estimation of body composition, and measurement of plasma leptin. Although cocaine users reported significantly higher levels of dietary fat and carbohydrates as well as patterns of uncontrolled eating, their fat mass was significantly reduced compared with their non-drug using peers. Levels of leptin were associated with fat mass, and with the duration of stimulant use. Tobacco smoking status or concomitant use of medication did not affect the significance of the results. Weight changes in cocaine users reflect fundamental perturbations in fat regulation. These are likely to be overlooked in clinical practice but may produce significant health problems when cocaine use is discontinued during recovery.
The adiposity hormone leptin has been implicated in the regulation of behavioral and metabolic controls of body weight. Leptin receptors are found in multiple peripheral and central tissues, particularly within hypothalamic and brainstem neuronal populations. Central leptinergic signaling acts as an indirect control to modulate the feeding inhibitory potency of the direct controls of meal size. Mouse models of neuronal leptin loss and gain of function have helped to identify and characterize how central leptin contributes to the central control of food intake.
The Columbia Appetitive Seminar, which began in 1972, has been a huge success in bringing together scholars interested in appetitive behavior, stimulating research and new ideas, and encouraging collaborations. At the time of the Seminar's inception, predominant views were that energy derived acutely from the utilization of glucose was a primary causative factor in determining the initiation (hunger) and offset (satiation) of meals; and that specific nuclei in the hypothalamus controlled unique aspects of motivated behaviors, such as stimulating water intake or creating a feeling of satiety. Over the ensuing 40 years, these views have given way to models of appetitive behavior utilizing complex interacting neural circuits responding to diverse signals emanating from the gastrointestinal tract, the external environment, cognitive, learned and social factors, and many more. Pivotal reports include the 1973 demonstration that cholecystokinin reduces meal size, and the discovery of leptin in 1994.
During the last decades, symptom validity has become an important topic in the neuropsychological and psychiatric literature with respect to how it relates to malingering, factitious disorder, and somatoform complaints. We conducted a survey among neuropsychologists (N = 515) from six European countries (Germany, Italy, Denmark, Finland, Norway, and the Netherlands). We queried the respondents about the tools they used to evaluate symptom credibility in clinical and forensic assessments and other issues related to symptom validity testing (SVT). Although the majority of the respondents demonstrated technical knowledge about symptom validity, a sizeable minority of the respondents relied on outdated notions (e.g., the idea that clinicians can determine symptom credibility based on intuitive judgment). There is little consensus among neuropsychologists on how to instruct patients when they are administered SVTs and how to handle test failure. Our findings indicate that the issues regarding how to administer and communicate the SVT results to patients warrant systematic research.





Diet is directly related with physiological alterations occurring at a cell and subcellular level. However, the role of diet manipulation on mitochondrial physiology is still largely unexplored. Aiming at correlating diet with alterations of mitochondrial membrane composition and bioenergetics, Wistar-Han male rats were fed for 11, 22 and 33days with a rapeseed oil-based diet and mitochondrial bioenergetics, and membrane composition were compared at each time point with a standard diet group. Considerable differences were noticed in mitochondrial membrane lipid composition, namely in terms of fatty acyl chains and relative proportions of phospholipid classes, the modified diet inducing a decrease in the saturated to unsaturated molar ratio and an increase in the phosphatidylcholine to phosphatidylethanolamine molar ratio. Mass spectrometry lipid analysis showed significant differences in the major species of cardiolipin, with an apparent increased incorporation of oleic acid as a result of exposure to the modified diet. Rats fed the modified diet during 22days showed decreased hepatic mitochondrial state 3 respiration and were more susceptible to Ca(2+)-induced transition pore opening. Rapeseed oil-enriched diet also appeared to promote a decrease in hydroperoxide production by the respiratory chain, although a simultaneous decrease in vitamin E content was detected. In conclusion, our data indicate that the rapeseed oil diet causes negative alterations on hepatic mitochondrial bioenergetics, which may result from membrane remodeling. Such alterations may have an impact not only on energy supply to the cell, but also on drug-induced hepatic mitochondrial liabilities.
Major depressive disorder is prevalent worldwide, and only about half of those affected will experience no further episodes or symptoms. Additionally, depressive symptoms can be challenging to identify, with many patients going undiagnosed despite a wide variety of available treatment options. Antidepressants are the cornerstone of depression treatment; however, a large number of factors must be considered in selecting the treatment best suited to the individual. To help support physicians in this process, international and national treatment guidelines have been developed. This review evaluates the current use of antidepressant treatment for major depressive disorder in six Asian countries (China, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, and Thailand). No remarkable differences were noted between Asian and international treatment guidelines or among those from within Asia as these are adapted from western guidelines, although there were some local variations. Importantly, a shortage of evidence-based information at a country level is the primary problem in developing guidelines appropriate for Asia, so most of the guidelines are consensus opinions derived from western research data utilized in western guidelines. Treatment guidelines need to evolve from being consensus based to evidence based when evidence is available, taking into consideration cost/effectiveness or cost/benefit with an evidence-based approach that more accurately reflects clinical experience as well as the attributes of each antidepressant. In everyday practice, physicians must tailor their treatment to the patient's clinical needs while considering associated external factors; better tools are needed to help them reach the best possible prescribing decisions which are of maximum benefit to patients.

This paper proposes that eight positive emotions: awe, love/attachment, trust/faith, compassion, gratitude, forgiveness, joy and hope constitute what we mean by spirituality. These emotions have been grossly ignored by psychiatry. The two sciences that I shall employ to demonstrate this definition of spirituality will be ethology and neuroscience. They are both very new. I will argue that spirituality is not about ideas, sacred texts and theology. Rather, spirituality is all about emotion and social connection that are more dependent on the limbic system than the cortex. Specific religions, for all their limitations, are often the portal through which positive emotions are brought into conscious attention. Neither Freud nor psychiatric textbooks ever mention emotions like joy and gratitude. Hymns and psalms give these emotions pride of place. Our whole concept of psychotherapy might change, if clinicians set about enhancing positive emotions, rather than focusing only on the negative ones.



Though metabolic syndrome (MS) is a major concern in schizophrenia, there is no data among rural community dwelling patients in India. This study describes prevalence and correlates of MS in a cohort of schizophrenia patients from a rural community of south India. 171 patients with schizophrenia were screened for the presence of MS using the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) criteria. 94.8% were receiving atypical antipsychotics for a mean (SD) duration of 13.04 (9.51) months. Fifty-four of the 171 (31.6%) patients screened met criterion for central obesity. Of these, laboratory results (fasting blood sugar, triglycerides and HDL cholesterol) were available for 47 patients. The rest 7 were deemed to have met the criteria for MS in order to avoid under-estimation of the syndrome. Only 22 (12.86%) patients met the criteria for MS thus defined. Females were significantly likely to have both central obesity and MS than males. No other predictors of metabolic adverse effects could be identified. Biological and the prevailing socio-cultural factors may contribute to such considerably low prevalence of metabolic abnormalities. Lack of data from a control group forms the most important limitation of this study.

Imaging the brain of a freely moving small animal using positron emission tomography (PET) while simultaneously observing its behaviour is an important goal for neuroscience. While we have successfully demonstrated the use of line-of-response (LOR) rebinning to correct the head motion of confined animals, a large proportion of events may need to be discarded because they either 'miss' the detector array after transformation or fall out of the acceptance range of a sinogram. The proportion of events that would have been measured had motion not occurred, so-called 'lost events', is expected to be even larger for freely moving animals. Moreover, the data acquisition in the case of a freely moving animal is further complicated by a complex attenuation field. The aims of this study were (a) to characterise the severity of the 'lostevents' problem for the freely moving animal scenario, and(b) to investigate the relative impact of attenuation correction errors on quantitative accuracy of reconstructed images. A phantom study was performed to simulate the uncorrelated motion of a target and non-target sourcevolume. A small animal PET scanner was used to acquirelist-mode data for different sets of phantom positions. The list-mode data were processed using the standard LOR rebinning approach, and multiple frame variants of this designed to reduce discarded events. We found that LOR rebinning caused up to 86 % 'lost events', and artifacts that we attribute to incomplete projections, when applied to a freely moving target. This fraction was reduced by up to 18 % using the variant approaches, resulting in slightly reduced image artifacts. The effect of the non-target compartment on attenuation correction of the target volume was surprisingly small. However, for certain poses where the target and non-target volumes are aligned transaxially in the field-of-view, the attenuation problem becomes more complex and sophisticated correction methods will be required. We conclude that there are limitations with the LOR rebinning approach and simplified attenuation correction for freely moving animals requiring the development and validation of more sophisticated approaches.
Imitation is a potentially crucial aspect of social cognitive development. Although deficits in imitation ability have been widely demonstrated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), the specificity and significance of the findings is unclear, due largely to methodological limitations. We developed a novel assessment of imitation ability, using objective movement parameters (path length and action duration) derived from a touch-sensitive tablet laptop during drawing actions on an identical tablet. By direct comparison of the kinematics of a model's actions with those of the participant who observed them, measures of imitation accuracy were obtained. By replaying the end-point of the movement as a spot on the screen, imitation accuracy was compared against a &quot;ghost control&quot; condition, with no human actor but only the end-point of the movement seen [object movement reenactment (OMR)]. Hence, demands of the control task were closely matched to the experimental task with respect to motor, memory, and attentional abilities. Adolescents with ASD showed poorer accuracy for copying object size and action duration on both the imitation and OMR tasks, but were significantly more impaired for imitation of object size. Our results provide evidence that some of the imitation deficit in ASD is specific to a self-other mapping problem, and cannot be explained by general factors such as memory, spatial reasoning, motor control, or attention, nor related to the social demands of the testing situation.
Autism Spectrum Conditions (ASC) are associated with diminished responsiveness to social stimuli, and especially to social rewards such as smiles. Atypical responsiveness to social rewards, which reinforce socially appropriate behavior in children, can potentially lead to a cascade of deficits in social behavior. Individuals with ASC often show diminished spontaneous mimicry of social stimuli in a natural setting. In the general population, mimicry is modulated both by the reward value and the sociality of the stimulus (i.e., whether the stimulus is perceived to belong to a conspecific or an inanimate object). Since empathy and autistic traits are distributed continuously in the general population, this study aimed to test if and how these traits modulated automatic mimicry of rewarded social and nonsocial stimuli. High and low rewards were associated with human and robot hands using a conditioned learning paradigm. Thirty-six participants from the general population then completed a mimicry task involving performing a prespecified hand movement which was either compatible or incompatible with a hand movement presented to the participant. High autistic traits (measured using the Autism Spectrum Quotient, AQ) predicted lesser mimicry of high-reward than low-reward conditioned human hands, whereas trait empathy showed an opposite pattern of correlations. No such relations were observed for high-reward vs. low-reward conditioned robot hands. These results demonstrate how autistic traits and empathy modulate the effects of reward on mimicry of social compared to nonsocial stimuli. This evidence suggests a potential role for the reward system in underlying the atypical social behavior in individuals with ASC, who constitute the extreme end of the spectrum of autistic traits.
Restricted, repetitive and stereotyped patterns of behavior, interests and activities [RRBs] are among the core symptoms of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Previous studies have indicated that RRBs differentiate ASD from other developmental disorders and from typical development. This study examined the presentation of RRBs as reported on the Repetitive Behavior Scale-Revised, a caregiver report, in children with ASD [separated into autism and Pervasive Developmental Disorder-Not Otherwise Specified groups] compared with children with nonspectrum developmental delays or typical development. We examined the role of age, cognitive functioning, sex and social communication impairment as they relate to RRBs. The stability of RRBs in children with autism was also examined over the course of 2 years. Results of the study confirmed that the amount and type of RRBs differs by diagnosis. Age, cognitive functioning, sex and social-communication impairment were not significant correlates. Among children with autism, RRBs remained stable over time.
The emetic reflex occurs as a pattern of motor responses produced by a network of neurons in the hindbrain. Despite an understanding of the sequence of motor outputs that form an emetic episode (EE), the variability in the dynamics of multiple EEs across time remains a mystery. Many clinical investigations rely on once a day patient recall of total amount of vomiting, and preclinical studies frequently report only the total number of EE per unit time. The aim of the current study was to develop novel temporal measures of emetic activation in a preclinical model. Male and female musk shrews were tested with prototypical emetic stimuli: motion exposure (1 Hz), nicotine (5 mg/kg, sc), and copper sulfate (120 mg/kg, ig). New emetic measures included duration (time from first to last episode), rate, standard deviation of the inter-episode interval (SD-I), and a survival analysis of emetic latency (analyzed with Cox regression). Behavioral patterns associated with emesis were also assessed using statistical temporal pattern (T-pattern) analysis to measure nausea-like behaviors (e.g., immobility). The emetic stimuli produced different levels of total EE number, duration, rate, and SD-I. A typical antiemetic, the neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist CP-99,994, suppressed the number of EEs but was less effective for reducing the duration or prolonging the emetic latency. Overall, the current study shows the use of novel dynamic behavioral measures to more comprehensively assess emesis and the impact of therapies.
Sudden unexplained death in epilepsy (SUDEP) is an important unresolved problem affecting many patients with recurrent seizures. Amongst the mechanisms postulated are ictal or postictal cardiac arrhythmias, central hypoventilation or apnea, and neurogenic pulmonary edema. Across these categories, a common element appears to be some form of autonomic dysregulation. Accordingly, the search for biomarkers of SUDEP risk has focused increasingly on autonomic findings. Emerging models implicate attenuated cardiac vagal modulation coupled with surging cardiac sympathetic activity, neuronal dropout in the nucleus tractus solitarii, and in some cases genetic factors affecting ion channel behavior. Explicating the crucial links between brain and heart in epilepsy benefits from collaboration amongst neurologists, cardiologists, physiologists, and other specialists with an interest in the autonomic nervous system.
The goals of the present study were to investigate the changes in sympathetic preganglionic neurons following transection of distal axons in the cervical sympathetic trunk (CST) that innervate the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) and to assess changes in the protein expression of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor TrkB in the thoracic spinal cord. At 1 week, a significant decrease in soma volume and reduced soma expression of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in the intermediolateral cell column (IML) of T1 spinal cord were observed, with both ChAT-ir and non-immunoreactive neurons expressing the injury marker activating transcription factor 3. These changes were transient, and at later time points, ChAT expression and soma volume returned to control values and the number of ATF3 neurons declined. No evidence for cell loss or neuronal apoptosis was detected at any time point. Protein levels of BDNF and/or full length TrkB in the spinal cord were increased throughout the survival period. In the SCG, both ChAT-ir axons and ChAT protein remained decreased at 16 weeks, but were increased compared to the 10 week time point. These results suggest that though IML neurons show reduced ChAT expression and cell volume at 1 week following CST transection, at later time points, the neurons recovered and exhibited no significant signs of neurodegeneration. The alterations in BDNF and/or TrkB may have contributed to the survival of the IML neurons and the recovery of ChAT expression, as well as to the reinnervation of the SCG.

Abnormal aggregation of SNCA/?-synuclein plays a crucial role in Parkinson disease (PD) pathogenesis. SNCA levels determine its toxicity, and its accumulation, even to a small extent, may be a risk factor for neurodegeneration. One of the main pathways for SNCA degradation is chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), a selective form of autophagy, while aberrant SNCA may act as a CMA inhibitor. In the current punctum we summarize our recent data showing that induction of CMA, via overexpression of the protein controlling its rate-limiting step, the lysosomal receptor LAMP2A, effectively decreases SNCA levels and ameliorates SNCA-induced neurodegeneration, both in neuronal cell culture systems and in the rat brain. Such findings suggest that modulation of LAMP2A and, consequently, CMA, represents a viable therapeutic target for PD and other synucleinopathies where SNCA accumulation and aggregation plays a fundamental role.

Kurzban and colleagues carry forward an important contemporary movement in cognitive control research, tending away from resource-based models and toward a framework focusing on motivation or value. However, their specific proposal, centering on opportunity costs, appears problematic. We favor a simpler view, according to which the exertion of cognitive control carries intrinsic subjective costs.
The cognitive impairments shown by brain-damaged patients emphasize the role of task difficulty as a major determinant for performance. We discuss the proposal of Kurzban et al. in light of our findings on right-hemisphere-damaged patients, who show increasing awareness deficits for the contralesional hemispace when engaged with resource-consuming dual tasks. This phenomenon is readily explained by the assumption of unspecific depletable resources.
Why does performing certain tasks cause the aversive experience of mental effort and concomitant deterioration in task performance? One explanation posits a physical resource that is depleted over time. We propose an alternative explanation that centers on mental representations of the costs and benefits associated with task performance. Specifically, certain computational mechanisms, especially those associated with executive function, can be deployed for only a limited number of simultaneous tasks at any given moment. Consequently, the deployment of these computational mechanisms carries an opportunity cost--that is, the next-best use to which these systems might be put. We argue that the phenomenology of effort can be understood as the felt output of these cost/benefit computations. In turn, the subjective experience of effort motivates reduced deployment of these computational mechanisms in the service of the present task. These opportunity cost representations, then, together with other cost/benefit calculations, determine effort expended and, everything else equal, result in performance reductions. In making our case for this position, we review alternative explanations for both the phenomenology of effort associated with these tasks and for performance reductions over time. Likewise, we review the broad range of relevant empirical results from across sub-disciplines, especially psychology and neuroscience. We hope that our proposal will help to build links among the diverse fields that have been addressing similar questions from different perspectives, and we emphasize ways in which alternative models might be empirically distinguished.
By integrating the classic psychological principles of ancient art of memory (AAOM) with the most recent paradigms in cognitive neuroscience (i.e., the concepts of hodotopic organization and nonlinear dynamics of brain neural networks), Llewellyn provides an up-to-date model of the complex psychological relationships between memory, imagination, and dreams in accordance with current state-of-the-art principles in neuroscience.
Llewellyn suggests that episodic memories undergo &quot;elaborative encoding&quot; during rapid eye movement (REM) dreams, generating novel associations between recent and remote memories that are then instantiated during non-REM (NREM) sleep. This hypothesis conflicts with our knowledge of the physiology of NREM and then REM sleep stages and their ordered succession. Moreover, associations during sleep might also involve the extraction of hidden patterns rather than de novo associations.
Humans today are routinely and increasingly presented with vast quantities of data that challenge their capacity for efficient processing. To restore the balance between man and machine, it is worthwhile to explore new methods for enhancing or accelerating this capacity. This study was designed to investigate the efficacy of transcranial DC stimulation (tDCS) to reduce training time and increase proficiency in spatial recognition using a simulated synthetic aperture radar (SAR) task. Twenty-seven Air Force active duty members volunteered to participate in the study. Each participant was assigned to 1 of 3 stimulation groups and received two, 90-min training sessions on a target search and identification task using SAR imagery followed by a test. The tDCS anode was applied to site F10 according to the 10-20 electroencephalographic electrode convention while the cathode was placed on the contralateral bicep. Group 1 received anodal tDCS at 2 mA for 30 min in the first training session and sham tDCS in the second session. Group 2 received the stimulation conditions in the opposite order. Group 3 did not receive stimulation at all. Results showed that participants receiving training plus tDCS attained visual search accuracies ~25% higher than those provided with sham stimulation or no stimulation. However, a corresponding performance improvement was not found in the first training session for the change detection portion of the task. This indicates that experience with the imagery is important in the tDCS-elicited performance improvements in change detection.
In this article we describe the ideas and circumstances that led to the experiment demonstrating a triple dissociation of memory systems. We then move on to discuss the results of 20 years of investigation of those ideas. First, evidence is described from animal studies consistent with the ideas that memory for different kinds of information is stored in different brain systems, and that the hippocampus, amygdala, and dorsal striatum are each central structures in one of the systems. We then focus on the 3 tasks used in the original triple dissociation: win-stay learning, conditioned cue preference, and win-shift learning. Each of these tasks is specific to behavior resulting from the type of information stored in one of the systems, but the use of other behavioral tests that are sensitive to the types of information stored in other systems has revealed that, in each case, other types of information are acquired in parallel. Next, evidence consistent with the idea that the outputs of the systems compete for control of behavior is discussed together with alternative forms of more direct interactions among the systems. Finally, some evidence that many of these ideas about multiple parallel memory systems may apply to humans is reviewed.
Parkinson's disease is the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disease in the world. Its treatment is limited so far to the management of parkinsonian symptoms with L-DOPA (LD). The long-term use of LD is limited by the development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias and dystonia. However, recent studies have suggested that pharmacological targeting of the endocannabinoid system may potentially provide a valuable therapeutic tool to suppress these motor alterations. In the present study, we have explored the behavioral (L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias severity) and cytological (substantia nigra compacta neurons and striatum neuropil preservation) effects of the oral coadministration of LD and rimonabant, a selective antagonist of CB1 receptors, in the 6-hydroxydopamine rat model of Parkinson's disease. Oral coadministration of LD (30 mg/kg) and rimonabant (1 mg/kg) significantly decreased abnormal involuntary movements and dystonia, possibly through the conservation of some functional tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive dopaminergic cells, which in turn translates into a well-preserved neuropil of a less denervated striatum. Our results provide anatomical evidence that long-term coadministration of LD with cannabinoid antagonist-based therapy may not only alleviate specific motor symptoms but also delay/arrest the degeneration of striatal and substantia nigra compacta cells.
This study investigated the effects of chronic neonatal blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors on NMDA and muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-mediated neurotransmission in adulthood. Rats neonatally treated chronically with MK-801/saline were tested for 40 min, at the age of 14-16 weeks, for locomotor activity in an open field immediately after acute administration of MK-801 (0.2 mg/kg) or scopolamine (0.4-2.0 mg/kg). Rats neonatally treated with MK-801 showed significantly higher locomotor activity than those treated with saline. Acute MK-801 administration caused hyperlocomotion regardless of neonatal treatment, but the effect was more potent in rats neonatally treated with MK-801. In contrast, acute scopolamine administration did not cause hyperlocomotion in rats neonatally treated with saline, but significantly increased locomotion in those neonatally treated with MK-801. The results suggest that chronic neonatal NMDA receptor blockade causes changes in glutamatergic and cholinergic transmission in adulthood long after the cessation of treatment.
Dopamine receptors are implicated in the reinforcing effects of food and drug reinforcement. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether blocking D2 dopamine receptors during extinction (secondary reinforcement) would affect reacquisition of responding for food pellets (primary reinforcement). Food-restricted rats self-administered (fixed-ratio 1) food pellets in 1-h daily sessions for 7 days. For the next 7 days rats responded in extinction conditions. Before each extinction session rats were injected with saline or the dopamine D2 antagonist eticlopride (0.03 mg/kg, subcutaneously). After the extinction phase, rats were allowed to reacquire food pellet self-administration in seven daily sessions, and received saline or eticlopride before each session. Four treatment groups were represented: saline extinction, saline reacquisition; eticlopride extinction, saline reacquisition; saline extinction, eticlopride reacquisition; and eticlopride extinction, eticlopride reacquisition. Locomotor activity did not differ between eticlopride-treated and saline-treated rats throughout the study. Extinction was accelerated in eticlopride-treated rats. Eticlopride also delayed reacquisition of food self-administration compared with saline-treated rats. Rats administered eticlopride during extinction showed delayed reacquisition and a decreased response rate for food during the reacquisition phase. Indirectly reducing the value of a reinforcer in this way may provide a novel approach for reducing addiction-related food or drug self-administration behaviors.
Response time series with a non-Gaussian distribution and long-range dependent dynamics have been reported for several cognitive tasks. Conventional monofractal analyses numerically define a long-range dependency as a single scaling exponent, but they assume that the response times are Gaussian distributed. Ihlen and Vereijken (Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 139, 436-463, 2010) suggested multifractal extensions of the conventional monofractal analyses that are more suitable when the response time has a non-Gaussian distribution. Multifractal analyses estimate a multifractal spectrum of scaling exponents that contain the single exponent estimated by the conventional monofractal analyses. However, a comparison of the performance of multifractal analyses with behavioral variables has not yet been addressed. The present study compares the performance of seven multifractal analyses. The multifractal analyses were tested on multiplicative cascading noise that generates time series with a predefined multifractal spectrum and with a structure of variation that mimics intermittent response time variation. Time series with 1,024 and 4,096 samples were generated with additive noise and multiharmonic trends of two different magnitudes (signal-to-noise/trend ratio; 0.33 and 1). The results indicate that all multifractal analysis has individual pros and cons related to sample size, multifractality, and the presence of additive noise and trends in the response time series. The summary of pros and cons of the seven multifractal analyses provides a guideline for the choice of multifractal analyses of response time series and other behavioral variables.
Nonverbal vocal expressions, such as laughter, sobbing, and screams, are an important source of emotional information in social interactions. However, the investigation of how we process these vocal cues entered the research agenda only recently. Here, we introduce a new corpus of nonverbal vocalizations, which we recorded and submitted to perceptual and acoustic validation. It consists of 121 sounds expressing four positive emotions (achievement/triumph, amusement, sensual pleasure, and relief) and four negative ones (anger, disgust, fear, and sadness), produced by two female and two male speakers. For perceptual validation, a forced choice task was used (n = 20), and ratings were collected for the eight emotions, valence, arousal, and authenticity (n = 20). We provide these data, detailed for each vocalization, for use by the research community. High recognition accuracy was found for all emotions (86%, on average), and the sounds were reliably rated as communicating the intended expressions. The vocalizations were measured for acoustic cues related to temporal aspects, intensity, fundamental frequency (f0), and voice quality. These cues alone provide sufficient information to discriminate between emotion categories, as indicated by statistical classification procedures; they are also predictors of listeners' emotion ratings, as indicated by multiple regression analyses. This set of stimuli seems a valuable addition to currently available expression corpora for research on emotion processing. It is suitable for behavioral and neuroscience research and might as well be used in clinical settings for the assessment of neurological and psychiatric patients. The corpus can be downloaded from Supplementary Materials.
Tachistoscopes allow brief visual stimulation delivery, which is crucial for experiments in which subliminal presentation is required. Up to now, tachistoscopes have had shortcomings with respect to timing accuracy, reliability, and flexibility of use. Here, we present a new and inexpensive two-channel tachistoscope that allows for exposure durations in the submillisecond range with an extremely high timing accuracy. The tachistoscope consists of two standard liquid-crystal display (LCD) monitors of the light-emitting diode (LED) backlight type, a semipermeable mirror, a mounting rack, and an experimental personal computer (PC). The monitors have been modified to provide external access to the LED backlights, which are controlled by the PC via the standard parallel port. Photodiode measurements confirmed reliable operation of the tachistoscope and revealed switching times of 3s. Our method may also be of great advantage in single-monitor setups, in which it allows for manipulating the stimulus timing with submillisecond precision in many experimental situations. Where this is not applicable, the monitor can be operated in standard mode by disabling the external backlight control instantaneously.
The present study investigated the relative effects of mindfulness and reappraisal in reducing sad mood and whether trait mindfulness and habitual reappraisal moderated the effects. The study also compared the extent to which implementation of these strategies incurred cognitive resources. A total of 129 participants were randomly assigned to receiving training in mindfulness, reappraisal, or no training prior to undergoing an autobiographical sad mood induction. Results showed that mindfulness and reappraisal were superior to no training, and equivalent in their effects in lowering sad mood. Compared to mindfulness, reappraisal resulted in significantly higher interference scores on a subsequent Stroop test, reflecting greater depletion of cognitive resources. Higher trait mindfulness, but not habitual reappraisal, predicted greater reductions in sadness across conditions. The study suggests that although mindfulness and reappraisal are equally effective in down-regulating sad mood, they incur different levels of cognitive costs.
Neurological conditions during pregnancy can be pregnancy related or can be caused by exacerbation of pre-existing neurological disorders. Knowledge of pre-existing epilepsy or myasthenia gravis in women of childbearing age requires preconception counselling by neurologist and planned pregnancy. Possible adverse effects of medication on the foetus should be balanced with the risk of uncontrolled symptoms. Interdisciplinary management before, during and after pregnancy is recommended. New acute neurological symptoms in pregnant or postpartum women should lead to an urgent neurological review. Patients need a thorough diagnostic evaluation that targets a range of serious pathological conditions that are either unique to (e.g. eclampsia) or arise more frequently (e.g. cerebral venous thrombosis) in this population. Most of these conditions are infrequent and require a specialized and multidisciplinary management. Treatment is challenging due to risks to the unborn child.

GABAB receptors mediate slow inhibitory neurotransmission throughout the central nervous system thereby controlling the excitability of neurons. They have been implicated in numerous neurological disorders making them an attractive drug target. However, due to considerable side effects, the agonist baclofen is so far the only drug on the market targeting GABAB receptors, primarily for the treatment of spasticity. Because GABAB receptors are involved in a variety of brain functions it is rather unlikely to avoid unwanted effects with systemically administered drugs directly addressing ligand binding sites of the receptor. To minimize side effects, it would be desirable to target only those receptors involved in a given pathological state. This commentary discusses the idea that restoring impaired GABAB receptor function in diseased neurons by interfering with receptor-protein interactions may be an approach to specifically target only those receptors involved in the pathological state. Two recently discovered mechanisms that down-regulate the level of functional GABAB receptors most likely contribute to cerebral ischemia and neuropathic pain, respectively. In both mechanisms, small interfering peptides disrupting protein-protein interactions may offer a highly specific means to restore normal receptor function selectively at the site of malfunction. If restored functional GABAB receptor expression in these diseases has beneficial effects, this may serve as a starting point for the development of a highly specific therapeutic interventions. Such an approach is expected to minimize side effects because it promises to leave those GABAB receptors unaffected which are not involved in the dysfunction.
The ECs (endocannabinoids) AEA (anandamide) and 2-AG (2-arachidonoylglycerol) and their lipid congeners OEA (N-oleoylethanolamide) and PEA (N-palmitoylethanolamide) are multifunctional lipophilic signalling molecules. The ECs, OEA and PEA have multiple physiological roles including involvement in learning and memory, neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, neuroprotection and neurogenesis. They have also been implicated in the pathology of, or perhaps protective responses to, neurodegenerative diseases. This is particularly the case with Alzheimer's disease, the most common age-related dementia associated with impairments in learning and memory accompanied by neuroinflammation, oxidative stress and neurodegeneration. The present mini-review examines the evidence supporting the roles that ECs appear to play in Alzheimer's disease and the potential for beneficial therapeutic manipulation of the EC signalling system.
Correct mitochondrial dynamics are essential to neuronal function. These dynamics include mitochondrial trafficking and quality-control systems that maintain a precisely distributed and healthy mitochondrial network, so that local energy demands or Ca2+-buffering requirements within the intricate architecture of the neuron can be met. Mitochondria make use of molecular machinery that couples these organelles to microtubule-based transport via kinesin and dynein motors, facilitating the required long-range movements. These motors in turn are associated with a variety of adaptor proteins allowing additional regulation of the complex dynamics demonstrated by these organelles. Over recent years, a number of new motor and adaptor proteins have been added to a growing list of components implicated in mitochondrial trafficking and distribution. Yet, there are major questions that remain to be addressed about the regulation of mitochondrial transport complexes. One of the core components of this machinery, the mitochondrial Rho GTPases Miro1 (mitochondrial Rho 1) and Miro2 have received special attention due to their Ca2+-sensing and GTPase abilities, marking Miro an exceptional candidate for co-ordinating mitochondrial dynamics and intracellular signalling pathways. In the present paper, we discuss the wealth of literature regarding Miro-mediated mitochondrial transport in neurons and recently highlighted involvement of Miro proteins in mitochondrial turnover, emerging as a key process affected in neurodegeneration.
Among the largest cells in the body, neurons possess an immense surface area and intricate geometry that poses many unique cell biological challenges. This morphological complexity is critical for neural circuit formation and enables neurons to compartmentalize cell-cell communication and local intracellular signalling to a degree that surpasses other cell types. The adaptive plastic properties of neurons, synapses and circuits have been classically studied by measurement of electrophysiological properties, ionic conductances and excitability. Over the last 15 years, the field of synaptic and neural electrophysiology has collided with neuronal cell biology to produce a more integrated understanding of how these remarkable highly differentiated cells utilize common eukaryotic cellular machinery to decode, integrate and propagate signals in the nervous system. The present article gives a very brief and personal overview of the organelles and trafficking machinery of neuronal dendrites and their role in dendritic and synaptic plasticity.
An age-dependent increase in mRNA levels of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), the microtubule-associated protein Tau, and voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1) genes are reported to be toxic to neurons affected by Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the underlying toxic nature of these genes is not completely understood. The purpose of our study was to determine the effects of RNA silencing of APP, Tau, and VDAC1 genes in AD pathogenesis. Using human neuroblastoma (SHSY5Y) cells, we first silenced RNA for APP, Tau, and VDAC1 genes, and then performed real-time RT-PCR analysis to measure mRNA levels of 34 genes that are involved in AD pathogenesis. Using biochemical assays, we also assessed mitochondrial function by measuring levels of H2O2 production, lipid peroxidation, cytochrome c oxidase activity, ATP production, and GTPase enzymatic activity. We found that increased mRNA expression of synaptic function and mitochondrial fission genes, and reduced levels of mitochondrial fusion genes in RNA silenced the SHSY5Y cells for APP, Tau and VDAC1 genes relative to the control SHSY5Y cells. In addition, RNA-silenced APP, Tau, and VDAC1 genes in SHSY5Y cells showed reduced levels of H2O2 production, lipid peroxidation, fission-linked GTPase activity, and increased cytochrome oxidase activity and ATP production. These findings suggest that a reduction of human APP, Tau, and VDAC1 may enhance synaptic activity, may improve mitochondrial maintenance and function, and may protect against toxicities of AD-related genes. Thus, these findings also suggest that the reduction of APP, Tau, and VDAC1 mRNA expressions may have therapeutic value for patients with AD.
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction are involved in the progression and pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). MitoQ is a mitochondria-targeted antioxidant that has a neuroprotective role in several mitochondrial and neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Here we sought to determine the possible effects of a systematic administration of MitoQ as a therapy, using an experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) mouse model. We studied the beneficial effects of MitoQ in EAE mice that mimic MS like symptoms by treating EAE mice with MitoQ and pretreated C57BL6 mice with MitoQ plus EAE induction. We found that pretreatment and treatment of EAE mice with MitoQ reduced neurological disabilities associated with EAE. We also found that both pretreatment and treatment of the EAE mice with MitoQ significantly suppressed inflammatory markers of EAE, including the inhibition of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. MitoQ treatments reduced neuronal cell loss in the spinal cord, a factor underlying motor disability in EAE mice. The neuroprotective role of MitoQ was confirmed by a neuron-glia co-culture system designed to mimic the mechanism of MS and EAE in vitro. We found that axonal inflammation and oxidative stress are associated with impaired behavioral functions in the EAE mouse model and that treatment with MitoQ can exert protective effects on neurons and reduce axonal inflammation and oxidative stress. These protective effects are likely via multiple mechanisms, including the attenuation of the robust immune response. These results suggest that MitoQ may be a new candidate for the treatment of MS.
Dendritic spines are specialized structures on neuronal processes where the majority of excitatory synapses are localized. Spines are highly dynamic, and their stabilization and morphology are influenced by synaptic activity. This extrinsic regulation of spine morphogenesis underlies experience-dependent brain development and information storage within the brain circuitry. In this review, we summarize recent findings that demonstrate the phenomenon of activity-dependent structural plasticity and the molecular mechanisms by which synaptic activity sculpt neuronal connections. Impaired structural plasticity is associated with perturbed brain function in neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism. Information from the mechanistic studies therefore provides important insights into the design of therapeutic strategies for these brain disorders.
Neurovascular dysfunction arising from endothelial cell damage is an early pathogenic event that contributes to the neurodegenerative process occurring in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Since the mechanisms underlying endothelial dysfunction are not fully elucidated, this study was aimed to explore the hypothesis that brain endothelial cell death is induced upon the sustained activation of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress response by amyloid-beta (A) peptide, which deposits in the cerebral vessels in many AD patients and transgenic mice. Incubation of rat brain endothelial cells (RBE4 cell line) with A1-40 increased the levels of several markers of ER stress-induced unfolded protein response (UPR), in a time-dependent manner, and affected the Ca(2+) homeostasis due to the release of Ca(2+) from this intracellular store. Finally, A1-40 was shown to activate both mitochondria-dependent and -independent apoptotic cell death pathways. Enhanced release of cytochrome c from mitochondria and activation of the downstream caspase-9 were observed in cells treated with A1-40 concomitantly with caspase-12 activation. Furthermore, A1-40 activated the apoptosis effectors' caspase-3 and promoted the translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) to the nucleus demonstrating the involvement of caspase-dependent and -independent mechanisms during A-induced endothelial cell death. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that ER stress plays a significant role in A1-40-induced apoptotic cell death in brain endothelial cells suggesting that ER stress-targeted therapeutic strategies might be useful in AD to counteract vascular defects and ultimately neurodegeneration.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is a common feature of several physiological and pathological conditions affecting the function of the secretory pathway. To restore ER homeostasis, an orchestrated signaling pathway is engaged that is known as the unfolded protein response (UPR). The UPR has a primary function in stress adaptation and cell survival; however, under irreversible ER stress a switch to pro-apoptotic signaling events induces apoptosis of damaged cells. The mechanisms that initiate ER stress-dependent apoptosis are not fully understood. Several pathways have been described where we highlight the participation of the BCL-2 family of proteins and ER calcium release. In addition, recent findings also suggest that microRNAs and oxidative stress are relevant players on the transition from adaptive to cell death programs. Here we provide a global and integrated overview of the signaling networks that may determine the elimination of a cell under chronic ER stress. This article is part of a Special Section entitled: Cell Death Pathways.
Leucine Rich Repeat Kinase 2 (LRRK2) is one of the most important genetic contributors to Parkinson's disease. LRRK2 has been implicated in a number of cellular processes, including macroautophagy. To test whether LRRK2 has a role in regulating autophagy, a specific inhibitor of the kinase activity of LRRK2 was applied to human neuroglioma cells and downstream readouts of autophagy examined. The resulting data demonstrate that inhibition of LRRK2 kinase activity stimulates macroautophagy in the absence of any alteration in the translational targets of mTORC1, suggesting that LRRK2 regulates autophagic vesicle formation independent of canonical mTORC1 signaling. This study represents the first pharmacological dissection of the role LRRK2 plays in the autophagy/lysosomal pathway, emphasizing the importance of this pathway as a marker for LRRK2 physiological function. Moreover it highlights the need to dissect autophagy and lysosomal activities in the context of LRRK2 related pathologies with the final aim of understanding their aetiology and identifying specific targets for disease modifying therapies in patients.
Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) is a serine/threonine protein kinase that is involved in the multiple signaling processes of a cell. Increasing evidence suggests that GSK3 plays a key role in multiple cellular processes in the progression of diabetes, obesity, Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), inflammatory diseases, schizophrenia, bipolar and several mood disorders, and mitochondrial diseases. Recent research has found that increased GSK3 activity is linked to the pathogenesis of AD through amyloid beta (A), phosphorylated tau and mitochondrial dysfunction. Recent research has also revealed that GSK3 is elevated in AD-affected tissues and is critically involved in dissociating the voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1) protein from hexokinases, and causing disrupted glucose metabolism, mitochondrial dysfunction and activating apoptotic cell death. The purpose of this article is to review recent research that is elucidating the role of GSK3 in AD pathogenesis. We discuss the involvement of GSK3 in the phosphorylation of VDAC1 and dissociation of VADC1 with hexokinases in AD neurons.
-Secretase is a fascinating, multi-subunit, intramembrane cleaving protease that is now being considered as a therapeutic target for a number of diseases. Potent, orally bioavailable -secretase inhibitors (GSIs) have been developed and tested in humans with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cancer. Preclinical studies also suggest the therapeutic potential for GSIs in other disease conditions. However, due to inherent mechanism based-toxicity of non-selective inhibition of -secretase, clinical development of GSIs will require empirical testing with careful evaluation of benefit versus risk. In addition to GSIs, compounds referred to as -secretase modulators (GSMs) remain in development as AD therapeutics. GSMs do not inhibit -secretase, but modulate -secretase processivity and thereby shift the profile of the secreted amyloid  peptides (A) peptides produced. Although GSMs are thought to have an inherently safe mechanism of action, their effects on substrates other than the amyloid  protein precursor (APP) have not been extensively investigated. Herein, we will review the current state of development of GSIs and GSMs and explore pertinent biological and pharmacological questions pertaining to the use of these agents for select indications. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Intramembrane Proteases.
Intramembrane-cleaving proteases (I-CLiPs) are membrane embedded proteolytic enzymes. All substrates identified so far are also membrane proteins, involving a number of critical cellular signaling as well as human diseases. After synthesis and assembly at the endoplasmic reticulum, membrane proteins are exported to the Golgi apparatus and transported to their sites of action. A number of studies have revealed the importance of the intracellular membrane trafficking in i-CLiP-mediated intramembrane proteolysis, not only for limiting the unnecessary encounter between i-CLiPs and their substrate but also for their cleavage site preference. In this review, we will discuss recent advances in our understanding of how each i-CLiP proteolysis is regulated by intracellular vesicle trafficking. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Intramembrane Proteases.
Diseases of the central nervous system still remain among the most challenging pathologies known to mankind, having no or limited therapeutic possibilities and a very pessimistic prognosis. Advances in stem cell biology in the last decade have shown that stem cells might provide an inexhaustible source of neurons and glia as well as exerting a neuroprotective effect on the host tissue, thus opening new horizons for tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Here, we discuss the progress made in the cell-based therapy of spinal cord injury. An emphasis has been placed on the application of adult mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs). We then review the latest and most significant results from in vitro and in vivo research focusing on the regenerative/neuroprotective properties of MSCs. We also attempt to correlate the effect of MSCs with the pathological events that are taking place in the nervous tissue after SCI. Finally, we discuss the results from preclinical and clinical trials involving different routes of MSC application into patients with neurological disorders of the spinal cord.
Compelling evidence exists that non-haematopoietic stem cells, including mesenchymal (MSCs) and neural/progenitor stem cells (NPCs), exert a substantial beneficial and therapeutic effect after transplantation in experimental central nervous system (CNS) disease models through the secretion of immune modulatory or neurotrophic paracrine factors. This paracrine hypothesis has inspired an alternative outlook on the use of stem cells in regenerative neurology. In this paradigm, significant repair of the injured brain may be achieved by injecting the biologics secreted by stem cells (secretome), rather than implanting stem cells themselves for direct cell replacement. The stem cell secretome (SCS) includes cytokines, chemokines and growth factors, and has gained increasing attention in recent years because of its multiple implications for the repair, restoration or regeneration of injured tissues. Thanks to recent improvements in SCS profiling and manipulation, investigators are now inspired to harness the SCS as a novel alternative therapeutic option that might ensure more efficient outcomes than current stem cell-based therapies for CNS repair. This review discusses the most recent identification of MSC- and NPC-secreted factors, including those that are trafficked within extracellular membrane vesicles (EVs), and reflects on their potential effects on brain repair. It also examines some of the most convincing advances in molecular profiling that have enabled mapping of the SCS.
Planarian (Dugesia tigrinia) were exposed to a frequency-modulated (&quot;Thomas&quot;), patterned electromagnetic field (EMF) immediately following transection through the pharynx. Subjects were exposed from 15 min to 3 h as well as single versus repeated exposures. Results from multiple experiments indicated that those planaria exposed from 45 to 90 min regenerated at significantly higher rates than those exposed less than 45 min. In addition, the study revealed that exposures greater than 45 min were not significantly different beyond this inflection point. We suggest that this particular pattern of EMF is capable of inducing biochemical pathways associated with cell proliferation, in particular the p38-MAPK and hsp70 pathways.
Chemical and visual defenses are used by many organisms to avoid being approached or eaten by predators. An example is inking molluscs-including gastropods such as sea hares and cephalopods such as squid, cuttlefish, and octopus-which release a colored ink upon approach or attack. Previous work showed that ink can protect molluscs through a combination of chemical, visual, and other effects. In this study, we examined the effects of ink from longfin inshore squid, Doryteuthis pealeii, on the behavior of two species of predatory fishes, summer flounder, Paralichthys dentatus, and sea catfish, Ariopsis felis. Using a cloud assay, we found that ink from longfin inshore squid affected the approach phase of predation by summer flounder, primarily through its visual effects. Using a food assay, we found that the ink affected the consummatory and ingestive phase of predation of both sea catfish and summer flounder, through the ink's chemical properties. Fractionation of ink showed that most of its deterrent chemical activity is associated with melanin granules, suggesting that either compounds adhering to these granules or melanin itself are the most biologically active. This work provides the basis for a comparative approach to identify deterrent molecules from inking cephalopods and to examine neural mechanisms whereby these chemicals affect behavior of fish, using the sea catfish as a chemosensory model.

Overwhelming evidence shows that oxidative stress is a major cause in development of brain disorders. Low activity of the reactive oxygen species (ROS)-degrading system as well as high levels of oxidative damage markers have been observed in brain tissue of patients with neurodegenerative and other brain diseases to a larger extent than in healthy individuals. Many studies aimed to develop effective and safe antioxidant strategies for the therapy or prevention of brain diseases. Nevertheless, it became clear that rigorous suppression of ROS is deleterious for normal cell functioning. Thus, approaches that can regulate the ROS levels over a wide range, from inhibition to induction, will be a powerful tool for neuroprotection. A most prominent target for such ROS management is the family of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). All three members (PPAR-, -/ and -) of this nuclear receptor subfamily form a tightly connected triad. For individual PPAR isoforms, neuroprotective properties have been well proven. Their involvement in regulation of ROS production and degradation underlies the therapeutic effects. Nevertheless, the current paradigms of the involvement of PPAR in neuroprotective therapy ignore such interconnections of PPARs and aim at antioxidant effects of individual PPAR isoforms, but do not take into account the necessity of careful regulation of ROS levels. The present review (i) summarizes the data, which support the concept of the PPAR triad in brain, (ii) demonstrates that usage of the PPAR triad allows the regulation of PPAR-dependent genes over a wide range, from inhibition to upregulation, and (iii) summarizes the known data concerning the PPAR triad involvement in regulation of ROS. Our report opens new directions in the field of PPAR/ROS-related neuroscience research.
The concept of the reward prediction error-the difference between reward obtained and reward predicted-continues to be a focal point for much theoretical and experimental work in psychology, cognitive science, and neuroscience. Models that rely on reward prediction errors typically assume a single learning rate for positive and negative prediction errors. However, behavioral data indicate that better-than-expected and worse-than-expected outcomes often do not have symmetric impacts on learning and decision-making. Furthermore, distinct circuits within cortico-striatal loops appear to support learning from positive and negative prediction errors, respectively. Such differential learning rates would be expected to lead to biased reward predictions and therefore suboptimal choice performance. Contrary to this intuition, we show that on static &quot;bandit&quot; choice tasks, differential learning rates can be adaptive. This occurs because asymmetric learning enables a better separation of learned reward probabilities. We show analytically how the optimal learning rate asymmetry depends on the reward distribution and implement a biologically plausible algorithm that adapts the balance of positive and negative learning rates from experience. These results suggest specific adaptive advantages for separate, differential learning rates in simple reinforcement learning settings and provide a novel, normative perspective on the interpretation of associated neural data.






Shyness in healthy controls has been related to early event-related potential (ERP) responses to emotional faces. Patients with schizophrenia typically demonstrate increased shyness that is stable and related to reduced social functioning. We indexed early ERP responses to emotional faces in relation to shyness in 40 outpatients with schizophrenia and 39 healthy controls. Patients with low-to-medium shyness showed reductions in P100 amplitude to emotional compared to neutral faces as shyness increased. Patients reporting medium-to-high shyness demonstrated the opposite pattern; P100 amplitude sharply increased as shyness increased, possibly reflecting heightened vigilance. When a restricted range of shyness scores was used to equalize scores between groups, patients showed increased N170 amplitude to emotional faces as shyness increased, whereas controls demonstrated the opposite pattern. The implications of the findings are discussed with respect to informing vulnerability to social functioning impairment and psychosocial stress in this population.
Delivery of neurotrophic factors to the brain via genetically modified bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) offers a promising neuroprotective strategy for neurodegenerative diseases. However, MSCs delivered to the CNS typically show poor survival post-transplantation, which is accompanied by microglial activation and astrocyte recruitment at the graft site. Recent studies have shown the potential of biomaterials to provide a supportive matrix for transplanted cells which may assist in the grafting process. In this study, an in situ gelling type I collagen hydrogel was evaluated as an intracerebral transplantation matrix for delivery of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)-overexpressing MSCs to the rat brain (GDNF-MSCs). In vitro analyses demonstrated that this collagen hydrogel did not affect the viability of the GDNF-MSCs nor did it prevent GDNF secretion into the surrounding medium. In vivo analyses also confirmed that the collagen hydrogel did not negatively impact on the survival of the cells and permitted GDNF secretion into the striatal parenchyma. Importantly, this study also revealed that transplanting GDNF-MSCs in a collagen hydrogel significantly diminished the host brain's response to the cells by reducing the recruitment of both microglia and astrocytes at the site of delivery. In conclusion, this hydrogel, which is composed of the natural extracellular matrix, collagen, was shown to be a well-tolerated cell delivery platform technology which could be functionalised to further aid cell support and graft integration.
Biosynthetic nerve grafts are desired as alternative to autologous nerve grafts in peripheral nerve reconstruction. Artificial nerve conduits still have their limitations and are not widely accepted in the clinical setting. Here we report an analysis of fine-tuned chitosan tubes used to reconstruct 10 mm nerve defects in the adult rat. The chitosan tubes displayed low, medium and high degrees of acetylation (DAI:  2%, DA:  5%, DAIII:  20%) and therefore different degradability and microenvironments for the regenerating nerve tissue. Short and long term investigations were performed demonstrating that the chitosan tubes allowed functional and morphological nerve regeneration similar to autologous nerve grafts. Irrespective of the DA growth factor regulation demonstrated to be the same as in controls. Analyses of stereological parameters as well as the immunological tissue response at the implantation site and in the regenerated nerves, revealed that DAI and DAIII chitosan tubes displayed some limitations in the support of axonal regeneration and a high speed of degradation accompanied with low mechanical stability, respectively. The chitosan tubes combine several pre-requisites for a clinical acceptance and DAII chitosan tubes have to be judged as the most supportive for peripheral nerve regeneration.
Triterpenoids are a large class of naturally occurring compounds, and some potentially interesting as anticancer agents have been found to target mitochondria. The objective of the present work was to investigate the mechanisms of mitochondrial toxicity induced by novel dimethylaminopyridine (DMAP) derivatives of pentacyclic triterpenes, which were previously shown to inhibit the growth of melanoma cells in vitro. MCF-7, Hs 578T and BJ cell lines, as well as isolated hepatic mitochondria, were used to investigate direct mitochondrial effects. On isolated mitochondrial hepatic fractions, respiratory parameters, mitochondrial transmembrane electric potential, induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) pore and ion transport-dependent osmotic swelling were measured. Our results indicate that the DMAP triterpenoid derivatives lead to fragmentation and depolarization of the mitochondrial network in situ, and to inhibition of uncoupled respiration, induction of the permeability transition pore and depolarization of isolated hepatic mitochondria. The results show that mitochondrial toxicity is an important component of the biological interaction of DMAP derivatives, which can explain the effects observed in cancer cells.



Dermoid cysts of posterior fossa are uncommon benign lesions. They differ from other lesions found in the infra tentorial compartment by virtue of their associated conditions. Due to their association with dermal sinus tracts, intracranial infection is a potential threat following infection of the cyst. Due to their embryologic origin, these cysts may also be associated with other congenital anomalies. In this article we detail our eleven-year-experience with posterior fossa dermoid cysts in fifteen patients. Despite the morbid presentation with severe life-threatening complications, the overall outcome was excellent. Implications of the various associations are discussed.


Although translational medicine has become a priority for medical science, advances in neuroscience have failed to be translated for the benefit of patients. In populations at high risk of psychosis, neuroimaging could stratify those mostly likely to develop psychosis. This is an example of potentially translatable psychiatry.

The neuroendocrine response to episodes of acute stress is crucial for survival whereas the prolonged response to chronic stress can be detrimental. Learning and memory are particularly susceptible to stress with cognitive deficits being well characterized consequences of chronic stress. Although there is good evidence that acute stress can enhance cognitive performance, the mechanism(s) for this are unclear. We find that hippocampal slices, either prepared from rats following 30 min restraint stress or directly exposed to glucocorticoids, exhibit an N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor-independent form of long-term potentiation. We demonstrate that the mechanism involves an NMDA receptor and PKA-dependent insertion of Ca2+ -permeable AMPA receptors into synapses. These then trigger the additional NMDA receptor-independent form of LTP during high frequency stimulation.
A substantial proportion of cases with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis have extensive inflammation in the leptomeninges that is associated with increased subpial demyelination, neuronal loss and an exacerbated disease course. However, the mechanisms underlying this extensive subpial pathology are poorly understood. We hypothesize that pro-inflammatory cytokine production within the meninges may be a key to this process. Post-mortem cerebrospinal fluid and dissected cerebral leptomeningeal tissue from patients with multiple sclerosis were used to study the presence of tumour necrosis factor and interferon gamma protein and messenger RNA levels. A novel model of subpial cortical grey matter demyelination was set up in Dark Agouti rats and analysed using quantitative immunohistochemistry. Increased expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumour necrosis factor and interferon gamma was found in the meninges of cases with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis exhibiting tertiary lymphoid-like structures. Injection of tumour necrosis factor and interferon gamma into the subarachnoid space of female Dark Agouti rats pre-immunized with a subclinical dose of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein mimicked the pathology seen in multiple sclerosis, including infiltration of lymphocytes (CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and CD79+ B cells) into the meninges and extensive subpial demyelination. Extensive microglial/macrophage activation was present in a gradient from the pial surface to deeper cortical layers. Demyelination did not occur in control animals immunized with incomplete Freund's adjuvant and injected with cytokines. These results support the hypothesis that pro-inflammatory molecules produced in the meninges play a major role in cortical demyelination in multiple sclerosis, but also emphasize the involvement of an anti-myelin immune response.
Electrophysiological studies suggest that rest tremor in Parkinson's disease is associated with an alteration of oscillatory activity. Although it is well known that tremor depends on cortico-muscular coupling, it is unclear whether synchronization within and between brain areas is specifically related to the presence and severity of tremor. To tackle this longstanding issue, we took advantage of naturally occurring spontaneous tremor fluctuations and investigated cerebral synchronization in the presence and absence of rest tremor. We simultaneously recorded local field potentials from the subthalamic nucleus, the magnetoencephalogram and the electromyogram of forearm muscles in 11 patients with Parkinson's disease (all male, age: 52-74 years). Recordings took place the day after surgery for deep brain stimulation, after withdrawal of anti-parkinsonian medication. We selected epochs containing spontaneous rest tremor and tremor-free epochs, respectively, and compared power and coherence between subthalamic nucleus, cortex and muscle across conditions. Tremor-associated changes in cerebro-muscular coherence were localized by Dynamic Imaging of Coherent Sources. Subsequently, cortico-cortical coupling was analysed by computation of the imaginary part of coherency, a coupling measure insensitive to volume conduction. After tremor onset, local field potential power increased at individual tremor frequency and cortical power decreased in the beta band (13-30 Hz). Sensor level subthalamic nucleus-cortex, cortico-muscular and subthalamic nucleus-muscle coherence increased during tremor specifically at tremor frequency. The increase in subthalamic nucleus-cortex coherence correlated with the increase in electromyogram power. On the source level, we observed tremor-associated increases in cortico-muscular coherence in primary motor cortex, premotor cortex and posterior parietal cortex contralateral to the tremulous limb. Analysis of the imaginary part of coherency revealed tremor-dependent coupling between these cortical areas at tremor frequency and double tremor frequency. Our findings demonstrate a direct relationship between the synchronization of cerebral oscillations and tremor manifestation. Furthermore, they suggest the feasibility of tremor detection based on local field potentials and might thus become relevant for the design of closed-loop stimulation systems.
Pitch is derived by the auditory system through complex spectrotemporal processing. Pitch extraction is thought to depend on both spectral cues arising from lower harmonics that are resolved by cochlear filters in the inner ear, and on temporal cues arising from the pattern of action potentials contained in the cochlear output. Adults are capable of extracting pitch in the absence of robust spectral cues, taking advantage of the temporal cues that remain. However, recent behavioral evidence suggests that infants have difficulty discriminating between stimuli with different pitches when resolvable spectral cues are absent. In the current experiments, we used the mismatch negativity (MMN) component of the event related potential derived from electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings to examine a cortical representation of pitch discrimination for iterated rippled noise (IRN) stimuli in 4- and 8-month-old infants. IRN stimuli are pitch-evoking sounds generated by repeatedly adding a segment of white noise to itself at a constant delay. We created IRN stimuli (delays of 5 and 6ms creating pitch percepts of 200 and 167Hz) and high-pass filtered them to remove all resolvable spectral pitch cues. In experiment 1, we did not find EEG evidence that infants could detect the change in the pitch of these IRN stimuli. However, in Experiment 2, after a brief period of pitch-priming during which we added a sine wave component to the IRN stimulus at its perceived pitch, infants did show significant MMN in response to pitch changes in the IRN stimuli with sine waves removed. This suggests that (1) infants can use temporal cues to process pitch, although such processing is not mature and (2) that a short amount of pitch-priming experience can alter pitch representations in auditory cortex during infancy.
To assess the feasibility of a cognitive rehabilitation program in breast cancer survivors (BCS) with persistent post-treatment cognitive complaints. BCS with cognitive complaints, 18-months to 5-years post-treatment, were recruited for a once-weekly, five-week, group cognitive training intervention. Outcome measures included self-reported mood and cognitive function, and neurocognitive tests administered at pre-intervention, immediate-, two-month and four-month post-intervention. A sub-study in eight participants evaluated resting state quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG) changes from pre- to immediate post-intervention in relationship to post-intervention changes in cognitive complaints. Twenty-seven BCS completed the protocol and tolerated the intervention well. We observed significant reductions in total and memory-specific cognitive complaints from pre-intervention to immediate post-intervention (p=0.031 and p=0.009, respectively) and at four-months post-intervention (p&lt;0.0001 and p&lt;0.001, respectively). Significant improvement in neurocognitive tests were found for Symbol Digit, Stroop, and Trails A tests (df=26, all p's &lt;0.05). Effect sizes for changes from pre-intervention to immediate and to four-month post intervention ranged from 0.429 to 0.607, and from 0.439 to 0.741, respectively. Increase in qEEG absolute alpha power over the course of the intervention was associated with reduced complaints at immediate post-intervention (r=-0.78, p=0.021), two-months (r range=-0.76 to -0.82, p-value range 0.004 to 0.03), and four-months (r=-0.71, p=0.048). A five-week group cognitive training intervention is feasible and well tolerated. Cognitive complaints and neurocognitive test performances showed positive changes. qEEG may serve as a potential biomarker for improvement in self-reported complaints. A randomized clinical trial is underway to test the efficacy of the intervention.
Adjuvant chemotherapy is associated with improvements in long-term cancer survival. However, reports of cognitive impairment following treatment emphasize the importance of understanding the long-term effects of chemotherapy on brain functioning. Cognitive deficits found in chemotherapy patients suggest a change in brain functioning that affects specific cognitive domains such as attentional processing and executive functioning. This study examined the processes potentially underlying these changes in cognition by examining brain functional connectivity pre- and post-chemotherapy in women with breast cancer. Functional connectivity examines the temporal correlation between spatially remote brain regions in an effort to understand how brain networks support specific cognitive functions. Nine women diagnosed with breast cancer completed a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) session before chemotherapy, 1month after, and 1year after the completion of chemotherapy. Seed-based functional connectivity analyses were completed using seeds in the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) to examine connectivity in the dorsal anterior attention network and in the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) to examine connectivity in the default mode network. Results showed decreased functional connectivity 1month after chemotherapy that partially returned to baseline at 1year in the dorsal attention network. Decreased connectivity was seen in the default mode network at 1month and 1year following chemotherapy. In addition, increased subjective memory complaints were noted at 1month and 1year post-chemotherapy. These findings suggest a detrimental effect of chemotherapy on brain functional connectivity that is potentially related to subjective cognitive assessment.
We hypothesized that chimpanzees could learn to produce attention-getting (AG) sounds via positive reinforcement. We conducted a vocal assessment in 76 captive chimpanzees for their use of AG sounds to acquire the attention of an otherwise inattentive human. Fourteen individuals that did not produce AG sounds during the vocal assessment were evaluated for their ability to acquire the use of an AG sound through operant conditioning and to employ these sounds in an attention-getting context. Nine of the 14 chimpanzees were successfully shaped using positive reinforcement to produce an AG sound. In a post-training vocal assessment, eight of the nine individuals that were successfully trained to produce AG sounds generalized the use of these newly acquired signals to communicatively relevant situations. Chimpanzees possess the ability to acquire the use of a communicative signal via operant conditioning and can generalize the use of this newly acquired signal to appropriate communicative contexts.
When asked to judge the membership of typical (e.g., car) vs. atypical (e.g., train) pictures of a category (e.g., vehicle), native English (N=18) and native Chinese speakers (N=18) showed distinctive patterns of brain activity despite showing similar behavioral responses. Moreover, these differences were mainly due to the amount and pervasiveness of category information linguistically embedded in the everyday names of the items in the respective languages, with important differences across languages in how pervasive category labels are embedded in item-level terms. Nonetheless, the left inferior frontal gyrus and the bilateral medial frontal gyrus are the most consistent neural correlates of category typicality that persist across languages and linguistic cues. These data together suggest that both cross- and within-language differences in the explicitness of category information have strong effects on the nature of categorization processes performed by the brain.
Pediatric traumatic brain injury (TBI) may result in long-lasting language impairments alongside dysarthria, a motor-speech disorder. Whether this co-morbidity is due to the functional links between speech and language networks, or to widespread damage affecting both motor and language tracts, remains unknown. Here we investigated language function and diffusion metrics (using diffusion-weighted tractography) within the arcuate fasciculus, the uncinate fasciculus, and the corpus callosum in 32 young people after TBI (approximately half with dysarthria) and age-matched healthy controls (n=17). Only participants with dysarthria showed impairments in language, affecting sentence formulation and semantic association. In the whole TBI group, sentence formulation was best predicted by combined corpus callosum and left arcuate volumes, suggesting this &quot;dual blow&quot; seriously reduces the potential for functional reorganisation. Word comprehension was predicted by fractional anisotropy in the right arcuate. The co-morbidity between dysarthria and language deficits therefore seems to be the consequence of multiple tract damage.
Early unilateral brain damage has different implications for language development than does similar damage in adults, given the plasticity of the developing brain. The goal of this study was to examine early markers of language and gesture at 12 and 24months in children who had peri-natal right hemisphere (RH) or left hemisphere (LH) stroke (n=71), compared with typically developing controls (n=126). Parents completed the MacArthur-Bates Communicative Development Inventory (CDI): Words &amp; Gestures (12month data point), or the CDI: Words &amp; Sentences (24month data point). Statistical analyses were performed on percentile scores using analysis of variance techniques. At 12months, there were no differences among groups for Words Understood, Phrases Understood or Words Produced. At 24months, both lesion groups scored significantly lower than controls on Word Production, Irregular Words, and Mean Length of Sentences, but lesion groups did not differ from each other. In a longitudinal subset of participants, expressive vocabulary failed to progress as expected from 12 to 24months in the stroke group, with no differences based on lesion side. Gesture and word production were dissociated in the left hemisphere subjects. Findings suggest that early language development after peri-natal stroke takes a different course from that of typical language development, perhaps reflecting brain reorganization secondary to plasticity in the developing brain.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) led to the development of a novel strategy for delivering therapeutic genes to brain tumors. Human NSCs expressing rabbit carboxyl esterase (F3.CE), which activates CPT-11, significantly inhibit the growth of A549 human non-small cell lung adenocarcinoma cells in the presence of CPT-11 in vitro and in vivo. F3.CE cells migrated selectively into the brain metastases located in the opposite hemisphere. The treatment also significantly decreased tumor volume in immune-deficient mice bearing lung cancer when F3.CE cells were transplanted into the contralateral hemisphere. The survival of tumor-bearing animals was significantly prolonged by the treatment with F3.CE and CPT-11. This strategy could be considered as an effective treatment regimen for lung cancer brain metastases.

Apoptosis can occur throughout the life span of osteoblasts (OBs), beginning from the early stages of differentiation and continuing throughout all stages of their working life. Here, we investigated the effects of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) on normal human OBs showing for the first time that the expression of TRAIL receptors is modulated during OB differentiation. In particular, the TRAIL receptor ratio was in favor of the deaths because of the low expression of DcR2 in undifferentiated OBs, differently it was shifted toward the decoys in differentiated ones. Undifferentiated OBs treated with TRAIL showed reduced cell viability, whereas differentiated OBs displayed TRAIL resistance. The OB sensitiveness to TRAIL was due to the up-regulation of DR5 and the down-regulation of DcR2. The main death receptor involved in TRAIL-reduced OB viability was DR5 as demonstrated by the rescue of cell viability observed in the presence of anti-DR5 neutralizing antibody. Besides the ratio of TRAIL receptors, the sensitivity of undifferentiated OBs to TRAIL-cytotoxic effect was also associated with low mRNA levels of intracellular anti-apoptotic proteins, such as cFLIP, the activation of caspase-8 and -3, as well as the DNA fragmentation. This study suggests that apoptotic effect exerted by TRAIL/TRAIL-receptor system on normal human OB is strictly dependent upon cell differentiation status.
Blood-derived molecules are able to access to the median eminence (ME) and arcuate hypothalamic nucleus (Arc) due to the lack of the blood-brain barrier. In the present study, we examined the accessibility of low-molecular-mass (LMM) molecules into parenchyma in the ME and Arc of adult mice by administration of Dextran 3000 (Dex3k), Dex10k, Evans blue (EB) and fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC). In the external zone of the ME, the fluorescence of Dex3k, EB and FITC tracers generated an intensity gradient from fenestrated capillary, but that of Dex10k was detected only between the inner and outer basement membrane of pericapillary space. The fluorescence of FITC in the external zone of the ME was closely associated with axonal terminals and surrounded by cellular processes of tanycytes-like cells and astrocytes. In the ependymal/internal zone of the ME and Arc, the fluorescence of all LMM tracers was seen at tanycytes-like cells and neurons. The fluorescence of EB and FITC in these regions was not detected when brains were fixed during or before the administration of tracers. The inhomogeneity of accessibility for fluorescent tracers depended on routes for tracer administration. Thus, the present study indicates that the accessibility of LMM blood-derived molecules to parenchyma depends on fenestration of the capillary in the external zone of the ME and active transport of ependymal cells in the ependymal/internal zone of the ME and Arc.
Several dietary factors and their genetic modifiers play a role in neurological disease and affect the human brain. The structural and functional integrity of the living brain can be assessed using neuroimaging, enabling large-scale epidemiological studies to identify factors that help or harm the brain. Iron is one nutritional factor that comes entirely from our diet, and its storage and transport in the body are under strong genetic control. In this review, we discuss how neuroimaging can help to identify associations between brain integrity, genetic variations, and dietary factors such as iron. We also review iron's essential role in cognition, and we note some challenges and confounds involved in interpreting links between diet and brain health. Finally, we outline some recent discoveries regarding the genetics of iron and its effects on the brain, suggesting the promise of neuroimaging in revealing how dietary factors affect the brain.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) lumen is chemically complex and crowded with polypeptides in different stages of assembly. ER quality control monitors chaperone-assisted protein folding, stochastic errors and off-pathway intermediates. In acute conditions, potentially toxic polypeptides overflow the capacity of the chaperone system and lead to ER stress. Activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) following ER stress buys time for non-native polypeptides to refold or be eliminated; otherwise cell death occurs. The clearance routes for deleterious proteins are endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD) and ER stress-activated autophagy. The ERAD pathway is a chaperone and proteasome-mediated polypeptide degradation, while autophagy applies to wider range of substances. ER stress signal transduction recruits diverse molecules and pathways upon UPR induction to compensate stress condition. NF-E2-related factor 1 (Nrf1) and Nrf2 are two transcription factors mostly known by their induction through an antioxidant response; they can also be activated by UPR machinery. Discovery of diverse molecules downstream of Nrf1 and Nrf2 has expanded our understanding of the biological impacts of these transcription factors beyond classic antioxidant activation. In this review, we summarize our current understanding of mutual relationships between Nrf1, Nrf2, and ER stress clearance mechanisms and highlight the crosstalk of specific molecules mediating these correlations.
Muscular dystrophy is a heterogeneous group of genetic disorders characterised by progressive muscle tissue degeneration. No effective treatment has been discovered for these diseases. Preclinical and clinical studies aimed at the development of new therapeutic approaches have been carried out, primarily in subjects affected with dystrophinopathies (Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy). In this review, we outline the current therapeutic approaches and past and ongoing clinical trials, highlighting both the advantages and limits of each one. The experimental designs of these trials were based on different rationales, including immunomodulation, readthrough strategies, exon skipping, gene therapy, and cell therapy. We also provide an overview of available outcome measures, focusing on their reliability in estimating meaningful clinical improvement in order to aid in the design of future trials. This perspective is extremely relevant to the field considering the recent development of novel therapeutic approaches that will result in an increasing number of clinical studies over the next few years.
Glutamate ionotropic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors (AMPARs) mediate most fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. The content and composition of AMPARs in postsynaptic membranes (which determine synaptic strength) are dependent on the regulated trafficking of AMPAR subunits in and out of the membranes. AMPAR trafficking is a key mechanism that drives nascent synapse development, and is the main determinant of both Hebbian and homeostatic plasticity in mature synapses. Hebbian plasticity seems to be the biological substrate of at least some forms of learning and memory; while homeostatic plasticity (also known as synaptic scaling) keeps neuronal circuits stable by maintaining changes within a physiological range. In this review, we examine recent findings that provide further understanding of the role of AMPAR trafficking in synapse maturation, Hebbian plasticity, and homeostatic plasticity.
Homer1 protein is an important scaffold protein at postsynaptic density and has been demonstrated to play a central role in calcium signaling in the central nervous system. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of Homer1 knockdown on MPP(+) induced neuronal injury in cultured dopamine (DA) neurons. We found that down-regulating Homer1 expression with specific small interfering RNA (siRNA) significantly suppressed LDH release, reduced Propidium iodide (PI) or Hoechst staining, increased the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) positive cells and DA uptake, and attenuated apoptotic and necrotic cell death after MPP(+) injury. Homer1 knockdown decreased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation through inhibition of intracellular calcium overload, but did not affect the endogenous antioxidant enzyme activities. Calcium imaging was used to examine the changes of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)]cyt) and Ca(2+) in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) ([Ca(2+)]ER), and the results showed that Homer1 siRNA transfection attenuated ER Ca(2+) release up to 120min after MPP(+) injury. Furthermore, decrease of [Ca(2+)]cyt induced by Homer1 knockdown in MPP(+) treated neurons was further enhanced by NMDA receptor antagonists MK-801 and AP-5, but not canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC) channel antagonist SKF-96365. l-type calcium antagonist isradipine but not nimodipine further inhibited intracellular calcium overload after MPP(+) insult in Homer1 down-regulated neurons. These results suggest that Homer1 knockdown has protective effects against neuronal injury in in vitro PD model by reducing calcium overload mediated ROS generation, and this protection may be dependent at least in part on the regulatory effects on the function of calcium channels in both plasma membrane and ER.
