Pheromones play a significant role in coordinating reproductive activity in many animals, including opisthobranch molluscs of the genus APLYSIA: Although solitary during most of the year, these simultaneous hermaphrodites gather into breeding aggregations during the reproductive season. The aggregations contain both mating and egg-laying animals and are associated with masses of egg cordons. The egg cordons are a source of pheromones that attract other Aplysia to the area, reduce their latency to mating, and induce egg laying. One of these water-borne egg cordon pheromones (&quot;attractin&quot;) has been characterized and shown to be attractive in T-maze assays. Attractin is the first water-borne peptide pheromone characterized in invertebrates. In the current studies, behavioral assays were used to better characterize the attraction, and to examine whether attractin can induce mating. Although the two activities could be related (i.e., attraction occurring because animals were looking for a partner), this was not tested. T-maze assays showed that attractin works as part of a bouquet of odors: the peptide is attractive only when Aplysia brasiliana is part of the stimulus. The animal does not need to be a conspecific, perhaps explaining why multiple species may be associated with one aggregation. Native and recombinant attractin are equally attractive, verifying that N-glycosylation at residue 8 is not required for attraction. Mating studies showed that both native and recombinant attractin reduce the latency to mating. The effects are larger when hermaphroditic mating is considered: in addition to reducing latency, attractin doubles the number of pairs mating as hermaphrodites. The effect may result from attractin stimulating both animals to mate as males and would be consistent with behaviors previously seen in the T-maze. Attractin may thus be contributing to the formation of copulatory chains and rings seen in aggregations in the field. These results may be interpreted in two ways: (1). attractin has multiple activities that contribute to the establishment and maintenance of the aggregation; or (2). the induced desire to mate may make attractin attractive when it is presented in conjunction with an animal. In either case, the results open the door for cellular and molecular studies of mechanism of action.


A case of intramedullary spinal metastasis presenting 14 months after excision of the primary anaplastic cerebral oligodendroglioma is presented. To the best of our knowledge, less than 10 cases of spinal metastasis have been reported in the world literature.
The results of a recently concluded phase III study have shown that Gliadel therapy (biodegradable polymer impregnated with 3.85% BCNU placed into the surgical cavity) significantly prolongs survival and time to relapse in patients having initial resective surgery for malignant glioma followed by radiotherapy. The indications and exclusion criteria for patients in this study were well defined. To determine the relative frequencies of Gliadel 'eligible' and 'ineligible' patients, and differences in prognostic variables between these two cohorts, we conducted a review of all Edinburgh patients with an initial diagnosis of malignant glioma managed throughout the period of patient accrual into the phase III Gliadel study (Edinburgh was one of 38 contributing centres). Independent predictors of outcome were taken from the MRC prognostic index. Analysis was done on an intention to treat basis. Only 25% of patients (14/56) with malignant glioma managed over this period were eligible for the Gliadel study and all were recruited. The patients in the study group were younger (median 51 v. 59 years, p = 0.085); in better clinical grade (median Karnofsky score 85 v. 80, p = 0.038); more likely to have resective surgery (86% v. 38%, p = 0.0001); more likely to have postoperative radiotherapy (93% v. 55%, p = 0.0001) and more likely to survive longer, even though one half of the Gliadel cohort received placebo, (66 v. 19 weeks, p = 0.06) than those not eligible. If the future use of Gliadel is limited to the eligibility criteria used in the phase III trial about 20% (95% confidence intervals 13-34%) of patients with newly diagnosed malignant glioma will receive this therapy.
1. The stimulatory effect of neuropeptide Y (NPY) on food intake is well established but the roles of the receptor subtypes Y(1) and Y(5) have been difficult to define. We have studied the effects of two novel Y(1)-preferring and two Y(5)-preferring agonists on feeding in guinea pigs. 2. The Y(1)-preferring receptor agonists [Arg(6),Pro(34)]pNPY and [Phe(7),Pro(34)]pNPY had high affinity for the Y(1) receptor (K(i) values 0.07 and 0.04 nM, respectively) and nanomolar affinity for the Y(5) receptor. Administration of either compound into the third brain ventricle increased food intake equally to NPY. 3. The Y(5) agonist [Ala(31),Aib(32)]pNPY displayed a moderate affinity for the Y(5) receptor (K(i) 7.42 nM) and a low affinity for Y(1) (K(i) 1.7 micro M). This compound had only a modest effect on feeding. 4. The other Y(5)-preferring peptide [cPP(1-7),NPY(19-23),Ala(31),Aib(32),Gln(34)]hPP had a higher affinity at the Y(5) receptor (K(i) 1.32 nM) and also at the Y(1) receptor (K(i) 85 nM). It potently stimulated feeding: the food consumption after administration of this peptide was two-fold compared to NPY. 5. Our results support the view that both the receptor subtypes Y(1) and Y(5) are involved in the stimulation of feeding. As the action profiles of the Y(1) and Y(5) agonists on feeding parameters were different, it seems that they influence different phases of eating.
The spatial cueing paradigm, with saccades to targets as the method of response, was used to investigate the influence of two simultaneously presented cues on the orienting of visual attention. Participants were presented with bilateral cues, one of which was perceptually salient (high luminance) relative to the other. They participated in one of three conditions: in the 'bright side likely' condition targets usually (p =.8) appeared near the more salient cue; in the 'dim side likely' condition targets usually (p =.8) appeared near the less salient cue; and in the 'neutral' condition the arrangement of the cues was uninformative with respect to target location. Brief SOAs (0, 50, 100 and 150 ms) were employed. Rapid reflexive orienting to the more salient stimulus was observed in the neutral condition: saccadic latencies were faster when the target appeared near the bright cue, and this was found even across the two shortest SOAs. However, this reflexive orienting was suppressed in both the bright side likely and dim side likely conditions: the advantage observed at the bright cue's location across the two shortest SOAs in the neutral condition was significantly attenuated in the two contingent conditions. Results point to rapid expectancy-based interference in the reflexive process of attention capture.
The objective of this study was to prospectively evaluate the accuracy of MR myelography for the demonstration of foraminal nerve root impingement in cervical spondylotic radiculopathy. 40 patients with cervical spondylotic radiculopathy were imaged with conventional MRI and with MR myelography. The diagnostic accuracy of these imaging strategies for the demonstration of exit foraminal stenosis was calculated relative to a gold standard of the combination of conventional MRI and MR myelography. Conventional MRI had a sensitivity of 88.9%, specificity of 99.1%, and diagnostic accuracy of 94.5% for the demonstration of exit foraminal disease (p&lt;0.001). MR myelography alone had a sensitivity of 84.4%, a specificity of 90.1%, and diagnostic accuracy of 88% (p&lt;0.001). However, the addition of MR myelography increased the diagnostic yield of the MR examination for the detection of foraminal stenotic disease. MR myelography is a useful adjunct to conventional MRI in the investigation of cervical spondylotic radiculopathy.
How do the frontal lobes support behavioural flexibility? One key element is the ability to adjust responses when the reinforcement value of stimuli change. In monkeys, this ability--a form of affective shifting known as reversal learning--depends on orbitofrontal cortex. The present study examines the anatomical bases of reversal learning in humans. Subjects with lesions of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex were compared with a group with dorsolateral frontal lobe damage, as well as with normal controls on a simple reversal learning task. Neither form of frontal damage affected initial stimulus-reinforcement learning; ventromedial frontal damage selectively impaired reversal learning.
Olfactory short-term recognition memory was assessed with a delayed odour-matching task in 38 patients with unilateral temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and stereotactic electroencephalography (SEEG) recordings taken prior to surgical treatment. The amygdala SEEG activity associated with odorant stimulation was examined in 18 patients. Because the invasive SEEG procedure is only performed in a clinical framework, electrophysiological data obtained from these patients could not be analysed in comparison with data obtained from control subjects. Behavioural results (hits, false alarms, discrimination, bias scores) showed global impairment of odour recognition memory in patients when compared with controls. We also found lower discrimination and higher false alarm scores in left than in right TLE patients, and higher false alarm scores in male than in female patients. The hemisphere effect is discussed in terms of psychosocial trait differences between patients. Electrophysiological recordings collected from the amygdala demonstrated that odorant stimulation was associated with chemosensory evoked potentials (CSEPs). Analysis revealed that CSEPs obtained for target odorants had lower peak amplitudes and latencies than those obtained in response to sample odorants. The reduced peak amplitudes suggest a mechanism of repetition suppression--a process assumed to reflect neural activity related to high-level cognitive processes such as attention, memory and decision making. Latency modulations appear rather to be linked to early stages of information processing and may therefore reflect a facilitation process due to selective attention.
A growing body of evidence suggests that the various cognitive symptoms found in Parkinson's disease (PD) are secondary to executive dysfunction. Studies addressing this possibility for memory impairment specifically have not included measures of working memory nor have they ruled-out potential mediating variables such as overall level of cognitive impairment or depression. The purpose of this study was to include measures of these variables in determining the relationship between multiple aspects of executive function and delayed verbal recall in 32 idiopathic PD patients. Results were consistent with the original hypothesis and further suggest that working memory is a key factor in recall memory and may mediate the relationship between other executive measures and recall in PD.
The present experiment was designed to better understand the impact of positive and negative emotional processing among low- and high-hostile individuals. Based on previous research which found increased sympathovagal balance among low-hostiles to the negative version of the Affective Auditory Verbal Learning Test (AAVL), it was hypothesized that low-hostiles would experience increased cortical arousal to this stimulus whereas their high-hostile counterparts would not. As expected, low-hostiles experienced significantly reduced low-alpha power (7.5-9.5Hz) relative to high-hostiles during the presentation of the negative AAVL. In a replication of prior research, significant primacy and recency effects were noted for the negative and positive word lists, respectively. Results are discussed in terms of cerebral activation theory and the potential impact of emotional processing among high-hostile individuals and their likelihood to develop coronary heart disease.
To elucidate the neuronal basis of the coordination between swallowing and respiration, we examined the swallowing-related activity of respiratory neurons in the ventrolateral respiratory groups of the medulla oblongata of decerebrate, paralyzed and artificially ventilated rats (n = 14). Extracellular recording was made during fictive swallowing evoked by the electrical stimulation of the superior laryngeal nerve from a total of 141 neurons with respiratory rhythm (99 expiratory and 42 inspiratory neurons). The burst of discharge by the hypoglossal nerve was used to monitor the pharyngeal phase of swallowing. The decrementing-expiratory (E-DEC) neurons (n = 62) were activated during (n = 46) or after (n = 10) the hypoglossal bursts, or showed no swallowing-related activity (n = 6). All of the augmenting-expiratory (E-AUG) neurons (n = 37) were silent during the hypoglossal bursts but were activated after each swallow. Inspiratory neurons showed either no swallowing-related bursts (n = 27), or were activated after the hypoglossal bursts (n = 15). Activation of the majority of E-DEC neurons may be related to the arrest of respiration during swallowing, and the post-swallow activation of E-AUG neurons may correspond to the expiratory phase that follows swallowing. We suggest that these behaviors of expiratory neurons are essential in the phase resetting of the respiratory cycle in association with the swallowing.
The primary objective of this review is to examine the methodology and evidence for neuroplasticity operating in recovery from traumatic brain injury (TBI), as compared with previous findings in patients sustaining perinatal and infantile focal vascular lesions. The evidence to date indicates that the traditional view of enhanced reorganization of function after early focal brain lesions might apply to early focal brain lesions, but does not conform with studies of early severe diffuse brain injury. In contrast to early focal vascular lesions, young age confers no advantage in the outcome of severe diffuse brain injury. Disruption of myelination could potentially alter connectivity, a suggestion which could be confirmed through diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Initial reports of DTI in TBI patients support the possibility that this technique can demonstrate alterations in white matter connections which are not seen on conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and might change over time or with interventions. Preliminary functional MRI studies of TBI patients indicate alterations in the pattern of brain activation, suggesting recruitment of more extensive cortical regions to perform tasks which stress computational resources. Functional MRI, coupled with DTI and possibly other imaging modalities holds the promise of elucidating mechanisms of neuroplasticity and repair following TBI.
This study focuses on the production of sentences in which objects have been moved without a change in the order of the thematic roles. In Dutch, the basic word order is subject-adverb-object-verb. The object can be moved over the adverb; this is called object scrambling. The difference between the two word orders is pragmatic in nature: in the basic word order the focus is on the object, in the scrambled order, the focus is on the adverb. The aim of the present study is to evaluate if production of constructions with moved objects is impaired in Broca's aphasia and if so, whether that is for syntactic or pragmatic reasons. The results show that for individuals with Broca's aphasia, sentences with the scrambled word order are more difficult to produce than sentences with the basic word order, even if the scrambled order results in a pragmatically more acceptable sentence. This falsifies several theories of production in Broca's aphasia and shows an interesting parallel to the performance on comprehension tasks.
In this paper we examine the evidence for human brain areas dedicated to visual or auditory word form processing by comparing cortical activation for auditory word repetition, reading, picture naming, and environmental sound naming. Both reading and auditory word repetition activated left lateralised regions in the frontal operculum (Broca's area), posterior superior temporal gyrus (Wernicke's area), posterior inferior temporal cortex, and a region in the mid superior temporal sulcus relative to baseline conditions that controlled for sensory input and motor output processing. In addition, auditory word repetition increased activation in a lateral region of the left mid superior temporal gyrus but critically, this area is not specific to auditory word processing, it is also activated in response to environmental sounds. There were no reading specific activations, even in the areas previously claimed as visual word form areas: activations were either common to reading and auditory word repetition or common to reading and picture naming. We conclude that there is no current evidence for cortical sites dedicated to visual or auditory word form processing.
Functional lateralization of language within the cerebral cortex has long driven the search for structural asymmetries that might underlie language asymmetries. Most examinations of structural asymmetry have focused upon the gross size and shape of cortical regions in and around language areas. In the last 20 years several labs have begun to document microanatomical asymmetries in the structure of language-associated cortical regions. Such microanatomic results provide useful constraints and clues to our understanding of the biological bases of language specialization in the cortex. In a previous study we documented asymmetries in the size of a specific class of pyramidal cells in the superficial cortical layers. The present work uses a nonspecific stain for cell bodies to demonstrate the presence of an asymmetry in layer III pyramidal cell sizes within auditory, secondary auditory and language-associated regions of the temporal lobes. Specifically, the left hemisphere contains a greater number of the largest pyramidal cells, those that are thought to be the origin of long-range cortico-cortical connections. These results are discussed in the context of cortical columns and how such an asymmetry might alter cortical processing. These findings, in conjunction with other asymmetries in cortical organization that have been documented within several labs, clearly demonstrate that the columnar and connective structure of auditory and language cortex in the left hemisphere is distinct from homotopic regions in the contralateral hemisphere.
We have previously defined a crucial DNA element controlling 90% of the expression of the presenilin 1 gene at (-35 to +6). This region contains an Ets transcription factor binding motif, and a two-basepair alteration within the core sequence (GGAA to TTAA) of the Ets consensus also reduced transcription by over 90%. We have shown that Ets1/2 transcription factors bind specifically to the -10 Ets element and activate PS1 transcription. The identification of other transcription factors recognizing specifically this promoter area should provide insights into the regulation of PS1. We have used the -10 Ets element as a bait in yeast one hybrid screening of a human brain cDNA library using a His3 reporter construct. We describe an abbreviated one-hybrid protocol to screen cDNA libraries. This assay selected four factors from the Ets family: Ets2, ER81, ERM and Elk1. We have also shown that specific DNA binding activity to the -10 Ets element of PS1 could easily be detected in yeast clones by EMSAs including protein extracts from yeast cells, thus confirming specific DNA binding activity without further sequencing and subcloning into suitable expression vectors. Ultimately the identity of putative clones was confirmed by DNA sequencing. We also confirmed the specific DNA binding properties of the factors identified by showing that the proteins produced by in vitro translation of the entire cDNAs from Elk1 and ER81 indeed binds specifically to the -10 region of the PS1 promoter.
Auguste Forel was born in 1848 in the French part of Switzerland. He developed a lifelong passion for myrmecology in his childhood, but chose medicine and neuropsychiatry to earn his living. He first undertook a comparative study of the thalamus under Theodor Meynert in Vienna and then, from 1872 to 1879, he worked as Assistant Physician to Bernhard von Gudden in Munich. This led in 1877 to his seminal work on the organization of the tegmental region in which he provides the first description of the zona incerta and the so-called H (Haubenfeld) fields that still bear his name. In 1879, Forel was appointed Professor of Psychiatry in Munich and Director of the Burghlzli cantonal asylum. He became interested in the therapeutic value of hypnotism, while continuing his work on brain anatomy and ants. His neuroanatomical studies with Gudden's method led him to formulate the neuron theory in 1887, four years before Wilhelm von Waldeyer, who received most of the credit for it. Forel then definitively turned his back on neuroscience. After his retirement from the Burghlzli asylum in 1898. and despite a stroke in 1911 that left him hemiplegic, Forel started to write extensively on various social issues, such as alcohol abstinence and sexual problems. Before his death in 1931 at the age of 83, Forel published a remarkable book on the social world of the ants in which he made insightful observations on the neural control of sensory and instinctive behavior common to both humans and insects.


The functions of the cerebral cortex are predominantly established during the critical period of development. One obvious developmental feature is its division into different functional areas that systematically represent different environmental information. This is the result of interactions between intrinsic (genetic) factors and extrinsic (environmental) factors. Following this critical period, the cerebral cortex attains its adult form but it will continue to adapt to environmental changes. Thus, the cerebral cortex is constantly adapting to the environment (plasticity) from its embryonic stages to the last minute of life. This review details important factors that contribute to the development and plasticity of the auditory cortex. The instructive role of thalamocortical innervation, the regulatory role of cholinergic projection of the basal forebrain and the potential role of the corticofugal modulation are presented.
Angiogenesis, the development of new blood vessels, is a critical determinant of tumor growth and the dissemination of metastasis. A number of antiangiogenic therapies have been introduced into clinical trials, though few of these are targeted therapies. Somatostatin analogs may be an excellent candidate to develop as targeted antiangiogenic agents alone, or in combination with cytotoxic or cytostatic compounds. Somatostatin analog inhibition of angiogenesis has been demonstrated in the chicken chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) model, the human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) proliferation model, and the human placental vein angiogenesis model (HPVAM). This inhibition appears to be the result of a unique upregulation of somatostatin receptor subtype 2 (sst 2) during the angiogenic switch from resting to proliferating endothelium. The distinct overexpression of this receptor provides a unique target for these somatostatin analogs or somatostatin analog conjugates. This manuscript reviews the development of somatostatin analogs as antiangiogenics in both their unlabeled and radiolabeled forms and postulates on future developments in this field.
Although hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a well-known causative agent of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the mechanism by which HCV induces HCC remains obscure. To elucidate the role of HCV in hepatocarcinogenesis, a model of hepatocyte injury was established using HCV core transgenic mice, which were developed using C57BL/6 mice transfected with the HCV core gene under control of the serum amyloid P component promoter. After 18-24 months, neither steatosis nor hepatic tumors were found in transgenic mice. The extent of hepatocyte injury and tumorigenesis were then examined in transgenic mice following repeated administration of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) using various protocols (20%, 1/week; 10%, 2/week and 20%, 2/week). Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels did not differ among HCV core transgenic mice and non-transgenic littermates; however, after 40 weeks, hepatic adenomas preferentially developed in transgenic mice receiving 20% CCl(4) once weekly. Moreover, HCC was observed in transgenic mice receiving 2 weekly injections of a 20% solution of CCl(4), and was not observed in the non-transgenic control mice. In conclusion, the HCV core protein did not promote hepatic steatosis or tumor development in the absence of hepatotoxicity. However, the HCV core protein promoted adenoma and HCC development in transgenic mice following repeated CCl(4) administration. These results suggest that hepatotoxicity resulting in an increased rate of hepatocyte regeneration enhances hepatocarcinogenesis in HCV-infected livers. Furthermore, this experimental mouse model provides a valuable method with which to investigate hepatocarcinogenesis.
The pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1) induces articular chondrocytes to produce reactive oxygen species (ROS), including hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), which mediate some IL-1-induced responses. This study aimed at elucidating the role of ROS, particularly H2O2, in mediating IL-1-induced activation of the transcription factor activator protein-1 (AP-1) in primary cultures of articular chondrocytes. AP-1 may function either as an inducer or as a repressor of the inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) gene promoter. Since we observed that AP-1 is not required for iNOS expression in chondrocytes, we also investigated whether it is a repressor of this gene. The results of electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that both IL-1 and H2O2 activated AP-1 and that inhibition of IL-1-induced ROS production abrogated AP-1 activation. The AP-1 complexes, induced by either IL-1 or H2O2, contained c-Fos/c-Jun and c-Fos/JunD heterodimers, but IL-1 activated AP-1 with a kinetics slower than that observed with H2O2. Pre-activation of AP-1, before stimulation of the cells with IL-1, did not inhibit iNOS mRNA and protein synthesis, relative to cells treated with IL-1 alone. These results indicate that H2O2 is a major mediator of IL-1-induced AP-1 activation in articular chondrocytes and that inhibition of ROS production is an effective strategy to block this IL-1-induced response. This study also identifies c-Fos/c-Jun and c-Fos/JunD heterodimers as the AP-1 transcription factors induced by IL-1, which, although not involved in the transcriptional regulation of the iNOS gene, may be important for the regulation of other genes also relevant in arthritic diseases, namely the collagenase-1 and IL-8 genes.
Vesl/Homer proteins physically link proteins that mediate cellular signaling [Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 10 (2000) 370; Trends Neurosci. 23 (2000) 80; J. Cell Sci. 113 (2000) 1851] and thereby influence cellular function [Nat. Neurosci. 4 (2001) 499; Nature 411 (2001) 962]. A previous study reported that Vesl-1L/Homer-1c (V-1L) controls the gain of the intracellular calcium activated calcium channel ryanodine receptor type 1 (RyR1) channel [J. Biol Chem. 277 (2002) 44722]. Here, we show that the function of RyR1 is differentially regulated by two isoforms of Vesl-1/Homer-1, V-1L and Vesl-1S/Homer-1a (V-1S). V-1L increases the activity of RyR1 while important regulatory functions and pharmacological characteristics are preserved. V-1S alone had no effect on RyR1, even though, like V-1L, it is directly bound to the channel. However, V-1S dose-dependently decreased the effects of V-1L on RyR1, providing a novel mechanism for the regulation of intracellular calcium channel activity and calcium homeostasis by changing expression levels of Vesl/Homer proteins.
Using the apomorphine-induced stereotyped gnawing response as a selection criterion, two distinct groups of rats can be distinguished, apomorphine-susceptible (APO-SUS) and apomorphine-unsusceptible (APO-UNSUS) rats. These two lines differ in several components of both striatal and extrastriatal areas. This study deals with the expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY)mRNA-expressing neurons in the nucleus accumbens, caudate putamen and cerebral cortex of both rat lines, using non-radioactive in situ hybridisation. The morphology of the neurons in the three regions is similar, viz. oblong, rectangular or triangular, with two or three processes. The neurons are homogeneously distributed in all regions, and in the nucleus accumbens they are particularly numerous ventrally to the anterior commissure. Using automated image analysis, the mean numerical density of NPYmRNA-positive neurons per brain region and the mean NPYmRNA expression level per neuron per brain region were determined. No differences appear in the numerical densities of NPYmRNA-containing neurons in the nucleus accumbens, caudate putamen and cortex between APO-SUS and APO-UNSUS rats. However, distinct differences between the rat lines are present in the level of NPYmRNA expression per neuron in the nucleus accumbens and in the caudate putamen, showing that NPY contributes to the differential neurochemical make-up of these rat lines that is responsible for their obvious differences in behaviour, physiology and immune competence.
Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) and their receptors constitute an elaborate signaling system that participates in many developmental and repair processes of virtually all mammalian tissues. Among the 23 FGF members, ten have been identified in the brain. Four FGF receptors (FGFRs), receptor tyrosine kinases, are known so far. Ligand binding of these receptors greatly depends on the presence of heparan sulfate proteoglycans, which act as low affinity FGFRs. Ligand binding specificity of FGFRs depends on the third extracellular Ig-like domain, which is subject to alternative splicing. Activation of FGFRs triggers several intracellular signaling cascades. These include phosphorylation of src and PLCgamma leading finally to activation of PKC, as well as activation of Crk and Shc. SNT/FRS2 serves as an alternative link of FGFRs to the activation of PKC and, in addition, activates the Ras signaling cascade. In the CNS, FGFs are widely expressed; FGF-2 is predominantly synthesized by astrocytes, whereas other FGF family members, e.g., FGF-5, FGF-8, and FGF-9, are primarily synthesized by neurons. During CNS development FGFs play important roles in neurogenesis, axon growth, and differentiation. In addition, FGFs are major determinants of neuronal survival both during development and during adulthood. Adult neurogenesis depends greatly on FGF-2. Finally, FGF-1 and FGF-2 seem to be involved in the regulation of synaptic plasticity and processes attributed to learning and memory.
A method has recently been established for inducing the physical detachment of kinetochores from chromosomes in human HeLa cells, and was used in the studies reported here to investigate the organization and function of dissociated HeLa kinetochores. Immunofluorescence labeling demonstrated that the detached HeLa kinetochores were relatively intact, with the number of detached kinetochores being only moderately more than the diploid number of chromosomes in HeLa cells. In addition, the detached kinetochores could be labeled with antibodies specific for the inner kinetochore plate, outer kinetochore, and subjacent centromeric heterochromatin. A functional assay demonstrated that detached kinetochores retained the capacity to activate the spindle checkpoint, leading to metaphase arrest. Analysis of kinetochore DNA indicated that it consisted primarily of DNA fragments of 130-160 kb in size, while the remainder of the chromosomes were sheared into much smaller fragments during the kinetochore detachment event. Further analysis of kinetochore DNA indicated that it was first cleaved into high molecular weight DNA (&gt;200 kb) fragments during the initial stages of the kinetochore detachment process, and then underwent further maturation following nuclear envelope breakdown to give rise to the 130-160 kb fragment in detached kinetochores. Collectively, these data indicate that detached human kinetochores will be a useful system for investigating the organization, assembly, and function of human kinetochores.


What is the best approach for treating patients with social phobia (social anxiety disorder) over the long term? Social phobia is the most common anxiety disorder, with reported prevalence rates of up to 18.7%. Social phobia is characterized by a marked and persistent fear of being observed or evaluated by others in social performance or interaction situations and is associated with physical, cognitive, and behavioral (ie, avoidance) symptoms. The onset of social phobia typically occurs in childhood or adolescence and the clinical course, if left untreated, is usually chronic, unremitting, and associated with significant functional impairment. Social phobia exhibits a high degree of comorbidity with other psychiatric disorders, including mood disorders, anxiety disorders, and substance abuse/dependence. Few people with social phobia seek professional help despite the existence of beneficial treatment approaches. The efficacy, tolerability, and safety of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), evidenced in randomized clinical trials, support these agents as first-line treatment. The benzodiazepine clonazepam and certain monoamine oxidase inhibitors (representing both reversible and nonreversible inhibitors) may also be of benefit. Treatment of social phobia may need to be continued for several months to consolidate response and achieve full remission. The SSRIs have shown benefit in long-term treatment trials, while long-term treatment data from clinical studies of clonazepam are limited but support the drug's efficacy. There is also evidence for the effectiveness of exposure-based strategies of cognitive-behavioral therapy, and controlled studies suggest that the effects of treatment are generally maintained at long-term follow-up. In light of the chronicity and disability associated with social phobia, as well as the high relapse rate after short-term therapy, it is recommended that effective treatment be continued for at least 12 months.
Long-term memory is believed to depend on long-lasting changes in the strength of synaptic transmission known as synaptic plasticity. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of long-term synaptic plasticity is one of the principle goals of neuroscience. Among the most powerful tools being brought to bear on this question are genetically modified mice with changes in the expression or biological activity of genes thought to contribute to these processes. This article reviews how strains of mice with alterations in the cyclic adenosine monophosphate/protein kinase A/cyclic adenosine monophosphate-response element-binding protein signaling pathway have advanced our understanding of the biological basis of learning and memory.

This paper explores how verb meanings that differ in semantic complexity are processed and represented. In particular, we compare eventive verbs, which denote causally structured events, with stative verbs, which denote facts without causal structure. We predicted that the conceptually more complex eventive verbs should take longer to process than stative verbs. Two experiments, a lexical decision task and a self-paced reading study, confirmed this prediction. The findings suggest that (a) semantic complexity is reflected in processing time, (b) processing verb meanings involves activating properties of the event structure beyond participants' roles, and (c) more generally, lexical event structures, which subsume thematic roles, may mediate between syntactic knowledge and semantic interpretation.
Calexcitin (CE) is a calcium-binding protein, closely related to sarcoplasmic calcium-binding proteins, that is involved in invertebrate learning and memory. Early reports indicated that both Hermissenda and squid CE also could bind GTP; however, the biochemical significance of GTP-binding and its relationship to calcium binding have remained unclear. Here, we report that the GTPase activity of CE is strongly regulated by calcium. CE possessed a P-loop-like structure near the C-terminal similar to the phosphate-binding regions in other GTP-binding proteins. Site-directed mutagenesis of this region showed that Gly(182), Phe(186) and Gly(187) are required for maximum affinity, suggesting that the GTP-binding motif is G-N-x-x-[FM]-G. CE cloned from Drosophila CNS possessed a similar C-terminal sequence and also bound and hydrolyzed GTP. GTPase activity in Drosophila CE was also strongly regulated by Ca(2+), exhibiting over 23-fold higher activity in the presence of 0.3 microM calcium. Analysis of the conserved protein motifs defines a new family of Ca(2+)-binding proteins representing the first example of proteins endowed with both EF-hand calcium binding domains and a C-terminal, P-loop-like GTP-binding motif. These results establish that, in the absence of calcium, both squid and Drosophila CE bind GTP at near-physiological concentrations and hydrolyze GTP at rates comparable to unactivated ras. Calcium functions to increase GTP-binding and GTPase activity in CE, similar to the effect of GTPase activating proteins in other low-MW GTP-binding proteins. CE may, therefore, act as a molecular interface between Ca(2+) cytosolic oscillations and the G protein-coupled signal transduction.
The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small, nonendangered New World primate that is native to Brazil and has been used extensively in biomedical research. Historically the common marmoset has been used in neuroscience, reproductive biology, infectious disease, and behavioral research. Recently, the species has been used increasingly in drug development and safety assessment. Advantages relate to size, cost, husbandry, and biosafety issues as well as unique physiologic differences that may be used in model development. Availability and ease of breeding in captivity suggest that they may represent an alternative species to more traditional nonhuman primates. The marmoset models commonly used in biomedical research are presented, with emphasis on those that may provide an alternative to traditional nonhuman primate species.
The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small-bodied, adaptable New World primate from secondary forests in Brazil that is used in various types of research, such as reproductive biology, neuroendocrinology, behavioral research, neuroscience, infectious disease, and drug development. Because of their small body size, adaptability to a variety of conditions, unique physiologic characteristics, family social structure, and calm demeanor, they have become the primate of choice for certain research areas. However, because of their small body size, the amount and type of samples that can be obtained from them can prove to be challenging. The objective of the study reported here is to review some techniques developed for obtaining samples or data from marmoset monkeys in a variety of research settings and includes restraint methods that work well for the type of sample collection required.
Epidemiological studies indicate that anti-inflammatory drugs, especially the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), decrease the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Their beneficial effects may be due to interference in the chronic inflammatory reaction, that takes place in AD. The best-characterized action of NSAIDs is the inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX). There is special interest for anti-inflammatory treatment of AD using selective COX-2 inhibitors. These inhibitors reduce the inflammatory reaction but lack the side effects observed with non-selective NSAIDs. So far, clinical trials designed to inhibit inflammation or COX-2 activity have failed in the treatment of AD patients. Several lines of evidence can explain the failures of the anti-inflammatory and anti-COX-2 trials on AD patients. In this review we will focus on the role, expression and regulation of COX-1 and COX-2 in AD brain. Understanding the role of COX in AD pathogenesis could contribute to the development of an anti-inflammatory therapy for the treatment or prevention of AD.
Currently the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is largely unrealised, with no preventive or curative therapies. The marketed acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (eg. donepezil, Aricept) are directed toward temporary symptomatic relief from impaired cognition, but have prominent adverse effects with minimal efficacy. In pursuit of novel cognition enhancers, the observation that classical benzodiazepines (BZ, eg. diazepam) are amnesic, coupled with the preservation of GABA(A) receptors in brain areas most affected by AD, highlighted the GABA(A) receptor as a potential therapeutic target. In contrast to the amnesic BZ agonists, the BZ inverse agonists (eg. DMCM) which attenuate GABA(A) receptor function, have been shown to improve performance in animal models of learning and memory. Unfortunately, such non-selective ligands also induce anxiety and convulsions. More recently, novel ligands have been developed (eg. 6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-hydroxyethyl)thio-1-(thiazol-2-yl)-6,7-dihydro-2-benzothiophen-4(5H)-one) that demonstrate binding selectivity and high inverse agonism for the alpha5 GABA(A) receptor subtype, which is preferentially located in the hippocampus, a region of the brain associated with learning and memory. Pre-clinical results are encouraging, since these alpha5 selective inverse agonists enhance memory in animal models, such as spatial learning in the Morris water-maze, but are devoid of the adverse effects associated with activity at other GABA(A) receptor subtypes in other brain regions. If the efficacy and safety profiles of alpha5 inverse agonists in humans prove to be similar to those seen in pre-clinical studies, these compounds would offer significant benefit to AD and MCI patients.
With the exception of obsessive compulsive disorder, benzodiazepines (BZs) remain a major first line treatment for anxiety disorders. However, as well as being anxiolytic, BZs also cause sedation acutely, related to the fact that BZs are also used as hypnotics, and chronically may have abuse potential as well as cause physical dependence which manifests itself as the demonstration of a number of adverse events upon discontinuation. The molecular mechanisms of BZs are now well defined in that they enhance the actions of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA by binding to a specific recognition site on GABA(A) receptors containing alpha1, alpha2, alpha3 and alpha5 subunits. Compounds that bind at this modulatory site and enhance the inhibitory actions of GABA are classified as agonists, those that decrease the actions of GABA are termed inverse agonists whereas compounds which bind but have no effect on GABA inhibition are termed antagonists. The clinically used BZs are full agonists and between the opposite ends of the spectrum, i.e. full agonist and full inverse agonist, are a range of compounds with differing degrees of efficacy, such as partial agonists and partial inverse agonists. Attempts have been made to develop compounds which are anxioselective in that they retain the anxiolytic properties of the full agonist BZs but have reduced sedation and dependence (withdrawal) liabilities. Such compounds may interact with all four (i.e. alpha1-, alpha2-, alpha3- and alpha5-containing) GABA(A) receptor subtypes and have partial rather than full agonist efficacies. Examples of nonselective partial agonists include bretazenil, imidazenil, FG 8205, abecarnil, NS 2710, pagoclone, RWJ-51204 and (S)-desmethylzopiclone. Alternatively, a compound might have comparable binding affinity but different efficacies at the various subtypes, thereby preferentially exerting its effects at subtypes thought to be associated with anxiety (alpha2- and/or alpha3-containing receptors) rather than the subtype associated with sedation (alpha1-containing receptors). Examples of efficacy selective compounds include L-838417, NGD 91-3 and SL651498. For each compound, preclinical and where available clinical data will be reviewed. Emerging themes include the lack of definitive intrinsic efficacy data for certain compounds (e.g. abecarnil, ocinaplon, pagoclone) and the difficulty in translating robust anxiolysis and a separation between anxiolytic and sedative doses of non-selective partial agonists in preclinical species into consistent clinical benefit in man (e.g. bretazenil, abecarnil, pagoclone). With respect to efficacy selective compounds, NGD 91-3 was not anxiolytic in man but in the absence of efficacy data, these results are difficult to interpret. Nevertheless, efficacy selective compounds represent a novel approach to targeting specific subtypes of the GABA(A) receptor, the ultimate test of which will be evaluation in the clinic.
A key issue for drug discovery in the post genomic era is target validation. This is particularly important when considering the CNS, where currently the majority of drug targets are neurotransmitter receptors that are known to exist as multi-gene families. The GABAergic system, which is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter system in the CNS, is no exception in that respect. The GABA(A) receptors, which are the site of action of a number of clinically used drugs such as benzodiazepines and barbiturates, exist in a large gene family. Existing drugs mediating their effects through the GABA(A) receptor are generally non-selective, i.e. will act at several subtypes of that receptor family. Thus, if we are both to refine existing therapeutic approaches, and develop novel approaches, a key question is to define which subtype(s) of the GABA(A) receptor family we should target; which will mediate the beneficial effects of a drug, and which could be responsible for unwanted side effects? One of the tools, which has been developed over the last decade to elucidate the function of a given gene, is the generation and analysis of gene-targeted mice. This review will summarize progress on identifying individual GABA(A) receptor subtypes as potential drug targets by using genetically modified mice.
Statins are inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoA reductase), the rate-limiting enzyme of cholesterol synthesis. In recent years, statins have become the major choice of treatment for hypercholesterolemia. Emerging evidence from both animal and human studies indicates that mechanisms independent of cholesterol lowering effects contribute to the observed clinical benefits of statins. The anti-hypertrophy effect of statins on the cardiac tissue represents one of such mechanisms. The beneficial effects of statins on cardiac hypertrophy and cardioprotection may be attributed to their functional influences on small G proteins such as Ras and Rho, resulting in an increase of endogenous nitric oxide (NO), reduction of oxidative stress, inhibition of inflammatory reaction, and decrease of the renin-angiotensin system activity as well as C-reactive protein (CRP) levels in cardiac tissues. Recent findings from in vitro and in vivo studies of statins on cardioprotective effects are summarized in this review. The unveiled novel mechanisms support the use of statins as the new mainstay therapeutic agents for various cardiovascular diseases and complications.
Epidemiological studies have shown increased incidence of schizophrenia in patients subjected to different forms of pre- or perinatal stress. However, as the onset of schizophrenic illness does not usually occur until adolescence or early adulthood, it is not yet fully understood how disruption of early brain development may ultimately lead to malfunction years later. In order to elucidate a possible role for neurodevelopmental factors in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and to highlight potential new treatments, animal models are needed. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is a model of sensorimotor gating mechanisms in the brain. It is disrupted in schizophrenia patients and the disruption can be reversed with atypical antipsychotics. It has been widely used in animal studies to explore central mechanisms possibly involved in schizophrenia. There has been a recent surge of behavioural and neurochemical animal studies on neurodevelopmental models, particularly on the effects of postweaning isolation, maternal separation and neonatal lesions of the hippocampus. In these models, long lasting alterations in behaviour and/or molecular changes in specific brain regions are observed, comparable to those seen in schizophrenia. The aim of this article is to critically review the available literature on such neurodevelopmental animal models with special focus on the effects on PPI and brain regions that are putatively involved in regulation of PPI.
Although nearly half of the synaptic input to neurons in the dorsal thalamus comes from the cerebral cortex, the role of corticothalamic projections in sensory processing remains elusive. Although sensory afferents certainly establish the basic receptive field properties of thalamic neurons, increasing evidence indicates that feedback from the cortex plays a crucial role in shaping thalamic responses. Here, we review recent work on the corticothalamic pathways associated with the visual, auditory, and somatosensory systems. Collectively, these studies demonstrate that sensory responses of thalamic neurons result from dynamic interactions between feedforward and feedback pathways.
Attention influences the processing of visual information even in the earliest areas of primate visual cortex. There is converging evidence that the interaction of bottom-up sensory information and top-down attentional influences creates an integrated saliency map, that is, a topographic representation of relative stimulus strength and behavioral relevance across visual space. This map appears to be distributed across areas of the visual cortex, and is closely linked to the oculomotor system that controls eye movements and orients the gaze to locations in the visual scene characterized by a high salience.

Optical recording with a voltage-sensitive dye is advantageous where membrane potential must be recorded in many sites at once. This unit describes methods for making voltage-sensitive dye measurements on different preparations to study (1) how a neuron integrates its synaptic input into its action potential output by measuring membrane potential everywhere synaptic input occurs and where spikes are initiated; (2) how a nervous system generates a behavior in Aplysia abdominal ganglion; and (3) responses to sensory stimuli and generation of motor output in the vertebrate brain by simultaneous measurement of population signals from many areas. The approach is three-pronged: (1) find the dye with the largest signal-to-noise ratio; (2) reduce extraneous sources of noise; and (3) maximize the number of photons measured to reduce the relative shot noise. A discussion of optical recording methods including the choice of dyes, light sources, optics, cameras, and minimizing noise is also provided.
Nuclease protection assays (S1 nuclease protection and RNase protection) are extremely sensitive procedures for detection and quantitation of mRNA species in complex mixtures of total cellular RNA. These assays are well suited for mapping positions of external and internal junctions in RNA, such as transcription initiation and termination sites and intron/exon boundaries, and to discriminate between closely related targets by using probes designed to span the regions where the related genes differ the most. Also, because the size of the probes used in nuclease protection assays is a variable chosen by the investigator, probes may be designed to protect fragments of different sizes. This feature permits the simultaneous analysis of several different mRNAs in the same total RNA sample. In this unit, a method is included for RNase protection of target mRNA sequences, including hybridization of the probe to the target sequence, details of the actual protection assay, and detection of reaction products. An alternative method is provided for performing the RNase protection assay on a microvolume scale, which is useful when there are many samples to be analyzed. Support protocols describe synthesis and gel purification of labeled RNA probes; preparation of RNase-free yeast RNA, which acts as an aid in the quantitative precipitation of newly synthesized probe; and quantitation of target mRNA. A method describing S1 nuclease protection of target mRNA using either RNA or DNA probes is also included. Additional support protocols provide instructions for the preparation of radiolabeled DNA probes by primer-extension of double-stranded plasmid or PCR product using Klenow fragment of E. coli DNA polymerase I or Taq or Tth polymerase in a thermal cycler. Another radiolabeling method details 5' end labeling of oligodeoxynucleotides and oligoribonucleotides using T4 polynucleotide kinase. Additionally, a method is described for mapping transcription start sites using the S1 nuclease protection assay.
Quantitative in situ hybridization allows measurement of mRNA level modifications in a variety of experimental conditions. This analysis may be performed both at the regional anatomical and cellular levels by densitometry, neuronal counting and silver grain measurements.
This unit covers some of the basic procedures that are common to a wide range of neuroanatomical protocols. Procedures are provided for the preparation of unfixed, fresh brain tissue as well as for perfusion fixation of animals resulting in fixed neural tissue. A variety of methods for sectioning brains are described, including frozen sectioning in a cryostat, frozen sectioning with a microtome, and sectioning with a vibratome. The choice of sectioning method depends on how the brain has been prepared and what histochemical method is to be used. Three post-sectioning procedures are provided: defatting of slide-mounted sections, thionin staining of the sections, and coating of slides with photographic emulsion for autoradiography. Finally, a procedure is described for subbing slides with gelatin, which is necessary in some protocols in order for the sections to adhere to the slides.




Anti-Ras intracellular antibodies inhibit cell proliferation in vivo by sequestering the antigen and diverting it from its physiological location [Lener, M., Horn, I. R., Cardinale, A., Messina, S., Nielsen, U.B., Rybak, S.M., Hoogenboom, H.R., Cattaneo, A., Biocca, S. (2000) Eur. J. Biochem.267, 1196-1205]. Here we demonstrate that strongly aggregating single-chain antibody fragments (scFv), binding to Ras, induce apoptosis, and this effect is strictly related to the antibody-mediated aggregation of p21Ras. Proteasomes are quickly recruited to the newly formed aggregates, and their activity is strongly inhibited. This leads to the formation of aggresome-like structures, which become evident in the vast majority of apoptotic cells. A combination of anti-Ras scFv fragments with a nontoxic concentration of the proteasome inhibitor, lactacystin, markedly increases proteasome dysfunction and apoptosis. The dominant-negative H-ras (N17-H-ras), which is mostly soluble and does not induce aggresome formation or inhibit proteasome activity, only affects cell viability slightly. Together, these observations suggest a mechanism linking antibody-mediated Ras aggregation, impairment of the ubiquitin-proteasome system, and cytotoxicity.

Precise timing is essential for motor performance, though the neuronal representation of time is unknown. To explore neuronal correlates of timing processes during movement preparation and execution, we compared the activities of neurons recorded in monkey motor cortex during the performance of two tasks requiring correct time estimation in different contextual situations. Despite the fact that both tasks had many common features (e.g. same movements, same time intervals to estimate), they involved different degrees of spatial and temporal uncertainty. Our findings indicate that time is indeed represented in neuronal activity of the motor cortex, albeit strongly dependent on context and not in an invariant manner as a distinct process per se.
Anatomical and electrophysiological evidence has raised the possibility that corelease of GABA and glutamate occurs at hippocampal mossy fibre synapses which, however, lack the vesicular GABA transporter VGAT. Here, we apply immunogold cytochemistry to show that GABA, like glutamate, has a close spatial relation to synaptic vesicles in rat mossy fibre terminals, implying that a mechanism exists to package GABA in synaptic vesicles. We also show that GABAA and AMPA receptors are colocalized at mossy fibre synapses. The expression of GABA and GABAA receptors is, however, weaker than in inhibitory synapses. Electrical stimuli that recruit mossy fibres evoke monosynaptic GABAA receptor-mediated signals in post-synaptic targets that show marked frequency-dependent facilitation and sensitivity to group II metabotropic receptors, two features that are characteristic of mossy fibre transmission. These results provide further evidence for GABA and glutamate cotransmission at mossy fibre synapses, although paired pre- and post-synaptic recordings will be required to determine the role of GABA at this unusual synapse.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a gaseous neurotransmitter which plays an important role in neuronal signalling and plasticity throughout the brain. In the cerebellum, NO synthase (NOS) is expressed in parallel fibres and within the internal granule cell layer (IGL). During development there are changes in NOS concentration, distribution and activity within the IGL, suggesting NO may play a role in IGL function. Therefore, the actions of NO in the IGL were investigated. The similar actions of a range of NOS inhibitors and NO scavengers strongly suggested the presence of a tonic level of endogenous NO in the IGL. Both the neuronal and inducible forms of NOS appeared to be sources of this endogenous NO. The effects observed following a reduction in the concentration of endogenous NO were consistent with enhanced granule cell GABAA receptor activation. For example, a reduction in NO concentration led to an increase in the frequency of action potential-dependent phasic GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and produced a TTX-insensitive GABAA receptor-mediated current. A direct action of NO on Golgi cell membrane potential and input resistance accounted for the increase in the frequency of phasic GABA release. The mechanism underlying the tonic GABA current is unclear but does not appear to be via the modulation of GABA uptake or the activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. NO is a potentially novel mechanism for tuning GABAergic signalling to granule cells and therefore modulating the throughput of an important cerebellar circuit.
The 94 kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP94), the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) resident molecular chaperone, has a role in cell death due to endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER stress). Here, we report that expression of GRP94 was increased in human neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y (SY5Y) cells) exposed to hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R). H/R mediated death of SY5Y cells was associated with the activation of major cysteine proteases, caspase-3 and calpain, along with an elevated intracellular calcium concentration. Pretreatment with adenovirus-mediated antisense GRP94 (AdGRP94AS) led to reduced viability of SY5Y cells after being subjected to H/R compared with wild-type cells or cells with adenovirus-mediated overexpression of GRP94 (AdGRP94S). These results indicate that suppression of GRP94 is associated with accelerated apoptosis and that expression of GRP94 (as a stress protein) suppresses oxidative stress-mediated neuronal death and stabilizes calcium homeostasis in the ER. We also used gerbils with transient forebrain ischemia to study the role of GRP94 in vivo. Neurons with adenovirus-mediated overexpression of GRP94 were resistant to ischemic damage. These results confirmed that GRP94 could suppress ischemic injury to neurons, suggesting that gene transfer of GRP94 into the brain may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of cerebrovascular disease.
Adenosine is a neuromodulator that has been proposed to be a major endogenous anticonvulsant acting via A1 receptors. We tested if implementation of kindling through stimulation of the amygdala affected A1 receptor-mediated neuromodulation in hippocampal slices taken from rats 4 weeks after the last stage 5 seizure. The A1 receptor agonist, N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) (6-100 nm), inhibited field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) slope with an EC50 of 19.1-19.5 nm in control and sham-operated rats, but was less potent in kindled rats (EC50 = 42.7 nm). This might result from a decreased number of A1 receptors in hippocampal nerve terminal membranes, because A1 receptor immunoreactivity decreased by 28 +/- 3% and the binding density of the A1 receptor agonist [3H]R-PIA decreased from 1702 +/- 64 to 962 +/- 78 fmol/mg protein in kindled compared with control rats. The tonic inhibition of hippocampal synaptic transmission by endogenous adenosine was also lower in kindled rats, because A1 receptor blockade with 50 nm 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentyladenosine (DPCPX) enhanced fEPSP slope by 23 +/- 3% and theta-burst-induced long-term potentiation by 94 +/- 4% in control rats but was virtually devoid of effects in kindled rats. The evoked release of adenosine from hippocampal slices or nerve terminals was 56-71% lower in kindled rats probably due to the combined decrease in the capacity of adenosine transporters and decreased release of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), which was partially compensated by a higher extracellular catabolism of ATP into adenosine in kindled rats. These results indicate that, although adenosine might inhibit the onset of epileptogenesis, once kindling is installed, the efficiency of the adenosine inhibitory system is impaired.
Intra-operative micro-electrode stimulation of sensorimotor thalamus produces paraesthesia or tingling in various body regions and is used to map somatotopy prior to implantation of deep brain-stimulating electrodes in awake patients. The neural elements affected by such microstimulation are unknown. Using paraesthesia as the behavioural-physiological response threshold, we measured chronaxie times for microstimuli applied to both somatosensory thalamic nuclei (cellular region) and its axonal afferents, the medial lemniscus. White matter chronaxie times were relatively unimodal, whereas two different clusters of chronaxie times were identified in grey matter: one corresponding to that of the medial lemniscus and the other about five times longer and compatible with that obtained from cell somata. Therefore, excitations of local axons and/or cell bodies can both contribute to the paraesthesia evoked during intra-operative thalamic mapping.
Kv4.3, an A-type K+ channel, is the only channel molecule showing anterior-posterior (A-P) compartmentalization in the granular layer of mammalian cerebellum known so far. Kv4.3 mRNA has been detected from the posterior but not anterior granular layer in adult rat cerebellum. To characterize this A-P compartmentalization further, we examined Kv4.3 protein expression in rat cerebellum by immunohistochemistry at the embryonic, early postnatal and adult stages. Specificity of the Kv4.3 antibody was confirmed by both Western blot and immunoprecipitation analysis. In adulthood, Kv4.3 was detected from the somatodendritic domain of posterior granule cells, with a restriction boundary in the vermal lobule VI extending laterally to the hemispheric crus 1 ansiform lobules. At the early postnatal stage, this A-P pattern first appeared on postnatal day 8, when significant numbers of granule cells had migrated into the posterior granular layer and started to express Kv4.3. Similar Kv4.3 expression in the somatodendritic domain of post-migratory neurons in the cerebellum was also observed in basket cells, stellate cells, a subset of GABAergic deep neurons, Lugaro cells and, probably, deep Lugaro cells. However, none of them showed A-P compartmentalization. Strikingly, we found Kv4.3 in several clusters of migrating Purkinje cells with mediolateral compartmentalization. These Purkinje cells no longer expressed Kv4.3 after completing the migration. By contrasting the expression in migrating and post-migratory neurons, our results suggest that Kv4.3 may play an important role in the development of cerebellum, as well as in the mature cerebellum.
Single-unit spinal recordings combined with application of glutamate into the medullary dorsal reticular nucleus were used to assess the action of this nucleus upon deep dorsal horn neurons in rats. Injection of high glutamate concentrations (10 and 100 mm) induced a dramatic and long-lasting increase of the responses of wide-dynamic range neurons to electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve in the noxious range, without affecting ongoing discharges. Post-stimulus time histograms revealed that this increase concerned the post-discharge, but not A- or C-fibre-mediated responses, which remained unchanged independently of the stimulation frequency applied. The onset of the glutamate-induced response enhancement occurred with a concentration-dependent time delay and developed slowly until its maximum. These data indicate that the medullary dorsal reticular nucleus exerts a facilitating action upon deep dorsal horn wide-dynamic range neurons by enhancing their capacity to respond to peripheral stimulation through prolongation of their discharge. This action is accompanied by the strengthening of wind-up of deep dorsal horn wide-dynamic range neurons, hence providing a plausible substrate for chronic pain states. These results are in agreement with previous behavioural studies suggesting a pronociceptive role for the dorsal reticular nucleus [Almeida et al. (1996) Brain Res. Bull., 39, 7-15; Almeida et al. (1999) Eur. J. Neurosci., 11, 110-122], and support the involvement of a reverberating circuit, previously described in morphological studies [Almeida et al. (1993) Neuroscience, 55, 1093-1106; Almeida et al. (2000) Eur. J. Pain, 4, 373-387], which probably operates only at a certain threshold of activation.
Dead reckoning, a form of navigation used to locate a present position and to return to a starting position, is used by rats to return to their home base. The present experiment examined whether dead reckoning is displayed by rats during their first exploratory excursions in a novel environment and also examined whether the behaviour requires the integrity of the cells of the hippocampus. Experimental rats, those with NMDA (N-methyl d-aspartate) lesions of Ammon's horn and the dentate gyrus, and control rats could leave a cage to explore a large circular table under light and dark conditions. Home base behaviour, use of olfactory cues, and thigmotaxic- based navigation were evaluated. Temporal, topographical and kinematic analyses were conducted on the first three exploratory excursions that extended at least halfway across the table. Groups did not differ in numbers of exits from the home base, lingering near the home base, distance travelled, or the use of surface cues as might be exemplified by thigmotaxic and olfactory behaviour. Temporal, topographical and kinematic reconstructions of homing behaviour, however, indicated that control rats, but not hippocampal rats, made direct high velocity return trips to the home base in both the light and the dark. Peak velocity of the trips occurred at the trip midpoint, independent of trip distance, suggesting the movements were preplanned. These results are discussed in relation to the ideas that dead reckoning is used in the homing of exploring rats and that this form of navigation involves the hippocampus.


The excitatory conditioning model of contextual sensitisation proposes that the progressive emergence of the locomotion-activating effect of cocaine (or any other stimulant drug) characterising that phenomenon is due to a growing conditioned response (the test context cues) that mimics the unchanging unconditioned response (the drug effect). The present study aimed at verifying whether the relationship between the amplitude of sensitisation and the size of the conditioned response was positive, a direct implication of that view. Sensitisation to the locomotion-activating effect of cocaine (10 mg/kg, s.c.) was firstly generated over 10 daily sessions in 25 mice (strain C57Bl/6J), another lot of 25 mice receiving the same dose of cocaine outside of the testing context. Conditioned locomotion was assessed 24 h later. No significant linear correlations were found between the magnitude of the conditioned response and the magnitude of the sensitised response (delta scores), the rate of sensitisation (individual regression coefficients) or the magnitude of the initial unconditioned response to cocaine (scores in the first session of sensitisation treatment). Accordingly, there was no significant correlation between the magnitude of the initial unconditioned response and the magnitude of the sensitised response or that of the initial unconditioned response. Therefore, the conditioned response is neither necessary nor sufficient for the development of context-dependent sensitisation of the locomotion-activating effect of cocaine, a conclusion that refutes the excitatory conditioning model of that chronic effect.
Phencyclidine (PCP) has been described to exacerbate psychotic symptoms in patients suffering from schizophrenia. In rats, PCP, dose-dependently, induces hyperactivity, stereotyped behaviour and social isolation, postulated to represent the positive (hyperactivity, stereotypy) and negative (social isolation) symptoms of schizophrenia. Based on previous studies, ibotenic acid lesions in the amygdala on day 7 of life have been proposed as an animal model of psychiatric neurodevelopmental disorders like schizophrenia. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether the responsiveness to PCP on locomotor activity in animals lesioned in the amygdala on day 7 of life is different from the response to this drug in sham-operated animals. The effect of graded doses of PCP on behaviour was assessed in a small open field. Animals lesioned in the amygdala on day 7 of life appeared to be hyperresponsive to PCP compared to sham-operated animals. The hyperresponsiveness to PCP in rats lesioned in the amygdala on day 7 of life further contributes to the validation of this putative animal model of schizophrenia.
Day 7 amygdala-lesioned (D7 AMX) rats have been proposed as a model for neurodevelopmental psychopathological disorders such as schizophrenia. Patients with schizophrenia are sensitive to stress and show an impaired hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal response to certain stressful stimuli. Therefore, we investigated neuroendocrine and behavioral stress responses in the D7 AMX lesion model. Plasma concentrations of ACTH, corticosterone, and catecholamines were measured in response to foot shock and novelty in D7 and D21 lesioned (AMX) and non-lesioned (SHAM) animals. Behavior was recorded and analyzed afterwards. D7 AMX rats, unlike other rats, had a reduced ACTH response to foot shock and showed less active behavior in response to novelty. Neurodevelopmental dysfunction of target structures of the amygdala is associated with disturbed endocrine and behavioral responses to stress. These data accord with the notion that the D7 amygdala-lesioned rat can function as a neurodevelopmental model with relevance to schizophrenia.
The autoradiographic distribution of the 5-HT4 receptor was described using human postmortem brain sections and the selective radioligand [125I]SB 207710 [(1-n-butyl-4-piperidinyl)methyl-8-amino-7-[125I]iodo-1,4-benzodioxane-5-carboxylate]. The specific binding was highest in regions of the basal ganglia (caudate nucleus, putamen, nucleus accumbens, globus pallidus and substantia nigra) and the hippocampal formation (CA1 and subiculum). In the neocortex, the binding showed a distinct lamination pattern with high levels in superficial layers and a band displaying lower levels in deep cortical layers. The results confirm previous studies on the distribution of 5-HT4 receptors in the human brain in vitro and provide high-resolution correlates for in vivo imaging studies using the radioligand recently developed for single photon emission tomography (SPET), [123I]SB 207710.

We previously demonstrated that changing the apparent extent of a target's apparent motion-in-depth, by manipulating pictorial depth cues in the surrounding, affected perceptual judgements and manual pursuit to the same extent. Here, we investigated whether a different manipulation of the extent of motion (expanding and contracting the object itself) also has the same effect on both tasks. Objects were presented that changed in size as they moved on an elliptical path. The size was related to the object's position in the sagittal plane, suggesting additional motion in depth; therefore the illusion was expected to affect sagittal measures for both perception and action. We measured manual tracking and perceptual judgements of the lateral and sagittal extents of the object's elliptical trajectories. A significant correlation was found across subjects between the effect of the illusion on the perceptual and the motor task. As expected, the illusion only had a significant influence on the sagittal dimension. The size of this illusory effect was equal for perception and action.
Paired-pulse magnetic stimulation has been widely used to study intracortical inhibition of the motor cortex. Inhibition at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 1-5 ms is ascribed to a GABAergic inhibitory system in the motor cortex. However, Fisher et al. have proposed that different mechanisms are operating at an ISI of 1 ms and 2.5 ms. In order to confirm their concept and clarify whether inhibition at all these intervals is produced by a single mechanism, we compared effects of paired-pulse stimulation at ISIs of 1 ms, 2 ms, and 3-5 ms. We evaluated how intracortical inhibition affected the I3-wave, I1-wave, magnetic D-wave, and anodal D-wave components of electromyographic (EMG) responses using previously reported methods. The data suggest that three separate effects occur within these ISIs. At ISIs of 3-5 ms, inhibition was evoked only in responses to I3-waves, whereas no inhibition was elicited in responses to I1-waves or magnetic D-waves. In contrast, at an ISI of 1 ms, responses to I3-waves and I1-waves were moderately suppressed. Moreover, even magnetic D-waves were slightly suppressed, whereas anodal D-waves were unaffected. At an ISI of 2 ms, none of the descending volleys were inhibited. We propose that we should use ISIs of 3-5 ms for estimating function of the GABAergic inhibitory system of the motor cortex by paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Our results support the idea of Fisher et al. that the mechanism responsible for the inhibition at an ISI of 1 ms is not the same as that responsible for suppression at ISIs of 3-5 ms (GABAergic inhibitory circuits in the motor cortex). At an ISI of 2 ms, we suggest that the inhibitory influence evoked by the first stimulus (S1) should collide with or be occluded by the second stimulus (S2), which leads to the lack of inhibition when the subjects make a voluntary contraction of the target muscle.
Numerous studies have suggested that the CNV (contingent negative variation), a negative slow wave developing between a warning and an imperative stimulus, reflects, among other things, temporal processing of the interval between these two stimuli. One aim of the present work was to specify the relationship between CNV activity and the perceived duration. A second aim was to establish if this relationship is the same over the left and right hemispheres. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded for 12 subjects performing a matching-to-sample task in which they had to determine if the duration of a tone (490 ms, 595 ms, 700 ms, 805 ms, and 910 ms) matched that of a previously presented standard (700 ms). CNV activity measured at the FCZ electrode was shown to increase until the standard duration had elapsed. By contrast, right frontal activity increased until the end of the current test duration, even when the standard duration had elapsed. Moreover, for long test durations (805 ms and 910 ms), correlations were observed between CNV peak latency and subjective standard, over left and medial frontal sites. We propose that left and medial frontal activity reflects an accumulation of temporal information that stops once the memorized standard duration is over, while right frontal activity subserves anticipatory attention near the end of the stimulus.
This study investigated a possible link between morphological alterations of pyramidal neurons in layer V of the occipital cortex and the degree of spatial memory impairment in aged rats. Measurements of cortical thickness, density of dendritic branching, and spine counts were carried out in young adult (5 months old) and aged (26 months old) Long-Evans female rats on Golgi-Cox silver-stained material. Using the water-maze task, well- and poorly performing rats were distinguished statistically on the basis of their reference-memory scores. When subsequently compared with young rats or to aged rats with good performances, the well-performing rats had a reduced cortical thickness and exhibited weaker high-order branching of basal dendrites on their pyramidal neurons. When dendritic spines were counted on a 50-microm-long straight portion of a basal dendrite, no difference was observed between young and aged rats. Our results suggest that structural alterations affecting pyramidal neurons in the occipital cortex of aged rats may contribute to spatial memory impairment. Indeed, in a subpopulation of well-performing aged rats, these structural alterations were less marked than in the population of bad performers.
Short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) is a widely used method to study cortical inhibition, and abnormalities have been found in several neurological and psychiatric disorders. Previous studies suggested that SICI involves two phases and the first phase may be explained by axonal refractoriness. Our objectives are to further investigate the mechanisms of the two phases of SICI. SICI was studied in 11 normal volunteers by a paired transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) paradigm applied to the left motor cortex with a subthreshold conditioning stimulus (80% resting motor threshold for rest condition and 95% active motor threshold for active condition) followed by a suprathreshold test stimulus at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 1-4.5 ms in steps of 0.5 ms. Motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded from the right first dorsal interosseous muscle. Three different test stimulus intensities adjusted to produce 0.2, 1 and 4 mV MEPs at rest were studied with the target muscle relaxed and during 20% maximum contraction. Maximum inhibition was observed at ISIs of 1 ms and 2.5 ms for the rest condition and the difference among ISIs was reduced with voluntary contraction. SICI increased with larger test MEP amplitude and decreased with voluntary contraction. At test MEP of 0.2 mV, some subjects showed facilitation and this is likely related to short-interval intracortical facilitation. For rest SICI, the correlation between adjacent ISIs was much higher from 3 to 4.5 ms than from 1 to 2.5 ms or between 1 and 2.5 ms. There was no correlation between SICI at different test MEP amplitudes. We conclude that maximum SICI at ISIs of 1 and 2.5 ms are mediated by different mechanisms. SICI at 1 ms cannot be fully explained by axonal refractoriness and synaptic inhibition may be involved. SICI is a complex phenomenon and inhibition at different ISIs may be mediated by different inhibitory circuits.
Previous work showed that in vitro abducens eyeblink classical conditioning of turtle brain stem-cerebellum preparations involved NMDA-mediated mechanisms and redistribution of GluR4-containing AMPA receptors in the abducens motor nuclei. Since conditioning can be obtained in brain stem preparations without the cerebellum, we examined whether similar mechanisms were involved during conditioning of the brain stem alone. The results showed that conditioning could not be induced in the presence of the NMDA receptor antagonist dl-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP-5) and that abducens nerve conditioned responses, once initiated in normal saline, were significantly attenuated in the presence of AP-5. The effects of AP-5 did not generally depress physiological responsiveness of preparations because some abducens nerve reflexes were not significantly reduced by the compound. GluR4-containing AMPA receptors in the abducens motor nuclei were significantly upregulated and positively correlated with the levels of conditioning similar to that of preparations having an intact cerebellum. Furthermore, increased GluR4 subunits after brain stem conditioning was confirmed by Western blot analysis. These results suggest that NMDA receptor-mediated mechanisms and GluR4 upregulation may mediate in vitro abducens eyeblink classical conditioning and that these mechanisms reside in the brain stem eyeblink circuitry.
We investigated the physiological basis of the 'broken escalator phenomenon', namely the sensation that when walking onto an escalator which is stationary one experiences an odd sensation of imbalance, despite full awareness that the escalator is not going to move. The experimental moving surface was provided by a linear motor-powered sled, moving at 1.2 m/s. Sled velocity, trunk position, trunk angular velocity, EMG of the ankle flexors-extensors and foot-contact signals were recorded in 14 normal subjects. The experiments involved, initially, walking onto the stationary sled (condition Before). Then, subjects walked 20 times onto the moving sled (condition Moving), and it was noted that they increased their walking velocity from a baseline of 0.60 m/s to 0.90 m/s. After the moving trials, subjects were unequivocally warned that the platform would no longer move and asked to walk onto the stationary sled again (condition After). It was found that, despite this warning, subjects walked onto the stationary platform inappropriately fast (0.71 m/s), experienced a large overshoot of the trunk and displayed increased leg electromyographic (EMG) activity. Subjects were surprised by their own behaviour and subjectively reported that the 'broken escalator phenomenon', as experienced in urban life, felt similar to the experiment. By the second trial, most movement parameters had returned to baseline values. The findings represent a motor aftereffect of walking onto a moving platform that occurs despite full knowledge of the changing context. As such, it demonstrates dissociation between the declarative and procedural systems in the CNS. Since gait velocity was raised before foot-sled contact, the findings are at least partly explained by open-loop, predictive behaviour. A cautious strategy of limb stiffness was not responsible for the aftereffect, as revealed by no increase in muscle cocontraction. The observed aftereffect is unlike others previously reported in the literature, which occur only after prolonged continuous exposure to a sensory mismatch, large numbers of learning trials or unpredictable catch trials. The relative ease with which the aftereffect was induced suggests that locomotor adaptation may be more impervious to cognitive control than other types of motor learning.
Many studies have investigated the compensatory reactions in humans elicited during walking when the support surface is perturbed. This has led to the description of characteristic responses generated in the muscles of the legs and torso, and recently the arms. The present study aimed to investigate the compensatory reactions elicited when balance was challenged by a perturbation applied to the waist, to determine to what extent balance corrective responses are generalized across perturbation modalities. A second aim was to characterize the arm responses elicited by the perturbations applied to the waist. We measured muscle activity of the left arm and leg following application of backward pulls of the waist while the subjects walked on a motorized treadmill. This resulted in robust activation of tibialis anterior and vastus lateralis, with co-activation of soleus and biceps femoris also evident when perturbations were applied at heel strike. These early responses occurred with a distal to proximal temporal organization. The responses in the leg muscles displayed a phase-dependent modulation in amplitude, decreasing in amplitude later in the stance phase. Leg muscle responses were not evident during the swing phase, except for the end of swing, just prior to heel strike. Arm muscle responses were observed in all subjects; however, the pattern of the arm responses varied considerably between subjects. Generally, shoulder muscles were more likely to respond than elbow muscles, at latencies consistent with the leg responses. Two important conclusions are drawn from the present study. First, the responses evoked in the legs with a pull to the waist are very similar to what has been reported for perturbations of the support surface, despite the very different locus of the perturbation. This suggests that balance control during walking may be achieved by preprogrammed reactions or synergies, which are triggered by multiple sensory cues. Second, rapid arm actions are integrated with these leg responses. However, the arm responses are more flexible, likely reflecting the fewer constraints imposed upon the actions of the arms, compared to the legs, during normal locomotion.
Increasing evidence indicates that mitochondrial dysfunction occurs in the central nervous system as well as in the peripheral tissues from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. We have recently shown that mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (COX) activity is significantly reduced in brain and platelets from AD patients compared to controls. In the present study we investigated whether impaired COX activity could have functional consequences on energy metabolism. Blood lactate concentration was monitored at rest and during incremental exercise in 22 AD patients in whom COX activity in platelets was decreased compared to controls (35.7 +/- 11.4 vs 48.4 +/- 1.4 nmol/min/mg, P &lt; 0.01). In both resting and exercising conditions, blood lactate was significantly higher in AD patients than in controls. Although the magnitude of exercise-related lactate accumulation was not different between the two groups, an anticipated anaerobic lactate threshold during the incremental forearm exercise was found in AD patients (50% of maximal voluntary contraction MVC compared to 60% in controls). COX activity was inversely related to lactate at a significant level for resting condition (r = -0.65) and borderline for anaerobic threshold exercise level. These results support the hypothesis of a systemic impairment of the mitochondrial function in AD and indicate that decreased COX activity could have functional consequences on metabolism.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) are extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules that are widely expressed throughout the developing and adult CNS. In vitro studies demonstrate their potential to restrict neurite outgrowth, and it is believed that CSPGs also inhibit axonal regeneration after CNS injury in vivo. Previous studies demonstrated that CSPGs are generally upregulated after spinal cord injury, and more recent reports have begun to identify individual proteoglycans that may play dominant roles in limiting axonal regeneration. The current study systematically examined the extended deposition patterns after CNS injury of four putatively inhibitory CSPGs that have not been extensively investigated previously in vivo: neurocan, brevican, phosphacan, and versican. After spinal cord injury, neurocan, brevican, and versican immunolabeling increased within days in injured spinal cord parenchyma surrounding the lesion site and peaked at 2 weeks. Neurocan and versican were persistently elevated for 4 weeks postinjury, and brevican expression persisted for at least 2 months. On the other hand, phosphacan immunolabeling decreased in the same region immediately following injury but later recovered and then peaked after 2 months. Combined glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization demonstrated that GFAP astrocytes constituted a source of neurocan production after spinal cord injury. Thus, the production of several CSPG family members is differentially affected by spinal cord injury, overall establishing a CSPG-rich matrix that persists for up to 2 months following injury. Optimization of strategies to reduce CSPG expression to enhance regeneration may need to target several different family members over an extended period following injury.
A variety of biological as well as synthetic implants have been used to attempt to promote regeneration into the damaged spinal cord. We have implanted mats made from fibronectin (FN) into the damaged spinal cord to determine their effectiveness as a substrate for regeneration of axons. These mats contain oriented pores and can take up and release growth factors. Lesion cavities 1 mm in width and depth and 2 mm in length were created on one side of the spinal cord of adult rats. FN mats containing neurotrophins or saline were placed into the lesion. Mats were well integrated into surrounding tissue and showed robust well-oriented growth of calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P, GABAergic, cholinergic, glutamatergic, and noradrenergic axons into FN mats. Transganglionic tracing using cholera toxin B indicated large-diameter primary afferents had grown into FN implants. Schwann cells had also infiltrated FN mats. Electron microscopy confirmed the presence of axons within implants sites, with most axons either ensheathed or myelinated by Schwann cells. Mats incubated in brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 showed significantly more neurofilament-positive and glutamatergic fibers compared to saline- and nerve growth factor-incubated mats, while mats incubated with nerve growth factor showed more calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive axons. In contrast, neurotrophin treatment had no effect on PGP 9.5-positive axons. In addition, in some animals with neurotrophin-3-incubated mats, cholera toxin B-labelled fibers had grown from the mat into adjoining intact areas of spinal cord. The results indicate that FN mats provide a substrate that is permissive for robust oriented axonal growth in the damaged spinal cord, and that this growth is supported by Schwann cells.
Significant advances have been made in the last 20 years in understanding the basic biology of the normal nervous system and in elucidating molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying neurological disease. This progress has generated, for the first time, a realistic possibility of treating what have historically been common and tragically untreatable diseases of the nervous system. In particular, therapeutic delivery of genes to the degenerating, injured or developmentally-deficient nervous system offers the potential to prevent cell death, induce new growth and restore function. Clinical trials of gene therapy are beginning to move forward in several neurological disorders. We have thereby begun the transition to molecular-based medicine which has the potential to alter the landscape and prognosis of neurological disease.
ATP acts as a fast neurotransmitter by activating a family of ligand-gated ion channels, the P2X receptors. Functional homomeric (P2X(3)) and heteromeric (P2X(2/3)) receptors are highly localised on primary sensory afferent neurons that transmit nociceptive sensory information. Activation of these P2X(3)containing channels may provide a specific mechanism whereby ATP, released via synaptic transmission or by cellular injury, elicits pain. The physiological relevance of the pro-nociceptive actions of ATP is supported by data demonstrating that the exogenous peripheral or spinal administration of ATP and other P2X receptor agonists elicits nociceptive behaviour and increases sensitivity to noxious stimuli in both humans and laboratory animals. The nociceptive effects of P2X receptor agonists are also enhanced in the presence of inflammatory mediators. Both permanent (P2X(3) gene knockout) and transient (P2X(3) antisense) receptor gene disruption studies in laboratory rodents have provided hypoalgesic phenotypes, further supporting a role for P2X(3) subunits in contributing to the expression of pain. More recently, the acute systemic administration of a highly selective non-nucleotide P2X(3) antagonist, A317491, has been shown to fully block specific types of chronic inflammatory and neuropathic pain in animal models in the absence of cardiovascular and CNS side effects associated with other analgesic compounds. Therefore, both genetic and pharmacological approaches have provided converging evidence that activation of P2X(3)-containing channels is an important mediator of persistent nociceptive signalling. The available data also indicate potential discrete roles for homomeric P2X(3) and heteromeric P2X(2/3) receptor activation in acute and chronic pain.
We recently mapped two quantitative trait loci that have widespread effects on hippocampal architecture in mouse: Hipp1a and Hipp5a. We also noted remarkable strain differences in the relative sizes of different hippocampal regions. Estimated heritable variation for these differences was 42% in hippocampus proper, 40% in dentate gyrus, 31% in granule cell layer and 18% in pyramidal cell layer. Region size varied at least 50% from largest to smallest measurement. Here we have utilized these differences to identify loci with effects on the dentate gyrus, granule cell layer, hippocampus proper and pyramidal cell layer. Our sample consists of C57BL/6J and DBA/2J and 32 BXD recombinant inbred strains. Volumetric data were corrected for shrinkage and for differences in brain weight. We identified significant loci on chromosomes (Chr) 6, 13 and 15, and a significant interaction locus on proximal Chr 11. A suggestive distal Chr 1 locus overlaps with Hipp1a. HipV13a (Chr 13, 42-78Mb) has an additive effect of 0.56 mm3 (12.1%) on dentate gyrus volume, while GrV6a (Chr 6, 29-65 Mb) has additive effects of 0.14 mm3 (16.0%) on the volume of the granule cell layer. HipV13a also interacts with DGVi11a, a locus on proximal Chr 11 that operates exclusively through its epistatic effect on HipV13a and has no independent main effect HipV15a (Chr 15, 0-51 Mb) has an additive effect of 1.76 mm3 (9.0%) on the volume of the hippocampus proper. We used WebOTL, a recently described web-based tool, to examine genetic correlation of gene expression with hippocampal volume. We identified a number of genes that map within the OTL intervals and have highly correlated expression patterns. Using WebQTL's extensive database of published BXD phenotypes, we also detected a strong and potentially biologically meaningful correlation between hippocampal volume and the acoustic startle response.
A major cost of social behavior is the increased risk of exposure to parasites, with animals utilizing social information to recognize and avoid infected conspecifics. In mice, females can discriminate between infected and uninfected males on the basis of social cues, displaying aversive responses to the odors of infected males. In the present study, using female mice whose gene for oxytocin (OT) has been selectively deleted (OT knockout mice (OTKO)), we show that at least one normal allele for OT is required for the mediation of the recognition and avoidance of parasitized males. Female wild type (OTWT) and heterozygous (OTHZ) mice distinguished between the odors of individual males infected with the louse, Polyplax serrata, and uninfected males while the KO mice did not. Exposure to the odors of infected males induced analgesia in OTWT and OTHZ females, with OTKO females displaying attenuated analgesia. OTWT and OTHZ females, but not the OTKO females, also distinguished between the odors of novel and familiar infected males and modulated their analgesic responses on the basis of prior familiarity. In an odor choice test, OTWT and OTHZ females displayed a marked initial choice for the odors of uninfected males, whereas the OTKO females showed no consistent choice. This impairment was specific to the odors of infected males. OTKO females displayed normal analgesic responses to another aversive social odor, that of a stressed male, and an aversive non-social odor, that of a cat. The OTKOs had normal non-social olfactory memory, but were impaired in their social odor memory. These findings indicate that a normal OT gene comprises an essential part of the central recognition mechanism whereby females can both reduce the transmission of parasites to themselves and select for parasite-free males.
Mice from 8 to 21 inbred strains were tested for sensitivity to ethanol intoxication using a range of doses and three different measures: the screen test, the dowel test and a test of grip strength. Strains differed under nearly all conditions. For the dowel test, two dowel widths were employed, and mice were tested immediately or 30 min after ethanol. For the dowel and screen tests, low doses failed to affect some strains, and the highest doses failed to discriminate among mice, maximally affecting nearly all. For grip strength, a single ethanol dose was used, and mice of all strains were affected. Pharmacokinetic differences among strains were significant, but these could not account for strain differences in intoxication. For doses and test conditions in the middle range, there were only modest correlations among strain means within a test. In addition, genotypic correlations across tests were modest to quite low. These results suggest that different specific versions of a test reflect the influence of different genes, and that genetic influences on different tests were also distinct.
Schizophrenia is a common neuropsychiatric disorder of uncertain etiology that is believed to result from the interaction of environmental factors and multiple genes. To identify new genes predisposing to schizophrenia, numerous groups have focused on CAG-repeat-containing genes. We previously reported a CAG repeat polymorphism that was shown to be associated with both the severity of the phenotype and the response to medication in schizophrenic patients. In this article, we now report the genomic structure of this gene, the retinoic acid inducible-1 gene (RAI1), and present its characterization. This gene, located on chromosome 17p11.2, comprises six exons coding for a 7.6-kb mRNA. The RAI1 gene is highly homologous to its mouse counterpart and it is expressed at high levels mainly in neuronal tissues.
There has been a recent explosion in the identification of neuromuscular diseases caused by mutations in genes that affect carbohydrate metabolism or protein glycosylation. A number of these findings relate to defects in the glycosylation of alpha dystroglycan. Alpha dystroglycan is an essential component of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex, and aberrant glycosylation of alpha dystroglycan is associated with multiple forms of muscular dystrophy in mice and humans. We review the evidence that defects in dystroglycan glycosylation cause muscular dystrophy. In addition, we review evidence that glycobiology is important in other disorders that affect muscle, including hereditary inclusion body myopathy type II and congenital disorders of glycosylation. Finally, we discuss the long-term potential of glycotherapies for muscle disorders.
Dystroglycan is an essential component of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex. Three glycan sequencing studies have identified O-linked mannose chains, including NeuAcalpha 2,3Galbeta 1,4GlcNAcbeta 1,2Manalpha-O, on alpha dystroglycan. Chemical deglycosylation of alpha dystroglycan, antibody blocking studies, and glycan blocking studies all suggest that the O-linked glycans on alpha dystroglycan mediate the binding of extracellular matrix proteins in skeletal muscle. Structural data on laminin G domains and agrin-binding studies also suggest this is the case. Dystroglycan, however, is able to bind proteins via mechanisms that do not involve O-linked glycans. Moreover, laminin and other matrix proteins can bind cell adhesion molecules via their glycan chains. Thus although complex and sometimes not overly convincing, these data suggest that glycosylation plays an important role in dystroglycan binding and function in skeletal muscle.
The response of single fibres of the human cochlear nerve to electrical stimulation by a cochlear implant has previously been inferred from the response of the cochlear nerve in other mammals. These experiments are hindered by stimulus artefact and the range of stimulus currents used is therefore much less than the perceptual dynamic range (from threshold to discomfort) of human subjects. We have investigated use of the sciatic nerve of the toad Xenopus laevis as a convenient physiological model of the human cochlear nerve. Use of this completely dissected nerve reduces the problems of stimulus artefact whilst maintaining the advantages of a physiological preparation. The validity of the model was assessed by measuring the refractory periods, excitation time-constant, and relative spread of single fibres using microelectrode recording. We have also investigated the response of nerve fibres to sinusoidal stimulation. Based on these measurements, we propose that the sciatic nerve may be a suitable model of the human cochlear nerve if the timescales of stimuli are decreased by a factor of about five to compensate for the slower dynamics of the sciatic nerve and if noise is added to the stimuli to compensate for the lower internal noise of sciatic nerve fibres.
A rat model of endometriosis, in which pieces of uterine horn (versus fat in controls) are autotransplanted into the abdomen where they form cysts, reduces fecundity and produces vaginal hyperalgesia. The cysts gradually enlarge over a 2-month period postsurgically and then plateau. Cysts regress with low estrogen levels and reappear when they rise. Based on the hypothesis that the vaginal hyperalgesia depends upon the cysts, this study tested two predictions: that (1) the hyperalgesia would develop postsurgically in parallel with the cysts, and (2) the hyperalgesia would vary with estrous, being greatest when estrogen levels are high (proestrus) and least when low (estrus). In rats trained to escape vaginal distention, percentage escape responses to different distention volumes were measured across the rat's 4-day estrous cycle for 2.5 months before and up to 4 months after autotransplantation of uterus (n=9) or fat (n=6) in abdominal sites. Vaginal pressures were also measured. In rats with uterine but not fat autotransplants, escape percentages increased postsurgically over a 2-month period and then plateaued. The increase was greatest in proestrus and failed to occur in estrus. Vaginal pressures were unchanged in all groups. These results strongly support the hypothesis that the vaginal hyperalgesia depends upon the cysts. Because the cysts were located in sites remote from the vagina, the hyperalgesia involves viscero-visceral interactions and is likely centrally mediated, whereas the estrous modulation could involve hormonal actions either on the cysts or, more likely, on vaginal afferent fibers, and/or on central neurons.
Probabilistic atlases of neuroanatomy are more representative of population anatomy than single brain atlases. They allow anatomical labeling of the results of group studies in stereotaxic space, automated anatomical labeling of individual brain imaging datasets, and the statistical assessment of normal ranges for structure volumes and extents. No such manually constructed atlas is currently available for the frequently studied group of young adults. We studied 20 normal subjects (10 women, median age 31 years) with high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanning. Images were nonuniformity corrected and reoriented along both the anterior-posterior commissure (AC-PC) line horizontally and the midsagittal plane sagittally. Building on our previous work, we have expanded and refined existing algorithms for the subdivision of MRI datasets into anatomical structures. The resulting algorithm is presented in the Appendix. Forty-nine structures were interactively defined as three-dimensional volumes-of-interest (VOIs). The resulting 20 individual atlases were spatially transformed (normalized) into standard stereotaxic space, using SPM99 software and the MNI/ICBM 152 template. We evaluated volume data for all structures both in native space and after spatial normalization, and used the normalized superimposed atlases to create a maximum probability map in stereotaxic space, which retains quantitative information regarding inter-subject variability. Its potential applications range from the automatic labeling of new scans to the detection of anatomical abnormalities in patients. Further data can be extracted from the atlas for the detailed analysis of individual structures.
Deoxyguanosine kinase is a constitutively expressed, mitochondrial enzyme of the deoxyribonucleoside salvage pathway. Deficiency of deoxyguanosine kinase causes early-onset, hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) depletion syndrome. To clarify the molecular mechanism of the disease, a skin fibroblast culture was studied from a patient carrying a homozygous nonsense mutation in the gene for deoxyguanosine kinase. In situ examination of DNA synthesis demonstrated that, although mtDNA synthesis is cell cycle independent in control fibroblasts, mtDNA synthesis occurs mainly during the S-phase in deoxyguanosine kinase-deficient cells. Consistent with this observation, it was found that the mtDNA content of exponentially growing, deoxyguanosine kinase-deficient cells is only mildly affected. When cycling is inhibited by serum-deprivation and cells are in a resting state, however, the mtDNA content drops considerably in deoxyguanosine kinase-deficient cells, yet remains stable in control fibroblasts. The decline in mtDNA content in resting, deoxyguanosine kinase-deficient cells can be prevented by dGMP and dAMP supplementation, providing conclusive evidence that substrate limitation triggers mtDNA depletion in deoxyguanosine kinase-deficient cells.
A pointing movement is executed faster when a subject is allowed to stop at the first target than when the subject has to proceed to a second target (&quot;one-target advantage&quot;). Our hypothesis was that this is because the impact at the target helps to stop the finger when the finger does not have to proceed to a second target. This hypothesis would predict that the horizontal force at contact with the first target should be larger when there is only one-target. Modelling smooth movements with larger forces at contact using a minimum-jerk model, shows that the peak velocity is slightly higher and it occurs later during the movement when there is only one target. Although the one-target advantage was present in our experiment, the horizontal force at contact in the one-target condition was not larger than in the two-target condition. The time of the maximum velocity did not differ, but the maximum velocity was higher in the one-target condition. Thus our hypothesis is rejected, favouring a non-mechanical explanation of the one-target advantage.
The synchronization of rhythmic arm movements to a syncopated metronome cue was studied in a step-change design whereby small tempo shifts were inserted at fixed time points into the metronome frequency. The cueing sequence involved three stimulus types: (1) target contact in synchrony with the metronome beats, (2) syncopated target contact midway in time between audible beats, and (3) syncopated target contact following either a +2% or -2% change in stimulus frequency. Analysis of normalized and aggregated data revealed that (1) during the syncopation condition the response period showed a rapid adaptation to the frequency-incremented stimulus period, (2) response period was less variable during syncopated movement, (3) mean synchronization error and variability, calculated during syncopation relative to the mathematical midpoint of the stimulus cycle, were reduced during syncopated movements, and (4) synchronization error following the frequency increment showed trends to return linearly to pre-increment values which was fully achieved in the -2% change condition only. The results suggest that frequency entrainment to stimulus period was possible during syncopated movement with the response and stimulus onsets 180 degrees out of phase. Most remarkably, 70-80% of the adaptation of the response period to the new stimulus period was immediately attained during the second half cycle of the syncopated movement. Finally, a mathematical model, based on recursion, was introduced that accurately modeled actual data as a function of the previous stimulus and response intervals and a weighted response of period error and synchronization error, which showed dominance of frequency entrainment over phase entrainment during rhythmic synchronization.

Insects maintain haemolymph homeostasis under different environmental conditions by modulating the concentrations of Na+, K+ and Cl- ions. One group of proteins involved in ion transport across cell membranes consists of cation-chloride cotransporters that form a family of structurally similar proteins. Although much is known about these proteins in mammalian systems, our understanding of them in insects is lacking. The recent sequencing of two insect genomes, Drosophila and Anopheles, enabled us to identify globally members of the family of cation chloride cotransporters in these insects. Using RT-PCR we monitored the transcription of members of this family in development and in several tissues. Our analyses showed that transcription of these genes differ considerably from the ubiquitously and highly expressed CG5594 gene to the almost silent gene CG31547. Comparison of Drosophila CG12773 and its Aedes homologue AaeCG12773 showed that they have similar transcript expression profiles. Immunohistochemical analysis of AaeCG1277 gene expression revealed that it is highly expressed in the gut of larvae and female adults but not in Malpighian tubules. A more detailed analysis showed that this protein is localized predominantly in the basolateral membrane of these tissues. This expression pattern confirmed the results of RT-PCR analysis. We also created a mutant for one of the genes, CG10413, in Drosophila using P-element excision. Analysis of this mutant showed this protein does not appear to be essential for development.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is mediated by autoantibodies to the acetylcholine receptor (AChR), expressed in muscle and rare thymic myoid cells. Most early-onset cases show thymic lymph node-type infiltrates, including pre-activated plasma cells spontaneously producing anti-AChR antibodies. Since these are not evident in the associated thymomas found in another 10% of MG patients, AChR-specific B cells must be autosensitized elsewhere. Unexpectedly, at diagnosis, &gt;70% of MG/thymoma patients also have high-titer neutralizing autoantibodies to IFN-alpha, and &gt;50% to IL-12; moreover, titers increase strikingly if the thymomas recur, indicating a closer tumor relationship than for anti-AChR. To investigate this, we have measured autoantibody production by cells cultured from thymomas, any available thymic remnants and blood, with or without the B cell stimulant pokeweed mitogen (PWM). To check autoantibody specificity and clonal origins, we isolated Fabs from two combinatorial libraries from producer thymus/thymoma cells. Surprisingly, thymoma cells spontaneously produced antibodies to IFN-alpha and/or IL-12 in &gt;40% of seropositive cases, showing typical plasma cell behavior, whereas they produced anti-AChR only after PWM stimulation. We isolated 15 combinatorial Fabs to IFN-alpha (versus only one to AChR). Their strong binding in radio-immunoprecipitation and Western blots implies high affinities. The four Fabs tested neutralized anti-viral actions of IFN-alpha. The diverse V genes clearly showed ongoing antigen-driven selection. These results imply pre-activation in situ by native IFN-alpha/IL-12 expressed within a 'dangerous' tumor microenvironment. With these molecules, it should be easier to identify provoking cell type(s) that may give novel additional clues to autoimmunization against T-cell epitopes from the more complex AChR.
The blood-brain barrier limits the therapeutic efficacy of systemic administration of anti-inflammatory and/or neuroprotective molecules to patients affected by immune-mediated inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) such as multiple sclerosis. Drug delivery to the CNS using non-replicative viral vectors may represent a valid alternative therapeutic strategy. Gene therapy for multiple sclerosis might include different &quot;human-grade&quot; vectors, which could be used to deliver anti-inflammatory molecules as well as neuroprotective agents into the CNS in a flexible and useful way. These potential &quot;therapeutic&quot; vectors would have different life spans, tissue tropism and infectivity rates.
This paper describes measurements of the sonar beam pattern of flying echolocating bats, Eptesicus fuscus, performing various insect capture tasks in a large laboratory flight room. The beam pattern is deduced using the signal intensity across a linear array of microphones. The positions of the bat and insect prey are obtained by stereoscopic reconstruction from two camera views. Results are reported in the form of beam-pattern plots and estimated direction of the beam axis. The bat centers its beam axis on the selected target with a standard deviation (sigma) of 3 degrees. The experimental error is +/- 1.4 degrees. Trials conducted with two targets show that the bat consistently tracks one of the targets with its beam. These findings suggest that the axis of the bat sonar beam is a good index of selective tracking of targets, and in this respect is analogous to gaze in predominantly visual animals.

The role of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) in the free-radical oxidative-stress model of neurotoxicity in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has received much attention recently. In this study, we have employed both in vitro and in vivo models displaying endogenous Abeta production to study the effects of Abeta on intracellular free radical levels. We employed a neuroblastoma cell line stably expressing an AD-associated double mutation, which exhibits both increased secretion and intracellular accumulation of Abeta when stimulated, as well as transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans constitutively expressing human Abeta. A rise in levels of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) was observed in both in vitro and in vivo AD-associated transgenic models expressing the Abeta peptide compared with the wild type controls. Treatment of the cells or C. elegans with Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 significantly attenuated the basal as well as the induced levels of H2O2-related reactive oxygen species (ROS). Among individual EGb 761 components tested, kaempferol and quercetin provided maximum attenuation in both models. Furthermore, an age-dependent increase in H2O2-related ROS was observed in wild type C. elegans, which is accelerated in the AD-associated C. elegans mutant. These results support the hypothesis of the involvement of Abeta and ROS in association with AD.
We previously reported that transient evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAEs) continue to develop after the onset of cochlear function in pre-term infants from 34 to 39 weeks of conceptional age (Morlet et al., 1996). The time-course of development differed between genders. Reported here are findings of further analysis of data from the study cohort, comprising 1020 ears of 510 pre-term neonates (conceptional age ranging from 34 to 39 weeks), demonstrating developmental differences between right and left ears. The left ear of female pre-term infants showed enhancement of TEOAE amplitude at low and medium frequencies with age, whereas differences were less dramatic in the right ear. In male infants, TEOAE amplitude decreased in several frequency bands at high frequencies, above 4 kHz, between 34 and 39 weeks conceptional age; most developmental differences were found to be more dramatic in the right than in the left ear. It is tempting to speculate that these developmental features underlie well-known inter-aural asymmetries that have been demonstrated in the adult human.
The &quot;active process&quot; is a term used to describe amplification and filtering processes that are essential for obtaining the exquisite sensitivity of hearing organs. Understanding the components of the active process is important both for our understanding of the normal physiology of hearing and because perturbations of the cochlear amplifier may lead to such maladies as threshold shifts (both temporary and permanent), tinnitus, sensorineural hearing loss and presbicusis. To date the cochlear amplifier has largely been attributed to outer hair cell electromotility; however, recent evidence suggests, that active properties of the hair bundle may also be important. Most likely both somatic motility and active hair bundle movements contribute to establishing the cochlear active process. This paper reviews recent evidence regarding known active processes in the hair bundle gating compliance, and fast and slow adaptation.
Peroxynitrite and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) are reactive nitrogen species that have been implicated as causal factors in neurodegenerative conditions. Peroxynitrite-induced nitration of tyrosine residues in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) may even be one of the earliest biochemical events associated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced damage to dopamine neurons. Exposure of TH to peroxynitrite or NO2 results in nitration of tyrosine residues and modification of cysteines in the enzyme as well as inactivation of catalytic activity. Dopamine (DA), its precursor 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, and metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid completely block the nitrating effects of peroxynitrite and NO2 on TH but do not relieve the enzyme from inhibition. o-Quinones formed in the reaction of catechols with either peroxynitrite or NO2 react with cysteine residues in TH and inhibit catalytic function. Using direct, real-time evaluation of tyrosine nitration with a green fluorescent protein-TH fusion protein stably expressed in intact cells (also stably expressing the human DA transporter), DA was also found to prevent NO2-induced nitration while leaving TH activity inhibited. These results show that peroxynitrite and NO2 react with DA to form quinones at the expense of tyrosine nitration. Endogenous DA may therefore play an important role in determining how DA neurons are affected by reactive nitrogen species by shifting the balance of their effects away from tyrosine nitration and toward o-quinone formation.
Although the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is implicated in neuronal degeneration in some situations, its role in delayed neuronal cell death (DND) after ischemia remains uncertain. The authors speculated that ER stress is involved in DND, that it is reduced by ischemic preconditioning, and that ER stress reduction by preconditioning is due to ER molecular chaperone induction. The phosphorylation status of eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha (eIF2alpha) and RNA-dependent protein kinase-like ER eIF2alpha kinase (PERK) was investigated in the rat hippocampus after ischemia with and without preconditioning. PERK is phosphorylated by ER stress, which phosphorylates eIF2alpha. To investigate the role of ER molecular chaperones in preconditioning, the authors examined GRP78 and GRP94 expression, both of which are ER chaperones that inhibit PERK phosphorylation, and compared their induction and ischemic tolerance time windows. Phosphorylation of eIF2alpha and PERK was confirmed after severe ischemia but was inhibited by preconditioning. After preconditioning, GRP78 was increased in the brain with a peak at 2 days, which corresponded with the ischemic tolerance time window. Immunoprecipitation and double staining demonstrated involvement of GRP78 in prevention of PERK phosphorylation. These results suggest that GRP78 induced by preconditioning may reduce ER stress and eventual DND after ischemia.
During the prolonged metabolic depression after traumatic brain injury (TBI), neurons are less able to respond metabolically to peripheral stimulation. Because this decreased responsiveness has been attributed to circuit dysfunction, the present study examined the metabolic, neurochemical, and histologic responses to direct cortical stimulation after lateral fluid percussion injury (LFPI). This study addressed three specific hypotheses: that neurons, if activated after LFPI, will increase their utilization of glucose even during a period of posttraumatic metabolic depression; that this secondary activation results in an increase in the production of lactate and a depletion of extracellular glucose; and that because cells are known to be in a state of energy crisis after traumatic brain injury, additional energy demands resulting from activation can result in their death. The results indicate that stimulating to levels eliciting a vibrissa twitch resulted in an increase in the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMR(glc); micromol.100 g(-1).min(-1)) of 34% to 61% in the sham-operated, 1-hour LFPI, and 7-day LFPI groups. However, in the 1-day LFPI group, stimulation induced a 161% increase in CMR(glc) and a 35% decrease in metabolic activation volume. Extracellular lactate concentrations during stimulation significantly increased from 23% in the sham-injured group to 55% to 63% in the 1-day and 7-day LFPI groups. Extracellular glucose concentrations during stimulation remained unchanged in the sham-injured and 7-day LFPI groups, but decreased 17% in the 1-day LFPI group. The extent of cortical degeneration around the stimulating electrode in the 1-day LFPI group nearly doubled when compared with controls. These results indicate that at 1 day after LFPI, the cortex can respond to stimulation with an increase in anaerobic glycolysis; however, this metabolic response to levels eliciting a vibrissa response via direct cortical stimulation appears to constitute a secondary injury in the TBI brain.
Thrombolytic stroke therapy with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is limited by serious risks of intracerebral hemorrhage. In this study, the authors show that a novel antiactin-targeted immunoliposome significantly reduced tPA-induced hemorrhage in an established rat model of embolic focal stroke. Spontaneously hypertensive rats were subjected to focal ischemia using homologous blood clot emboli. Delayed administration of tPA (10 mg/kg, 6 hours after ischemia) induced intracerebral hemorrhage at 24 hours. In control rats treated with tPA plus vehicle, hemorrhage volumes were 9.0 +/- 2.4 uL (n = 7). In rats treated with tPA plus antiactin immunoliposomes, hemorrhage volumes were significantly reduced to 4.8 +/- 2.7 uL (n = 8, P &lt; 0.05). No significant effects were seen when rats were treated with tPA plus a nontargeted liposome (7.8 +/- 2.1 uL, n = 9). Fluorescent immunohistochemistry showed that rhodamine-labeled targeted liposomes colocalized with vascular structures in ischemic brain that stained positive for endothelial barrier antigen, a marker of cerebral endothelial cells. These data suggest that immunoliposomes may ameliorate vascular membrane damage and reduce hemorrhagic transformation after thrombolytic therapy in cerebral ischemia.
Literacy may be a more powerful indicator of brain reserve than years of education. Literacy level may be a proxy for native intellectual capacity or life experience that can compensate for brain damage or provide brain reserve. Alternately, the experience of acquiring literacy skills may in itself change the organization of the brain and increase protection against cognitive decline. However, because people with low levels of literacy obtain poor scores on most cognitive measures, only longitudinal studies can elucidate the role of reading ability in reserve. We determined whether literacy skills could predict cognitive change in a sample of 136 English-speaking African American, Caucasian, and Hispanic elders selected from a longitudinal aging study in New York City. According to a physician's independent examination, all participants were nondemented throughout the four longitudinal assessments. Literacy level was assessed using the WRAT-3 reading subtest. After accounting for age at baseline and years of education, GEE analyses showed that elders with low levels of literacy had a steeper decline in both immediate and delayed recall of a word list over time as compared to high literacy elders. Our findings suggest that literacy skills are protective against memory decline among nondemented elders.
The concept of cognitive reserve (CR) suggests that innate intelligence or aspects of life experience like educational or occupational attainments may supply reserve, in the form of a set of skills or repertoires that allows some people to cope with progressing Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology better than others. There is epidemiological evidence that lifestyle characterized by engagement in leisure activities of intellectual and social nature is associated with slower cognitive decline in healthy elderly and may reduce the risk of incident dementia. There is also evidence from functional imaging studies that subjects engaging in such leisure activities can clinically tolerate more AD pathology. It is possible that aspects of life experience like engagement in leisure activities may result in functionally more efficient cognitive networks and therefore provide a CR that delays the onset of clinical manifestations of dementia.

Epidemiologic studies demonstrate that long-term use of NSAIDs is associated with a reduced risk for the development of Alzheimer disease (AD). In this study, 20 commonly used NSAIDs, dapsone, and enantiomers of flurbiprofen were analyzed for their ability to lower the level of the 42-amino-acid form of amyloid beta protein (Abeta42) in a human H4 cell line. Thirteen of the NSAIDs and the enantiomers of flurbiprofen were then tested in acute dosing studies in amyloid beta protein precursor (APP) transgenic mice, and plasma and brain levels of Abeta and the drug were evaluated. These studies show that (a). eight FDA-approved NSAIDs lower Abeta42 in vivo, (b). the ability of an NSAID to lower Abeta42 levels in cell culture is highly predicative of its in vivo activity, (c). in vivo Abeta42 lowering in mice occurs at drug levels achievable in humans, and (d). there is a significant correlation between Abeta42 lowering and levels of ibuprofen. Importantly, flurbiprofen and its enantiomers selectively lower Abeta42 levels in broken cell gamma-secretase assays, indicating that these compounds directly target the gamma-secretase complex that generates Abeta from APP. Of the compounds tested, meclofenamic acid, racemic flurbiprofen, and the purified R and S enantiomers of flurbiprofen lowered Abeta42 levels to the greatest extent. Because R-flurbiprofen reduces Abeta42 levels by targeting gamma-secretase and has reduced side effects related to inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX), it is an excellent candidate for clinical testing as an Abeta42 lowering agent.

Two double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of olanzapine in acute mania showed significant overall antimanic efficacy, based on reductions in mania ratings. Their subject-level data were pooled to increase statistical power to test for differences in treatment responses among 10 subgroup pairs of interest using generalized estimating equations methods. Similar drug/placebo superiority and responsiveness to olanzapine was found in men versus women, psychotic versus nonpsychotic subjects, and those presenting in mania versus mixed states, and responses were independent of onset age, current age, or prior illness based on episodes, hospitalizations, recent rapid cycling, lifetime substance use, or previous antipsychotic treatment. Olanzapine and placebo responses paralleled closely (r(s) = 0.73). Patients were relatively more responsive to olanzapine who were younger at illness onset, lacked prior substance abuse, and had not previously received antipsychotic treatment (efficacy ratios 1.5-1.7, all P &lt; 0.01). These well-powered comparisons of subgroups of interest indicate broad efficacy of olanzapine in the treatment of acute mania.
Electroretinograms were recorded from the horseshoe crab compound eye using a high-intensity light-emitting diode and a whole-eye seawater electrode. Recordings were made from both lateral eyes in natural daylight or in continuous darkness with the optic nerve intact or cut. Recordings from two eyes of the same animal in different conditions facilitated direct comparisons of the effects of diurnal lighting and circadian efferent activity on the daily patterns of sensitivity of the eye. Structural changes appear to account for about half of the total electroretinogram excursion. Circadian input begins about 45 min in advance of sunset and the nighttime sensitivity returns to the daytime values 20 min after sunrise. When the optic nerve is cut, the nighttime sensitivity shows exponential decay over the next 5 or 6 days, consistent with a light-triggered structural light adaptation process unopposed by efferent input. Our results suggest that two mechanisms mediate the increase in lateral eye sensitivity at night-physiological dark adaptation and circadian efferent input. Three mechanisms appear to be involved in mediating the decrease in lateral eye sensitivity during daylight-physiological light adaptation, a continuous structural light adaptation process, and a separate light-triggered, efferent-primed structural light adaptation process.
Age-related changes in mastication-induced brain neuronal activity have been suggested. However, in humans, little is known about the anatomical regions involved. Using fMRI during cycles of rhythmic gum-chewing and no chewing, we have examined the effect of aging on brain regional activity during chewing in young adult (19-26 yrs), middle-aged (42-55 yrs), and aged (65-73 yrs) healthy humans. In all subjects, chewing resulted in a bilateral increase in the BOLD signals in the sensorimotor cortex, cerebellum, thalamus, supplementary motor area, and insula, and a unilateral increase in the right prefrontal area. In the first three regions, the signal increases were attenuated in an age-dependent manner, whereas, in the right prefrontal area, the converse was seen. The remaining two regions showed no significant differences with ages. These results indicate that chewing causes regional increases in neuronal activity in the brain, some of which are age-dependent.
Vocal production can be highly deterministic, such that once the central nervous system generates a signal to call, the vocalization is emitted immune to external events. Conversely, vocal production can be modulated by auditory feedback such that interference or disruption can cause an individual to stop calling or, if it continues to call, for the acoustic morphology of the signal to change. To explore which of these models best accounts for the control of vocal production in non-human primates, we adapted an interruption technique originally developed for songbirds for use with a New World monkey species, the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus). Results from a pilot experiment indicated that an auditory stimulus (white noise) was more effective than a visual stimulus (strobe light) at interrupting the tamarin's species-typical 'combination long call (CLC)'. Data from a second experiment showed that although the duration of the auditory stimulus did not affect the proportion of interruptions that occurred, a 1000 ms white noise stimulus perturbed the temporal structure of the CLC to a greater extent than did a 250 ms white noise stimulus. Furthermore, when call production was interrupted, tamarins stopped vocalizing after the completion of a syllable, suggesting that the syllable represents a unit of organization within the call. Overall, these results provide evidence that tamarins can modify their vocal output based on external events, but the degree of vocal control is significantly less than in oscine songbirds.
The lamprey swims by caudally directed lateral undulations of its body. During swimming the animal is oriented with its dorsal side up, and any deviation from this posture (roll tilt) elicits a corrective motor response aimed at restoring the normal orientation. Video recording was used to study the kinematic pattern of the response to a 90 degrees roll tilt imposed in the intact lamprey. The corrective responses were associated with specific modifications of the swimming movements. The plane of locomotor undulations deviated from the normal, i.e. frontal plane in one direction at the beginning of the rotation and in the opposite direction at its end. A similar motor pattern was also observed in the anterior part of the body of lampreys in which the spinal cord had been transected in the mid-body area, when performing postural corrections. It could also be observed during roll turns performed by lampreys after a rostral hemisection of the spinal cord. We argue that these modifications of the locomotor pattern generate the moments of force necessary for initiation and termination of the corrective roll turn. Possible neuronal mechanisms causing the corrective movements are discussed.
ClC channels are a family of protein molecules containing two ion-permeation pores. Although these transmembrane proteins are important for a variety of physiological functions, their molecular operations are only superficially understood. High-resolution X-ray crystallography techniques have recently revealed the structures of two bacterial ClC channels, but whether vertebrate ClC channel pores are similar to those of bacterial homologues is not clear. To study the pore architecture of the Torpedo ClC-0 channel, we employed the substituted-cysteine-accessibility method (SCAM) and used charged methane thiosulfonate (MTS) compounds to modify the introduced cysteine. Several conclusions were derived from this approach. First, the MTS modification pattern from Y512C to E526C in ClC-0, which corresponds to residues forming helix R in bacterial ClC channels, is indeed consistent with the suggested helical structure. Second, the ClC-0 pore is more accessible to the negatively charged than to the positively charged MTS compound, a pore property that is regulated by the intrinsic electrostatic potential in the pore. Finally, attempts to modify the introduced cysteine at positions intracellular to the selectivity filter did not result in larger MTS modification rates for the open-state channel, suggesting that the fast gate of ClC-0 cannot be located at a position intracellular to the Cl- selectivity filter. Thus, the proposal that the glutamate side chain is the fast gate of the channel is applicable to ClC-0, revealing a structural and functional conservation of ClC channels between bacterial and vertebrate species.
The charge on the side chain of the internal pore residue lysine 519 (K519) of the Torpedo ClC-0 chloride (Cl-) channel affects channel conductance. Experiments that replace wild-type (WT) lysine with neutral or negatively charged residues or that modify the K519C mutant with various methane thiosulfonate (MTS) reagents show that the conductance of the channel decreases when the charge at position 519 is made more negative. This charge effect on the channel conductance diminishes in the presence of a high intracellular Cl- concentration ([Cl-]i). However, the application of high concentrations of nonpermeant ions, such as glutamate or sulfate (SO42-), does not change the conductance, suggesting that the electrostatic effects created by the charge at position 519 are unlikely due to a surface charge mechanism. Another pore residue, glutamate 127 (E127), plays an even more critical role in controlling channel conductance. This negatively charged residue, based on the structures of the homologous bacterial ClC channels, lies 4-5 A from K519. Altering the charge of this residue can influence the apparent Cl- affinity as well as the saturated pore conductance in the conductance-Cl- activity curve. Amino acid residues at the selectivity filter also control the pore conductance but mutating these residues mainly affects the maximal pore conductance. These results suggest at least two different conductance determinants in the pore of ClC-0, consistent with the most recent crystal structure of the bacterial ClC channel solved to 2.5 A, in which multiple Cl--binding sites were identified in the pore. Thus, we suggest that the occupancy of the internal Cl--binding site is directly controlled by the charged residues located at the inner pore mouth. On the other hand, the Cl--binding site at the selectivity filter controls the exit rate of Cl- and therefore determines the maximal channel conductance.

A reduction in intraocular pressure in clinical trials can be determined through the mean intraocular pressure, through the proportion of patients who have the intraocular pressure reduced to a specific target intraocular pressure, or both. Since both these possible endpoints measure the shift of 2 intraocular pressure distributions, we recommend that only one of them be tested. In general, testing the difference between mean-values is much more efficient than testing the difference between proportions. However, proportions of successful patients are valuable in showing the clinical implication of a reduction in mean intraocular pressure, particularly when evaluating a moderate pressure reduction. The effect of a small mean intraocular pressure reduction on the probability to reach the target intraocular pressure is pointed out, particularly the fact that it can be substantial even if the mean reduction is smaller than the measurement error.
The uptake of monoamines into the secretory granules of monoamine-storing neuroendocrine cells is mediated by vesicular monoamine transporter protein 1 or 2 (VMAT1 or VMAT2). This study analyzed the expression of VMAT1 and VMAT2 in endocrine cells of normal human and monkey pancreas. The expression of VMAT1 and VMAT2 was also examined in infants with hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia and in adults with pancreatic endocrine tumors (PETs). Using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and in situ hybridization (ISH), we demonstrated the mutually exclusive expression of VMAT1 in endocrine cells of the duct system and of VMAT2 in many cells of the islets of Langerhans. By confocal laser scanning microscopy, VMAT1-positive cells were identified as enterochromaffin (EC) cells and VMAT2-positive cells as beta-cells. In PETs, VMAT1 was found exclusively in all serotonin-containing tumors. In contrast, VMAT2 expression was lost in many insulinomas, independent of their biological behavior. VMAT2 was expressed by some non-insulin-producing tumors. The mutually exclusive expression of VMAT1 in EC cells and of VMAT2 in beta-cells suggests that both cell types store monoamines. Monoamine storage mediated by VMAT1 in EC cells is apparently maintained in EC cell tumors. In contrast, many insulinomas appear to lose their ability to accumulate monoamines via VMAT2.

We investigated the use of purinergic receptors as a new treatment modality for nonmelanoma skin cancers. Purinergic receptors, which bind adenosine 5'-tri-phosphate, are expressed on human cutaneous keratinocytes. Previous work in rat and human epidermis suggested functional roles for purinergic receptors in the regulation of proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. Immunohistochemical analysis of frozen sections in human basal cell carcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas for P2X5, P2X7, P2Y1, P2Y2, and P2Y4 receptors was performed, accompanied by detailed analysis of archive material of tumor subtypes in paraffin sections. Functional studies were performed using a human cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma cell line (A431), where purinergic receptor subtype agonists were applied to cells and changes in cell number were quantified via a colorimetric assay. Immunostaining in paraffin sections was essentially the same as that in frozen sections, although more detail of the subcellular composition was visible. P2X5 and P2Y2 receptors were heavily expressed in basal cell carcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas. P2X7 receptors were expressed in the necrotic center of nodular basal cell carcinomas and in apoptotic cells in superficial multifocal and infiltrative basal cell carcinomas, and squamous cell carcinomas. P2Y1 receptors were only expressed in the stroma surrounding tumors. P2Y4 receptors were found in basal cell carcinomas but not in squamous cell carcinomas. P2X5 receptors appear to be associated with differentiation. The P2X7 receptor agonist benzoylbenzoyl-adenosine 5'-triphosphate and high concentrations of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (1000-5000 microM) caused a significant reduction in A431 cell number (p&lt;0.001), whereas the P2Y2 receptor agonist uridine 5'-triphosphate caused a significant amount of proliferation (p&lt;0.001). We have demonstrated that non-melanoma skin cancers express functional purinergic receptors and that P2X7 receptor agonists significantly reduce cell numbers in vitro.

The patient was a low birth weight infant with a history of renal failure. She was referred to our department 29 days after birth to undergo fundus examination. She experienced renal failure after undergoing a mydriatic test and needed medical treatment. Eyedrops containing phenylephrine were instilled several times and additional drops were also instilled during the fundal examination using an eyelid retractor, therefore the blood concentration of the drug was elevated sufficiently to contract the renal vessels, ultimately inducing renal failure. The present case suggests that since the use of mydriatic eyedrops in low birth weight infants could induce renal failure, the following points should be considered: 1) Mydriatic eyedrops should be used with caution by monitoring mydriasis and avoiding excessive instillation; 2) After instillation, the lacrimal region should be compressed to prevent the flow of mydriatic drops to the nasolacrimal canal; and 3) Vital signs should be monitored to check the onset of any adverse reactions for 12 hours after fundal examination.
We measured and manipulated intracellular potassium (K+) fluxes in cultured hippocampal neurons in an effort to understand the involvement of K+ in neuronal death under conditions of ischemia and exposure to apoptotic stimuli. Measurements of the intracellular K+ concentration using the fluorescent probe 1,3-benzenedicarboxylic acid, 4,4'-[1,4,10,13-tetraoxa-7,16-diazacyclooctadecane-7,16-diylbis(5-methoxy-6,2-benzofurandiyl)]bis-, tetrakis [(acetyloxy) methyl] ester (PBFI) revealed that exposure of neurons to cyanide (chemical hypoxia), glutamate (excitotoxic insult) or staurosporine (apoptotic stimulus) results in efflux of K+ and cell death. Treatment of neurons with 5-hydroxydecanoate (5HD), an inhibitor of mitochondrial K+ channels, reduced K+ fluxes in neurons exposed to each insult and increased the resistance of the cells to death. K+ efflux was attenuated, levels of oxyradicals were decreased, mitochondrial membrane potential was stabilized and release of cytochrome c from mitochondria was attenuated in neurons treated with 5HD. K+ was rapidly released into the cytosol from mitochondria when neurons were exposed to the K+ channel opener, diazoxide, or to the mitochondrial uncoupler, carbonyl cyanide 4(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone (FCCP), demonstrating that the intramitochondrial K+ concentration is greater than the cytosolic K+ concentration. The release of K+ from mitochondria was followed by efflux through plasma membrane K+ channels. In vivo studies showed that 5HD reduces ischemic brain damage without affecting cerebral blood flow in a mouse model of focal ischemic stroke. These findings suggest that intracellular K+ fluxes play a key role in modulating neuronal oxyradical production and cell survival under ischemic conditions, and that agents that modify K+ fluxes may have therapeutic benefit in stroke and related neurodegenerative conditions.
New neurones are produced in the adult hippocampus throughout life and are necessary for certain types of hippocampal learning. Little, however, is known about the control of hippocampal neurogenesis. We used primary hippocampal cultures from early post-natal rats and neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor knockout mice as well as selective neuropeptide Y receptor antagonists and agonists to demonstrate that neuropeptide Y is proliferative for nestin-positive, sphere-forming hippocampal precursor cells and beta-tubulin-positive neuroblasts and that the neuroproliferative effect of neuropeptide Y is mediated via its Y1 receptor. Immunohistochemistry confirmed Y1 receptor staining on both nestin-positive cells and beta-tubulin-positive cells in culture and short pulse 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine studies demonstrated that neuropeptide Y has a proliferative effect on both cell types. These studies suggest that the proliferation of hippocampal neuroblasts and precursor cells is increased by neuropeptide Y and, therefore, that hippocampal learning and memory may be modulated by neuropeptide Y-releasing interneurones.
Neurofibrillary tangles are composed of insoluble aggregates of the microtubule-associated protein tau. In Alzheimer's disease the accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles occurs in the absence of tau mutations. Here we present mice that develop pathology from non-mutant human tau, in the absence of other exogenous factors, including beta-amyloid. The pathology in these mice is Alzheimer-like, with hyperphosphorylated tau accumulating as aggregated paired helical filaments. This pathologic tau accumulates in the cell bodies and dendrites of neurons in a spatiotemporally relevant distribution.
In the female rat, oestrogen receptor (ER) beta is colocalized with both oxytocin- and vasopressin-producing neurones in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). In this study, we demonstrate that the same pattern of colocalization between ERbeta and oxytocin exists in the female mouse. Because this nucleus contains only a negligible quantity of ERalpha, it is likely that the oestrogen-dependent regulation of oxytocin and vasopressin synthesis in the PVN is mediated by ERbeta. Thus, we compared the effect of ovarian hormones on oxytocin and vasopressin mRNA expression in the PVN of wild-type (WT) and ERbeta knockout (betaERKO) mice. We also compared the effects of ovarian hormones on oxytocin receptor (OTR) expression in the medial amygdala (MeA) and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN) in female WT and betaERKO mice. Ovariectomized mice underwent long-term treatment with oestradiol or oil. Progesterone was given concurrently on the final 7 days of treatment, and all mice were killed 48 h after the final progesterone injection. In the PVN, hormone treatment increased oxytocin mRNA expression in WT but not betaERKO females. These results suggest that ERbeta is necessary for the regulation of the expression of oxytocin in the PVN. Hormone treatment had no effect on vasopressin mRNA expression in the PVN, but significantly increased OTR binding in both the VMN and the MeA in both genotypes. Collectively, our data show region and peptide specific regulation by ERalpha and ERbeta in the mouse hypothalamus.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY)-expressing neurones in the arcuate nucleus densely innervate many hypothalamic nuclei. To determine the neurochemical phenotype of target neurones for NPY, we studied the immunohistochemical localization of the NPY Y1 receptor (Y1R) in discrete subpopulations of neurones in the rat hypothalamus. Among several tested populations, including hypocretin/orexin-, melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH)- and nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-positive neurones, only the latter were found to coexpress the Y1R. Numerous Y1R/NOS-positive neurones were found as a densely packaged group of cells located ventrolateral to the ventromedial nucleus, forming a band ascending towards the fornix. Lower numbers of Y1R/NOS-positive neurones were found in the perifornical area and in the peri- and paraventricular nuclei. Expression of the Y1R gene was found in the same locations in the mouse by colocalizing beta-galactosidase, a Y1R gene reporter, with NOS in a Y1R knockout mouse. To explore possible downstream targets of NO in the rat hypothalamus, the NO-regulated molecule cGMP was analysed immunohistochemically after incubation of brain slices with sodium nitroprusside, an NO donor. We observed several cGMP-positive cell bodies in the arcuate nucleus, cGMP-positive blood vessels and a cGMP-positive network of thin fibres, some of which colocalized with choline acetyltransferase.
Various studies implicate corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) as a mediator for the inhibitory effects of stress on reproduction. This study was designed to elucidate the underlying neuroanatomy. The retrograde tracer cholera toxin was picospritzed into the vicinity of the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) perikarya. CRH neurones were examined for the tracer in the medial preoptic nucleus (MPO), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST), paraventricular nucleus (PVN), central amygdaloid nucleus (CeM), parabrachial nucleus (PB) and additional locations. Retrograde label was not detected in CRH neurones at any of these sites; nevertheless, in the MPO and PB, abundant retrogradely-labelled perikarya intermingled with CRH neurones. In the BST, CeM and PVN, sites containing major CRH cell populations, retrogradely-labelled cells were scarce or absent; however, retrograde labelling was found in adjacent regions: lateral septum, medial amygdaloid nucleus and areas bordering the PVN. Double-label in situ hybridization for the mRNAs for LHRH and the CRH type-1 receptor (CRH-R1) identified the receptor transcript at sites rostral and lateral to the LHRH neurones (in the vertical and horizontal limbs of the diagonal band) but not in the LHRH neurones. Given the ability of oestrogen to potentiate stress-induced suppression of LH release, the identification of CRH neurones immunoreactive for oestrogen receptor (ER) alpha in the MPO and for ER beta in the caudal PVN may be significant. In this context, it is also noteworthy that CRH neurones within the MPO and PB which are, respectively, immunopositive and immunonegative for ER alpha, lie within the vicinity of retrogradely-labelled cells. The present findings suggest that the means by which CRH may mediate inhibitory effects of stressors on LH release do not involve direct CRH projections to LHRH neurones; the indirect means for such regulation, and the sites at which oestrogen may potentiate the inhibitory response, remain to be established.
The expression of CCR5 and CXCR3, two chemokine receptors involved with homing of T cells to inflamed tissue, was examined longitudinally on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in patients with a first demyelinating event of the central nervous system (CNS) randomized to receive i.m. injections of interferon-beta1a (IFN-beta1a) or placebo. Blood for analysis was collected before and 48 h after injection at baseline and after 3 and 12 months of treatment. The results showed that treatment with IFN-beta1a did not affect numbers of T cells expressing CCR5 and CXCR3 during the first 12 months of treatment, either at the peak of biological response or at the trough of interferon effect, at steady-state.
The relationship between autoreactivity to myelin antigens and disease progression in multiple sclerosis (MS) is not fully understood. We addressed this relationship by cross-sectionally comparing an objective measure of MS disability with immune cytokine responses to myelin proteins. The ELISPOT assay was used to determine the ex vivo interferon gamma (IFNgamma) and interleukin-10 (IL-10) production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in response to peptides spanning the entire proteolipid protein (PLP) and myelin basic protein (MBP) molecules in 20 patients with relapsing-remitting (RR) MS and 27 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. MS patients showed significantly higher MBP-induced IFNgamma responses and PLP-induced IL-10 responses compared with healthy controls. Using the Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite (MSFC), a new multifactorial measure of disability, MS patients showed a significant correlation between the IFNgamma response to PLP peptides and MBP peptides, and disability. In contrast, in MS patients, there was no correlation between the MSFC and the response to unrelated control antigens or mitogens. These data show that myelin-specific T lymphocytes secreting the inflammatory cytokine IFNgamma correlate with functional impairment in MS, supporting an antigen-specific link between the immune response to myelin and disability in MS.


Over the last 30 years neurovirology has emerged as a major discipline which has much relevance to both human disease and many aspects of neuroscience. This overview of the field aims to define briefly most of the major neurovirological techniques, both &quot;classical&quot; and more recent, and to indicate how these have been used to gain knowledge about the pathogenesis, clinical investigation, and treatment of viral infections of the central nervous system.
Transplacental administration of methylmercury (MeHg) induces disruption of neuronal migration in the developing cerebral cortex. However, the effects of MeHg on glial progenitor migration remain unclear. To understand this, we performed double administration of MeHg and 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) to neonatal rat pups on postnatal day 2 (P2), when glial cells are generated from progenitors in the subventricular zone (SVZ). Histopathological examination of a proportion of the MeHg-treated rats on P28 revealed no apparent abnormalities of cytoarchitecture or neuron count in either the primary motor or primary somatosensory cortex of the cerebrum. BrdU immunohistochemistry revealed abnormal accumulation of the labeled cells in the deeper layers of the cortices and underlying white matter of both areas, where an excessive number of astrocytes (glial fibrillary acidic protein- or S-100beta-immunolabeled cells) and oligodendrocytes (2',3'-cyclic-nucleotide 3'-phosphohydrolase-labeled cells) were located. Next, to investigate the migration of individual progenitors from the forebrain SVZ of P2 neonates, we labeled them in vivo with a retrovirus encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP), following administration of MeHg, and then examined the distribution pattern of the GFP-labeled cells in the P28 cerebrum. We found that the labeled cells developed into astrocytes and oligodendrocytes and were accumulated abnormally in the lateral white matter as well as in the adjacent deeper layer of the lateral cortex and lateral side of the striatum. Thus, exposure to MeHg in the gliogenic period induced irregular distribution of glia as a consequence of abnormal migration of the postnatal progenitors.
Previous studies have shown that the spatial organization of all eye orientations during visually guided saccadic eye movements (Listing's plane) varies systematically as a function of static and dynamic head orientation in space. Here we tested if a similar organization also applies to the spatial orientation of eye positions during smooth pursuit eye movements. Specifically, we characterized the three-dimensional distribution of eye positions during horizontal and vertical pursuit (0.1 Hz, +/-15 degrees and 0.5 Hz, +/-8 degrees) at different eccentricities and elevations while rhesus monkeys were sitting upright or being statically tilted in different roll and pitch positions. We found that the spatial organization of eye positions during smooth pursuit depends on static orientation in space, similarly as during visually guided saccades and fixations. In support of recent modeling studies, these results are consistent with a role of gravity on defining the parameters of Listing's law.
In studies using single neuron recordings from awake, behaving monkeys, it is necessary to make repeated transdural penetrations using fragile microelectrodes. The tough connective tissue that accumulates after the dura mater is first exposed is often problematic because of electrode breakage and the mechanical stress to the underlying brain tissue caused by excessive dimpling during penetration. We describe the use of an antimitotic compound, 5-fluorouracil (5FU) to control the growth of this connective tissue. 5FU can be safely applied for short periods to the exposed dural tissue on a regular basis provided that it is thoroughly rinsed after application. The advantages of using 5FU are fourfold: first, it depresses fibroblast division and minimizes dural growth and scar tissue formation so that penetrations are easier with less electrode damage or breakage. Second, the frequency of surgical procedures required to remove this tissue are greatly reduced, which benefits both the experiment animal and the experiment. Third, 5FU reduces vascularization of the tissue so that its removal is far easier and without significant blood loss. Finally, 5FU seems to inhibit bacterial infections within the recording chamber. In macaque motor cortex, we performed a quantitative study of electrophysiological data recorded from monkeys with and without 5FU treatment. No significant deleterious side effects produced by 5FU could be detected. Likewise, histological examination of cortical tissue underlying treated dura did not reveal any obvious signs of damage by 5FU. We recommend this approach, with the appropriate safety precautions, to all those neurophysiologists using transdural microelectrode methods in chronically prepared experimental animals. It is also possible that this technique may be useful in other situations where there is dural scarring after surgical intervention or injury.
Parallel recording of neuronal activity in the behaving animal is a prerequisite for our understanding of neuronal representation and storage of information. Here we describe the development of micro-machined silicon microelectrode arrays for unit and local field recordings. The two-dimensional probes with 96 or 64 recording sites provided high-density recording of unit and field activity with minimal tissue displacement or damage. The on-chip active circuit eliminated movement and other artifacts and greatly reduced the weight of the headgear. The precise geometry of the recording tips allowed for the estimation of the spatial location of the recorded neurons and for high-resolution estimation of extracellular current source density. Action potentials could be simultaneously recorded from the soma and dendrites of the same neurons. Silicon technology is a promising approach for high-density, high-resolution sampling of neuronal activity in both basic research and prosthetic devices.
Adenosine either inhibits or facilitates synaptic transmission through A1 or A2A receptors, respectively. Since A2A receptor density increases in the limbic cortex of aged (24 mo) compared with young adult rats (2 mo), we tested if A2A receptor modulation of synaptic transmission was also increased in aged rats. The A2A receptor agonist, CGS21680 (10 nM), caused a larger facilitation of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) slope in hippocampal slices of aged (38%) than in young rats (19%), an effect prevented by the A2A receptor antagonist, ZM241385 (20 nM). In contrast to young rats, where CGS21680 facilitation of fEPSPs is prevented by the protein kinase C inhibitor, chelerythrine (6 microM), but not by the protein kinase A inhibitor, H-89 (1 microM), the CGS21680-induced facilitation of fEPSP slope in aged rats was prevented by H-89 (1 microM) but not by chelerythrine (6 microM). Also, in contrast to the beta-receptor agonist, isoproterenol (30 microM), CGS21680 (100-1,000 nM) enhanced cAMP levels in hippocampal nerve terminals of aged but not young rats. Finally, we observed a significant increase of both the binding density of [3H]CGS 21680 and the [3H]ZM241385 as well as of the anti-A2A receptor immunoreactivity in hippocampal nerve terminal membranes from aged compared with young rats. This shows that A2A receptor-mediated facilitation of hippocampal synaptic transmission is larger in aged than young rats due to increased A2A receptor density in nerve terminals and to the modified transducing system operated by A2A receptors, from a protein kinase C mediated control of A1 receptors into a direct protein kinase A dependent facilitation of synaptic transmission.
The principal cells of the chick tangential nucleus are vestibular nucleus neurons participating in the vestibular reflexes. In 16-day embryos, the application of glutamate receptor antagonists abolished the postsynaptic responses generated on vestibular-nerve stimulation, but spontaneous synaptic activity was largely unaffected. Here, spontaneous synaptic activity was characterized in principal cells from brain slices at E16 using whole cell voltage-clamp recordings. With KCl electrodes, the frequency of spontaneous inward currents was 3.1 Hz at -60 mV, and the reversal potential was +4 mV. Cs-gluconate pipette solution allowed the discrimination of glycine/GABA(A) versus glutamate receptor-mediated events according to their different reversal potentials. The ratio for spontaneous excitatory to inhibitory events was about 1:4. Seventy-four percent of the outward events were GABA(A), whereas 26% were glycine receptor-mediated events. Both pre- and postsynaptic GABA(B) receptor effects were shown, with presynaptic GABA(B) receptors inhibiting 40% of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) and 53% of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs). With TTX, the frequency decreased approximately 50% for EPSCs and 23% for IPSCs. These data indicate that the spontaneous synaptic activity recorded in the principal cells at E16 is primarily inhibitory, action potential-independent, and based on the activation of GABA(A) receptors that can be modulated by presynaptic GABA(B) receptors.
We demonstrate that in the macaque monkey there is robust, short-latency facilitation by ventral premotor cortex (area F5) of motor outputs from primary motor cortex (M1) to contralateral intrinsic hand muscles. Experiments were carried out on two adult macaques under light sedation (ketamine plus medetomidine HCl). Facilitation of hand muscle electromyograms (EMG) was tested using arrays of fine intracortical microwires implanted, respectively, in the wrist/digit motor representations of F5 and M1, which were identified by previous mapping with intracortical microstimulation. Single pulses (70-200 microA) delivered to F5 microwires never evoked any EMG responses, but small responses were occasionally seen with double pulses (interval: 3 ms) at high intensity. However, both single- and double-pulse stimulation of F5 could facilitate the EMG responses evoked from M1 by single shocks. The facilitation was large (up to 4-fold with single and 12-fold with double F5 shocks) and occurred with an early onset, with significant effects at intervals of only 1-2 ms between conditioning F5 and test M1 stimuli. A number of possible pathways could be responsible for these effects, although it is argued that the most likely mechanism would be the facilitation, by cortico-cortical inputs from F5, of corticospinal I wave activity evoked from M1. This facilitatory action could be of considerable importance for the coupling of grasp-related neurons in F5 and M1 during visuomotor tasks.
We examined neuronal activity in the dorsal subiculum of unrestrained, male adult Wistar rats, which were implanted with a moveable eight-electrode microdrive. The subiculum is the primary hippocampal formation output area and is comparatively uninvestigated neurophysiologically. We compared subicular unit activity and the subicular EEG while rats occupied a small, restricted environment and also correlated neuronal activity with the ongoing behavior of the animal. Units were separated using their electrophysiological characteristics into bursting units, regular spiking units, theta-modulated units, and fast spiking units. The bursting and regular spiking unit classes are similar to hippocampal CA1 units, whereas the fast spiking units appear to be interneurons. Bursting units were variable in their behavior: some units bursted regularly, and others bursted only occasionally. Theta-modulated units have not been described before; these were similar to regular spiking units in all respects except that they increased their firing significantly when theta oscillations were present in the simultaneous EEG record. Subicular EEG was similar to hippocampal EEG, with theta oscillations dominating &quot;alert, moving&quot; behaviors, while large amplitude irregular activity (LIA), which included sharp waves, predominated when theta oscillations were not present, mainly during &quot;alert, still&quot; and &quot;quiet&quot; behaviors. A relatively small proportion of subicular recordings (approximately 32%) were phase-locked to theta; this is a smaller proportion than in areas from which the subiculum takes major inputs. The relative lack of entrainment of subicular neurons by this important intrinsic rhythm is suggestive of a limit to which theta might be capable of affecting both subicular and hippocampal information processing more generally.
Numerous studies of motor learning have focused on how people adapt their reaching movements to novel dynamic and visuomotor perturbations that alter the actual or visually perceived motion of the hand. An important finding from this work is that learning of novel dynamics generalizes across different movement tasks. Thus adaptation to an unusual force field generalizes from center-out reaching movements to circular movements (Conditt et al. 1997). This suggests that subjects acquired an internal model of the dynamic environment that could be used to determine the motor commands needed for untrained movements. Using a task interference paradigm, we investigated whether transfer across tasks is also observed when learning visuomotor transformations. On day 1, all subjects adapted to a +30 degrees rotation while making center-out-and-back reaching movements. After a delay of 5 min, different groups of subjects then adapted to a -30 degrees rotation while performing either a continuous tracking task, a figure-eight drawing task, or the center-out-and-back reaching task. All subjects were then retested the next day on the +30 degrees rotation in the reaching task. As expected, subjects who experienced the opposing rotations while performing the same reaching tasks showed no retention of learning for the first rotation when tested on day 2 (Krakauer et al. 1999). In contrast, such retrograde interference was not observed in the two groups of subjects who experienced the opposing rotations while performing different tasks. In fact, their performance on day 2 was similar to that of control subjects who never experienced the opposite rotation. This lack of interference suggests that memory resources for visuomotor rotations are task specific.
Acquisition of trace eyeblink conditioning involves the association of a conditioned stimulus (CS) with an unconditioned stimulus (US) separated by a stimulus-free trace interval. This form of conditioning is dependent upon the hippocampus and the caudal anterior cingulate cortex (AC), in addition to brain stem and cerebellar circuitry. Hippocampal involvement in trace eyeblink conditioning has been studied extensively, but the involvement of caudal AC is less well understood. In the present study, we compared neuronal responses from rabbits given either paired (trace conditioning) or unpaired (pseudoconditioning) presentations of the CS and US. Presentation of the CS elicited significant increases in neuronal activity at the onset of both trace conditioning and pseudoconditioning. A robust CS-elicited neuronal response persisted throughout the first 2 days of trace conditioning, declining gradually across subsequent training sessions. In contrast, the magnitude of the CS-elicited excitatory response during pseudoconditioning began to decline within the first 10 trials. Neurons exhibiting excitatory responses to the CS during trace conditioning also exhibited excitatory responses to the US that were significantly greater in magnitude than US-elicited responses during pseudoconditioning. CS-elicited decreases in neuronal activity became more robust over the course of trace conditioning compared to pseudoconditioning. Reductions in activity during the CS interval consistently preceded excitation in both training groups, suggesting that the CS-elicited decreases in neuronal activity may serve to increase the signal-to-noise ratio of the excitatory response to the tone. Taken together, these data suggest that the caudal AC is involved early in trace eyeblink conditioning and that maintenance of the CS-elicited excitatory response may serve to signal the salience of the tone.
After chronic spinal cord injury motoneurons exhibit large plateau potentials (sustained depolarizations triggered by brief inputs) that play a primary role in the development of muscle spasms and spasticity (Bennett et al. 2001a,b). The present study examined the voltage-gated persistent inward currents (PICs) underlying these plateaus. Adult rats were spinalized at the S2 sacral spinal level and after 2 mo, when spasticity developed, intracellular recordings were made from motoneurons below the injury. For recording, the whole sacrocaudal spinal cord was removed and maintained in vitro in normal artificial cerebral spinal fluid (nACSF), without application of neuromodulators. During a slow triangular voltage-clamp command (ramp) a PIC was activated with a threshold of -54.2 +/- 4.8 mV (similar to plateau threshold), with a peak current of 2.88 +/- 0.95 nA and produced a pronounced negative-slope region in the V-I relation. This PIC was in part mediated by Cav1.3 L-type calcium channels because it was low threshold and significantly reduced by 10 to 20 microM nimodipine or 400 microM Cd2+. The PIC that remained during a calcium channel blockade (in Cd2+) was completely and rapidly blocked by tetrodotoxin (TTX; 0.5 to 2 microM), and thus was a TTX-sensitive persistent sodium current. This persistent sodium current was activated rapidly about 7 mV below the spike threshold (spike threshold -46.1 +/- 4.5 mV), contributed approximately 1/2 of the initial peak of the total PIC, inactivated partly to contribute only approximately 1/3 of the sustained PIC (at 5 to 10 s), and deactivated rapidly with hyperpolarization (&lt;50 ms). When TTX was added to the bath first, the nimodipine-sensitive persistent calcium current (L-type) was seen in isolation; it was slowly activated (&gt;250 ms), had a low but variable threshold (either slightly above or below the spike threshold), contributed the other approximately 1/2 of the initial peak of the total PIC (before TTX), did not usually inactivate with time (contributed approximately two-thirds of the sustained PIC), and deactivated slowly with hyperpolarization to rest (in &gt;300 ms). In summary, low-threshold persistent calcium (Cav1.3) and sodium currents spontaneously develop in motoneurons of chronic spinal rats and these enable large, rapidly activated plateaus that ultimately lead to spasticity.
Recurrent and lateral inhibition play a prominent role in patterning the odor-evoked discharges in mitral cells, the output neurons of the olfactory bulb. Inhibitory responses in this brain region are mediated through reciprocal synaptic connections made between the dendrites of mitral cells and GABAergic interneurons. Previous studies have demonstrated that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors on interneurons play a critical role in eliciting GABA release at reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses. In acute olfactory bulb slices, these receptors are tonically blocked by extracellular Mg2+, and recurrent inhibition is disabled. In the present study, we examined the mechanisms by which this tonic blockade could be reversed. We demonstrate that near-coincident activation of an excitatory pathway to the proximal dendrites of GABAergic interneurons relieves the Mg2+ blockade of NMDA receptors at reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses and greatly facilitates recurrent inhibition onto mitral cells. Gating of recurrent and lateral inhibition in the presence of extracellular Mg2+ requires gamma-frequency stimulation of glutamatergic axons in the granule cell layer. Long-range excitatory axon connections from mitral cells innervated by different subpopulations of olfactory receptor neurons may provide a gating input to granule cells, thereby facilitating the mitral cell lateral inhibition that contributes to odorant encoding.
Intact, freely moving juvenile Lymnaea perform aerial respiration significantly less often than do adults. We therefore hypothesized that RPeD1, the central pattern generator (CPG) neuron that initiates rhythmogenesis, would be less active in juveniles than adults. Using both isolated and semi-intact preparations to directly test this hypothesis, we found the opposite; juvenile RPeD1s were significantly smaller and more excitable than RPeD1s from adults. Significant age-related differences were found in the membrane resistance (greater in juveniles), time constant (smaller in juveniles), and rheobase current (lower in juveniles), all of which would tend to make juvenile cells significantly more excitable. However, there were significant age-related differences in the synaptic connectivity within the CPG and in peripheral input to the CPG, all which favor more rhythmic activity in the adult CPG. As was the case for intact Lymnaea, juvenile semi-intact preparations perform aerial respiration less often than do adults. The difference in excitability between juvenile and adult RPeD1s is therefore not sufficient to cause increased rhythmogenesis. Age-related changes in synaptic connectivity within the respiratory CPG and in peripheral modulation allow respiratory rhythmogenesis to be more easily expressed in adults which may compensate for their decreased dependence on cutaneous respiration as their surface to volume ratio changes as the grow in size.
The cyclic AMP-response element binding protein (CREB) is an activity-dependent transcription factor important for synaptic plasticity and memory storage. Levels of phosphorylated CREB within the cortex are higher in waking than in sleep, suggesting that CREB plays a role in sleep/wake regulation in mammals. We tested the hypothesis that CREB is critical for sleep/wake regulation by examining behavioral state parameters in mice lacking the alpha and Delta isoforms of CREB. Over 24 h, time spent awake was significantly decreased in CREB alphaDelta mutant mice by approximately 100 min, and time spent in nonrapid eye movement sleep (NREM) sleep was increased correspondingly. Wake and REM sleep periods were shorter in CREB alphaDelta mice, and CREB alphaDelta mice had decreased levels of -activity during wake and REM sleep, consistent with an impairment in the ability to maintain an activated electroencephalogram. These results suggest that the CREB protein contributes to the mechanisms by which wakefulness is maintained and demonstrate that specific genetic alterations in species as diverse as Drosophila and mice produce similar phenotypes in arousal and wakefulness.
Remarkable activity dependence was uncovered in the chloride conductance that operates in the subthreshold region of membrane potential, by using the two-microelectrode voltage-clamp technique in the mature and intact rat sympathetic neuron. Both direct and synaptic neuron tetanization (15 Hz, 10-s duration to saturate the response) resulted in a long-lasting (not less than 15 min) increase of cell input conductance (+70-150% 10 min after tetanus), accompanied by the onset of an inward current with the same time course. Both processes developed with similar properties in the postganglionic neuron when presynaptic stimulation was performed under current- or voltage-clamp conditions and were unaffected by external calcium on direct stimulation. The posttetanic effects were sustained by gCl increase because both conductance and current modifications were blocked by 0.5 mM Anthracene-9-carboxylic acid (a chloride channel blocker) but were unaffected by TEACl or cesium chloride treatments. The chloride channel properties were modified by stimulation: their voltage sensitivity and rate of closure in response to hyperpolarization strongly increased. The voltage dependence of the three major conductances governing the cell subthreshold status (gCl, gK, and gL) was evaluated over the -40/-110 mV membrane potential range in unstimulated neurons and compared with previous results in stimulated neurons. A drastic difference between the voltage-conductance profiles was observed, exclusively sustained by gCl increase. The chloride channel thus hosts an intrinsic mechanism, a memory of previous neuron activity, which makes the chloride current a likely candidate for natural controller of the balance between opposite resting currents and thus of membrane potential level.
Our study uses the combined transcranial magnetic stimulation/positron emission tomography (TMS/PET) method for elucidating neural connectivity of the human motor system. We first altered motor excitability by applying low-frequency repetitive TMS over two cortical motor regions in separate experiments: the dorsal premotor and primary motor cortices. We then assessed the consequences of modulating motor excitability by applying single-pulse TMS over the primary motor cortex and measuring: 1) muscle responses with electromyography and 2) cerebral blood flow with PET. Low-frequency repetitive stimulation reduced muscle responses to a similar degree in both experiments. To map networks of brain regions in which activity changes reflected modulation of motor excitability, we generated t-statistical maps of correlations between reductions in muscle response and differences in cerebral blood flow. Low-frequency repetitive stimulation altered neural activity differently in both experiments. Neural modulation occurred in multiple brain regions after dorsal premotor cortex stimulation; these included motor regions in the frontal cortex as well as more associational regions in the parietal and prefrontal cortices. In contrast, neural modulation occurred in a smaller number of brain regions after primary motor cortex stimulation, many of these confined to the motor system. These findings are consistent with the known differences between the dorsal premotor and primary motor cortices in the extent of cortico-cortical anatomical connectivity in the monkey.
In the behaving monkey, inferior parietal lobe cortical neurons combine visual information with eye position signals. However, an organized topographic map of these neurons' properties has never been demonstrated. Intrinsic optical imaging revealed a functional architecture for the effect of eye position on the visual response to radial optic flow. The map was distributed across two subdivisions of the inferior parietal lobule, area 7a and the dorsal prelunate area, DP. Area 7a contains a representation of the lower eye position gain fields while area DP represents the upper eye position gain fields. Horizontal eye position is represented orthogonal to the vertical eye position across the medial lateral extents of the cortices. Similar topographies were found in three hemispheres of two monkeys; the horizontal and vertical gain field representations were not isotropic with a greater modulation found with the vertical. Monte Carlo methods demonstrated the significance of the maps, and they were verified in part using multiunit recordings. The novel topographic organization of this association cortex area provides a substrate for constructing representations of surrounding space for perception and the guidance of motor behaviors.
We characterized the interaural translational vestibulo-ocular reflex (tVOR) in 6 normal humans to brief (approximately 200 ms), high-acceleration (0.4-1.4g) stimuli, while they fixed targets at 15 or 30 cm. The latency was 19 +/- 5 ms at 15-cm and 20 +/- 12 ms at 30-cm viewing. The gain was quantified using the ratio of actual to ideal behavior. The median position gain (at time of peak head velocity) was 0.38 and 0.37, and the median velocity gain, 0.52 and 0.62, at 15- and 30-cm viewing, respectively. These results suggest the tVOR scales proportionally at these viewing distances. Likewise, at both viewing distances, peak eye velocity scaled linearly with peak head velocity and gain was independent of peak head acceleration. A saccade commonly occurred in the compensatory direction, with a greater latency (165 vs. 145 ms) and lesser amplitude (1.8 vs. 3.2 deg) at 30- than 15-cm viewing. Even with saccades, the overall gain at the end of head movement was still considerably undercompensatory (medians 0.68 and 0.77 at 15- and 30-cm viewing). Monocular viewing was also assessed at 15-cm viewing. In 4 of 6 subjects, gains were the same as during binocular viewing and scaled closely with vergence angle. In sum the low tVOR gain and scaling of the response with viewing distance and head velocity extend previous results to higher acceleration stimuli. tVOR latency (approximately 20 ms) was lower than previously reported. Saccades are an integral part of the tVOR, and also scale with viewing distance.
The subjective visual vertical (SVV) is usually considered a measure of otolith function. Herewith we investigate the influence of semicircular canal (SCC) stimulation on the SVV by rotating normal subjects in yaw about an earth-vertical axis, with velocity steps of +/- 90 degrees /s, for 60 s. SVV was assessed by setting an illuminated line to perceived earth vertical in darkness, during a per- and postrotary period. Four head positions were tested: upright, 30 degrees backward (chin up) or forward, and approximately 40 degrees forward from upright. During head upright/backward conditions, a significant SVV tilt (P &lt; 0.01) in the direction opposite to rotation was found that reversed during postrotary responses. The rotationally induced SVV tilt had a time constant of decay of approximately 30 s. Rotation with the head 30 degrees forward did not affect SVV, whereas the 40 degrees forward tilt caused a direction reversal of SVV responses compared with head upright/backward. Spearman correlation values (Rho) between individual SCC efficiencies in different head positions and mean SVV tilts were 0.79 for posterior, 0.34 for anterior, and - 0.80 for horizontal SCCs. Three-dimensional video-oculography showed that SVV and torsional eye position measurements were highly correlated (0.83) and in the direction opposite to the slow phase torsional vestibuloocular reflex. In conclusion: 1) during yaw axis rotation without reorientation of the head with respect to gravity, the SVV is influenced by SCC stimulation; 2) this effect is mediated by the vertical SCCs, particularly the posterior SCCs; 3) rotationally induced SVV changes are due to torsional ocular tilt; 4) SVV and ocular tilts occur in the &quot;anticompensatory,&quot; fast phase direction of the torsional nystagmus; and 5) clinically, abnormal SVV tilts cannot be considered a specific indication of otolith system dysfunction.
We examined whether behavioral and neural effects of repeating faces are modulated by independent factors of selective attention, emotion, and cholinergic enhancement, during functional MRI. Face repetition occurred either between task-relevant (spatially attended) or task-irrelevant (unattended) stimuli; faces could be fearful or neutral; subjects received either placebo or physostigmine. Under placebo, a reaction time advantage occurred with repetition (i.e., priming) that did not differ between levels of attention, but was attenuated with emotion. Inferior temporo-occipital cortex demonstrated repetition decreases to both attended and unattended faces, and showed either equivalent or greater repetition decreases with emotional compared with neutral faces. By contrast, repetition decreases were attenuated for emotional relative to neutral faces in lateral orbitofrontal cortex. These results distinguish automatic repetition effects in sensory cortical regions from repetition effects modulated by emotion in orbitofrontal cortex, which parallel behavioral effects. Under physostigmine, unlike placebo, behavioral repetition effects were seen selectively for attended faces only, whereas emotional faces no longer impaired priming. Physostigmine enhanced repetition decreases in inferior occipital cortex selectively for attended faces, and reversed the emotional interaction with repetition in lateral orbitofrontal cortex. Thus we show that cholinergic enhancement both augments a neural signature of priming and modulates the effects of attention and emotion on behavioral and neural consequences of repetition.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a sensory motor neurological movement disorder affecting 12 million Americans. Few healthcare providers know of the existence of this syndrome. Often underdiagnosed and unrecognized because of comorbid conditions, RLS is a lifelong condition with worsening symptoms. For the healthcare provider, RLS may present with confusing symptoms. With no cure, treatment is often unsuccessful in alleviating the discomfort associated with the syndrome. Although RLS is a common, potentially disabling condition, neuroscience nurses may provide interventions to assist in the successful management of the syndrome.

Each year hundreds of thousands of people must cope with the severe neurological consequences of a stroke. Current therapeutic strategies for stroke focus on acute treatment and neuroprotection. Unfortunately, these practices do little to reduce the long-term morbidity associated with the injury. To develop effective therapies that promote regeneration, we must have an understanding of the cellular and molecular events involved in the recovery from an insult. Neural stem and progenitor cells are likely to be affected during this period. Here we review how the proliferation, migration, and maturation of these precursors are affected by ischemia. Furthermore, we summarize data available on the underlying mechanisms and the therapeutic implications of these studies. The studies that we review provide compelling evidence that neural precursors resident in the brain initiate a compensatory response to stroke that results in the production of new neurons. Moreover, administration of growth factors can enhance this compensatory response. Based on these encouraging results, we may eventually be able to manipulate these precursors to improve recovery of function in individuals afflicted by this devastating injury.
The authors combined a monopolar electrode and a suction/irrigation channel with a 0 degrees, 4-mm Hopkins rigid telescope into a single multifunctional unit. This three-in-one instrument is inserted through a lightweight 7.5-mm outer sheath, which is fixed separately. A fourth instrument (for example, a balloon catheter or a biopsy forceps) can be introduced and manipulated independently with the other hand. All endoscopic procedures were performed with a trephine to create a 15-mm craniotomy. After opening the dura mater, ventricles were tapped with a brain needle, which was followed by the insertion of the rigid scope for visualization. The telescope was then withdrawn momentarily; the outer sheath was introduced into the ventricle and fixed over the area of interest. The definitive procedure was then performed with ease by using the multifunctional three-in-one instrument in one hand and a fourth instrument in the other hand. This novel neuroendoscopic system has been used in clinical testing at the Vidyasagar Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences since May 1998. Thus far, 83 neuroendoscopic procedures have been successfully performed with the aid of this instrumentation system, which has proven to be safe, versatile, and cost-effective, allowing a greater degree of freedom for the neurosurgeon.

Prosaposin, the precursor of saposins or saps, is an injury-repair protein that acts on both neurons and glia. Previous studies identified the prosaposin gene as one of differentially expressed genes following nerve injury. In the present study, we investigated expression of prosaposin mRNA in injured brain utilizing rat models of focal cerebral ischemia and cortical stab wound in order to explore the significance of prosaposin in nerve injury. In ischemic brain, the level of prosaposin mRNA was elevated greater than 400% over controls within 5 days after ischemic insults. Importantly, this induction was accompanied by a 9-base splicing consistent with the alternative Exon-8 splicing of human prosaposin mRNA. In normal brain, two prosaposin mRNA species with and without the 9-base insertion were expressed at a ratio of 85:15; however, this equilibrium reverted to 5:95 following ischemic injury. Similar inductions were observed in stab wound brains. Immunohistochemical staining and in situ hybridization demonstrated an enhanced signal distribution of prosaposin mRNA and injury-induced prosaposin protein around the lesion. The data suggest the expression and processing of prosaposin mRNA may be crucially regulated not only for cerebral homeostasis but also during nerve regenerative and degenerative processes.
The complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced arthritic rat model has extensively served as a laboratory model in the study of arthritic pain. However, the time courses of allodynia and hyperalgesia and the efficacies of different analgesics have not fully been analyzed in this model. Mechanical allodynia, thermal and joint hyperalgesia, and other disease development parameters (body weight, mobility, paw volume, and joint stiffness) were measured on postinoculation days (PIDs) 0 to 28 in rats. Acute analgesic efficacies of drugs were evaluated on PID 9 when degrees of allodynia, hyperalgesia, and joint stiffness in the ipsilateral paw reached almost the maximum, although those in the contralateral paw changed only slightly. In the ipsilateral paw, thermal hyperalgesia reached the maximum on PID 1, whereas mechanical allodynia and joint hyperalgesia progressively developed during the first 7 or 8 days, being tuned in to arthritis development. In the contralateral paw, thermal hyperalgesia never occurred, whereas mechanical allodynia and joint hyperalgesia developed after PID 11. Morphine and tramadol had full efficacies for all the pain parameters tested at sedation-inducing doses. Indomethacin and diclofenac significantly but partially improved thermal and joint hyperalgesia. Amitriptyline significantly reduced thermal and joint hyperalgesia only at sedation-inducing dose. Acetaminophen, carbamazepine, and gabapentin had, at the most, very small efficacies. In conclusion, the present study provided integrated information about the time course of pain and other disease development parameters in the CFA-induced arthritic rats, and clarified acute efficacies of different categories of analgesics for the allodynia and hyperalgesia.
Topical capsaicin is believed to alleviate pain by desensitizing the vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1) at the peripheral nerve endings. Here, we report that an up-regulation of VR1 expression on myelinated fibers contributes to the antihyperalgesic effect of capsaicin cream in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic neuropathic pain. Intravenous injection of STZ (200 mg/kg) in mice caused rapid onset of diabetes within 24 h. Thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia developed by 3 days after STZ injection and persisted at all time points tested until 28 days. There was also hyperalgesic response to intraplantar (i.pl.) prostaglandin I2 (PGI2) agonist-induced nociception in such mice. Application of capsaicin cream dose dependently reversed the thermal, mechanical, and PGI2 agonist-induced hyperalgesia observed in the diabetic mice. The i.pl. injection of capsaicin solution (0.4 microg/20 microl) produced nociceptive biting-licking responses in control mice, and these responses were significantly increased in STZ-induced diabetic mice. After neonatal capsaicin-treatment, which destroys most unmyelinated C-fibers, the i.pl. capsaicin-induced biting-licking responses were almost abolished. However, in neonatal capsaicin-treated diabetic mice, the i.pl. capsaicin-induced biting-licking responses reappeared. The i.pl. capsaicin-induced biting-licking responses were blocked by the competitive VR1 antagonist capsazepine. All these results suggest an increase in capsaicin receptor on myelinated fibers due to diabetes. Finally, we confirmed the up-regulation of VR1 expression on myelinated primary afferent neurons of diabetic mice by immunohistochemistry. Together, our results suggest that increased expression of VR1 on myelinated fibers might contribute to the antihyperalgesic effect of topical capsaicin in diabetic neuropathic pain.

The role of peptides as signalling molecules in the nervous system has been studied for more than 30 years. Neuropeptides and their G-protein-coupled receptors are widely distributed throughout the body and they commonly occur with, and are complementary to, classic neurotransmitters. The functions of neuropeptides range from neurotransmitter to growth factor. They are present in glial cells, are hormones in the endocrine system, and are messengers in the immune system. Much evidence indicates that neuropeptides are of particular importance when the nervous system is challenged (eg, by stress, injury, or drug abuse). These features and the large number of neuropeptides and neuropeptide receptors provide many opportunities for the discovery of new drug targets for the treatment of nervous-system disorders. In fact, receptor-subtype-selective antagonists and agonists have been developed, and recently a substance P receptor (neurokinin 1) antagonist has been shown to have clinical efficacy in the treatment of major depression and chemotherapy-induced emesis. Several other neuropeptide receptor ligands are in clinical trials for various indications.
Conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM) of the rabbit's nictitating membrane response (NMR) describes changes in responding to an unconditioned stimulus (US) when the rabbit is tested in the absence of the conditioned stimulus. Specifically, after at least 3 days of tone-electrical stimulation pairings, responses to the US increase in size, especially at intensities weaker than the training intensity. CRM is similar to classical conditioning in that it is a function of the strength of conditioning, it can be extinguished, and it can be generalized from one stimulus to another. To compare CRM and classical conditioning further, we conducted three experiments to examine the effects of US intensity (1.0, 2.0, and 4.0 mA) on CRM. CRM was weak following conditioning with 1.0 mA and extremely strong following conditioning with 2.0 mA and 4.0 mA. The data suggest that CRM is a function of US intensity and have implications for posttraumatic stress disorder, a disorder potentially modeled by CRM.
Previous place conditioning studies in mice have shown that injection of ethanol immediately before a conditioned stimulus (CS+) produces conditioned preference, whereas injection of ethanol immediately after CS+ produces conditioned aversion. In the present experiments, we examined the learning that occurs when ethanol is injected in &quot;ambiguous&quot; procedures that provide the opportunity for both types of conditioning. When ethanol was given midway through the CS (Experiments 1 and 2) or both before and after the CS (Experiment 3), the direction of place conditioning was the same as when mice were exposed only to whichever contingency occurred first (a primacy effect). That is, injection of ethanol in the middle of the CS conditioned aversion, whereas injection both before and after the CS conditioned preference. Because these results support the idea that ethanol elicits both aversive and rewarding effects, they are most consistent with conditioning theories that conceptualize unconditioned stimuli (USs) as events that can activate multiple representational components.
Serotonin is known to play a role in anxiety. The roles of serotonin reuptake and 5-HT1A receptors have been well characterized, but the contribution of other serotonin receptor subtypes is not as clear. 1-(3-Chlorophenyl)-piperazine (mCPP), which binds non-selectively to a wide range of serotonin receptors, has often been used to produce anxiety in humans and in animal models. Because functional assays indicate that mCPP is significantly more potent at 5-HT2C receptors, it may serve as a tool to investigate the contribution of 5-HT2C receptors to anxiety. This paper reviews the results of behavioral tests using mCPP, including the drug discrimination assay, to model anxiety. Although the discriminative stimulus effects of mCPP do not seem to be a useful screen for general anxiolytics, they do seem to be useful for characterization of the contribution of 5-HT1B and 5-HT2C receptors to the mediation of anxiety-like behaviors.
Forty-two proper questions about the research methods, the structure, physiology, biochemistry, pathology and theory of cell biology and 27 more about neurobiology are listed. These have not hitherto been addressed in the literature, other than in my previous publications. The answers to some of them show anomalies in current views, or draw attention to control experiments, which have never been done. Progress will be limited until these important questions are addressed.

This review is an attempt to explore the relationship between two complex areas of behavioral research, namely that of religion and crime and delinquency. We will also examine supporting research from the area of physiological belief and relaxation systems as a means of understanding the posited negative correlation between religiosity and crime. Our central thesis is that ones level of participation in religious activities is negatively correlated to participation in criminal activity. While this central tenant seems straightforward there are a number of methodological issues that need to be addressed. In particular we need to operationally define the terms religiosity and delinquency. By reviewing archival research we hope to help substantiate the negative correlation between religion and crime, as well as explain a possible mechanism for this relationship.
Metabolic processes and environmental conditions cause the constant formation of oxidizing species over the lifetime of cells and organisms. This leads to a continuous oxidation of intracellular components, including lipids, DNA and proteins. During the extensively studied process of lipid peroxidation, several reactive low-molecular weight products are formed, including reactive aldehydes as 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE). These aldehydic lipid peroxidation products in turn are able to modify proteins. The degradation of oxidized and oxidatively modified proteins is an essential part of the oxidant defenses of cells. The major proteolytic system responsible for the removal of oxidized cytosolic and nuclear proteins is the proteasomal system. The proteasomal system by itself is a multicomponent system responsible for the degradation of the majority of intracellular proteins. It has been shown that some, mildly cross-linked, HNE-modified proteins are preferentially degraded by the proteasome, but extensive modification with this cross-linking aldehyde leads to the formation of protein aggregates, that can actually inhibit the proteasome. This review summarizes our knowledge of the interactions between lipid peroxidation products, proteins, and the proteasomal system.
It has been debated whether the increase in gene number during early vertebrate evolution was due to multiple independent gene duplications or synchronous duplications of many genes. We describe here the cloning of three neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor genes belonging to the Y1 subfamily in the spiny dogfish, Squalus acanthias, a cartilaginous fish. The three genes are orthologs of the mammalian subtypes Y1, Y4, and Y6, which are located in paralogous gene regions on different chromosomes in mammals. Thus, these genes arose by duplications of a chromosome region before the radiation of gnathostomes (jawed vertebrates). Estimates of duplication times from linearized trees together with evidence from other gene families supports two rounds of chromosome duplications or tetraploidizations early in vertebrate evolution. The anatomical distribution of mRNA was determined by reverse-transcriptase PCR and was found to differ from mammals, suggesting differential functional diversification of the new gene copies during the radiation of the vertebrate classes.
Flap endonuclease 1 (FEN1) has been shown to remove 5' overhanging flap intermediates during base excision repair and to process the 5' ends of Okazaki fragments during lagging-strand DNA replication in vitro. To assess the in vivo role of the mammalian enzyme in repair and replication, we used a gene-targeting approach to generate mice lacking a functional Fen1 gene. Heterozygote animals appear normal, whereas complete depletion of FEN1 causes early embryonic lethality. Fen1(-/-) blastocysts fail to form inner cell mass during cellular outgrowth, and a complete inactivation of DNA synthesis in giant cells of blastocyst outgrowth was observed. Exposure of Fen1(-/-) blastocysts to gamma radiation caused extensive apoptosis, implying an essential role for FEN1 in the repair of radiation-induced DNA damage in vivo. Our data thus provide in vivo evidence for an essential function of FEN1 in DNA repair, as well as in DNA replication.
Astrocytes respond to injury of the CNS with a dramatic change in morphology, contributing to the formation of a glial scar. We recently identified a novel actin-associated protein named palladin, which possesses the features of a potent cytoskeletal scaffold. Palladin expression was assayed in two populations of cultured astrocytes, polygonal versus stellate, and was detected at high levels in polygonal astrocytes and low levels in stellate astrocytes. When stellate astrocyte monolayers were wounded, palladin was rapidly upregulated along the edge of the wound, coordinate with an increase in actin assembly. Palladin upregulation occurred along a similar rapid time course following injury to the cerebral cortex of adult rats. To explore palladin function more directly, palladin cDNA was transfected into stellate astrocytes, which acquired a spread morphology and prominent actin bundles. These results suggest that palladin upregulation following injury may be a key step in the acquisition of the reactive astrocyte morphology.
In the adult CNS, cells that express the NG2 chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan are considered oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). However, adult NG2-glia are highly complex cells, suggesting they may be a mature glial cell type distinct from conventional OPCs. To test this possibility, we have determined the response of NG2-glia to axon loss in the neonatal rat optic nerve, which has been shown previously to result in an almost complete loss of OPCs. We show here that NG2-glia are not lost following enucleation of the neonatal or juvenile optic nerve and that at all ages NG2-glia become &quot;reactive&quot; in response to axon degeneration, in direct contrast to previous studies on OPCs. We provide evidence that NG2-glia with an adult morphological phenotype develop postnatally, at the same time as oligodendrocytes. In the neonatal nerve, we show that the loss of axons blocks the development of oligodendrocytes, although reactive NG2-glia are abundant and are able to generate oligodendrocytes when placed in culture. Conversely, axon transection did not result in the loss of mature oligodendrocytes, indicating that the dependence of oligodendrocytes on axon-derived survival factors decreases with differentiation. This study shows that NG2-glia are a highly reactive cell type and do not generate oligodendrocytes in vivo in the absence of appropriate axon-derived signals. This may underlie in part the failure of remyelination in chronic multiple sclerosis, despite the abundance of NG2+ expressing glial cells within demyelinated lesions. It is clear either that OPCs do not depend on axons for their survival, in total contradiction to previous studies, or that in vivo a population of NG2 expressing glia are not perinatal or adult OPCs in the accepted sense. We suggest that a population of NG2-glia diverge postnatally into a novel glial type that is functionally and behaviourally distinct from conventional OPCs.
Neural stem and progenitor cells can be expanded under growth factor stimulation in vitro. It is likely that different mitogens and different culturing techniques selectively expand specific subclasses of cells, but this selection has not been well studied. We have expanded human cells isolated from the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) of a 10-week-old embryo in the presence of serum and epidermal growth factor. We provide evidence that culturing in this manner favors expansion of cells with characteristics similar to a subpopulation of LGE cells, the olfactory bulb progenitors, as revealed by their expression of Er81 in vitro. After transplantation into neonatal rats, the cells displayed similar properties to endogenous olfactory bulb progenitors when exposed to local cues present in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and rostral migratory stream (RMS). However, the human LGE cells do not migrate or undergo region-specific differentiation when placed outside the SVZ and RMS.
Differing classes of abused drugs utilize different mechanisms of molecular pharmacological action yet the overuse of these same drugs frequently leads to the same outcome: addiction. Similarly, episodes of stress can lead to drug-seeking behaviors and relapse in recovering addicts. To overcome the labor-intensive headache of having to design a specific addiction-breaking intervention tailored to each drug it would be expedient to attack the cycle of addiction at targets common to such seemingly disparate classes of drugs of abuse. Recently, encouraging observations were made whereby stressful conditions and differing classes of drugs of abuse were found to impinge upon the same excitatory synapses on dopamine neurons in the midbrain. These findings will increase our understanding of the intricacies of addiction and LTP, and may lead to new interventions for breaking addiction.
Autistic disorder (AD) is a complex neuropsychiatric disorder of neurodevelopmental origin, where multiple genetic and environmental factors may interact, resulting in a clinical continuum. The genetic component is best described by a multilocus model that takes into account epistatic interactions between several susceptibility genes. In the past ten years enormous progress has been made in identifying chromosomal regions in linkage with AD, but moving from chromosomal regions to candidate genes has proven to be tremendously difficult. Neuroanatomical findings point to early dysgenetic events taking place in the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, and brainstem. At the cellular level, disease mechanisms may include altered cell migration, increased cell proliferation, decreased cell death, or altered synapse elimination. Neurochemical findings in AD point to involvement of multiple neurotransmitter systems. The serotoninergic system has been intensively investigated in AD, but other neurotransmitter systems (e.g., the GABAergic and the cholinergic system) are also coming under closer scrutiny. The role of environmental factors is still poorly characterized. It is not clear yet whether environmental factors act merely as precipitating agents, always requiring an underlying genetic liability, or whether they represent an essential component of a pathogenetic process where genetic liability alone does not lead to the full-blown autism phenotype. A third potential player in the pathogenesis of autism, in addition to genetic and environmental factors, is developmental variability due to &quot;random&quot; factors, e.g. small fluctuations of gene expression and complex, non-deterministic interactions between genes during brain development. These considerations suggest that a non-deterministic conceptual framework is highly appropriate for autism research.
Cocaine initiates its euphoric effects by binding to the dopamine transporter (DAT), blocking uptake of synaptic dopamine. It has been hypothesized that the DAT transmembrane aspartic acid residue D79 forms an ionic interaction with charged nitrogen atoms in both dopamine and cocaine. We examined the consequences of novel and previously studied mutations of the D79 residue on DAT uptake of [3H]dopamine, DAT binding of the cocaine analog [3H]WIN 35,428, and drug inhibition of each process, all under identical conditions. The rat D79E DAT mutation decreased dopamine uptake Vmax by 7-fold and decreased dopamine turnover by 4-fold. Wild-type DAT displayed near-perfect agreement in the uptake and binding inhibition potencies for substrates, but cocaine and other nonsubstrate inhibitor drugs were approximately 3-fold less potent in uptake than in binding assays. Apparent affinities for substrates were unaffected by the D79E mutation unless the catechol moiety was modified. Strikingly, potencies for nonsubstrate inhibitors in uptake and binding assays matched for D79E DAT, because of a 3-fold lowering of binding affinities relative to WT DAT. The present findings reveal a complex role for D79 in determining substrate specificity and high-affinity binding of DAT inhibitors. We propose that at least two discrete inhibitor-binding DAT conformations or populations exist and that the DAT conformation/population responsible for inhibitor high-affinity binding is less responsible for dopamine uptake. The findings may be extensible to other psychostimulants and antidepressants that display discrepancies between binding affinity and monoamine uptake inhibition potency and may be relevant to development of a long-sought &quot;cocaine antagonist&quot;.
The activity of large conductance, Ca2+-sensitive K+ (BKCa) channels, known to control neuronal excitability, is increased by ethanol (EtOH) exposure. Moreover, brain cholesterol (CHS) is elevated after chronic exposure to EtOH, suggesting that membrane CHS may play a role in drug tolerance. Here, we use BKCa channels from human brain (hslo subunits), reconstituted into 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl phosphatidylethanolamine/1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl phosphatidylserine (POPS) bilayers, to examine CHS modulation of EtOH sensitivity. Acute exposure to clinically relevant EtOH levels increases channel activity without modifying conductance. In this minimal system, increases in CHS content within the range found in neuronal membranes lead to progressive antagonism of EtOH action. Furthermore, CHS inhibits basal channel activity with an affinity similar to that of CHS blunting of the alcohol effect. Modification of channel gating by either EtOH or CHS is reduced dramatically by removal of POPS from the bilayer, suggesting a common mechanism(s) of action. Indeed, channel dwell-time analysis indicates that CHS and EtOH exert opposite actions on the stability of channel closed states. However, each agent also acts on distinct dwell states not mirrored by the other, which contribute to the opposite effects of CHS and EtOH on channel gating.
We studied polymorphisms in the genes for monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) and CC chemokine receptor (CCR)-2 in 171 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and 340 controls. Although no associations were found in alleles or genotypes, MCP-1 -2518A/G genotype affected the age-at-onset of PD patients. This effect was also detected in a second PD group, suggesting a possible involvement of MCP-1 in PD.
We studied whether the occurrence of Parkinson's disease (PD) in the Anglo-Indians, an admixed population of European and Asian Indian origin, differs from Indians living in the same environment. Epidemiological studies show considerably higher prevalence of PD amongst white compared to non-white populations. Normal Indians contain a approximately 40% lower number of melanized nigral neurons compared to Caucasians from the UK. Anglo-Indians are an admixed population of European and Indian origin. We used the UK Parkinson's Disease Society Brain Bank clinical diagnostic criteria (steps 1 and 2) to diagnose PD in 84 of 493 residents (Indians, 409; Anglo-Indians, 84) living in elderly homes in Bangalore, India. Of these 84, 80 were Indians (19.5%) and 4 were Anglo-Indians (4.8%). Occurrence of PD is nearly five times higher amongst Indians compared to the Anglo-Indians (odds ratio, 3.9; 95% confidence interval, 1.3-12.9). We conclude that an admixture population of European and Indian origins, rather than averaging, might result in reduced occurrences of PD. Hence, studying an admixed population could provide crucial insights into understanding genetic mechanisms in the etiopathogenesis of PD.
Risk factors predicting an increased risk of dementia in Parkinson's disease (PD) are not fully established. The dementia associated with PD (PDD) closely resembles dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Based upon a high frequency of non-dopaminergic mediated clinical features in DLB, we predicted that a motor subtype comprising postural instability and balance problems would be more common in PDD. We examined extrapyramidal, cognitive, and affective features in 38 PD, 43 PDD, and 26 DLB patients in a cross-sectional study design. Motor subtype was subdivided into postural-instability gait difficulty (PIGD) or tremor (TD) dominant. The PIGD-subtype was more common in PDD (88% of cases) and DLB (69% of cases) groups compared with the PD group (38% of cases), in which TD and PIGD sub-types were more equally represented (P &lt; 0.001). Although the mean depression scores overall were modest, PDD patients scored significantly higher than PD, but not DLB patients (Cornell; P = 0.006, and Geriatric Depression scale, GDS-15; P = 0.001), while within the PD group, those patients with a PIGD subtype had greater depression scores than the TD subtype (GDS-15; P &lt; 0.05). We conclude that non-dopaminergic motor features are frequent in PDD. Neurodegeneration within the cholinergic system is likely to mediate many of these motor problems, as well as playing a significant role in determining the neuropsychiatric symptomatology of both PDD and DLB.
Articles on surgery for Parkinson's disease (PD), published between 1966 and 2001, were reviewed with respect to whether the first author had a neurosurgical affiliation, and whether the papers appeared in neurosurgical or non-neurosurgical journals. Between 1966 and 1979, neurosurgeons and non-neurosurgeons published almost equally on surgery for PD in both neurosurgical and non-neurosurgical journals; between 1980 and 1995, the majority of publications were by neurosurgeons in neurosurgical journals; and after 1995, non-neurosurgeons were more often first authors of surgical publications and these were more frequent in non-neurosurgical journals. The fact that the first author of surgical publications on PD is often a non-neurosurgeon may have some bearing on the reported results of surgery.
Three randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials have shown that glatiramer acetate (GA) is effective in reducing relapse rate in patients with relapsing-remitting (RR) multiple sclerosis (MS). Using raw data pooled from 540 patients, we performed a meta-analysis of these three trials, to investigate whether the extent of GA efficacy varies according to disease-related variables at study entry. Three regression models were developed to assess the efficacy of GA on the annualized relapse rate (primary outcome measure), on the total number of on-trial relapses and on the time to first relapse. We also explored the efficacy of GA on accumulated disability and the potential role of baseline clinical variables as predictors of relapse-rate variables and treatment efficacy. The mean adjusted annualized relapse rate on study was 1.14 in the pooled placebo-treated subjects and 0.82 in the pooled GA group (P = 0.004), indicating an average reduction in annualized relapse rate of 28%. About a one third reduction of the total number of on-trial relapses was also observed in patients receiving GA (P &lt; 0.0001), who had a median time to the first relapse of 322 days versus a median time to the first relapse of 219 days seen in those receiving placebo (P = 0.01). A beneficial effect on accumulated disability was also found (risk ratio of 0.6; 95%; CI = 0.4-0.9; P = 0.02). The drug assignment (P = 0.004), baseline EDSS score (P = 0.02) and number of relapses during the two years prior to study entry (P = 0.002) were significant predictors of on-trial annualized relapse rate. No other demographic or clinical variable at baseline significantly influenced the treatment effect. This meta-analysis reaffirms the effectiveness of GA in reducing relapse rate and disability accumulation in RRMS, at a magnitude comparable to that of other available immunomodulating treatments. It also suggests that GA efficacy is not significantly influenced by the patients' clinical characteristics at the time of treatment initiation.
The Hoffmann reflex (H-reflex) is extensively used as both a research and clinical tool. The ease with which this reflex can be elicited in several muscles throughout the body makes it an attractive tool. This review discusses some of the important limitations in using the H-reflex. In particular, the inaccurate but widely held assumptions that the H-reflex (1). represents the monosynaptic reflex of the Ia afferent onto homonymous motoneurons, and (2). can be used to measure motoneuronal excitability are addressed. The second part of this review explores the utility of the H-reflex as a neural probe in neurophysiology and motor control research. Applications ranging from the investigation of the functional organization of neural circuitry to the study of adaptive plasticity in spinal structures in health and disease suggest that the H-reflex will continue to be an extensively used tool in motor control neurophysiology.
Whereas uncoupling protein 1 (UCP-1) is clearly involved in thermogenesis, the role of UCP-2 is less clear. Using hybridization, cloning techniques and cDNA array analysis to identify inducible neuroprotective genes, we found that neuronal survival correlates with increased expression of Ucp2. In mice overexpressing human UCP-2, brain damage was diminished after experimental stroke and traumatic brain injury, and neurological recovery was enhanced. In cultured cortical neurons, UCP-2 reduced cell death and inhibited caspase-3 activation induced by oxygen and glucose deprivation. Mild mitochondrial uncoupling by 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) reduced neuronal death, and UCP-2 activity was enhanced by palmitic acid in isolated mitochondria. Also in isolated mitochondria, UCP-2 shifted the release of reactive oxygen species from the mitochondrial matrix to the extramitochondrial space. We propose that UCP-2 is an inducible protein that is neuroprotective by activating cellular redox signaling or by inducing mild mitochondrial uncoupling that prevents the release of apoptogenic proteins.
The brain's structural organization is so complex that 2,500 years of analysis leaves pervasive uncertainty about (i) the identity of its basic parts (regions with their neuronal cell types and pathways interconnecting them), (ii) nomenclature, (iii) systematic classification of the parts with respect to topographic relationships and functional systems and (iv) the reliability of the connectional data itself. Here we present a prototype knowledge management system (http://brancusi.usc.edu/bkms/) for analyzing the architecture of brain networks in a systematic, interactive and extendable way. It supports alternative interpretations and models, is based on fully referenced and annotated data and can interact with genomic and functional knowledge management systems through web services protocols.
With recent progress in neuroscience and stem-cell research, neural transplantation has emerged as a promising therapy for treating CNS diseases. The success of transplantation has been limited, however, by the restricted ability of neural implants to survive and establish neuronal connections with the host. Little is known about the mechanisms responsible for this failure. Neural implantation triggers reactive gliosis, a process accompanied by upregulation of intermediate filaments in astrocytes and formation of astroglial scar tissue. Here we show that the retinas of adult mice deficient in glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin, and consequently lacking intermediate filaments in reactive astrocytes and Mller cells, provide a permissive environment for grafted neurons to migrate and extend neurites. The transplanted cells integrated robustly into the host retina with distinct neuronal identity and appropriate neuronal projections. Our results indicate an essential role for reactive astroglial cells in preventing neural graft integration after transplantation.

Sensory adaptation allows biological systems to adjust to variations in the environment. A recent theoretical work postulated that the goal of adaptation is to minimize errors in the performance of particular tasks. The proposed minimization was Bayesian and required prior knowledge of the environment and of the limitations of the mechanisms processing the information. One problem with that formulation is that the environment changes in time and the theory did not specify how to know what the current state of the environment is. Here, we extend that theory to estimate optimally the environmental state from the temporal stream of responses. We show that such optimal estimation is a generalized form of Kalman filtering. An application of this new Kalman-filtering framework is worked out for retinal contrast adaptation. It is shown that this application can account for surprising features of the data. For example, it accounts for the differences in responses to increases and decreases of mean contrasts in the environment. In addition, it accounts for the two-phase decay of contrast gain when the mean contrast in the environment rises suddenly. The success of this and related theories suggest that sensory adaptation is a form of constrained biological optimization.
The computation performed by a neuron can be formulated as a combination of dimensional reduction in stimulus space and the nonlinearity inherent in a spiking output. White noise stimulus and reverse correlation (the spike-triggered average and spike-triggered covariance) are often used in experimental neuroscience to &quot;ask&quot; neurons which dimensions in stimulus space they are sensitive to and to characterize the nonlinearity of the response. In this article, we apply reverse correlation to the simplest model neuron with temporal dynamics-the leaky integrate-and-fire model-and find that for even this simple case, standard techniques do not recover the known neural computation. To overcome this, we develop novel reverse-correlation techniques by selectively analyzing only &quot;isolated&quot; spikes and taking explicit account of the extended silences that precede these isolated spikes. We discuss the implications of our methods to the characterization of neural adaptation. Although these methods are developed in the context of the leaky integrate-and-fire model, our findings are relevant for the analysis of spike trains from real neurons.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis of a number of human neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system (CNS), including Alzheimer's disease (AD). To better understand the pathological effects of oxidative stress on CNS neurons we used a primary human brain cell culture model of hydrogen peroxide-induced oxidative stress. Neuronal and astrocytic morphology was visualised by immunofluorescence with antibodies to the neuron-specific microtubule component beta-tubulin III and against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), respectively. After exposure to 40 mM H(2)O(2) for 60-90 min, axonal swelling was observed, which developed into axonal beading after 48 h. No beading was observed in GFAP-positive astrocytes. Despite the concentration of H(2)O(2) used, neurons remained attached to the substratum and showed no signs of apoptosis. This was attributed to the neuroprotective effect of the B-27 medium supplement, which contained antioxidants. The axonal swelling and beading was consistent with a disruption of microtubules by oxidative stress and subsequent hold-up of axonal transport.
We report that the expression of mutant G93A copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1), associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, specifically causes a decrease in MTT reduction rate and ATP levels and an increase in both cytosolic and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells compared to cells overexpressing wild-type SOD1 and untransfected cells. Exposure to N-acetylcysteine lowers ROS production and returns mitochondrial functional assays to control levels. No large aggregates of human SOD1 are detectable under basal growth conditions in any of the investigated cell lines. After proteasome activity inhibition, SOD1 aggregates can be detected exclusively in G93A-SOD1 cells, even though they do not per se enhance cell death compared to control cell lines. Our findings indicate that mitochondrial homeostasis is affected by mutant SOD1-generated ROS independently from the formation of aggregates and that this alteration is reversed by antioxidants.
RB, a patient with probable Alzheimer's disease, makes continuous perseverations of single letters when writing (e.g. fruit--&gt;fruuit), particularly on high frequency letters. An analysis of her errors reveals that her perseverations do not reflect letter substitutions or transpositions, nor do they suggest difficulty with geminates. No continuous perseverations were found in oral production, in graphic and simple motor tasks, and in oral spelling. RB's data do not support an attention deficit as the basis of her continuous perseverations. It is proposed that a deficit at the level of abstract letter representations is the source of RB's perseverations. The implications of this conclusion for accounts of perseveration and of spelling models are discussed.
The dual-route model of writing assumes two basic procedures involved in writing: lexical and non-lexical. The lexical route is fundamental in opaque orthographies such as English; from its impairment surface dysgraphia arises. Evidence for the role of a lexical route in transparent languages such as Italian, which have a regular orthography, has been more limited. We report a case study of ES, an Italian patient suffering from degenerative brain disease, who presented with a selective disorder of writing. He showed the unusual phenomenon of inserting an apostrophe inappropriately in the spellings of words. Neuropsychological evaluation provided evidence of loss of orthographic meaning of the apostrophe and a pattern of writing performance consistent with surface dysgraphia. There was also evidence of an accompanying surface dyslexia. We conclude that examination of apostrophe use provides a valuable means of detecting surface dysgraphia in the Italian language. The findings point to the need for cognitive models of writing to account for &quot;dumb symbols&quot; of language such as the apostrophe. This unique case provides a further example of the variety of clinical presentations of focal cerebral degeneration.
In order to identify the properties of nicotine in relation to oxidative stress or neuroprotection, differentiated PC12 cells were treated with nicotine, beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta(25-35)), free radical inducer and antioxidant by a separate addition or a combination way. 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction, lipid peroxidation, [3H]epibatidine binding sites for nicotinic receptor and [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate (QNB) for muscarinic receptor have been detected. The significant decrease of MTT reduction and increase of lipid peroxidation in PC12 cells were only observed at treatments with high concentrations of nicotine (1 and 10 mM), while Vitamin E (VitE), an antioxidant, can prevent the neurotoxic effects. In addition, nicotine in low dosage (10 microM) rescued the decreased rates of cell viability and inhibited the production of lipid peroxidation resulted from H(2)O(2) and Abeta in the cultured cells. Significant increases in [3H]epibatidine binding sites were observed in PC12 cells exposed to nicotine, while no change was detected in [3H]QNB. The decreased number of nicotinic receptor binding sites due to the toxicity of Abeta was prevented by the addition of nicotine with low concentration. It is plausible that nicotine treatment may play dual effects on oxidative stress and neuroprotection, in which the effects are dependent on the differences in dosage of the drug used and their mechanisms of action. Generally, high dose of nicotine may induce neurotoxicity and stimulate oxidative stress, while reasonably low concentration may act as an antioxidant and play an important role for neuroprotective effect.
Cholesterol, a molecule critical for cellular function, is found in particular high concentration in the brain and has been implicated to synaptic plasticity and neuronal regeneration. This study was undertaken to investigate the mechanism by which cholesterol shortage modulates glutamate (Glu)-induced excitotoxicity in hippocampal cell cultures. A combined treatment of lovastatin and beta-cyclodextrin reduced cellular content of cholesterol while having no significant effect on cell viability in neuron/glia mixed cultures. The experimental manipulation, nonetheless, exacerbated Glu-induced membrane damage and loss of mitochondrial activity in mixed cultures. Analysis of [3H]thymidine incorporation revealed cholesterol deficiency impaired cell proliferation in mixed cultures after Glu exposure, indicating considerable loss of glia. Indeed, it was found that cholesterol deprivation potentiated the release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and the impairment in mitochondrial reduction of WST-1 reagent in astrocyte-enriched cultures subjected to Glu exposure. The detrimental effect of cholesterol shortage, nevertheless, was not observed in cultured neurons. Notably, the pretreatment of lovastatin and beta-cyclodextrin caused a decrease in the content of cellular LDH while having no effect on cell cycle profile and cellular activity of WST-1 reduction in astrocyte-enriched cultures. In contrast, removal of cholesterol had no effect on LDH content in neuron-enriched cultures. It is concluded that the differential vulnerability of cholesterol-depleted neural cells to excitotoxic damage may, in part, be ascribed to cholesterol shortage destabilizing the plasma membrane of astrocytes, thus rendering them less capable of withstanding Glu insult.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) may play a role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). MMP-9 and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) are elevated in postmortem brain tissue of AD patients. MMPs and TIMPs are found in neurons, microglia, vascular endothelial cells and leukocytes. The aim of this study was to determine whether circulating levels of MMP-2, MMP-9, TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 are elevated in the plasma of AD patients. We compared AD patients to age- and gender-matched controls as well as to Parkinson's disease (PD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients. There was constitutive expression of gelatinase A (MMP-2), and gelatinase B (MMP-9), in all the samples as shown by zymographic analysis. Levels of MMP-9 were significantly (P=0.003) elevated in the plasma of AD patients as compared to controls. Plasma levels of MMP-2, TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 were unchanged. There were no significant changes of MMP-2, MMP-9, TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 levels in PD and ALS samples. TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 were significantly correlated with MMP-9 in the AD patients. ApoE genotyping of plasma samples showed that levels of MMP-2, TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 and MMP-9 were not significantly different between the ApoE subgroups. These findings indicate that circulating levels of MMP-9 are increased in AD and may contribute to disease pathology.
Reduction in GluR2 subunit expression and subsequent increases in AMPA receptor mediated Ca(2+) currents were postulated to exacerbate glutamate neurotoxicity following seizures or global ischemia. To directly test the effects of shifting the GluR1/GluR2 subunit ratio on excitotoxicity, GluR2 antisense deoxyoligonucleotides (AS-ODNs) were applied to dissociated hippocampal cultures for 1-8 days. The GluR1/GluR2 protein ratio was examined immunohistochemically and by Western blotting. [Ca(2+)](i) concentrations were determined by ratiometric imaging of Fura 2-loaded cells. The cultures were exposed to glutamate, AMPA, NMDA or kainic acid (KA) 3 days after GluR2 knockdown and cell viability was determined 1 day later by MTT reduction assay or Trypan blue exclusion. Although GluR2 AS-ODNs increased the GluR1/GluR2 protein ratio in a time dependent manner, neurons and glia appeared healthy and MTT reduction values were similar to untreated and sense controls. Basal [Ca(2+)](i) levels were unchanged but [Ca(2+)](i) was selectively increased by agonist stimulation of AMPA receptors. Unexpectedly, delayed neurotoxicity was attenuated at saturating doses of glutamate while little difference in cell viability was observed at lower doses or with the other excitotoxins at any concentration. Therefore, there was a dissociation between rises in AMPA receptor-mediated Ca(2+) influx and neurotoxicity despite marked decreases in GluR2 but not GluR1 immunoreactivity. It is proposed that a modification of AMPA receptor stochiometry that raises agonist-stimulated Ca(2+) influx during an excitotoxic insult may have eventual neuroprotective effects.
The potency of ethanol to inhibit N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor functions may depend on the subunit composition of the NMDA receptors. We used a NR2A-B subunit-selective NMDA receptor agonist, homoquinolinic acid (HQ), and a subunit-unselective agonist, NMDA, to induce neurotoxicity in cerebellar granule cells and examined the neuroprotective actions of ethanol, as well as NR2A- and NR2B-subunit selective antagonists, respectively. HQ was a more potent neurotoxic agent than NMDA, as measured by the MTT (3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) assay. NR2A- and NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonists displayed quite similar neuroprotective potencies against the NMDA- and HQ-produced cell death, indicating that the higher potency of HQ to induce neurotoxicity cannot be simply explained by NR2A- or NR2B-subunit selectivity. As expected, ethanol (25 and 50 mM) attenuated the NMDA-induced neurotoxicity in a non-competitive manner by significantly reducing the maximum neurotoxicity produced by NMDA. By contrast, ethanol inhibited the HQ-induced neurotoxicity in a manner resembling a competitive-like interaction significantly increasing the EC50 value for HQ, without reducing the maximum neurotoxicity produced by HQ. These results suggest that HQ reveals either a novel site or a not previously observed mechanism of interaction between ethanol and NMDA receptors in rat cerebellar granule cell cultures.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) increases gastric volume in humans possibly through the vagus nerve. Gastric volume response to feeding is preserved after vagal denervation in animals. We evaluated gastric volume responses to GLP-1 and placebo in seven diabetic patients with vagal neuropathy in a crossover study. We also compared gastric volume response to feeding in diabetes with that in healthy controls. We measured gastric volume using SPECT imaging. Data are median (interquartile range). In diabetic patients, GLP-1 did not increase gastric volume during fasting [5 mL (-3; 30)] relative to placebo [4 mL (-14; 50) P = 0.5], or postprandially [Delta postprandial minus fasting volume 469 mL (383; 563) with GLP-1 and 452 mL (400; 493) with placebo P = 0.3]. Change in gastric volume over fasting in diabetic patients on placebo was comparable to that of healthy controls [452 mL (400; 493)], P = 0.5. In contrast to effects in health, GLP-1 did not increase gastric volume in diabetics with vagal neuropathy, suggesting GLP-1's effects on stomach volume are vagally mediated. Normal gastric volume response to feeding in diabetics with vagal neuropathy suggests that other mechanisms compensate for vagal denervation.
Distension of the intestine is commonly used to elicit reflex responses at other sites in the gastrointestinal tract, and also to evaluate pain of intestinal origin. The sensory neurones, that initiate the reflexes or pain responses, react to the forces generated in the wall of the intestine. Thus, the responses of the intestine at the site of distension, particularly changes in contractile activity, influence the signals from the gut. In the present work we have analysed the relationship between distension and pressure changes in the jejunum of the rat, in vivo. Isovolumic distension for 5 min caused an initial pressure increase which declined quickly in the first 30 s, and then declined more slowly. Phasic pressure increases were superimposed on the baseline pressure change. Hexamethonium blocked the phasic pressure increases, whereas the initial rapid and subsequent slower pressure decline during distension persisted. Inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) increased intraluminal pressure and caused increased frequency and irregularity of phasic pressure increases. However, the decline in jejunal pressure during distension was not changed by inhibition of NOS. The pressure decline during isovolumic distension was similar whether saline or paraffin oil were used to distend the intestine, indicating that the decline was not due to increased hydrostatic pressure causing water and electrolyte to cross the mucosal epithelium from the lumen to the intestinal interstitium. Hyoscine had no significant effect on the pressure profile when the intestine was distended. However, when the systemic or the local circulation of the jejunum was infused with nicardipine, the pressure that was achieved during isovolumic distension was less, although the rate of change in pressure during the slow decline was similar. It is concluded that distension evokes phasic pressure increases in the jejunum, that are nerve-mediated, and increases the tension in the wall through a stretch-activated increase in contractile force generated by the circular muscle. The decline in pressure during maintained distension is primarily a consequence of visco-elastic properties of the wall of the intestine.
Intrinsic neurones of the gall bladder modulate its function. Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) are present in gall bladder neurones and nitric oxide and VIP modulate its epithelial functions. As an extensive extrinsic innervation of the gall bladder is also present, the source of the epithelial innervation is unclear. In this study the source of the gall bladder epithelial innervation is defined. Immunoreactivity for VIP, NOS, substance P (SP), calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in organotypic cultured and freshly fixed gall bladder were compared. Retrograde tracing in vitro from the epithelium was used to identify putative intrinsic secretomotor neurones, which were then characterized by immunohistochemistry. Abundant spinal afferent and sympathetic innervation of the gall bladder epithelium was demonstrated by CGRP/SP and TH immunohistochemistry, respectively. The intrinsic secretomotor innervation of the epithelium is derived exclusively from neurones of the subepithelial plexus. A majority of these neurones were immunoreactive for NOS. Some of the NOS-immunoreactive neurones of the subepithelial plexus also contained VIP and/or SP. Gall bladder subepithelial plexus neurones, containing NOS and/or VIP/SP, innervate the epithelium, as do extrinsic neurones.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) was first recognized as a clinicopathological entity about 20 years ago. It is the second most-common degenerative dementia after Alzheimer's disease. Clinically, DLB differs from Alzheimer's disease in that disease symptoms are prone to fluctuate and patients often suffer from visual hallucinations, while short-term memory is relatively preserved. As many as 70% of patients have parkinsonism and up to 50% are sensitive to the extrapyramidal side effects of neuroleptic drugs. About 3 million Europeans will be affected by DLB in 2020 if no cure or effective treatment is found. This article reviews the current disease concept, as well as existing problems concerning classification and delineation of DLB from other conditions with dementia. The literature on genetic findings in this complex disease is critically discussed.
Welander distal myopathy (WDM) is a late adult-onset autosomal dominant disorder, characterized by a slow progression and distal limb weakness of the extremity muscles. The WDM locus has been mapped to chromosome 2p13. Within this region a common shared haplotype co-segregates in all affected patients, indicating a founder effect. By undertaking an extended linkage analysis we have significantly reduced the WDM locus to a critical interval of approximately 1.2 Mb flanked by markers D2S358 and PAC3-H52. The dysferlin gene, a strong candidate gene responsible for two other distal myopathies in the same region, is located centromeric to PAC3-H52 and can thereby formally be excluded as cause for WDM.
Although lesion-deficit analysis (LDA) has provided extensive information about structure-function associations in the human brain, LDA has suffered from the difficulties inherent to the analysis of spatial data, i.e., there are many more variables than subjects, and data may be difficult to model using standard distributions, such as the normal distribution. We herein describe a Bayesian method for LDA; this method is based on data-mining techniques that employ Bayesian networks to represent structure-function associations. These methods are computationally tractable, and can represent complex, nonlinear structure-function associations. When applied to the evaluation of data obtained from a study of the psychiatric sequelae of traumatic brain injury in children, this method generates a Bayesian network that demonstrates complex, nonlinear associations among lesions in the left caudate, right globus pallidus, right side of the corpus callosum, right caudate, and left thalamus, and subsequent development of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, confirming and extending our previous statistical analysis of these data. Furthermore, analysis of simulated data indicates that methods based on Bayesian networks may be more sensitive and specific for detecting associations among categorical variables than methods based on chi-square and Fisher exact statistics.
Recently there has been a renewed interest in cognitive psychology on the effects of the age of word acquisition (AoA) on lexical processing. In particular, it is currently unclear whether AoA or word frequency are better predictors of word recognition. To date no study has investigated the neural bases of the AoA effect or attempted to dissociate it from word frequency. We report a visual and an auditory event-related fMRI experiment investigating the influence of AoA and word frequency on neural activity, and show that AoA modulates brain areas that are not influenced by word frequency. The precuneus was activated for early learned words across auditory and visual presentation modalities. Additional activity in the auditory cortex was observed specifically for the reading of early acquired words. Late learned words, in contrast, led to a selective activation increase in lateral inferior frontal areas. These findings support models that suggest that early and late learned words are represented differently in the brain. They further allow to specify the nature of the representational differences, namely that early learned words are represented in the brain in a more sensory manner than late learned words.
Synthetic aperture magnetometry (SAM) is a nonlinear beamformer technique for producing 3D images of cortical activity from magnetoencephalography data. We have previously shown how SAM images can be spatially normalised and averaged to form a group image. In this paper we show how nonparametric permutation methods can be used to make robust statistical inference about group SAM data. Data from a biological motion direction discrimination experiment were analysed using both a nonparametric analysis toolbox (SnPM) and a conventional parametric approach utilising Gaussian field theory. In data from a group of six subjects, we were able to show robust group activation at the P &lt; 0.05 (corrected) level using the nonparametric methods, while no significant clusters were found using the conventional parametric approach. Activation was found using SnPM in several regions of right occipital-temporal cortex, including the superior temporal sulcus, V5/MT, the fusiform gyrus, and the lateral occipital complex.
Brain imaging studies on duration perception usually report the activation of a network that includes the frontal and mesiofrontal cortex (supplementary motor area, SMA), parietal cortex, and subcortical areas (basal ganglia, thalamus, and cerebellum). To address the question of the specific involvement of these structures in temporal processing, we contrasted two visual discrimination tasks in which the relevant stimulus dimension was either its intensity or its duration. Eleven adults had to indicate (by pressing one of two keys) whether they thought the duration or the intensity of a light (LED) was equal to (right hand) or different from (left hand) that of a previously presented standard. In a control task, subjects had to press one of the two keys at random. A similar broad network was observed in both the duration-minus-control and intensity-minus-control comparisons. The intensity-minus-duration comparison pointed out activation in areas known to participate in cognitive operations on visual stimuli: right occipital gyrus, fusiform gyri, hippocampus, precuneus, and intraparietal sulcus. In contrast, the duration-minus-intensity comparison indicated activation of a complex network that included the basal ganglia, SMA, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, inferior parietal cortex, and temporal cortex. These structures form several subnetworks, each possibly in charge of specific time-coding operations in humans. The SMA and basal ganglia may be implicated in the time-keeping mechanism, and the frontal-parietal areas may be involved in the attentional and mnemonic operations required for encoding and retrieving duration information.
In the present fMRI study, we addressed the question as to whether motor-perceptual interactions might be involved in reading. Recognizing the letters encountered when reading is generally assumed to be a purely visual process, yet because we know how to write, we also possess a sensorimotor representation of the letters. Does simply viewing a letter suffice to activate the corresponding motor representation? To answer this question, we asked right-handed subjects first to look at and then to copy single letters or pseudoletters. We established that the visual presentation of letters activated a part of the left premotor cortex (BA6) that was also activated when the letters were being written by the subjects. This premotor zone resembles Exner's area, which is thought to contain the motor programs necessary for producing letters. Visually presented pseudoletters, which had never been written before by the subjects, did not activate this region. These results indicate that the writing motor processes are implicitly evoked when passively observing letters. The cerebral representation of letters is therefore presumably not strictly visual, but based on a multicomponent neural network built up while learning concomitantly to read and write. One of the components might be a sensorimotor one associated with handwriting. This finding shows the existence of close functional relations between the reading and writing processes, and suggests that our reading abilities might be somehow dependent on the way we write.
We propose the use of multivariate autoregressive (MAR) models of functional magnetic resonance imaging time series to make inferences about functional integration within the human brain. The method is demonstrated with synthetic and real data showing how such models are able to characterize interregional dependence. We extend linear MAR models to accommodate nonlinear interactions to model top-down modulatory processes with bilinear terms. MAR models are time series models and thereby model temporal order within measured brain activity. A further benefit of the MAR approach is that connectivity maps may contain loops, yet exact inference can proceed within a linear framework. Model order selection and parameter estimation are implemented by using Bayesian methods.
Human lesion data have indicated that the frontal polar area might be critically involved in having an insight into one's future. Retrospective memory mediated by medial temporal lobes and related structures, on the other hand, could be used to extract one's future prospects efficiently. In the present study, we investigated the roles of these two brain structures in thinking of the future and past by using positron emission tomography (PET) and a naturalistic task setting. We measured regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in healthy subjects while they were talking about their future prospects or past experiences, with regard to two different temporal windows (in years or days). Many areas in the frontal and the medial temporal lobes were activated during the future and past tasks compared with a control task requiring semantic retrieval. Among these, areas in anteromedial frontal pole showed greater activation during the future tasks than during the past tasks, showing significant effect of temporal distance from the present. Most areas in the medial temporal lobes showed greater or equivalent level of activations during the future tasks compared with the past tasks. The present results suggest that thinking of the future is closely related to retrospective memory, but that specific areas in the frontal pole and the medial temporal lobes are more involved with thinking of the future than that of the past.
Parallel processing affords the brain many advantages, but processing multiple bits of information simultaneously presents formidable challenges. For example, while one is listening to a speaker at a noisy social gathering, processing irrelevant conversations may lead to the activation of irrelevant perceptual, semantic, and response representations that conflict with those evoked by the speaker. In these situations, specialized brain systems may be recruited to detect and resolve conflict before it leads to incorrect perception and/or behavior. Consistent with this view, recent findings indicate that dorsal/caudal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC), on the medial walls of the frontal lobes, detects conflict between competing motor responses primed by relevant versus irrelevant stimuli. Here, we used a cued global/local selective attention task to investigate whether the dACC plays a general role in conflict detection that includes monitoring for conflicting perceptual or semantic representations. Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we found that the dACC was activated by response conflict in both the global and the local task, consistent with results from prior studies. However, dACC was also activated by perceptual and semantic conflict arising from global distracters during the local task. The results from the local task have implications for recent theories of attentional control in which the dACC's contribution to conflict monitoring is limited to response stages of processing, as well as for our understanding of clinical disorders in which disruptions of attention are associated with dACC dysfunction.
This study examined neural responses in nine right-handed healthy individuals while they viewed mild and intense expressions of four emotions (fear, disgust, happiness, and sadness) contrasted with neutral faces in four event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging experiments. Orthogonal polynomial trend analysis revealed a significant linear increase in the fusiform extrastriate cortical response to increasing intensities of all four emotional expressions, which was significantly greater to increasing intensities of fear and disgust than happiness and sadness, and a significant linear decrease in response to sadness in another extrastriate region. The amygdala was activated by high-intensity fearful expressions, consistent with findings from previous studies, and by low- but not high-intensity sad expressions. Significant linear increases in response to increasing intensities of fear, disgust, and happiness occurred within the hippocampus, anterior insula, and putamen, respectively. Conversely, significant linear decreases in hippocampal and putamen responses occurred to increasing intensities of sadness. We provide the first demonstration of differential increases in extrastriate and limbic responses to signals of increasing danger than to those of other emotions, and significant decreases in these responses to signals of increasing sadness in others. We suggest that this differential pattern of response to different categories of emotional signals allows the preferential direction of visual attention to signals of imminent danger than to other, less-salient emotional stimuli.
In this paper we present an approach to the identification of nonlinear input-state-output systems. By using a bilinear approximation to the dynamics of interactions among states, the parameters of the implicit causal model reduce to three sets. These comprise (1) parameters that mediate the influence of extrinsic inputs on the states, (2) parameters that mediate intrinsic coupling among the states, and (3) [bilinear] parameters that allow the inputs to modulate that coupling. Identification proceeds in a Bayesian framework given known, deterministic inputs and the observed responses of the system. We developed this approach for the analysis of effective connectivity using experimentally designed inputs and fMRI responses. In this context, the coupling parameters correspond to effective connectivity and the bilinear parameters reflect the changes in connectivity induced by inputs. The ensuing framework allows one to characterise fMRI experiments, conceptually, as an experimental manipulation of integration among brain regions (by contextual or trial-free inputs, like time or attentional set) that is revealed using evoked responses (to perturbations or trial-bound inputs, like stimuli). As with previous analyses of effective connectivity, the focus is on experimentally induced changes in coupling (cf., psychophysiologic interactions). However, unlike previous approaches in neuroimaging, the causal model ascribes responses to designed deterministic inputs, as opposed to treating inputs as unknown and stochastic.
Impairments of visual perception resulting from brain damage can have serious implications for many aspects of patients' lives, and these impairments should be targeted for intervention. Rehabilitation programs need to be individually tailored to each patient's needs; thus, characterization of a patient's visual perception and related abilities, by means of neuroophthalmologic and neuropsychologic evaluations, is a necessary starting point for rehabilitation. Several promising treatment approaches based on restorative and compensatory methods are described, although as yet there is limited systematic study of the efficacy of these methods. Treatment models and compensatory devices from the mature field of low-vision rehabilitation have obvious application in the rehabilitation of cortically based visual perceptual impairments. In addition, ongoing rapid advances in the cognitive neuroscience of vision are likely to provide guidance in the development of new interventions. One area in which functional imaging studies may prove useful is gaining information regarding critical periods of recovery and plasticity. For some visuoperceptual disorders, restorative procedures may be of particular benefit in facilitating brain reorganization during certain recovery periods, but rehabilitation specialists still have few empiric data to guide their efforts. Despite the major limitations in our understanding of key issues influencing outcome, most patients with cerebral visual dysfunction can receive some benefit from carefully designed rehabilitation programs.
Conscious experience is an essential part of normal human life and interaction with the environment. Yet the nature of consciousness and conscious perception remains a mystery. Because of its subjective nature, consciousness has been difficult to investigate scientifically, but clues have been gained through studies involving patients with cortical lesions. During the past decade, the development of event-related fMRI has provided insights into aspects of conscious perception in control subjects and patients with cortical lesions by correlating awareness and performance with neural activity during visual tasks. This article reviews how recent research has advanced understanding of conscious perception, its relationship to neural activity and visual performance, and how this relationship can be altered by visual dysfunction. It also presents recent research about how conscious awareness of vision might be represented at a neural level in the central nervous system.
Plectin is a protein belonging to the cytoskeletal anchoring system, concentrated at sites of mechanical stress in different cell types. In normal skeletal muscle, plectin is located at level of Z-discs, sarcolemma, post-synaptic membrane, and intermyofibrillar network. We investigated plectin immunocytochemistry in lobulated fibers, fibers with tubular aggregates, target fibers, central core disease and centronuclear myopathy. Thirty to forty percent of lobulated fibers had patchy increase of plectin immunoreactivity at sarcolemmal level with focal subsarcolemmal increases. Tubular aggregates revealed a low binding for plectin. Ten percent of central cores exhibited faint focal increase of plectin immunoreactivity. Target formations had a normal plectin pattern. In centronuclear myopathy, plectin immunoreactivity was increased around the centrally located nuclei in 8-12% of the fibers, at the sarcolemma of 50% of type 2 fibers, and at the membrane of small vacuoles located peripherally around the central nuclei. We postulate that plectin may play a role in the subsarcolemmal aggregation of mitochondria in the lobulated fibers, and in the central position of nuclei as well as in shape formation, positioning and moving of the vacuoles in centronuclear myopathy.
One strategy for isolating neuronal L-type calcium (Ca(2+)) currents, which typically comprise a minority of the whole cell current in neurons, has been to use pharmacological agents that increase channel activity. This study examines the effects of the benzoyl pyrrole FPL 64176 (FPL) on L-type Ca(2+) currents and compares them to those of the dihydropyridine (+)-202-791. At micromolar concentrations, both agonists increased whole cell current amplitude in PC12 cells. However, FPL also significantly slowed the rate of activation and elicited a longer-lasting slow component of the tail current compared to (+)-202-791. In single channel cell-attached patch recordings, FPL increased open probability, first latency, mean closed time and mean open time more than (+)-202-791, with no difference in unitary conductance. These gating differences suggest that, compared to (+)-202-791, FPL decreases transition rates between open and closed conformations. Where examined, the actions of FPL and (+)-202-791 on whole cell L-type currents in sympathetic neurons appeared similar to those in PC12 cells. In contrast to its effects on L-type current, 10 microM FPL inhibited the majority of the whole cell current in HEK cells expressing a recombinant N-type Ca(2+) channel, raising caution concerning the use of FPL as a selective L-type Ca(2+) channel agonist in neurons.
The effects of tyrosine kinase inhibitors on the glycine-induced current (I(Gly)) were studied in rat neurons freshly isolated from the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Genistein reversibly and concentration-dependently depressed I(Gly), with an IC(50) of 13 microM. Preincubation with genistein had no effect on I(Gly), indicating that genistein is effective only when glycine is bound to the receptor and channels are most likely open. Genistein depressed maximum I(Gly) without significantly changing the EC(50) for glycine. Genistein-induced inhibition of I(Gly) was sensitive to membrane voltage, being greater at positive membrane potentials. A kinetic analysis indicated that genistein lengthens the time constant of I(Gly) activation, but has no effect on deactivation or desensitization. When genistein was rapidly washed out, a transient rebound current probably reflected a faster dissociation of genistein, with respect to glycine. Results of competition experiments suggest that genistein acts on the same region of the glycine receptor as picrotoxin. Daidzein, an analog of genistein that does not act on protein kinases, also inhibited I(Gly). Co-application of lavendustin A, a specific inhibitor of tyrosine kinase, had no effect on I(Gly). Our results extend to neurons isolated from the VTA, the previous finding that genistein directly inhibits glycine receptors of hypothalamic brain slices.
Extensive screening of compound libraries was undertaken to identify compounds with high affinity for the rat NK(1) receptor based on inhibition of [(125)I]-substance P binding. RP67580, SR140333, NKP-608 and GR205171 were selected as compounds of interest, with cloned rat NK(1) receptor binding K(i) values of 0.15-1.9 nM. Despite their high binding affinity, NKP-608 and GR205171 exhibited only a moderate functional antagonism of substance P-induced inositol-1-phosphate accumulation and acidification rate at 1 microM using cloned or native rat NK(1) receptors in vitro. The ability of the compounds to penetrate the CNS was determined by inhibition of NK(1) agonist-induced behaviours in gerbils and rats. GR205171 and NKP-608 potently inhibited GR73632-induced foot drumming in gerbils (ID(50) 0.04 and 0.2 mg/kg i.v., respectively). In contrast, RP67580 and SR140333 were poorly brain penetrant in gerbils (no inhibition at 10 mg/kg i.v.) and were not examined further in vivo. In rats, only high doses of GR205171 (10 or 30 mg/kg s.c.) inhibited NK(1) agonist-induced sniffing and hypertension, whilst NKP-608 (1 or 10 mg/kg i.p.) was without effect. GR205171 (3-30 mg/kg s.c.) caused only partial inhibition of separation-induced vocalisations in rat pups, a response that is known to be NK(1) receptor mediated in other species. These observations demonstrate the shortcomings of currently available NK(1) receptor antagonists for rat psychopharmacology assays.
Lesions of the entorhinal cortex are now an accepted model for mimicking some of the neuropathological aspects of schizophrenia, since evidence has accumulated for the presence of cytoarchitectonic abnormalities within this cortex in schizophrenic patients. The present study was undertaken to address the functional consequences of bilateral entorhinal cortex lesions on antipsychotic-induced c-fos expression. After a 15-day recovery period, the effect of a typical antipsychotic, haloperidol (1 mg/kg), on c-fos mRNA expression was compared with that of an atypical one, olanzapine (10 mg/kg), in both sham-lesioned and entorhinal cortex-lesioned rats. In sham-lesioned rats, both haloperidol and olanzapine induced c-fos expression in the caudal cingulate cortex, dorsomedial and dorsolateral caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens core and shell and lateral septum. In addition, olanzapine, but not haloperidol, increased c-fos expression within the central amygdala. In entorhinal cortex-lesioned rats, haloperidol-induced c-fos expression was markedly reduced in most areas. In contrast, the olanzapine-induced c-fos expression was not altered in the nucleus accumbens shell and lateral septum of the lesioned rats. These findings reveal that entorhinal cortex lesions affect c-fos expression in a compound- and regional-dependent manner. Our results further emphasize the importance of the exploration of the mechanisms of action of antipsychotic drugs in the context of an associated cortical pathology.
A variety of mechanisms have been proposed as explanations for the distinctive neuropathology of Parkinson's disease, such as increased iron levels, increased oxidant stress or decreased antioxidant defences. The vulnerability of dopamine-containing neurons towards cell death has attracted much attention to the dopamine molecule itself as one of the probable neurotoxic factors leading to neurodegeneration. The similarity between apomorphine and dopamine with regards to their chemical, pharmacological and toxicological properties provided a basis for investigating the nature of the toxicity of the former agent. In this study the CHO-K1 cell line was exposed to different concentrations of apomorphine, and markers of cell death and apoptosis were studied. Apomorphine reduced cell proliferation in a dose-dependent fashion after 72 h incubation. Furthermore, apomorphine induced dose-dependent cell death at concentrations of 10-50 microM. The CHO-K1 line showed specific markers of apoptosis such as the typical DNA laddering phenomenon on agarose gel, morphological changes of apoptotic nuclei as described by in situ end labelling, and annexin binding. These data strongly suggest that apomorphine, like dopamine, elicits its cytotoxic effect with an apoptotic mechanism.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) receives excitatory afferents from several cortical and limbic regions and dense dopaminergic inputs from the ventral tegmental area. We examined the effects of dopamine (DA) D1 and D2 selective drugs on the responses evoked in the NAc shell neurons recorded in vitro by stimulation of hippocampal and amygdaloid afferents. Activation of hippocampal and amygdaloid afferents induced excitatory postsynaptic responses that were depressed by bath application of DA in most of the cells recorded. The DA effect was substantially blocked by the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390, but not by the D2 receptor antagonist eticlopride. Moreover, the D1 receptor agonist SKF 38393, but not the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole, mimicked the effects of DA, although a small population of neurons exhibited a D1-mediated facilitation of the EPSP amplitude following fornix stimulation. These data demonstrate a DA receptor subtype-specific modulation of glutamatergic inputs to the NAc, with D1 agonists attenuating amygdaloid inputs, whereas hippocampal-evoked responses were either depressed or potentiated by D1 stimulation. Such facilitation or attenuation of hippocampal afferents against a background of suppression of other afferents would permit the hippocampus to have a dominant influence over behavior during periods of exploration.
Lithium remains the gold standard in the treatment of bipolar disorder. Long-term treatment with lithium may lead to specific adaptational changes in gene expression that contribute to a neuroprotective effect. In this study, the pilocarpine model of spontaneous limbic epilepsy was used to induce mossy fiber sprouting (axonal growth of the dentate granule cells that synapse on the pyramidal cells of the CA3 region) to examine the prophylactic neuroprotective effects of lithium in vivo. There were four groups of animals: pilocarpine treated (Pil+/Li-); pilocarpine treated followed by lithium (Pil+/Li+); lithium alone (Pil-/Li+); control (Pil-/Li-). Timm staining was used to obtain density measurements in the stratum oriens and the inner molecular layer of the hippocampus. Mossy fiber density was higher in the pilocarpine-treated animals compared to controls. Chronic lithium following pilocarpine treatment attenuated the density of mossy fibers but lithium alone had no effect. No changes in hilar volume or neuronal number were detected using stereological procedures. The ability of lithium to attenuate activation-induced reorganization in the hippocampus provides evidence for its role as a neuroprotective agent in an in vivo model that may be relevant to its clinical effects in bipolar disorder.
Cerebral mycotic or infective aneurysms are a rare complication of infectious illness, and such aneurysms of the intracavernous portion of the internal carotid artery are rare. They have been described as a consequence of cavernous sinus infection in an immunocompromised host, but not previously in a renal transplant recipient. We present such a case with serial MRI showing progression from arterial narrowing to aneurysm formation. Transcranial Doppler sonography of the middle cerebral artery showed distal asymptomatic embolisation from the aneurysm.
Studies in humans suggest that exposure to life stressors is correlated with compulsive drug abuse and relapse to drugs during periods of abstinence. The behavioral and neurobiological mechanisms involved in the effect of stress on drug abuse, however, are not known. Here, we review data from studies using preclinical models in rats on the effect of environmental stressors on opiate and psychostimulant reinforcement, as measured by the intravenous drug self-administration and conditioned place preference procedures, on relapse to these drugs, as measured by the reinstatement procedure, and on the subjective effects of these drugs, as measured by the drug discrimination procedure. The results of the studies reviewed here suggest that while stressors are important modulators of the behavioral effects of opiate and psychostimulant drugs, the effect of stress on behavior in these animal models is stressor-specific, and to some degree, procedure- and drug-class-specific. The review of studies on the neurobiological mechanisms underlying stress-drug interactions in these animal models indicate that central noradrenaline and extrahypothalamic corticotropin-releasing factor mediate the effect of one form of stress (intermittent footshock) on reinstatement of opiate and psychostimulant seeking after prolonged drug-free periods. At present, however, little is known about the neuronal events that mediate the effect of environmental stressors on opiate and psychostimulant reinforcement or discrimination. The broader implications of the data reviewed here for future research and for the treatment of opiate and psychostimulant addiction are briefly discussed.
To evaluate recovery function of and effects of hyperventilation (HV) on high-frequency oscillations (HFOs) of median nerve somatosensory evoked potential (SEP), we recorded SEPs in 8 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with enlarged HFOs, 4 myoclonus epilepsy (ME) patients and 10 healthy volunteers (N). SEP was recorded from the hand sensory area contralateral to the median nerve stimulated at the wrist. Responses were amplified with filters set at 0.5 and 3000 Hz. HFOs were obtained by digitally filtering raw SEPs from 500 to 1000 Hz. We measured amplitudes of the N20 onset-peak (N20o-p), N20 peak-P25 peak (N20p-P25p), P25 peak-N33 peak (P25p-N33p), the early (1st-2nd) and late (3rd) HFOs. For the recovery function study, paired-pulse stimuli at various interstimulus intervals (20, 50, 100, 150, 200 and 300 ms) were given. To investigate effects of HV, amplitudes of several components of SEPs recorded after HV were compared with those before HV. In PD and ME, the N20o-p recovery curve showed significantly less suppression as compared with those of N. The P25p-N33p recovery curve of ME showed longer suppression than those of N and PD. There were no significant differences in the early or late HFOs recovery curves among three groups. At the dysinhibited state after HV, the late HFO was reduced in association with a significant enlargement of the N20p-P25p amplitude in normal subjects. This suggests that the late HFOs should reflect bursts of inhibitory interneurons. In the ME patients, the early HFOs significantly decreased by HV. The pattern in ME patients may be explained by a kind of compensation for already enhanced SEPs (giant SEP) in the dysinhibited situation. We conclude that (1) Giant HFOs are normally regulated by inhibitory neuronal systems involving in paired stimulation SEP. (2) The late HFOs must reflect bursts of GABAergic inhibitory interneurons.

Transcripts of the gene encoding the serotonin 2C receptor are modified by RNA editing, a posttranscriptional process that converts adenosines to inosines. This editing changes up to three genomically encoded amino acids located in the second intracellular loop of the G-protein-coupled receptor. Compared with nonedited receptors, extensively edited receptor isoforms activate G protein less efficiently. Studies on mice revealed that 5-HT2C pre-mRNA editing is regulated in a serotonin-dependent manner, and postmortem studies on brain tissues of patients with schizophrenia and major depression found distinct site-specific alterations of this editing in the prefrontal cortex, a brain region expressing a large number of differently edited 5-HT2C mRNA isoforms. At present, the most complex alterations in 5-HT2C pre-mRNA editing were found in brains of depressed suicide victims. In these brains, 5-HT2C receptor isoforms with reduced function are expressed at significantly increased levels, suggesting that the regulation of editing by synaptic serotonin is defective.

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis(EAE), regarded as a model of multiple sclerosis, is a prototype Th1-mediated autoimmune disease. Although a prototype natural killer T(NKT) cell ligand, alpha-galactosylceramide(alpha-GC), would render NKT cells produce both IFN-gamma and IL-4, this novel ligand, an analog of alpha-GC with a truncated sphingosine chain, can induce a predominant production of IL-4. Consistently, an oral administration of this glycolipid induces Th2 bias of autoimmune T cells via production of IL-4 by NKT cells, leading to suppression of EAE. The lack of polymorphism of CD1d and cross-reactive response of mouse and human NKT cells to the same ligand would indicate that targeting NKT cells with this ligand may be an attractive means for intervening in multiple sclerosis.
Findings of chemokines and chemokine receptors in multiple sclerosis(MS) are reviewed. MS is a T-helper type 1 (Th1) dominant condition, and Th1-associated chemokine receptors(CCR5 and CXCR3) on CD4- and CD8-positive T cells and their ligands are upregulated in the CNS of the patients with active disease. Meanwhile, Th2-associated chemokine receptors(CCR3 and CCR4) on CD4- and CD8-positive T cells are suppressed during relapse. Their expressions are useful immunological measures of disease activity, clinical subtypes and therapy. CCR7 and the ligands are expressed in the CNS of MS and may be important for the recruitment of immune cells committed to immunological memory and antigen presentation.
We have previously demonstrated that NK cells and CD1d-restricted NKT cells regulate clinical and pathological manifestations of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis(EAE), an animal model for multiple sclerosis(MS). It is important to address whether NK and NKT cells are also involved in the pathogenesis of human MS. Our laboratory has recently showed that NK cells as well as CD4+ NKT cells are biased for secreting type 2 cytokines in the remission phase of MS. However, CD4- CD8- NKT cells, that mainly secrete TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma, are reduced in number and attenuated in cytokine secretion. These results support our postulate that NK and NKT cells are involved in the regulation of MS.
Recent clinical studies have demonstrated that a midline lesion of the dorsal columns (DC, limited midline myelotomy) reduces pain of visceral origin in patients with pelvic cancer. Animal experiments showed that a DC lesion leads to decreased activation of thalamic neurons by visceral stimuli, lowers the impact of noxious colon stimulation in behavioral tests and suggested that the effect is mediated mainly by postsynaptic DC neurons. In the present experiments we examined the effect of bilateral DC or ventrolateral (VL) spinal cord lesions on visceromotor reflex EMG activity evoked by graded colorectal distention (30, 60, 80 mmHg) under control conditions and after colon inflammation with mustard oil. The colon inflammation increased significantly the visceromotor responses so that the response to a 30 mmHg distention was larger than that produced by 80 mmHg before inflammation. The DC lesion did not affect the visceromotor reflex response under control conditions but reduced the increased responses after colon inflammation back to control levels and prevented the potentiation of the reflex responses by colon inflammation when performed before the inflammation. Our results suggest that the role of the DC pathway in transmission of visceral pain is augmented under inflammatory conditions when symptoms of visceral allodynia and hyperalgesia may be present. The VL lesions eliminated the visceromotor reflex, presumably by interrupting a facilitatory pathway that involves the brain stem.
The symptoms of Parkinson's disease can become increasingly difficult to control as the disease advances, particularly with the development of motor complications, such as end-of-dose wearing-off and dyskinesias, following long-term therapy. At this stage, the patient is frequently referred to a Parkinson's disease specialist for advice on the management of their disease. In this review we provide an overview of the Parkinson's disease specialist's strategies for coping with such problems. This includes strategy to prevent or delay motor fluctuations and the concept of the long duration response. The paper also includes establishing the optimum and most rational levodopa treatment schedule, improving levodopa absorption, use of COMT-inhibition, the addition of oral dopaminergic agonists, and the use of subcutaneous injections or infusions of apomorphine or lisuride. Finally, we highlight the increasing importance of treatment strategies that stimulate dopamine receptors in a more continuous, less pulsatile manner as a way of reducing the risk of developing treatment-associated motor complications.
Understanding of the pathophysiology of Parkinson disease (PD) has advanced rapidly over the last two decades through basic and clinical studies using modern neuroanatomical, clinical assessment, neuropathological and functional brain imaging methods. Two interacting processes determine the development of functional impairment, neuronal degeneration with selective denervation of specific regions and compensatory responses, which oppose the effects of denervation. The clinical manifestations of PD, at least in early stages, reflect selective degeneration of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra projecting through the nigrostriatal pathway to the caudal putamen with compensatory changes in this and related systems. Positron emission tomography with specific ligands for the dopamine system is a powerful tool for analysis of both degenerative and compensatory processes in the pathophysiology of Parkinson disease in vivo and can be used to confirm the diagnosis of dopamine deficient Parkinson disease.
Mate attraction in Aplysia involves long-distance water-borne signaling via the secretion of the peptide pheromone attractin from the exocrine albumen gland during egg laying. Previous studies have shown that a second exocrine organ, the atrial gland, produces abundant egg-laying hormone (ELH) precursor-related peptides and mollusk-derived growth factor (MDGF), and crude extracts of the atrial gland are attractive in T-maze attraction assays. However, it is not known whether these peptides and proteins are secreted during egg laying. In this report, seawater eluates of freshly laid egg cordons were concentrated and fractionated by C18 RP-HPLC, and the resulting major peaks were examined by amino acid compositional analysis, microsequence analysis, and electrospray mass spectrometry. Concentrated egg cordon eluates were also examined by immunoblot analysis using anti-MDGF antisera as probe. The combined data demonstrated that the atrial gland of Aplysia californica does not secrete detectable levels of either ELH precursor-related peptides or MDGF during egg laying. Although the atrial gland is the last major exocrine organ to make contact with eggs before they are laid, the gland does not appear to secrete water-borne peptide pheromones during egg laying.
The tissue-slice technique has enabled major insights into neural and neuroendocrine physiology. Our aim was to adapt this technique to study the function of the endocrine pancreas. The preparation combines an in situ approach, as in gland perfusion, with a resolution characteristic of electrophysiological studies on single cells. The membrane potential in beta-cells in the slices recorded using the whole-cell patch-clamp was close to the calculated reversal potential for K+. With sufficient ATP in the recording pipette the beta-cells depolarized rapidly on exposure to an increased glucose concentration or stimulation with tolbutamide. The cells preserved bursting and spiking capacity for tens of minutes despite the whole-cell dialysis. In addition, the voltage clamp was used to monitor the changes in the membrane capacitance and to allow correlation of the electrical activity and the cytosolic calcium changes. The pancreatic tissue slice preparation is a novel method for studying the function of the beta- and other pancreatic endocrine and exocrine cells under near-physiological conditions.
Regular physical activity promotes cardiorespiratory fitness and has been considered a cornerstone for non-pharmacological treatment of more than 17 million Americans with diabetes mellitus. Physical exercise has been shown to positively affect certain cardiovascular risk factors such as insulin resistance, glucose metabolism, blood pressure and body fat composition, which are closely associated with diabetes and heart disease. With the increasingly sedentary life style in our society, routine daily exercise of moderate intensity is highly recommended to reduce cardiovascular risk, the leading cause of death in diabetic patients. Exercise produces many beneficial effects to the heart function such as reduced incidence of coronary heart disease, attenuated severity of diabetic cardiomyopathy, improved cardiac performance, cardiac reserve and autonomic regulation. Nevertheless, many diabetic patients do not appear to gain much benefit from exercise or may even be at risk of performing physical exercise. This review summarizes the benefit and risk of exercise on diabetic heart function, with a special emphasis on myocardial and autonomic function.
Paul MacLean's concept of epistemics-the neuroscientific study of subjective experience-requires animal brain research that can be related to predictions concerning the internal experiences of humans. Especially robust relationships come from studies of the emotional/affective processes that arise from subcortical brain systems shared by all mammals. Recent affective neuroscience research has yielded the discovery of play- and tickle-induced ultrasonic vocalization patterns ( approximately 50-kHz chirps) in rats may have more than a passing resemblance to primitive human laughter. In this paper, we summarize a dozen reasons for the working hypothesis that such rat vocalizations reflect a type of positive affect that may have evolutionary relations to the joyfulness of human childhood laughter commonly accompanying social play. The neurobiological nature of human laughter is discussed, and the relevance of such ludic processes for understanding clinical disorders such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorders (ADHD), addictive urges and mood imbalances are discussed.
Paul MacLean has investigated integrated brain functioning through selected brain lesions in animals that disturb circuits necessary for complex behaviors, such as social displays. MacLean is unique in his comparative neurobehavioral approach that emphasizes the evolutionary origins of parenting and social behaviors and the implications of brain changes in the evolution from reptiles (social displays) to mammals (nursing, audiovocal communication, play) to man (self-awareness, intentionality, social context) that link affect and cognition. Subjectively, how &quot;looking with feeling toward others,&quot; the basic element in empathy, evolved has been a central concern of his. Neuroimaging studies of social cognition, mother-infant communication, moral behavior, forgiveness, and trust are consistent with particular brain systems being activated in cooperative social behaviors. The identification of mirror neurons is pertinent to MacLean's model of isopraxis and studies of thalamocortical resonances may be pertinent to his neurobehavioral models. Studies of behavioral phenotypes in human neurodevelopmental disorders are consistent with MacLean's model of brain circuits being linked to complex behaviors during development. In autistic disorder, the behavioral phenotype involves disrupted social communication, deviant imaginative play, and motor stereotypies. In Lesch-Nyhan syndrome (LNS), self-injury occurs in individuals with normal sensory systems intact who require and request physical restraint to prevent self-injury; they ask for assistance from others to prevent them from harming themselves. Autism involves the lack of subjective awareness of others intentions and LNS involves a failure in self-regulation and self-control of self-injurious behavior. MacLean's models laid the groundwork for studies focused on understanding brain functioning in these conditions.
Autism has been becoming the focus of attention as its apparently increasing prevalence is better appreciated. According to some estimates, the frequency of children with autistic spectrum disorder (ASD) can be as high as 1 in 150. The diagnosis can be made as early as 2 years of age, and autistic patients often have a normal life span. Thus, in terms of the number of &quot;patient years,&quot; ASD represents a market that is as large as that of the biggest neurological indication, Alzheimer's disease. Despite the clear unmet medical need, no effective treatment is available. This may be because the mechanism of ASD is not understood. The aim of the present paper is to review recent advances in autism research and to discuss some of the most stressing problems mainly from a preclinical research standpoint. We hope to draw attention to the need to study this devastating disease that places an enormous burden on the society in general and the relatives and caregivers of autistic patients in particular.
The female brain is a dynamic structure, which expresses its plasticity most readily following reproductive experience (RE). In Experiment 1, we generated nulliparous (NP), primiparous (PP), and multiparous (MP) females (none, one, and two litters, respectively). Two weeks following the weaning of the first/second six-pup litters, the age-matched MP and PP and the non-pup-exposed NP animals were subjected to a 60-min restraint stress paradigm (enclosure in a Plexiglas restraint tube). The brains were removed and processed for c-fos immunoreactivity (c-fos-IR) in CA3 region of the hippocampus (HI) and in basolateral amygdala (BLA). MP and PP females had very similar numbers of c-fos-IR neurons in both HI and BLA, whereas both were lower than NPs. In a second experiment, the same groups were generated, together with primigravid (PG; first pregnancy) and multigravid (MG; second pregnancy) females, tested in late pregnancy. The animals were exposed to a 30-min trial in an open field and were killed, and the brains were again examined for c-fos-IR. The parous and gravid animals displayed less reactivity to the stress of the open field (i.e., reductions in behavioral measures of anxiety) and significantly less c-fos expression in both CA3 and BLA. The gravid animals displayed significantly less c-fos expression in CA3 and BLA compared to parous females, although neither group differed as a result of a second RE. The data suggest that reproductive (viz., hormonal) and/or maternal (viz., pup exposure) experience may inure a female and her brain to stress, rendering her less susceptible to the behavioral-or other-disruptions that stress sensitivity can produce. Together, these data suggest that the experiences of motherhood (pregnancy, pup exposure, suckling stimulation, etc.) summate to produce reductions in anxiety and stress responsiveness that start before and last long after pup exposure and care. Such reductions may be adaptive in the face of demands placed upon the parous vs. the NP female.
There is a considerable literature on the neurobiology of reward, based largely on studies of addiction or substance abuse. This review considers the possibility that the neural circuits that mediate reward evolved for ethologically relevant cues, such as social attachment. Specifically, mesocorticolimbic dopamine appears important for maternal behavior in rats and pair bonding in monogamous voles. It is not yet clear that dopamine in this pathway mediates the hedonic properties of social bond formation or whether dopamine's role is more relevant to developing associative networks or assigning salience to social stimuli. The neuropeptides oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (AVP) appear to be critical for linking social signals to the mesocorticolimbic circuit.
Working as a physician, Paul MacLean's interests moved in the direction of the brain when he realized that most of his patients suffered from symptoms (e.g. anxiety, sleeping problems) that could not be traced to a known physiological cause. His curiosity about the neurological origins of these psychological symptoms led him to the laboratories of Stanley Cobb and James Papez, both of whom were influential in guiding MacLean's interests toward the temporal lobe. His neurobiological interest was not contained, however, to the temporal lobe. As his own family grew to include a wife and five children, his scholarly pursuits extended to social and familial relations and their accompanying underlying neuroanatomical circuits (i.e. the thalamocingulate system). Viewing the brain and behavior from an evolutionary perspective, MacLean introduced the concept of the &quot;triune brain&quot; to describe the evolutionarily distinct components of the mammalian brain and reintroduced Broca's term &quot;limbic&quot; to describe a neuroanatomical system involved in emotional functions. MacLean wrote that the development of social behaviors, such as mother-infant audiovocal communication and the separation cry of the offspring, served as the driving force in the evolution of the neocortex. MacLean's neuroevolutionary perspective and appreciation of the complexity and evolutionary significance of social systems offer valuable insights into the contemporary fields of behavioral neuroscience and biological psychiatry.

Steroid hormones act via evolutionarily conserved nuclear receptors to regulate neuronal phenotype during development, maturity and disease. Steroid hormones exert 'global' effects in organisms to produce coordinated physiological responses whereas, at the 'local' level, individual neurons can respond to a steroidal signal in highly specific ways. This review focuses on two phenomena-the loss of dendritic processes and the programmed cell death (PCD) of neurons-that can be regulated by steroid hormones (e.g. during sexual differentiation in vertebrates). In insects such as the moth, Manduca sexta, and fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, ecdysteroids orchestrate a reorganization of neural circuits during metamorphosis. In Manduca, accessory planta retractor (APR) motoneurons undergo dendritic loss at the end of larval life in response to a rise in 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E). Dendritic regression is associated with a decrease in the strength of monosynaptic inputs, a decrease in the number of contacts from pre-synaptic neurons, and the loss of a behavior mediated by these synapses. The APRs in different abdominal segments undergo segment-specific PCD at pupation and adult emergence that is triggered directly and cell-autonomously by a genomic action of 20E, as demonstrated in cell culture. The post-emergence death of APRs provides a model for steroid-mediated neuroprotection. APR death occurs by autophagy, not apoptosis, and involves caspase activation and the aggregation and ultracondensation of mitochondria. Manduca genes involved in segmental identity, 20E signaling and PCD are being sought by suppressive subtractive hybridization (SSH) and cDNA microarrays. Experiments utilizing Drosophila as a complementary system have been initiated. These insect model systems contribute toward understanding the causes and functional consequences of dendritic loss and neurodegeneration in human neurological disorders.
Typically, emotionally charged events are better remembered than neutral ones. This paper reviews data indicating that the amygdala is responsible for this facilitation of memory by emotional arousal. Pharmacological and behavioral studies have shown that the release of adrenal stress hormones facilitates memory consolidation. The available evidence suggests that this effect depends on a central action of stress hormones involving the release of the neuromodulators noradrenaline (NA) and acetylcholine in the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA). Indeed, BLA lesions block the memory modulating effects of stress hormones. Moreover, microdialysis studies have revealed that BLA concentrations of NA and acetylcholine are transiently (2h) elevated following emotionally arousing learning episodes. Last, post-learning intra-BLA injections of beta-adrenergic or muscarinic receptor antagonists reduce retention. These results have led to the hypothesis that NA and acetylcholine increase the activity of BLA neurons in the hours after the learning episode. In turn, the BLA would facilitate synaptic plasticity in other brain structures, believed to constitute the storage sites for different types of memory. Consistent with this, post-learning treatments that reduce or enhance the excitability of BLA neurons respectively decrease or improve long-term retention on various emotionally charged learning tasks. However, a number of issues remain unresolved. Chief among them is how the BLA facilitates synaptic plasticity elsewhere in the brain. The present review concludes with a consideration of this issue based on recent advances in our understanding of the BLA. Among other possibilities, it is suggested that rhythmic BLA activity at the theta frequency during arousal as well as the uniform conduction times of BLA axons to distributed rhinal sites may promote plasticity in co-active structures of the temporal lobe.
Bipolar affective disorder (BPD) is a multifactorial, severe, chronic and disabling illness with 50% heritability that affects 1-2% of the population. Lithium ions (Li) are the drug of choice for BPD. Yet, 20-40% of patients fail to respond to Li. Although numerous biochemical and cellular effects have been attributed to Li, its therapeutic mechanism of action has not been elucidated. This review presents the possible involvement of 3'(2')-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphate (PAP) phosphatase in the etiology of bipolar disorder and the mechanism of action of Li. Of the enzymes inhibited by Li, PAP phosphatase is inhibited with the lowest Ki (0.3 mM). At therapeutic concentrations of Li (0.5-1.5 mM), inhibition is greater than 80%. Therefore, PAP phosphatase is a strong candidate for Li's therapeutic mechanism of action. In yeast, a PAP phosphatase knockout mutation leads to the accumulation of PAP, which affects ribosomal-, transfer- and small nucleolar-RNA processing. PAP accumulation in the mammalian brain following Li inhibition of PAP phosphatase may very well account for the observed effects of Li on gene expression and behavior. Furthermore, we have reported significant changes in PAP phosphatase levels in postmortem frontal cortex of bipolar patients.
This study examined visuo-cognitive processing of threat-related (anger, fear) and non-threat faces (happy, sad, neutral) in deluded schizophrenia (n=11), non-deluded schizophrenia (n=8), and healthy control (n=22) participants. Focal analyses examined scanpath aberrations for particular facial expressions in sub-groups of schizophrenia patients determined by the presence or absence of overt delusions. Deluded schizophrenia subjects exhibited significantly fewer fixations of shorter duration for all faces, and fewer fixations of reduced duration to the feature areas of negative facial expressions (anger, sad), compared with healthy controls. Compared with non-deluded schizophrenia subjects, deluded subjects exhibited fewer fixations to fear expressions and more fixations to the feature areas of happy expressions. These findings were revealed in the context of restricted scanning (reduced number and duration of fixations, shorter scanpath length and shorter duration of fixations to facial features) in the entire schizophrenia group (n=19) compared with healthy controls. The findings suggest a controlled attentional bias away from the feature areas of negative facial expressions in deluded schizophrenia, that is, specific to threat-related expressions compared with non-deluded schizophrenia subjects. This controlled bias away from negative social stimuli in deluded schizophrenia is discussed in terms of an attentional style of 'vigilance-avoidance' operating across early and late stages of information processing.

The study investigated whether auditory hallucinations (AH) in schizophrenia are linked to a deficit in inhibition. Two tasks assessing the intentional suppression of cognitive events-the Hayling Sentence Completion Test (HSCT) [Neuropsychologia 34 (1996) 263] and the Inhibition of Currently Irrelevant Memories Task (ICIM) [Nature Neuroscience 2 (1999) 677]-were administered to 42 patients with schizophrenia and 24 normal controls. Presence and severity of symptoms in the patient group were examined using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). Patients performed significantly worse on the measures of inhibition compared to controls. More importantly, among patients, significant positive correlations were obtained between an index of AH severity (defined as an increase in frequency of AH on PANSS) and the number of type A errors on the HSCT and errors in the last three runs of the ICIM. An increase in AH severity was, therefore, associated with increasingly impaired control of intentional inhibition. Furthermore, no significant correlations were found between these indices of inhibition and either negative, general or positive symptoms (excluding AH scores).
Niacin dilates cutaneous blood vessels, resulting in a pronounced skin flush in most people. The flush response to niacin is attenuated in schizophrenia, but the quantification and physiological mechanism of this abnormality have not been described in detail. It is not clear whether the mechanism involves changes in the pharmacological sensitivity to niacin, or whether there is a reduced ability of the vasculature to dilate adequately in subjects with schizophrenia. We address this question in the present study by characterizing the dose-response relationship between topically applied alpha-methylnicotinate (AMN) and cutaneous blood flow changes, which were quantified by laser Doppler flowmetry. The dose-response curve was shifted to the right in subjects with schizophrenia. The EC(50) value of AMN was significantly increased in the schizophrenia group (mean: 1.66 mM; 95% confidence interval: 1.04-2.65 mM) as compared to the control group (mean: 0.38 mM; 95% confidence interval: 0.263-0.547 mM). The blood flow responses to higher AMN doses were lower in the schizophrenics; however, there was no statistically significant difference in the extrapolated maximal blood flow response value (F(max)) between the two groups. The results suggest that the skin flush abnormality in schizophrenia primarily reflects reduced pharmacological sensitivity to niacin rather than an inadequate cutaneous vasodilatory response to the stimulus. Since vasodilatation in response to niacin requires the release of prostaglandins, the data from this study suggest that schizophrenia is associated with abnormalities in enzymes, receptors, or signal transduction mechanisms that affect the synthesis, release, or response to vasodilatory prostaglandins.
Glutathione (GSH) is the main non-protein antioxidant and plays a critical role in protecting cells from damage by reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by dopamine (DA) metabolism. We reported a decrease of GSH levels ([GSH]) in CSF and in prefrontal cortex in vivo in schizophrenics [Eur. J. Neurosci. 12 (2000) 3721]. A GSH deficit may lead to membrane peroxidation and microlesions around dopaminergic terminals, resulting in loss of connectivity. To test this hypothesis, we studied the effect of DA in cultured cortical neurons with low [GSH]. DA alone decreased [GSH] by 40%. This effect appears to result from direct conjugation of DA semiquinone/quinone with GSH. Ethacrynic acid (EA) decreased [GSH] in a concentration-dependent manner. When added to EA, DA further lowers [GSH]. As this additional decrease is blocked by superoxide dismutase (SOD) or D(1)/D(2) receptor antagonists, it likely involves the generation of superoxide via activation of DA receptors. It also reduces the mitochondrial membrane potential. Most interestingly, a significant decrease in number of neuronal processes (spines analogous) was induced by 24-h application of DA only in low [GSH]. These data, compatible with our hypothesis, is consistent with the dendritic spines reduction reported in schizophrenia and could be related to abnormalities in synaptic connectivity.
Acute liver failure results in encephalopathy and brain edema that is characterized by astrocytic cell swelling. Molecular biological techniques have led to the identification of alterations in expression of several genes coding for key astrocytic proteins in acute liver failure. Such proteins include amino acid transporters, structural proteins, the endothelial cell glucose transporter GLUT-1, the mitochondrial &quot;peripheral-type&quot; benzodiazepine receptor, and the water channel protein aquaporin IV. Magnetic resonance spectroscopic studies reveal increased brain lactate concentrations that are positively correlated with severity of encephalopathy and brain edema in acute liver failure, suggesting a deficit of cellular oxidative capacity and impending brain energy failure. Mild hypothermia prevents brain edema in acute liver failure, and mechanisms responsible for this beneficial effect include reduced blood-brain ammonia transfer as well as normalization of astrocytic amino acid transport and brain energy metabolism. Further elucidation of the molecular mechanisms responsible for brain edema and encephalopathy in acute liver failure will undoubtedly lead to novel treatment strategies for these complications.







Intracellular calcium has a pivotal role in synaptic modifications that may underlie learning and memory. The present study examined whether there were changes in immunoreactivity levels of the AMPA receptor subunits GluR2/3 and calcium binding proteins during classical conditioning recorded in the abducens nerve of in vitro brain stem preparations from turtles. The results showed that abducens motor neurons in unconditioned turtle brain stems were immunopositive for GluR2/3, calbindin-D28K, and calmodulin, but were immunonegative for parvalbumin. After classical conditioning, immunoreactivity for calbindin-D28K in the abducens motor nuclei was significantly reduced, whereas there were no significant changes in GluR2/3, calmodulin, or parvalbumin. This reduction in calbindin-D28K immunoreactivity was not observed following conditioning in the NMDA receptor antagonist AP-5, which blocked conditioned responses, suggesting that these changes are NMDA receptor-dependent. Moreover, the degree of the decrease in calbindin-D28K immunoreactivity was negatively correlated with the level of conditioning. Consistent with the immunocytochemical findings, Western blot analysis showed that calbindin-D28K protein levels were reduced after classical conditioning. The results support the hypothesis that in vitro classical conditioning of abducens nerve responses utilizes intracellular calcium-dependent signaling pathways that require NMDA receptor function and suggest a specific role for the calcium binding protein calbindin-D28K.
The last couple of years have witnessed a rapid development in discoveries of the genetic background in myopathies. It is therefore timely to review the impact they have on clinical work. The recognition of a myopathy remains a clinical activity, and biopsy retains a major role. Molecular genetic investigation can be contemplated early in cases with certain typical clinical presentation. In others, the correct indication to such an investigation can only be made based on findings at biopsy. The information of precise mutation can be used for genetic counselling of the family. Knowledge of genes, whose mutations are sufficient to cause certain myopathies, have provided a great amount of knowledge about pathophysiological mechanisms involved. Some are arguably rare diseases, however, this knowledge also helps understand more frequent myopathies, as it has been the case in neurodegenerative disorders.
Fifty years ago the neurologist MacDonald Critchley observed that parietal cortex damage impaired temporal as well as spatial experience. Whereas the physiological understanding of space has since advanced, the same cannot be said of time. However, in a novel study, recording from single neurons in the macaque, Leon and Shadlen show that a region of the parietal cortex appears to encode time. The area in which these neurons reside also contains spatially selective neurons and overlaps with the area recently reported to contain number neurons.
New phenomenological data demonstrate that integrated life episodes are incorporated in no more than 1-2% of dream reports. This appears to be at odds with the replay of temporally sequenced memory at the level of neuronal ensembles observed in some animals during sleep. This result will constrain emerging ideas on memory reactivation during sleep and the role of sleep in memory consolidation.

Theories about basal ganglia function have always been driven by our knowledge about the spiny projection neurons of the striatum. At the core of these theories lies the question of how, precisely, spiny projection neurons process cortical inputs. Most recently, studies demonstrating the role of spiny projection neurons in local synaptic GABA transmission have provided several new avenues for exploring striatal dynamics. They have also suggested new experimental directives for examining the specific ways in which spiny projection neurons both compete and cooperate through their local axon collaterals during cortical input processing.
Since the middle of the 19th century it has been recognized that several higher cognitive functions, including language, are lateralized in cerebral cortex. Neuropsychological studies on patients with brain lesions and rapid developments in brain imaging techniques have provided us with an increasing body of data on the functional aspects of language lateralization, but little is known about the substrate on which these specializations are realized. Much attention has been focused on the gross size and shape of cortical regions involved, but recent findings indicate that the columnar and connectional structure within auditory and language cortex in the left hemisphere are distinct from those in homotopic regions in the right hemisphere. These findings concern parameters that are closely linked to the processing architecture within the respective regions. Thus, the comparison of these microanatomical specializations with their respective functional counterparts provides important insights into the functional role of cerebral cortical organization and its consequences for processing of cortical information in the implementation of complex cognitive functions.
Theories of dopamine function are at a crossroads. Computational models derived from single-unit recordings capture changes in dopaminergic neuron firing rate as a prediction error signal. These models employ the prediction error signal in two roles: learning to predict future rewarding events and biasing action choice. Conversely, pharmacological inhibition or lesion of dopaminergic neuron function diminishes the ability of an animal to motivate behaviors directed at acquiring rewards. These lesion experiments have raised the possibility that dopamine release encodes a measure of the incentive value of a contemplated behavioral act. The most complete psychological idea that captures this notion frames the dopamine signal as carrying 'incentive salience'. On the surface, these two competing accounts of dopamine function seem incommensurate. To the contrary, we demonstrate that both of these functions can be captured in a single computational model of the involvement of dopamine in reward prediction for the purpose of reward seeking.
The entorhinal cortex (EC) is an essential component of the medial temporal lobe long-term-memory system. Recently, Egorov et al. demonstrated that neurons in layer 5 of the EC show graded persistent activity: each neuron could maintain a constant rate firing over several minutes, even in the absence of input from other neurons. These findings suggest that layer-5 EC neurons could play a central role in the formation of associations among stimuli that occur at different times.
A fundamental problem in nervous system development is how to control progenitor-cell divisions to generate the correct number of cells for the mature brain and spinal cord. A recent report by Petersen and colleagues has identified an essential role for Numb and a related protein, Numblike, in this process. This study demonstrates that Numb and Numblike function to maintain the self-renewal properties of neural progenitor cells in the vertebrate neural tube.
The UK's Foresight Cognitive Systems Project brings together researchers in the life sciences and physical sciences to see where they can learn from one another and to debate, and plan, the future of research in cognitive systems. The project, a part of the UK government's Foresight initiative, sets out to identify potential opportunities for the economy or society from new science and technology. Through a series of research reviews, the project has created 'snap shots' of research in cognitive systems. A major conference in Bristol in September will consider series of research manifestos created by interdisciplinary groups.
When two target stimuli (T1 and T2) are presented sequentially within half a second of each other, identification accuracy is often poor for T2. This phenomenon, known as attentional blink (AB), can be observed generally only if the stimulus terminating the presentation of T2 acts as an interruption mask. Recent evidence suggests that even four small dots surrounding a target item can exert masking effects, provided the target onset occurs at an unattended spatial location. In order to test whether an AB could be observed under conditions of four-dot masking of T2, five rapid serial visual presentation streams of letters were synchronously displayed on each trial of the present experiment. T1 and T2 were digits presented at unpredictable locations and unpredictable temporal intervals. T2 was followed by either a blank field, a letter, or four-dots. No AB was observed when T2 was not masked, but robust and equally sized ABs were observed when T2 was followed by both the letter mask and the four-dots.
Neurons can produce action potentials with high temporal precision. A fundamental issue is whether, and how, this capability is used in information processing. According to the 'cell assembly' hypothesis, transient synchrony of anatomically distributed groups of neurons underlies processing of both external sensory input and internal cognitive mechanisms. Accordingly, neuron populations should be arranged into groups whose synchrony exceeds that predicted by common modulation by sensory input. Here we find that the spike times of hippocampal pyramidal cells can be predicted more accurately by using the spike times of simultaneously recorded neurons in addition to the animals location in space. This improvement remained when the spatial prediction was refined with a spatially dependent theta phase modulation. The time window in which spike times are best predicted from simultaneous peer activity is 10-30 ms, suggesting that cell assemblies are synchronized at this timescale. Because this temporal window matches the membrane time constant of pyramidal neurons, the period of the hippocampal gamma oscillation and the time window for synaptic plasticity, we propose that cooperative activity at this timescale is optimal for information transmission and storage in cortical circuits.
Narp is a neuronal immediate early gene that plays a role in excitatory synaptogenesis. Here, we report that native Narp in brain is part of a pentraxin complex that includes NP1. These proteins are covalently linked by disulfide bonds into highly organized complexes, and their relative ratio in the complex is dynamically dependent upon the neuron's activity history and developmental stage. Complex formation is dependent on their distinct N-terminal coiled-coil domains, while their closely homologous C-terminal pentraxin domains mediate association with AMPA-type glutamate receptors. Narp is substantially more effective in assays of cell surface cluster formation, coclustering of AMPA receptors, and excitatory synaptogenesis, yet their combined expression results in supraadditive effects. These studies support a model in which Narp can regulate the latent synaptogenic activity of NP1 by forming mixed pentraxin assemblies. This mechanism appears to contribute to both activity-independent and activity-dependent excitatory synaptogenesis.
We hypothesized that TRPV4, a member of the transient receptor family of ion channels, functions as a sensory transducer for osmotic stimulus-induced nociception. We found that, as expected for a transducer molecule, TRPV4 protein is transported in sensory nerve distally toward the peripheral nerve endings. In vivo single-fiber recordings in rat showed that hypotonic solution activated 54% of C-fibers, an effect enhanced by the hyperalgesic inflammatory mediator prostaglandin E2. This osmotransduction causes nociception, since administration of a small osmotic stimulus into skin sensitized by PGE2 produced pain-related behavior. Antisense-induced decrease in expression of TRPV4 confirmed that the channel is required for hypotonic stimulus-induced nociception. Thus, we conclude that TRPV4 can function as an osmo-transducer in primary afferent nociceptive nerve fibers. Because this action is enhanced by an inflammatory mediator, TRPV4 may be important in pathological states and may be an attractive pharmacological target for the development of novel analgesics.


In vivo formation of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+)) in the striatum, and dopaminergic neurotoxicity following systemic administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in the presence and absence of calcium channel agonist (+/-)-Bay K8644 were analyzed in Balb/c mice. We used HPLC-photodiode array detection, HPLC-electrochemical detection and spectrofluorimetric procedures to measure striatal MPP(+) and dopamine (DA) and for the assay of monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) activity, respectively. Systemic administration of (+/-)-Bay K8644 resulted in a significant increase in striatal MAO-B activity. An MPTP-induced decrease in striatal MAO-B activity was attenuated by pre-treatment with (+/-)-Bay K8644 initially, but not on the 3rd day. MPP(+) formation in the striatum following systemic administration of MPTP was significantly increased by the pre-treatment of the agonist initially (30 min), but was not different afterwards (at 60 and 90 min). Nevertheless, the total MPP(+) formed over a 90 min period was found to be comparable. (+/-)-Bay K8644 administration prior to MPTP failed to influence the MPTP-induced striatal DA depletion on the 3rd day. While the transient effect of (+/-)-Bay K8644 on striatal MAO-B is reflected as an immediate increase in the levels of MPP(+) in the striatum, it failed to affect MPTP-induced DA neurotoxicity in Balb/c mice.
Reproductive status influences cell proliferation and the survival of new cells in the dentate gyrus of adult laboratory-reared and wild female meadow voles; reproductively inactive (RI) females have more proliferating cells and more labeled cells that survive 5 weeks vs. 2 h than reproductively active (RA) females. However, the effect of season has only been studied in a wild sample of male meadow voles and factors such as age and experience that have been shown to influence neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of adult mammals cannot be controlled in a wild sample. Therefore, we investigated whether reproductive status regulates neurogenesis (cell proliferation and/or the survival of new cells) in the dentate gyrus of laboratory-reared adult male meadow voles so that confounding variables could be controlled. Males were acclimated to a short- or a long-photoperiod to simulate the non-breeding or breeding season, respectively, and reproductive status was verified by testes mass. The density of labeled cells was similar in RI and RA males (P=0.20) 2 h after an injection of bromodeoxyuridine (50 mg/kg) but the density of labeled cells was elevated in the RA males relative to the RI males 5 weeks after an injection of [(3)H]thymidine (5 microCi/g; P&lt;or=0.04). The results suggest that reproductive status regulates the survival of new cells within the dentate gyrus of adult male meadow voles but not cell proliferation.
Transplantation of olfactory ensheathing cells has been one of the promising strategies in enhancing central nerve fiber regeneration. Membrane surface molecules on olfactory ensheathing cells mediating cell-cell interactions as well as various factors released from them are thought to be important for nerve regeneration. The latter, however, has not been fully substantiated by experimental data, particularly regarding the olfactory ensheathing cells of the adult animals. In the present study, the effects of adult olfactory ensheathing cell conditioned medium on PC12 cells were examined. The results show that the factors secreted by the adult olfactory ensheathing cells can promote PC12 cell differentiation and protect it from Zn(2+) insult.
Information processing in the visual cortex is critically dependent on the input-output relationships of its component neurons. The transformation of synaptic inputs into spike trains depends in turn on the host of intrinsic membrane properties expressed by neurons, which define established electrophysiological cell classes in the neocortex. Here we studied, with intracellular recordings in vivo, how the electrophysiological cell classes in the primary visual cortex transform an increasing input, represented by stimulus contrast, into membrane depolarization and trains of action potentials. We used contrast as input because, regardless of their stimulus selectivity, primary visual cortical cells increase their firing rates in response to increases in luminance contrast. We found that both the spike rate response and the membrane potential response are best described by the hyperbolic ratio function when compared with linear, power, and logarithmic functions. In addition, both responses show similar parameter values and similar residual variance from the fits to all four functions. We also found that changes in membrane potential are similar, but firing rates differ strongly, between the established electrophysiological cell classes: fast spiking neurons show the highest firing rates, followed by fast rhythmic bursting, and regular spiking (RS) cells. In addition, among complex cells, RS cells from supragranular layers fired at higher rates than RS cells from infragranular layers. Finally, we show that the differences in firing rates between cell classes arise from differences in the slope of the relationship between membrane potential and spike rate.
NMDA receptors are well known to play an important role in synaptic development and plasticity. Functional NMDA receptors are heteromultimers thought to contain two NR1 subunits and two or three NR2 subunits. In central neurons, NMDA receptors at immature glutamatergic synapses contain NR2B subunits and are largely replaced by NR2A subunits with development. At mature synapses, NMDA receptors are thought to be multimers that contain either NR1/NR2A or NR1/NR2A/NR2B subunits, whereas receptors that contain only NR1/NR2B subunits are extrasynaptic. Here, we have studied the properties of NMDA receptors at glutamatergic synapses in the lateral and central amygdala. We find that NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic currents in the central amygdala in both immature and mature synapses have slow kinetics and are substantially blocked by the NR2B-selective antagonists (1S, 2S)-1-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-(4-hydroxy-4-phenylpiperidino)-1-propano and ifenprodil, indicating that there is no developmental change in subunit composition. In contrast, at synapses on pyramidal neurons in the lateral amygdala, whereas NMDA EPSCs at immature synapses are slow and blocked by NR2B-selective antagonists, at mature synapses their kinetics are faster and markedly less sensitive to NR2B-selective antagonists, consistent with a change from NR2B to NR2A subunits. Using real-time PCR and Western blotting, we show that in adults the ratio of levels of NR2B to NR2A subunits is greater in the central amygdala than in the lateral amygdala. These results show that the subunit composition synaptic NMDA receptors in the lateral and central amygdala undergo distinct developmental changes.
Little is known about the role of class 3 semaphorins in the development of CNS circuitry. Several class 3 semaphorins, including semaphorin 3F (Sema3F) bind to the receptor neuropilin-2 to confer chemorepulsive responses in vitro. To understand the role of Sema3F in the establishment of neural circuitry in vivo, we have generated sema3F null and sema3F conditional mutant mice. Inspection of the peripheral nervous system in sema3F null mice reveals that Sema3F is essential for the proper organization of specific cranial nerve projections. Analysis of the CNS in sema3F null mice reveals a crucial role for Sema3F in the rostral forebrain, midbrain, and hippocampus in establishing specific Npn-2 (neuropilin-2)-expressing limbic tracts. Furthermore, we identify Sema3F and Npn-2 as the first guidance cue-receptor pair shown to be essential for controlling the development of amygdaloid circuitry. In addition, we provide genetic evidence in vertebrates for a neuronal requirement of a soluble axon guidance cue in CNS axon guidance. Our data reveal a requirement for neuronal Sema3F in the normal development of the anterior commissure in the ventral forebrain and infrapyramidal tract in the hippocampus. Thus, our results show that Sema3F is the principal ligand for Npn-2-mediated axon guidance events in vivo and is a critical determinant of limbic and peripheral nervous system circuitry.
Pathological crying (PC) is a neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by an excessive tendency towards crying after brain damage. To elucidate the role of serotonin neurotransmission for PC, a pilot study was performed using single photon emission computed tomography with [123I]beta-CIT to estimate central (midbrain/pons and thalamus/hypothalamus) serotonin transporter (SERT) densities in 15 stroke patients who did or did not have PC. SERT binding ratios in midbrain/pons were significantly lower in the PC subgroup.
Two main types of dissociation can be considered in order to articulate action and abstraction. Vision for action and vision for perception are often described as dissociated systems at both anatomical and functional levels. Within this framework, abstraction should be specific to perceptual representation, whereas the action system would simply analyse the objective metric of space. By contrast, one may focus on dissociations within the action system. In this case, one will accept that action may involve abstract representations, at least during movement preparation. But a specific visuomotor level of processing can be described that appears to comply with the spatial properties of the relationship between the actor and the environment. This system would be specialized for fast movement guidance towards pre-defined goals. Such an automatic piloting system would thus be free of abstraction.
Abstraction denotes the cognitive process by means of which general concepts are formed. The dominant view of abstraction considers it not only as a complex and sophisticated cognitive activity, but also as a distinctive hallmark of mankind. The distinctiveness of abstract thought has indeed been closely related to another feature peculiar to our species: language. Following this perspective, the possibility to entertain conceptual representations is thus precluded to animals devoid of full-blown language. I challenge this view and propose that the representational dynamic of the brain is conceivable as a type of self-organization, in which action plays a crucial part. My aim will be to investigate whether, and to what extent, conceptual knowledge can be attributed to non-linguistic animal species, with particular emphasis on nonhuman primates. I therefore introduce the notion of semantic content as a type of 'relational specification'. A review of recent neurophysiological data on the neural underpinnings of action end-states in the macaque monkey brain is presented. On the basis of this evidence, I propose that conceptual representations can be conceived as the expression of a coherent internal world model. This model decomposes the 'outer' space inhabited by things in a meaningful way only to the extent that it accords to biologically constrained, embodied invariance. Finally, I discuss how the 'comparative' neuroscientific approach to abstraction proposed here may shed some light on its nature and its evolutionary origin.
Neural grafting is a potential strategy to help restore auditory function following loss of spiral ganglion cells. As a first step towards the reconstruction of a neural pathway from the cochlea to the brainstem, we have examined the survival of fetal dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons allografted into the cochlea of adult guinea pigs. In some animals implantation of DRGs was combined with a local infusion of neurotrophic substances whereas in others auditory sensory receptors were chemically destroyed prior to DRG implantation by injection of the ototoxin neomycin into the middle ear. The results show that many transplanted DRG neurons attached close to the cochlear spiral ganglion neurons. The survival of the implant was significantly increased by treatment with neurotrophic factors, but not reduced by the absence of auditory sensory structures. This study shows that implanted sensory neurons can survive heterotopic grafting immediately adjacent to the eighth cranial nerve, thereby providing a basis for further studies of the anatomical and functional influence of neural grafts in the inner ear.
Replacement of beta6/alpha5 region at the C-terminus on Galpha16 with Galphaz-specific residues has been shown to broaden the promiscuity of Galpha16. Here, we substituted the last 44 residues of Galpha16 with the corresponding region from either Galphai2 or GalphaoA (16i44 and 16o44). 16i44 and 16o44 chimeras were more effective than Galpha16 at coupling to Gi-linked delta-opioid, mu-opioid, and Xenopus melatonin MT1c receptors when coexpressed in green monkey fibroblast (COS-7) cells. 16i44, but not 16o44, also enhanced the formyl peptide-induced stimulation of phospholipase C activity. Both chimeras were resistant to pertussis toxin-catalyzed [32P]ADP-ribosylation, despite the fact that pertussis toxin partially inhibited the chimera-mediated stimulation of phospholipase Cbeta. The use of Galphat1 as a Gbetagamma scavenger revealed that the pertussis toxin-sensitivity can be attributed to endogenous Gbetagamma subunits released from G(i/o). Although incorporation of a Galphai-like beta6/alpha5 region into the C-terminus of Galpha16 increases its promiscuity, this region is not sufficient to support recognition by pertussis toxin.
Two subunits of the 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 (5-HT3) have been identified (5-HT3A and 5-HT3B) that assemble into homomeric (5-HT3A) and heteromeric (5-HT3A+5-HT3B) complexes. Unassembled 5-HT3B subunits are efficiently retained within the cell. In this study, we address the mechanism controlling the release of 5-HT3B from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). An analysis of chimeric 5-HT3A receptor(R).5-HT3BR constructs suggests the presence of elements downstream of the first transmembrane domain of 5-HT3B subunits that inhibit cell surface expression. To investigate this possibility, truncated 5-HT3B subunits were constructed and assessed for their ability to access the cell surface in COS-7 and ts201 cells. Using this approach, we have identified the presence of an ER retention signal located within the first cytoplasmic loop between transmembrane domains I and II of 5-HT3B. Transplantation of this signal (CRAR) into the homologous region of 5-HT3A results in the ER retention of this subunit until rescued by co-assembly with wild-type 5-HT3A. The mutation of this ER retention signal in 5-HT3B (5-HT3BSGER) does not lead to cell surface expression, suggesting the presence of other signals or mechanisms to control the surface expression of 5-HT3BRs. The generation of truncated 5-HT3BSGER constructs confirmed that the CRAR signal does play an important role in the ER retention of 5-HT3B.
To examine the oligomeric state and trafficking of the dopamine transporter (DAT) in different compartments of living cells, human DAT was fused to yellow (YFP) or cyan fluorescent protein (CFP). YFP-DAT and CFP-DAT were transiently and stably expressed in porcine aortic endothelial (PAE) cells, human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells, and an immortalized dopaminergic cell line 1RB3AN27. Fluorescence microscopic imaging of cells co-expressing YFP-DAT and CFP-DAT revealed fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between CFP and YFP, which is consistent with an intermolecular interaction of DAT fusion proteins. FRET signals were detected between CFP- and YFP-DAT located at the plasma membrane and in intracellular membrane compartments. Phorbol esters or amphetamine induced the endocytosis of YFP/CFP-DAT to early and recycling endosomes, identified by Rab5, Rab11, Hrs and EEA.1 proteins. Interestingly, however, DAT was mainly excluded from Rab5- and Hrs-containing microdomains within the endosomes. The strongest FRET signals were measured in endosomes, indicative of efficient oligomerization of internalized DAT. The intermolecular DAT interactions were confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation. A DAT mutant that was retained in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) after biosynthesis was used to show that DAT is oligomeric in the ER. Moreover, co-expression of an ER-retained DAT mutant and wild-type DAT resulted in the retention of wild-type DAT in the ER. These data suggest that DAT oligomers are formed in the ER and then are constitutively maintained both at the cell surface and during trafficking between the plasma membrane and endosomes.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) is a major constituent of the neuritic plaque found in the brain of Alzheimer's disease patients, and a great deal of evidence suggests that the neuronal loss that is associated with the disease is a consequence of the actions of Abeta. In the past few years, it has become apparent that activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) mediates some of the effects of Abeta on cultured cells; in particular, the evidence suggests that Abeta-triggered JNK activation leads to cell death. In this study, we investigated the effect of intracerebroventricular injection of Abeta(1-40) on signaling events in the hippocampus and on long term potentiation in Schaffer collateral CA1 pyramidal cell synapses in vivo. We report that Abeta(1-40) induced activation of JNK in CA1 and that this was coupled with expression of the proapoptotic protein, Bax, cytosolic cytochrome c, poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage, and Fas ligand expression in the hippocampus. These data indicate that Abeta(1-40) inhibited expression of long term potentiation, and this effect was abrogated by administration of the JNK inhibitor peptide, D-JNKI1. In parallel with these findings, we observed that Abeta-induced changes in caspase-3 activation and TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling staining in neuronal cultured cells were inhibited by D-JNKI1. We present evidence suggesting that interleukin (IL)-1beta plays a significant role in mediating the effects of Abeta(1-40) because Abeta(1-40) increased hippocampal IL-1beta and because several effects of Abeta(1-40) were inhibited by the caspase-1 inhibitor Ac-YVAD-CMK. On the basis of our findings, we propose that Abeta-induced changes in hippocampal plasticity are likely to be dependent upon IL-1beta-triggered activation of JNK.
Interactions with ankyrinG are crucial to the localization of voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) at the axon initial segment and for neurons to initiate action potentials. However, the molecular nature of these interactions remains unclear. Here we report that VGSC-alpha, but not -beta, subunits bind to ankyrinG using pull-down assays. Further dissection of this activity identifies a conserved 9-amino acid motif ((V/A)P(I/L)AXXE(S/D)D) required for ankyrinG binding. This motif is also required for the localization of chimeric neurofascin/sodium channel molecules to the initial segment of cultured hippocampal neurons. The conserved nature of this motif suggests that it functions to localize sodium channels to a variety of &quot;excitable&quot; membrane domains both inside and outside of the nervous system.

Striking parallels exist between immune and nervous system cellular signalling mechanisms. Molecules originally shown to be critical for immune responses also serve neuronal functions, and similarly neural guidance cues can modulate immune function. We show here that semaphorin 7A (Sema7A), a membrane-anchored member of the semaphorin family of guidance proteins previously known for its immunomodulatory effects, can also mediate neuronal functions. Unlike many other semaphorins, which act as repulsive guidance cues, Sema7A enhances central and peripheral axon growth and is required for proper axon tract formation during embryonic development. Unexpectedly, Sema7A enhancement of axon outgrowth requires integrin receptors and activation of MAPK signalling pathways. These findings define a previously unknown biological function for semaphorins, identify an unexpected role for integrins and integrin-dependent intracellular signalling in mediating semaphorin responses, and provide a framework for understanding and interfering with Sema7A function in both immune and nervous systems.


Acetyl-RYYRIK-NH2, a drug reported to act as an orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N) receptor antagonist, did not block the OFQ/N-induced prolactin increase in female rats. Indeed, Acetyl-RYYRIK-NH2 pretreatment increased the magnitude and duration of the prolactin secretory response. Furthermore, by 15 min after the Acetyl-RYYRIK-NH2 pretreatment, and prior to any OFQ/N administration, circulating levels of prolactin were significantly increased in a dose-related manner, providing further evidence that this drug exhibits agonist activity. In contrast, neither drug affected basal levels of luteinizing hormone nor had any effect on tail flick latency in rats. These results indicate that Acetyl-RYYRIK-NH2 does not antagonize the prolactin secretory activity of OFQ/N.
The extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK) participate in numerous signaling pathways and are abundantly expressed in the CNS. It has been proposed that ERK activation promotes survival in models of neuronal injury. Inhibition of MEK, the upstream kinase that activates ERK, however, leads to neuroprotection in models of cerebral ischemia and trauma, suggesting that in this context ERK activation contributes to cellular damage. The effect of ischemia and reperfusion on activity and expression of ERK was investigated using a reversible model of rabbit spinal cord ischemia. Active ERK was observed in nai;ve animals, which decreased during 15 to 60 min of ischemia. Upon reperfusion, a robust activation of ERK was observed in animals occluded for 60 min that remained permanently paraplegic. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed increased staining of phosphorylated ERK (pERK) in glial cells and faint nuclear staining in motor neurons of animals occluded for 60 min and reperfused for 18 h. In contrast ERK activity did not increase in animals occluded for 15 min that regained motor function. No evidence of increased pERK immunoreactivity in motor neurons or nuclear translocation was noted in these animals. ERK1 was demonstrated to be identical to a p46 c-Jun/ATF-2 kinase previously shown to be activated by reperfusion after a 60-min occlusion. The results suggest that activation of ERK during reperfusion of ischemic spinal cord participates in the cellular pathways leading to neuronal damage.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by deletion and/or mutation of the survival motor neuron protein Gene (SMN1) that results in the expression of a truncated protein lacking the C terminal exon-7. Whereas SMN has been shown to be an important component of diverse ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes, its function in neurons is unknown. We hypothesize that the active transport of SMN may be important for neurite outgrowth and that disruption of exon-7 could impair its normal intracellular trafficking. SMN was localized in granules that were associated with cytoskeletal filament systems and distributed throughout neurites and growth cones. Live cell imaging of enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-SMN granules revealed rapid, bidirectional and cytoskeletal-dependent movements. Exon-7 was necessary for localization of SMN into the cytoplasm but was not sufficient for granule formation and transport. A cytoplasmic targeting signal within exon-7 was identified that could completely redistribute the nuclear protein D-box binding factor 1 into the cytoplasm. Neurons transfected with SMN lacking exon-7 had significantly shorter neurites, a defect that could be rescued by redirecting the exon-7 deletion mutant into neurites by a targeting sequence from growth-associated protein-43. These findings provide the first demonstration of cytoskeletal-based active transport of SMN in neuronal processes and the function of exon-7 in cytoplasmic localization. Such observations provide motivation to investigate possible transport defects or inefficiency of SMN associated RNPs in motor neuron axons in SMA.
The maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP) depends on alteration of gene transcription. By screening a subtracted cDNA library that is enriched in upregulated transcripts in rat hippocampus 3 hr after Schaffer-CA1 LTP induction in vivo, we identified a neural growth-associated protein SCG10 (superior cervical ganglia clone 10) gene. The semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR and Northern blot experiments confirmed that SCG10 mRNA levels were elevated in tetanized rat hippocampi compared with those of sham controls that received only low-frequency stimulation. Both 1 and 2 kb forms of SCG10 mRNAs contributed to the increased expression. Using a riboprobe with a sequence specific to the 3'-untranslated region of rat SCG10 mRNA, in situ hybridization further revealed a significant increase of the SCG10 mRNA 2 kb form in the ipsilateral CA3 and CA1 regions of LTP animals. In addition, we systemically injected the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist d,l-3[(+/-)-2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) to determine whether the alteration of SCG10 expression depends on NMDA receptor activation or tetanus alone. Administration of CPP 1 hr before tetanus completely blocked LTP induction and the increase of SCG10 mRNA levels. Thus, these results suggest that the transcription of SCG10 in vivo is regulated by long-lasting synaptic activity and may contribute to the maintenance of long-term synaptic plasticity via a presynaptic remodeling mechanism.
In visual cortex, NMDA receptor (NMDAR) properties depend primarily on NR2A and NR2B subunits, and NR2 subunit composition changes with age and visual experience. We examined the roles of these NR2 subunits in activity-dependent long-term modification of synaptic responses, which were evoked in layer 2/3 cells by stimulation of layer 4 in rat visual cortical slices. We used theta-burst stimulation (TBS) of presynaptic fibers or low-frequency stimulation paired with postsynaptic depolarization, which has been commonly used to induce NMDAR-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) in visual cortex. In pyramidal cells, however, TBS produced long-term depression (LTD) at inhibitory synapses rather than LTP at excitatory synapses. This was observed in association with LTP of extracellular field potentials that reflect postsynaptic potentials in a population of cells (field-LTP). This result is inconsistent with the previous view that field-LTP reflects LTP of excitatory connections. However, pairing stimulation produced LTP at excitatory synapses of pyramidal cells frequently during development but rarely in adulthood. In contrast, inhibitory LTD and field-LTP occurred similarly in both developing and mature cortex. Experiments using NR2B selective and NR2 subunit nonselective NMDAR antagonists demonstrated that NR2A- and NR2B-containing NMDARs contribute selectively to inhibitory LTD-field-LTP and excitatory LTP, respectively. In addition, we found that the developmental decline in the NR2B component was paralleled by a decline in the incidence of excitatory LTP, and these declines were both prevented by dark rearing. These results implicate NR2 subunit composition in the regulation of neocortical plasticity and demonstrate differential subunit regulation at inhibitory and excitatory connections.
Tolerance and physical dependence caused by chronic treatment of narcotics are good models to study basic neuronal plasticity. Activation of the NMDA subtype of the glutamate receptor has been implicated as an anti-opioid system in the development of morphine analgesic tolerance and dependence. The present study examines the specific role of the epsilon1 subunit of the NMDA receptor using mice lacking the gene encoding epsilon1 subunit of the NMDA receptor (GluRepsilon1-/- mice). GluRepsilon1-/- mice showed significant enhancement and prolongation of morphine anti-nociception, compared with wild-type GluRepsilon1+/+ mice. GluRepsilon1-/- mice also showed a marked loss of the analgesic tolerance after repeated morphine treatments. In C57BL/6J mice treated with chronic morphine after tolerance paradigm, the GluRepsilon1 protein expression significantly increased in periaqueductal gray matter (PAG), ventral tegmental area (VTA) and nucleus accumbens (NAc), but not amygdala or hippocampus. The rescue of GluRepsilon1 protein by electroporation into the PAG and VTA, but not NAc of GluRepsilon1-/- mice significantly reversed morphine analgesic tolerance liability. Similar attempts were also performed in the naloxone-precipitated physical dependence paradigm. GluRepsilon1-/- mice showed marked loss of typical withdrawal abstinence behaviors, and significant enhancement of GluRepsilon1 protein expression was only observed in NAc by chronic morphine treatments after dependence paradigm. The rescue of GluRepsilon1 protein by electroporation into the NAc of GluRepsilon1-/- mice significantly reversed the loss of abstinence behaviors. These findings suggest that GluRepsilon1 has locus-specific roles in the development of morphine analgesic tolerance and physical dependence.
The hippocampus is thought to be important for spatial representation processes that depend on the integration of both self-movement and allocentric cues. The vestibular system is a particularly important source of self-movement information that may contribute to this spatial representation. To test the hypothesis that the vestibular system provides self-movement information to the hippocampus, rats were given either a bilateral labyrinthectomy (n = 6) or a sham surgery (n = 6), and at least 60 d after surgery hippocampal CA1 neurons were recorded extracellularly while the animals foraged freely in an open arena. Recorded cells were classified as complex spiking (n = 80) or noncomplex spiking (n = 33) neurons, and their spatial firing fields (place fields) were examined. The most striking effect of the lesion was that it appeared to completely abolish location-related firing. The results of this and previous studies provide converging evidence demonstrating that vestibular information is processed by the hippocampus. The disruption of the vestibular input to the hippocampus may interfere with the reconciliation of internal self-movement signals with the changes to the external sensory inputs that occur as a result of that movement. This would disrupt the ability of the animal to integrate allocentric and egocentric information into a coherent representation of space.
Human performance on diverse tests of intellect are impacted by a &quot;general&quot; regulatory factor that accounts for up to 50% of the variance between individuals on intelligence tests. Neurobiological determinants of general cognitive abilities are essentially unknown, owing in part to the paucity of animal research wherein neurobiological analyses are possible. We report a methodology with which we have assessed individual differences in the general learning abilities of laboratory mice. Abilities of mice on tests of associative fear conditioning, operant avoidance, path integration, discrimination, and spatial navigation were assessed. Tasks were designed so that each made unique sensory, motor, motivational, and information processing demands on the animals. A sample of 56 genetically diverse outbred mice (CD-1) was used to assess individuals' acquisition on each task. Indicative of a common source of variance, positive correlations were found between individuals' performance on all tasks. When tested on multiple test batteries, the overall performance ranks of individuals were found to be highly reliable and were &quot;normally&quot; distributed. Factor analysis of learning performance variables determined that a single factor accounted for 38% of the total variance across animals. Animals' levels of native activity and body weights accounted for little of the variability in learning, although animals' propensity for exploration loaded strongly (and was positively correlated) with learning abilities. These results indicate that diverse learning abilities of laboratory mice are influenced by a common source of variance and, moreover, that the general learning abilities of individual mice can be specified relative to a sample of peers.
During development of the retina, programmed cell death helps to establish the final size and distribution of various cell classes in distinct layers of the tissue. Here we show that dying cells in the developing ganglion and inner nuclear layers are clustered spatially and that gap junction inhibitors decrease the clustering of dying cells. To confirm the role of gap junctions in cell death, we induced targeted cell death via intracellular cytochrome c (Cc) and examined the induced cells and their neighbors for apoptotic morphology or caspase-3 cleavage. These studies indicate that bystander killing extends to coupled cells. Quantitative studies of bystander killing were performed by scrape-loading retinas with Cc in the presence of rhodamine dextran (RD; to identify Cc-loaded cells) and by counting pyknotic cells in cryosections. Although only 1.5% of control scrape-loaded cells (RD alone) showed apoptotic morphology, 97% of Cc scrape-loaded cells were pyknotic. Moreover, bystander killing extended to neighboring cells, not labeled with RD, and was reduced significantly by the gap junction inhibitors octanol and carbenoxolone. We hypothesize that dying cells in the retina generate a gap junction-permeant apoptotic signal that mediates bystander killing. This novel finding of naturally occurring bystander cell death may have important implications in the histogenesis and pathology of the nervous system.
The authors performed a clinical and genetic study of a large consanguineous English family with uncomplicated autosomal recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia (ARHSP). Linkage to the previously described SPG5A locus was established with maximum multipoint lod score of 4.84. The locus was refined to a 23.6 cM interval between markers D8S1833 and D8S285. No evidence of oxidative phosphorylation defects was found in muscle biopsies from two affected individuals.


Inhalation of irritating substances leads to activation of the trigeminal nerve, triggering protective reflexes that include apnea or sneezing. Receptors for trigeminal irritants are generally assumed to be located exclusively on free nerve endings within the nasal epithelium, requiring that trigeminal irritants diffuse through the junctional barrier at the epithelial surface to activate receptors. We find, in both rats and mice, an extensive population of chemosensory cells that reach the surface of the nasal epithelium and form synaptic contacts with trigeminal afferent nerve fibers. These chemosensory cells express T2R &quot;bitter-taste&quot; receptors and alpha-gustducin, a G protein involved in chemosensory transduction. Functional studies indicate that bitter substances applied to the nasal epithelium activate the trigeminal nerve and evoke changes in respiratory rate. By extending to the surface of the nasal epithelium, these chemosensory cells serve to expand the repertoire of compounds that can activate trigeminal protective reflexes. The trigeminal chemoreceptor cells are likely to be remnants of the phylogenetically ancient population of solitary chemoreceptor cells found in the epithelium of all anamniote aquatic vertebrates.
Schizophrenia is a severe psychiatric disorder characterized by a complex mode of inheritance. Forebrain-specific CNB knockout mice display a spectrum of behavioral abnormalities related to altered behaviors observed in schizophrenia patients. To examine whether calcineurin dysfunction is involved in schizophrenia etiology, we undertook studies of an initial subset of calcineurin-related genes, prioritizing ones that map to loci previously implicated in schizophrenia by linkage studies. Transmission disequilibrium studies in a large sample of affected families detected association of the PPP3CC gene, which encodes the calcineurin gamma catalytic subunit, with disease. Our results identify PPP3CC, located at 8p21.3, as a potential schizophrenia susceptibility gene and support the proposal that alterations in calcineurin signaling contribute to schizophrenia pathogenesis.
Calcineurin (CN), a calcium- and calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, plays a significant role in the central nervous system. Previously, we reported that forebrain-specific CN knockout mice (CN mutant mice) have impaired working memory. To further analyze the behavioral effects of CN deficiency, we subjected CN mutant mice to a comprehensive behavioral test battery. Mutant mice showed increased locomotor activity, decreased social interaction, and impairments in prepulse inhibition and latent inhibition. In addition, CN mutant mice displayed an increased response to the locomotor stimulating effects of MK-801. Collectively, the abnormalities of CN mutant mice are strikingly similar to those described for schizophrenia. We propose that alterations affecting CN signaling could comprise a contributing factor in schizophrenia pathogenesis.
In a study of brainstem in the cynomolgus monkey, we found that the distribution of calbindin D28K (CB) and parvalbumin (PV) is nonoverlapping among functionally distinct sets of brainstem structures. Nuclei involved in representation and regulation of the organism's internal state contain CB, whereas those involved in the representation of the external environment and the representation or execution of externally directed actions contain only PV. Moreover, our findings indicate that different nuclei known as components of the ascending reticular activating system (ARAS) contain either CB or PV or both, suggesting that this system in primates operates with both CB and PV. In line with previously reported findings, we also found that unmyelinated pathways contain only CB, whereas myelinated pathways contain PV. Distribution of CB and PV in the macaque brainstem follows a pattern comparable to, but in some instances significantly different than, the pattern previously reported in the rat. We argue that the nonoverlapping distribution of CB and PV among different structures of the brainstem might reflect underlying differences in the physiological, anatomic, and perhaps phylogenetic properties of these structures. Considering our recent findings of selective vulnerability of brainstem structures to Alzheimer's disease, the present data suggest that the majority of macaque brainstem nuclei that contain CB are vulnerable to neurofibrillary tangles in humans. By contrast, only few nuclei that contain PV exhibit pathologic changes. Some of these nuclei are affected with a high number of neuritic plaques without ever developing neurofibrillary tangles.
The white matter is the structure of the brain that declines most with age-almost 30%, but little is known about the age-effect on the fibers that constitute the white matter. In the present study, the total length of myelinated fibers was measured with a newly developed stereologic method. Specimens came from 36 normal Danes (18 males and 18 females) with an age ranging between 18 and 93 years. Samples were taken systematically and randomly from the white matter, and the biopsy specimens were randomly rotated before sectioning to avoid bias due to the anisotropic nature of nerve fibers. The fibers were counted at light microscopic level at approximately 10,000x magnification, and the diameter of each counted fiber was measured to get the diameter distribution. Males were found to have a total myelinated fiber length of 176,000 km at the age of 20 and 97,200 km at the age of 80, whereas the total length in females was 149,000 km at the age of 20 and 82,000 km at the age of 80. This finding corresponds to a 10% decrease per decade or a total decrease of 45% from the age of 20 to 80 years, and a sex difference of 16%. The fiber diameter distribution showed that primarily the thinner fibers were lost with a relative preservation of the thicker ones. The marked loss of myelinated nerve fibers with age could explain some of the cognitive decline seen in the elderly.
Very little is known about the impact of selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) on the brain. We examined the effects of tamoxifen (TAMOX) and the synthetic estrogen 17alpha-ethynylestradiol (EE) on estrogen-dependent gene expression and receptor binding in the female rat brain. Both immediate and residual effects were examined in both the presence and absence of 17beta-estradiol. Two groups of adult, ovariectomized, female rats (n=30 per group) were injected with TAMOX (5 mg/kg), EE (0.1 mg/kg), or sesame oil daily for 14 days. Animals from the first group were implanted with blank or 17beta-estradiol Silastic capsules concurrently with the last three SERM injections (immediate, group 1). Animals from the second group received either blank or 17beta-estradiol implants 2 weeks after the last injection (residual, group 2). All animals were sacrificed 72 h after implantation. TAMOX increased uterine weight in the absence of estrogen, but inhibited uterine weight gain in the presence of estrogen in both groups 1 and 2. TAMOX and EE increased oxytocin receptor binding in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN) in the absence of estrogen in both groups 1 and 2. The estrogen-dependent induction of PR mRNA expression in the VMN was significantly attenuated by TAMOX in group 1. Finally, TAMOX and EE had opposite effects on ERbeta mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus in the absence of 17beta-estradiol in group 1. Neither had any effect in group 2 when 17beta-estradiol was present. These results suggest that TAMOX has mixed agonist/antagonist effects in the female rat brain, many of which persist at least 2 weeks after the administration ceases.
The co-abuse of cocaine and ethanol is common among human addicts and has been reported to produce a stronger increase of euphoria as compared to either drug given alone. Both cocaine and ethanol increase the extracellular dopamine concentration in the nucleus accumbens, a terminal region in the mesolimbic dopamine pathway. In addition, both cocaine and ethanol affect the endogenous opioid system, which in turn alters the activity of the mesolimbic dopamine pathway. We have carried out quantitative autoradiography mapping of the opioid receptors as well as the opioid receptor-like 1 receptor in the brains of rats treated with both single and dual cocaine and ethanol. Rats received acute cocaine, ethanol or both drugs in combination. Ethanol alone or in combination with cocaine modulated the receptor densities in rat central nervous system. The kappa receptor densities were generally decreased, while both the mu and the opioid receptor-like 1 receptors were up-regulated. The mu opioid receptor levels were mainly increased in non-cortical regions, whereas the opioid receptor-like 1 receptors were increased in cortical structures. No changes in delta opioid receptors were observed. Cocaine alone did not influence the receptor levels in any of the treatment groups.
N-Methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit 2A (NR2A) is an important modulatory component of the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors. To investigate the transcription mechanism of the NR2A gene, we cloned the 5'-flanking sequence from a rat genomic library. RNA mapping with rat brain RNA revealed two sets of major and several minor transcription start points in a single exon of 1140 bp. Reporter gene and mutation studies indicated that core promoter activity resided in exon 1, whereas the 5'-flanking sequence up to 1.5 kb showed no significant impact on promoter activity. Fragments containing minor transcription start points were able to drive a reporter gene in transfected cells and produce nascent RNAs in an in vitro transcription system. All fragments tested showed more promoter activity in dissociated neurons of the rat embryonic cerebrocortex and cell lines expressing NR2A mRNA than that in glial cultures and non-neuronal cells. Within exon 1 there are three GC-box elements that displayed distinct binding affinity to both Sp1- and Sp4-like factors. Overexpression of Sp1 or Sp4, but not Sp3, significantly increased the activity of the promoter containing these elements. Inclusion of exon 2 and 3 sequences, which contain five short open-reading frames, attenuated promoter-driven reporter activity more than 3-fold but attenuated the level of reporter mRNA less than 1.4-fold. Our results suggest that the core promoter of the rat NR2A gene requires exon 1, that Sp factors positively regulate this core promoter, and that a post-transcriptional mechanism may negatively regulate expression of the gene.
Ceruloplasmin (Cp) is a ferroxidase that converts highly toxic ferrous iron to its non-toxic ferric form. A glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored form of this enzyme is expressed by astrocytes in the mammalian central nervous system, whereas the secreted form is expressed by the liver and found in serum. Lack of this enzyme results in iron accumulation in the brain and neurodegeneration. Herein, we show using astrocytes purified from the central nervous system of Cp-null mice that GPI-Cp is essential for iron efflux and not involved in regulating iron influx. We also show that GPI-Cp colocalizes on the astrocyte cell surface with the divalent metal transporter IREG1 and is physically associated with IREG1. In addition, IREG1 alone is unable to efflux iron from astrocytes in the absence of GPI-Cp or secreted Cp. We also provide evidence that the divalent metal influx transporter DMT1 is expressed by astrocytes and is likely to mediate iron influx into these glial cells. The coordinated actions of GPI-Cp and IREG1 may be required for iron efflux from neural cells, and disruption of this balance could lead to iron accumulation in the central nervous system and neurodegeneration.
Densities of serotonin transporters (5-HTT) in the postmortem neocortex of behaviorally assessed Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and aged controls were measured by radioligand binding with [3H]citalopram. It was found that 5-HTT sites in the temporal cortex of AD patients with prominent antemortem anxiety were unaltered compared with controls, but were reduced in non-anxious AD subjects. Furthermore, homozygosity for the high activity allele of a functional polymorphism in the 5-HTT gene promoter region (5-HTTLPR) was associated with both increased [3H]citalopram binding and occurrence of anxiety in the AD subjects. Since serotonin-synthesizing neurons are known to be lost in the AD cortex, this study suggests that the preservation of 5-HTT may exacerbate serotonergic deficits and underlie anxiety symptoms in AD.

The phosphorylation status of amyloid precursor protein (APP) at Thr668 is suggested to play a critical role in the proteolytic cleavage of APP, which generates either soluble APP(beta) (sAPP(beta)) and beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta), the major component of senile plaques in patient brains inflicted with Alzheimer's disease (AD), or soluble APP(alpha) (sAPP(alpha)) and a peptide smaller than Abeta. One of the protein kinases known to phosphorylate APP(Thr668) is cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). Cdk5 is activated by the association with its regulatory partner p35 or its truncated form, p25, which is elevated in AD brains. The comparative effects of p35 and p25 on APP(Thr668) phosphorylation and APP processing, however, have not been reported. In this study, we investigated APP(Thr668) phosphorylation and APP processing mediated by p35/Cdk5 and p25/Cdk5 in the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y. Transient overexpression of p35 and p25 elicited distinct patterns of APP(Thr668) phosphorylation, specifically, p35 increasing the phosphorylation of both mature and immature APP, whereas p25 primarily elevated the phosphorylation of immature APP. Despite these differential effects on APP phosphorylation, both p35 and p25 overexpression enhanced the secretion of Abeta, sAPP(beta), as well as sAPP(alpha). These results confirm the involvement of Cdk5 in APP processing, and suggest that p35- and p25-mediated Cdk5 activities lead to discrete APP phosphorylation.
5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 (5-HT3) receptors are cation-selective transmitter-gated ion channels of the Cys-loop superfamily. The single-channel conductance of human recombinant 5-HT3 receptors assembled as homomers of 5-HT3A subunits, or heteromers of 5-HT3A and 5-HT3B subunits, are markedly different, being 0.4 pS (refs 6, 9) and 16 pS (ref. 7), respectively. Paradoxically, the channel-lining M2 domain of the 5-HT3A subunit would be predicted to promote cation conduction, whereas that of the 5-HT3B subunit would not. Here we describe a determinant of single-channel conductance that can explain these observations. By constructing chimaeric 5-HT3A and 5-HT3B subunits we identified a region (the 'HA-stretch') within the large cytoplasmic loop of the receptor that markedly influences channel conductance. Replacement of three arginine residues unique to the HA-stretch of the 5-HT3A subunit by their 5-HT3B subunit counterparts increased single-channel conductance 28-fold. Significantly, ultrastructural studies of the Torpedo nicotinic acetylcholine receptor indicate that the key residues might frame narrow openings that contribute to the permeation pathway. Our findings solve the conundrum of the anomalously low conductance of homomeric 5-HT3A receptors and indicate an important function for the HA-stretch in Cys-loop transmitter-gated ion channels.


Human olfactory perception is notoriously unreliable, but shows substantial benefits from visual cues, suggesting important crossmodal integration between these primary sensory modalities. We used event-related fMRI to determine the underlying neural mechanisms of olfactory-visual integration in the human brain. Subjects participated in an olfactory detection task, whereby odors and pictures were delivered separately or together. By manipulating the degree of semantic correspondence between odor-picture pairs, we show a perceptual olfactory facilitation for semantically congruent (versus incongruent) trials. This behavioral advantage was associated with enhanced neural activity in anterior hippocampus and rostromedial orbitofrontal cortex. We suggest these findings can be interpreted as indicating that human hippocampus mediates reactivation of crossmodal semantic associations, even in the absence of explicit memory processing.
Single neurons in monkey parietal cortex update visual information in conjunction with eye movements. This remapping of stimulus representations is thought to contribute to spatial constancy. We hypothesized that a similar process occurs in human parietal cortex and that we could visualize it with functional MRI. We scanned subjects during a task that involved remapping of visual signals across hemifields. We observed an initial response in the hemisphere contralateral to the visual stimulus, followed by a remapped response in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the stimulus. We ruled out the possibility that this remapped response resulted from either eye movements or visual stimuli alone. Our results demonstrate that updating of visual information occurs in human parietal cortex.
Many rodents explore their environment by rhythmically palpating objects with their mystacial whiskers. These rhythmic whisker movements (&quot;whisking&quot;; 5-9 Hz) are thought to be regulated by an unknown brainstem central pattern generator (CPG). We tested the hypothesis that serotonin (5-HT) inputs to whisking facial motoneurons (wFMNs) are part of this CPG. In response to exogenous serotonin, wFMNs recorded in vitro fire rhythmically at whisking frequencies, and selective 5-HT2 or 5-HT3 receptor antagonists suppress this rhythmic firing. In vivo, stimulation of brainstem serotonergic raphe nuclei evokes whisker movements. Unilateral infusion of selective 5-HT2 or 5-HT3 receptor antagonists suppresses ipsilateral whisking and substantially alters the frequencies and symmetry of whisker movements. These findings suggest that serotonin is both necessary and sufficient to generate rhythmic whisker movements and that serotonergic premotoneurons are part of a whisking CPG.
Local axon degeneration is a common pathological feature of many neurodegenerative diseases and peripheral neuropathies. While it is believed to operate with an apoptosis-independent molecular program, the underlying molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. In this study, we used the degeneration of transected axons, termed &quot;Wallerian degeneration,&quot; as a model to examine the possible involvement of the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS). Inhibiting UPS activity by both pharmacological and genetic means profoundly delays axon degeneration both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, we found that the fragmentation of microtubules is the earliest detectable change in axons undergoing Wallerian degeneration, which among other degenerative events, can be delayed by proteasome inhibitors. Interestingly, similar to transected axons, degeneration of axons from nerve growth factor (NGF)-deprived sympathetic neurons could also be suppressed by proteasome inhibitors. Our findings suggest a possibility that inhibiting UPS activity may serve to retard axon degeneration in pathological conditions.
Evidence suggests homologies in parietofrontal circuits involved in object prehension among humans and monkeys. Likewise, tool use is known to induce functional reorganization of their visuotactile limb representations. Yet, humans are the only species for whom tool use is a defining and universal characteristic. Why? Comparative studies of chimpanzee tool use indicate that critical differences are likely to be found in mechanisms involved in causal reasoning rather than those implementing sensorimotor transformations. Available evidence implicates higher-level perceptual areas in these processes.
Cullin-5 (Cul-5), an E3 ubiquitin ligase that covalently binds ubiquitin to proteins targeted for degradation via the proteasome, was examined for its localization and distribution in the rat central nervous system (CNS). We showed cul-5 mRNA expression in rat neuronal, glial, and vascular endothelial cells by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and corroborated these data by Cul-5 immunostaining in neurons, astrocytes, blood vessels, and choroid plexus of the laboratory rat. Widespread and ubiquitous expression of Cul-5 in the brain suggests that it may have a vital role(s) in cellular activities of the CNS.
Life-threatening hyperthermia occurs in some individuals taking 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, ecstasy). In rabbits, sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction in heat-exchanging cutaneous beds (ear pinnae) contributes to MDMA-elicited hyperthermia. We investigated whether MDMA-elicited cutaneous vasoconstriction and hyperthermia are reversed by clozapine and olanzapine, atypical antipsychotic agents. Ear pinna blood flow and body temperature were measured in conscious rabbits; MDMA (6 mg/kg, i.v.) was administered; and clozapine (0.1-5 mg/kg, i.v.) or olanzapine (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.) was administered 15 min later. One hour after MDMA, temperature was 38.7 +/- 0.5 degrees C in 5 mg/kg clozapine-treated rabbits and 39.0 +/- 0.2 degrees C in olanzapine-treated rabbits, less than untreated animals (41.5 +/- 0.3 degrees C) and unchanged from pre-MDMA values. Ear pinna blood flow increased from the MDMA-induced near zero level within 5 min of clozapine or olanzapine administration. Clozapine-induced temperature and flow responses were dose-dependent. In urethane-anesthetized rabbits, MDMA (6 mg/kg, i.v.) increased ear pinna postganglionic sympathetic nerve discharge to 217 +/- 33% of the pre-MDMA baseline. Five minutes after clozapine (1 mg/kg, i.v.) discharge was reduced to 10 +/- 4% of the MDMA-elicited level. In conscious rats made hyperthermic by MDMA (10 mg/kg, s.c.), body temperature 1 hr after clozapine (3 mg/kg, s.c.) was 36.9 +/- 0.5 degrees C, &lt;38.6 +/- 0.3 degrees C (Ringer's solution-treated) and not different from the pre-MDMA level. One hour after clozapine, rat tail blood flow was 24 +/- 3 cm/sec, greater than both flow in Ringer's solution-treated rats (8 +/- 1 cm/sec) and the pre-MDMA level (17 +/- 1 cm/sec). Clozapine and olanzapine, by interactions with 5-HT receptors or by other mechanisms, could reverse potentially fatal hyperthermia and cutaneous vasoconstriction occurring in some humans after ingestion of MDMA.
The postsynaptic density (PSD) proteins Shank and Homer cooperate to induce the maturation and enlargement of dendritic spines (Sala et al., 2001). Homer1a is an activity-inducible short-splice variant of Homer that lacks dimerization capacity. Here, we show that Homer1a reduces the density and size of dendritic spines in cultured hippocampal neurons in correlation with an inhibition of Shank targeting to synapses. Expression of Homer1a also decreases the size of PSD-95 clusters, the number of NMDA receptor clusters, and the level of surface AMPA receptors, implying a negative effect on the growth of synapses. In parallel with the morphological effects on synapses, Homer1a-expressing neurons show diminished AMPA and NMDA receptor postsynaptic currents. All of these outcomes required the integrity of the Ena/VASP Homology 1 domain of Homer1a that mediates binding to the PPXXF motif in Shank and other binding partners. Overexpression of the C-terminal region of Shank containing the Homer binding site causes effects similar to those of Homer1a. These data indicate that an association between Shank and the constitutively expressed long-splice variants of Homer (e.g., Homer1b/c) is important for maintaining dendritic-spine structure and synaptic function. Because Homer1a expression is induced by synaptic activity, our results suggest that this splice variant of Homer operates in a negative feedback loop to regulate the structure and function of synapses in an activity-dependent manner.
Nicotine, acting at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), is the primary addictive component of tobacco. Smokers often report an anxiolytic effect of cigarettes. This relief of anxiety, attributed to nicotine, is an important contributor to relapse when smokers try to quit. Hence, the study of the anxiolytic effects of nicotine is important for understanding the mechanisms underlying nicotine addiction. Mammalian nAChRs are pentameric ion channels usually composed of alpha andbeta subunits. Taking advantage of beta4-homozygous-null mice (beta4-/-), we examined the role of the nAChR beta4 subunit in anxiety-related behaviors. The beta4-/- mice behaved as though they were less anxious than wild-type littermates on the elevated-plus and staircase mazes, tests that measure anxiety-related behaviors. To obtain an independent, physiological indication of the stress produced by several tests, we measured changes in heart rate using telemetry. Consistently with the behavioral phenotype, beta4-/- mice had a smaller heart rate increase in the elevated-plus maze than did wild-type littermates. In contrast, during social isolation, a separate test for anxiety,beta4-/- mice exhibited a greater increase in heart rate than did wild-type littermates. Finally, beta4-/- mice were indistinguishable from their wild-type littermates in the open field, the light/dark box, and the mirrored chamber. The overall results demonstrate that beta4-containing (beta4*) nAChRs influence behavioral responses during anxiety-related tests, and that this effect depends on the type of anxiety-provoking experience. Through their influence on anxiety-related behavior, beta4* nAChRs might influence both tobacco consumption and smoking relapse.
Adaptive responses mediated by the hypothalamus require sustained activation until homeostasis is achieved. Increases in excitatory drive to the magnocellular neuroendocrine cells that mediate these responses, however, result in the activation of a presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) that curtails synaptic excitability. Recent evidence that group III mGluRs can be inhibited by protein kinase C prompted us to test the hypothesis that activation of PKC by noradrenaline (NA) inhibits group III mGluRs and increases excitatory synaptic input to these cells. To examine the effects of NA on miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs), we obtained whole-cell recordings from magnocellular vasopressin and oxytocin neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. All of the neurons tested in the current study displayed an alpha1 adrenoceptor-mediated increase in mEPSC frequency in response to NA (1-200 microm). The excitatory effects of NA were mimicked by the phorbol ester PMA and blocked by the PKC inhibitor calphostin C. The activation of PKC inhibits the efficacy of group III mGluRs, resulting in an increase in mEPSC frequency in response to a subsequent exposure to NA. By removing feedback inhibition, this mechanism effectively primes the synapses such that subsequent activation is more efficacious. The novel form of synaptic rescaling afforded by this cross-talk between distinct metabotropic receptors provides a means by which ascending catecholamine inputs can facilitate the control of homeostasis by hypothalamic networks.
Dendritic arbors of different neuronal subtypes cover distinct spatial territories, known as dendritic fields, to receive specific inputs in a nervous system. How the size of dendritic fields is determined by cell-intrinsic factors during development remains primarily unknown. To address this issue, we used the Drosophila embryonic peripheral nervous system. In each hemisegment, six dorsal cluster dendritic arborization (DA) neurons elaborate stereotypic dendritic branching patterns underneath the epidermis. Here we report the identification of loss-of-function mutations in the tropomyosin II gene (TmII) that result in expanded dendritic fields of DA neurons. Mosaic analysis with a repressible cell marker demonstrated that TmII functions in a cell-autonomous manner to control the formation of dendritic fields. Furthermore, we show that TmII genetically interacted with flamingo, a gene encoding a membrane receptor-like molecule that affects dendritic growth. TmII encodes multiple isoforms of a protein that stabilizes actin filaments. Our findings suggest that tropomyosin helps control the size of dendritic fields by regulating actin cytoskeletal dynamics.


Fatty acid amide hydrolase (EC 3.5.1.4.) is the enzyme responsible for the rapid degradation of lipid-derived chemical messengers such as anandamide, oleamide, and 2-arachidonoylglycerol. The pharmacological characterization of this enzyme in vivo has been hampered by the lack of selective and bioavailable inhibitors. We have developed a simple, radioactive, high-throughput-compatible assay for this enzyme based on the differential absorption of the substrate and its products to activated charcoal. The assay was validated using known inhibitors. It may be applied for the identification of new inhibitors from a compound library.
Gamma-secretase is the enzyme activity releasing the amyloid-beta peptide from membrane-bound processing intermediates derived from the beta-amyloid precursor protein. Cellular release and subsequent aggregation of the amyloid-beta peptide is thought to be causative for the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Gamma-secretase performs an unusual intramembranous cleavage and has been closely linked to a macromolecular complex containing presenilins. To generate a molecular probe for gamma-secretase, we have developed a novel biotinylated affinity ligand which is based on a specific inhibitor containing a hydroxyethylene dipeptide isostere, known to serve as a transition state analogue for aspartic proteinases. Using this probe we confirmed the presence of the presenilin heterodimer and mature nicastrin in the active enzyme complex and, furthermore, that substrate binding site(s) and active center(s) are spatially separated. Affinity precipitations suggest that only a discrete fraction of cellular presenilin is present in the active gamma-secretase complex and that both gamma(40)- and gamma(42)-activities are mediated by the same molecular entity. This was also reflected by a co-distribution of both enzyme activities in subcellular fractions enriched for trans-Golgi network membranes.
What promotes motor recovery from stroke? To date, studies of recovery from stroke have shown alterations in function in various cortical areas, including the contralesional (unaffected) motor cortex (M1). However, whether these changes contribute to recovery or are mere epiphenomena remains unclear. We therefore sought evidence that the ipsilateral M1 can compensate for dysfunction of the contralateral M1. We recorded the change in force production during a finger-tapping task in response to acute disruption of M1 function by repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). Neither control (occipital) nor ipsilateral M1 rTMS lead to a change in tapping force. RTMS over contralateral M1 had a short-lived effect and induced changes in ipsilateral M1 excitability around the time that these behavioral effects abated, consistent with delayed compensation by the ipsilateral M1. Simultaneous bilateral M1 stimulation, designed to prevent compensation by the ipsilateral M1, had a large and prolonged effect on tapping force. This is the first demonstration that the ipsilateral primary motor cortex is capable of functionally significant compensation for focal contralateral cortical dysfunction in the adult human and provides a rational basis for interventional treatments aimed at promoting functional compensation in unaffected cortical areas after stroke.
The increased intracellular levels and aberrant processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) are associated with beta-amyloid peptide (A beta) production, cerebrovascular amyloid deposition, and amyloid plaque formation. Here we report that APP level, soluble APP (sAPP) secretion, and A beta production in HEK293 cells transfected with either wild-type APP(751) or APP(751) carrying the Swedish mutation are all elevated by hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). We investigated the potential molecular mechanisms underlying the HGF effect. Our data show that HGF stimulated extended activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases (ERK1/2). Pretreatment of cells with inhibitors (UO126 or PD98059) for MEK, the upstream kinase of ERK1/2, abolished ERK1/2 activation evoked by HGF, and abrogated HGF-induced increases in APP levels and sAPP secretion. In addition, transient expression of active MEK1 activated ERK1/2 and increased intracellular APP levels and sAPP secretion. Inhibition of ERK1/2 activity, however, failed to block HGF-stimulated A beta production. Consistently, transient expression of active MEK1 did not increase A beta accumulation. Taken together, these results suggest that: (1) HGF regulates the intracellular levels of APP and the secretion of sAPP and A beta; (2) the modulation of APP levels and sAPP secretion induced by HGF is mediated via the MEK1/ERK1/2 signaling pathway; (3) HGF-stimulated A beta production is independent of ERK activity and, therefore, independent of HGF-evoked elevation of intracellular APP levels.
Cysteine string proteins (CSPs) are secretory vesicle chaperones that are important for neurotransmitter release. We have previously reported an interaction of CSP with both heterotrimeric GTP-binding proteins (G proteins) and N-type calcium channels that results in a tonic G protein inhibition of the channels. In this report we directly demonstrate that two separate regions of CSP associate with G proteins. The N-terminal binding site of CSP, which includes the J domain, binds Galpha subunits but not Galphabeta subunits whereas the C terminal binding site of CSP associates with either free Galphabeta subunits or Galphabeta in complex with Galpha. The interaction of either binding site of CSP (CSP1-82 or CSP83-198) with G proteins elicits robust tonic inhibition of N-type calcium channel activity. However, CSP1-82 inhibition and CSP83-198 inhibition of calcium channels occur through distinct mechanisms. Calcium channel inhibition by CSP83-198 (but not CSP1-82) is completely blocked by co-expression of the synaptic protein interaction site (synprint) of the N-type channel, indicating that CSP83-198 inhibition is dependent on a physical interaction with the calcium channel. These results suggest that distinct binding sites of CSP can play a role in modulating G protein function and G protein inhibition of calcium channels.
Caveolae are small, functionally important membrane invaginations found on the surface of many different cell types. Using electron microscopy, caveolae can be unequivocally identified in cell membranes by virtue of their size and the presence of caveolin/VIP22 proteins in the caveolar coat. In this study we have applied for the first time scanning force microscopy (SFM), to visualize caveolae on the surface of living and fixed cells. By scanning the membranes of Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO), using the tapping mode of the SFM in fluid, we could visualize small membrane pits on the cell membranes of living and fixed cells. Two populations of pits with mean diameters of around 100 nm and 200 nm were present. In addition, the location of many pits visualized with the SFM was coincident with membrane spots fluorescently labeled with a green fluorescent protein-caveolin-1 fusion protein. Scanning force microscopy on cells treated with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin, an agent that sequesters cholesterol and disrupts caveolae, abolished pits with a measured diameter of 100 nm but left pits of around 200 nm diameter intact. Thus, the smallest membrane pits measured with the SFM in CHO cells were indeed very likely to be identical to caveolae. These experiments show for the first time that SFM can be used to visualize caveolae in intact cells.
Mutations in the dysferlin gene cause muscular dystrophies called dysferlinopathy, which include limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B (LGMD2B) and Miyoshi myopathy (MM). To clarify the frequency, clinicopathological and genetic features of dysferlinopathy in Japan, we performed protein and gene analyses of dysferlin. We examined a total of 107 unrelated Japanese patients, including 53 unclassified LGMD, 28 MM and 26 other neuromuscular disorders (ONMD). Expression of dysferlin protein was observed using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and mini-multiplex Western blotting (MMW), and mutation analysis was performed. We found a deficiency of dysferlin protein by both IHC and MMW in 19% of LGMD and 75% of MM patients, and mutations in the dysferlin gene were identified in this group alone. 19% of dysferlin-deficient patients had 3370G--&gt;T missense mutation and 16% had 1939C--&gt;G nonsense mutation. The patients with homozygous 3370G--&gt;T mutation showed milder clinical phenotypes. Twenty-five percent of MM muscles had normal dysferlin protein contents that suggested the genetic heterogeneity of this disease. Altered immunolocalization of dysferlin was observed in not only primary dysferlinopathy, but also in the several diseased muscles with normal protein contents. This result implies the necessity of other protein(s) for proper membrane localization of dysferlin, or some roles of dysferlin in the cytoplasmic region.
In this paper we explore conventional techniques for estimating the time lag between two signals, using both time and frequency domain measures. We generate test signals to illustrate that in general, estimated temporal relationships between neural sites connected by multiple pathways are ambiguous except in special cases where multidirectional flow of information can be ruled out a priori. Signals are analyzed using the cross correlogram in the time domain, and coherence, phase and directed transfer function (DTF) in the frequency domain. In particular, we show how similar phase and DTF measures can be obtained from qualitatively different dynamical situations (uni and bi-directional flow), and argue that although the phase and DTF combined provide more directionality information than phase alone, one still needs to observe caution if one suspects multidirectional flow.
Levodopa has several advantages as a pharmacological challenge agent for human neuroscience research. Exogenous levodopa changes striatal neuronal activity and increases extracellular dopamine concentrations, and with adequate inhibition of peripheral metabolism levodopa does not change mean cerebral blood flow. For neuroimaging studies of Parkinson disease (PD) and Tourette syndrome, we sought to rapidly produce a biologically relevant steady-state levodopa concentration and then maintain that concentration for at least an hour. We also wished to minimize side effects, even in individuals without prior levodopa treatment. We designed a two-stage intravenous infusion protocol based on published levodopa pharmacokinetic data. We report results of 125 infusions in 106 subjects, including healthy volunteers, PD patients, and people with chronic tics. At higher doses (target steady-state levodopa concentrations of 2,169 and 1,200 ng/ml), treatment-naive volunteers had unacceptably frequent side effects. The final infusion protocol, with a target steady-state concentration of 600 ng/ml, was well-tolerated (mild nausea in 11% of subjects was the only side effect occurring significantly more than in single-blind saline infusions), produced the desired plasma levodopa concentration (612+/-187 ng/ml, mean+/-S.D.), and produced statistically significant antiparkinsonian benefit (16% mean reduction in a standard rating of parkinsonian motor signs, P&lt;0.0005).
This paper describes a sensitive and selective liquid chromatographic method with fluorescence detection for determination of histamine in brain microdialysis samples from awake rats. Samples containing histamine (10 microl) were derivatized with 20 microl of the reagent consisting of 3 mM 4-(1-pyrene)butyric acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (PSE), 3 mM potassium carbonate and acetonitrile (1:1:18, v/v), thereafter 20 microl volume was injected onto the microbore column packed with C18 silica gel. The histamine derivative contained two pyrene moieties, which generated intramolecular excimer fluorescence (450-540 nm) and allowed clear discrimination from the monomer fluorescence (360-420 nm) emitted by PSE itself. The separation of histamine-pyrene derivative was achieved within 25 min, the detection limit (S/N=3) was 0.3 fmol histamine in 20 microl injected. The basal extracellular levels of histamine collected in 10-min fractions (fmol per 10 microl, mean+/-S.D., not corrected for recovery, n=10 rats) were 35.45+/-4.56 (hypothalamus), 9.05+/-1.56 (prefrontal cortex), 7.83+/-0.86 (hippocampus) and 6.54+/-0.66 (striatum). The voltage-sensitive release of histamine was evaluated by perfusing the probes with high (100 mM) concentration of potassium ions or with sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin (1 microM), and the calcium-dependent release was tested by perfusion with calcium-free Ringer solution. These data, together with physiologically induced increase of extracellular histamine in four examined brain regions during forced swimming demonstrate that this method is suitable for high-sensitive determination of neuronally released histamine under various pharmacological and physiological conditions.
Unilateral cochlear ablation (UCA) in adults deafferented one cochlear nucleus (CN) and induced several plasticities in central auditory pathways. To assess whether signal transduction could contribute to these changes, we determined if UCA induced activity in the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and the stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK) signal transduction pathways. Using Western blots, we measured phosphorylated ERK1 (ERK1-P), ERK2 (ERK2-P), p46 and p54 SAPK (SAPK-P) and c-Jun (c-Jun-P) levels in the major subdivisions of the CN, the principal nuclei of the superior olivary complex (SOC) and the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICc) for up to 145 days postablation. ERK1-P and ERK2-P were typically elevated at 7 and 145 days but depressed at 30 days, 60 days, or both. In addition, ERK1-P and ERK2-P were elevated at 3 days in the anteroventral (AVCN) and posteroventral CN (PVCN). Immunohistochemical labeling indicated that after 5 days, most ERK1/2-P in the CN was in neuronal nuclei. Only minor changes were evident in total ERK1 and ERK2 levels. Several correlations were evident between the postablation plasticities observed previously and altered ERK1-P and ERK2-P levels. Few changes were found in SAPK-P and c-Jun-P levels. Concomitant elevations of SAPK-P and c-Jun-P were not evident, except in the superficial dorsal CN (DCN) at postablation day 3, consistent with a cell-stress response. These findings suggest that signals induced as a consequence of UCA are transduced mainly through the neuronal ERK pathway. This activity probably influenced gene expression and cytoplasmic regulatory mechanisms that contributed to the plasticities induced by UCA.
Sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) has assumed great importance within neuroscience research because of putative links between S1P-sensitive Edg receptors and neuroregeneration, cell survival, and alterations in neurite outgrowth. In the present study, we examined the mechanisms by which the endogenous complement of S1P-sensitive human Edg receptors can elevate Ca(2+) in the human neuroblastoma cell line, SH-SY5Y. Reverse transcriptase-polymersase chain reaction (RT-PCR) confirmed the expression of mRNA for Edg 3, 5, and 8 subtypes of S1P-responsive Edg receptors in SH-SY5Y cells. Neither S1P nor the muscarinic agonist methacholine were able to cause a change in SH-SY5Y cell morphology, whereas retinoic acid caused a range of changes, including an increase in neurite outgrowth, under similar test conditions. Stimulation with S1P resulted in a slowly rising increase in cytosolic Ca(2+) levels. These responses were dependent upon inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors, thapsigargin-sensitive endoplasmic reticulum, and also intact functional mitochondria. S1P-evoked Ca(2+) responses were similar in mechanism to those of methacholine, which activated a much faster responding, larger amplitude Ca(2+) response. These studies indicate that in an endogenous human expression system, S1P appears to be an efficacious agonist of Edg receptors. Despite its slow time course of response, S1P appears to activate the same single Ca(2+) store in SH-SY5Y cells as is activated by methacholine and other G protein coupled receptors.
Real-time PCR is being used increasingly as the method of choice for mRNA quantification, allowing rapid analysis of gene expression from low quantities of starting template. Despite a wide range of approaches, the same principles underlie all data analysis, with standard approaches broadly classified as either absolute or relative. In this study we use a variety of absolute and relative approaches of data analysis to investigate nocturnal c-fos expression in wild-type and retinally degenerate mice. In addition, we apply a simple algorithm to calculate the amplification efficiency of every sample from its amplification profile. We confirm that nocturnal c-fos expression in the rodent eye originates from the photoreceptor layer, with around a 5-fold reduction in nocturnal c-fos expression in mice lacking rods and cones. Furthermore, we illustrate that differences in the results obtained from absolute and relative approaches are underpinned by differences in the calculated PCR efficiency. By calculating the amplification efficiency from the samples under analysis, comparable results may be obtained without the need for standard curves. We have automated this method to provide a means of streamlining the real-time PCR process, enabling analysis of experimental samples based upon their own reaction kinetics rather than those of artificial standards.
Deamination of DNA bases can occur spontaneously, generating highly mutagenic lesions such as uracil and hypoxanthine. In Escherichia coli two enzymes initiate repair at hypoxanthine residues in DNA. The alkylbase DNA glycosylase, AlkA, initiates repair by removal of the damaged base, whereas endonuclease V, Endo V, hydrolyses the second phosphodiester bond 3' to the lesion. We have identified and characterised a mouse cDNA with striking homology to the E.coli nfi gene, which also has significant similarities to motifs required for catalytic activity of the UvrC endonuclease. The 37-kDa mouse enzyme (mEndo V) incises the DNA strand at the second phosphodiester bond 3' to hypoxanthine- and uracil-containing nucleotides. The activity of mEndo V is elevated on single-stranded DNA substrate in vitro. Expression of the mouse protein in a DNA repair-deficient E.coli alkA nfi strain suppresses its spontaneous mutator phenotype. We suggest that mEndo V initiates an alternative excision repair pathway for hypoxanthine removal. It thus appears that mEndo V has properties overlapping the function of alkylbase DNA glycosylase (Aag) in repair of deaminated adenine, which to some extent could explain the absence of phenotypic abnormalities associated with Aag knockout in mice.
Psychiatric patients are significantly more often smokers than the general population, the only known exception being obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and catatonic schizophrenia. We have investigated nicotine use in subjects with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Ninety-five subjects (25 females and 70 males) consecutively diagnosed with any ASD and of normal intelligence were included in the study. Only 12.6% were smokers, compared with 19% in the general population and 47% in a control group of 161 outpatients diagnosed with schizophrenia or a schizophreniform disorder. The results suggest that smoking is rare among subjects with ASD, while the opposite was shown for schizophrenia. If replicated, this finding could suggest biological differences between non-catatonic schizophrenia and ASD, and support the theory of a biological link between ASD and a subtype of OCD, and between ASD and catatonic schizophrenia.

Repeated administration of psychomotor stimulants may produce an impulsive state that could contribute to the cycle of drug abstinence and relapse seen in human drug addicts. We have previously reported that the inhibitory effects of dopamine (DA) on the firing rate of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) neurons were reduced in rats after repeated amphetamine treatment suggesting impaired mPFC DA function. Here, we used a differential reinforcement of low rates of responding (DRL) operant conditioning task, which is dependent on mPFC DA, to test impulsivity and inhibitory control. Food-restricted rats were trained to inhibit a nose poke response for 30s before a subsequent nose poke would result in a food reward (DRL 30). Once training was completed, rats received 5 days of no treatment, daily i.p. saline injections or daily i.p. injections of 5mg/kg amphetamine. Nine days of DRL 30 test performance began following a 3-day withdrawal from treatment. The percent of training active hole nose pokes was significantly increased and the percent of training efficiency was significantly decreased in rats withdrawn from repeated amphetamine administration as compared to saline or nai;ve rats. This suggests that impulsivity is increased during amphetamine withdrawal, which we hypothesize is associated with disrupted DA function in the mPFC.
Although there has been an increasing interest in motor functions of the cingulate motor areas, data concerning their input organization are still limited. To address this issue, the patterns of thalamic and cortical inputs to the rostral (CMAr), dorsal (CMAd), and ventral (CMAv) cingulate motor areas were investigated in the macaque monkey. Tracer injections were made into identified forelimb representations of these areas, and the distributions of retrogradely labeled neurons were analyzed in the thalamus and the frontal cortex. The cells of origin of thalamocortical projections to the CMAr were located mainly in the parvicellular division of the ventroanterior nucleus and the oral division of the ventrolateral nucleus (VLo). On the other hand, the thalamocortical neurons to the CMAd/CMAv were distributed predominantly in the VLo and the oral division of the ventroposterolateral nucleus-the caudal division of the ventrolateral nucleus. Additionally, many neurons in the intralaminar nuclear group were seen to project to the cingulate motor areas. Except for their well-developed interconnections, the corticocortical projections to the CMAr and CMAd/CMAv were also distinctively preferential. Major inputs to the CMAr arose from the presupplementary motor area and the dorsal premotor cortex, whereas inputs to the CMAd/CMAv originated not only from these areas but also from the supplementary motor area and the primary motor cortex. The present results indicate that the CMAr and the caudal cingulate motor area (involving both the CMAd and the CMAv) are characterized by distinct patterns of thalamocortical and intracortical connections, reflecting their functional differences.
The ephrins and Eph receptors make up two large families of bi-directional signaling molecules that are known to play a role in the development of the nervous system. Recently, expression of EphA4 in the developing cochlea was shown, with strong expression in cells lining the osseous spiral lamina (OSL) through which afferent dendrites must pass to reach the organ of Corti (OC). It was also demonstrated that ephrin-B2 and -B3, both of which are known to interact with EphA4, are expressed by spiral ganglion (SG) neurons. To investigate the functional role of EphA4 in the development of inner ear neurons, neonatal rat SG explants were cultured for 72 hours on uniformly coated surfaces or near stripes of EphA4/IgG-Fc-chimera. Control explants were cultured on or near IgG-Fc and EphA1/IgG-Fc-chimera. To assess the roles of ephrin-B2 and -B3 in EphA4 signaling, SG explants were cultured with or without anti-ephrin-B2 and/or -B3 blocking antibodies. Growth patterns of SG neurites at the border of EphA4 receptor stripes showed repulsion, characterized by turning, stopping and/or reversal. In the case of IgG-Fc and EphA1, the neurites grew straight onto the stripes. Treatment with either anti-ephrin-B2 or -B3 blocking antibodies significantly reduced the repulsive effect of an EphA4 stripe. Moreover, when both antibodies were used together, neurites crossed onto EphA4 stripes with no evidence of repulsion. The results suggest that EphA4 provides repulsive signals to SG neurites in the developing cochlea, and that ephrin-B2 and -B3 together mediate this response.
Examples of the use of extraction-NMR, an efficient and rapid method to obtain structural information on metabolites without prior separation, are described. Crude ethyl acetate extracts of in vitro microsomal incubations were analysed by NMR spectroscopy. The region downfield of 5.5 ppm in the proton spectra of these crude extracts was found to be essentially clear of endogenous resonances. As a consequence, sites of aromatic hydroxylation can often be determined without prior separation of the crude extracts. Sites of metabolism close to the aromatic region may also be accessible via two-dimensional (2D) homonuclear experiments (e.g. COSY, NOESY, TOCSY). One-dimensional (1D) and 2D fluorine experiments also can provide additional information on the structure of metabolites. Depending on the complexity of the aromatic region of the parent compound, signal overlap and the relative abundance of the individual components, extraction-NMR has the potential to provide information for unambiguous structure elucidation of two or three major metabolites. Should extraction-NMR produce inconclusive results, i.e. too many metabolites are present or metabolism occurred exclusively on aliphatic regions, it is possible to re-use the extraction-NMR sample and proceed with traditional methods of analysis.
Prolonged inhibition of glutamate reuptake by L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (PDC), a specific glutamate transporter blocker, reduced the number of GABA positive neurons in a primary cerebellar culture by 54%. The disappearance of immunostaining for GABA was gradual and was partially prevented by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blocker, MK-801, and the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptor antagonist, NBQX. Combined blockade of NMDA and AMPA receptors restored the original proportion of GABAergic neurons observed in control cultures. Following the PDC exposure, expression of other GABAergic markers, such as glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT) was also dramatically decreased in an AMPA receptor-dependent manner. Loss of GABA or GAD immunostaining is commonly regarded as a sign of degeneration of GABAergic neurons. However, none of the GABAergic neurons were positive for propidium iodide uptake or showed abnormal nuclear morphology. Based on the above data we conclude that prolonged activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors by endogenously released glutamate was not toxic to cerebellar GABAergic neurons, but lead to the loss of their characteristic neurotransmitter phenotype.
DNA damage is an initiator of neuronal death implicated in neuropathological conditions such as stroke. Previous evidence has shown that apoptotic death of embryonic cortical neurons treated with the DNA damaging agent camptothecin is dependent upon the tumor suppressor p53, an upstream death mediator, and more distal death effectors such as caspases. We show here that the calcium-regulated cysteine proteases, calpains, are activated during DNA damage induced by camptothecin treatment. Moreover, calpain deficiency, calpastatin expression, or pharmacological calpain inhibitors prevent the death of embryonic cortical neurons, indicating the important role of calpain in DNA damage-induced death. Calpain inhibition also significantly reduced and delayed the induction of p53. Consistent with the actions of calpains upstream of p53 and the proximal nature of p53 death signaling, calpain inhibition inhibited cytochrome c release and DEVD-AFC cleavage activity. Taken together, our results indicate that calpains are a key mediator of p53 induction and consequent caspase-dependent neuronal death due to DNA damage.




Alzheimer's disease is characterized pathologically by extracellular amyloid beta protein (Abeta) deposition in the brain. The Abeta peptide, a 39-42 amino acid fragment, is derived from defined proteolysis of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) [Glenner et al., Appl. Pathol. 2 (1984) 357-369; Selkoe, Neuron 6 (1991) 487-498] and is the primary component of senile plaques. Although it is known that intracellular APP is subjected to posttranslational modification, the molecular mechanism that regulates the APP processing is not completely clear. In the present study, we demonstrates that H89, a specific inhibitor for cAMP dependent protein kinase A (PKA), inhibits Abeta production and APP secretion in a dose dependent manner in cells stably transfected with human APP bearing a 'Swedish mutation'. Concurrent with the effect, H89 inhibits C-terminal fragment of the APP. We also found that the PKA inhibitor abolishes the mature form of intracellular APP and accumulates the immature form. Finally, direct administration of H89 into brains of transgenic mice overexpressing human APP shows that the compound inhibits Abeta production in the hippocampal region. Our data suggests that PKA plays an important role in the maturation of APP associated with APP processing.

Paired-associate learning is often used to examine episodic memory in humans. Animal models include the recall of food-cache locations by scrub jays and sequential memory. Here we report a model in which rats encode, during successive sample trials, two paired associates (flavours of food and their spatial locations) and display better-than-chance recall of one item when cued by the other. In a first study, pairings of a particular foodstuff and its location were never repeated, so ensuring unique 'what-where' attributes. Blocking N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors in the hippocampus--crucial for the induction of certain forms of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity--impaired memory encoding but had no effect on recall. Inactivating hippocampal neural activity by blocking alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors impaired both encoding and recall. In a second study, two paired associates were trained repeatedly over 8 weeks in new pairs, but blocking of hippocampal AMPA receptors did not affect their recall. Thus we conclude that unique what-where paired associates depend on encoding and retrieval within a hippocampal memory space, with consolidation of the memory traces representing repeated paired associates in circuits elsewhere.
The direction of frequency-modulated (FM) sweeps is an important temporal cue in animal and human communication. FM direction-selective neurons are found in the primary auditory cortex (A1), but their topography and the mechanisms underlying their selectivity remain largely unknown. Here we report that in the rat A1, direction selectivity is topographically ordered in parallel with characteristic frequency (CF): low CF neurons preferred upward sweeps, whereas high CF neurons preferred downward sweeps. The asymmetry of 'inhibitory sidebands', suppressive regions flanking the tonal receptive field (TRF) of the spike response, also co-varied with CF. In vivo whole-cell recordings showed that the direction selectivity already present in the synaptic inputs was enhanced by cortical synaptic inhibition, which suppressed the synaptic excitation of the non-preferred direction more than that of the preferred. The excitatory and inhibitory synaptic TRFs had identical spectral tuning, but with inhibition delayed relative to excitation. The spectral asymmetry of the synaptic TRFs co-varied with CF, as had direction selectivity and sideband asymmetry, and thus suggested a synaptic mechanism for the shaping of FM direction selectivity and its topographic ordering.
An increasing number of studies are suggesting that the adjacent uninjured primary afferents contribute to the mechanisms of neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury. In this study, we report that transection of the infraorbital nerve, a major branch of the maxillary nerve, causes exaggerated face grooming to normally innocuous mechanical stimuli in the skin territory of the uninjured mandibular nerve, and increases the expression of preprotachykinin mRNA in the primary afferent neurons in the mandibular zone in the trigeminal ganglia. Considering the various functions of substance P in the sensory transmission process, the increase in preprotachykinin mRNA in the uninjured primary afferent neurons may be one of the mechanisms of pain-related behavior in this neuropathic pain model.
Radial glia cells both generate neurons and physically guide nascent neurons to their target destination in the cortex, and as such they are essential for CNS development. It has been proposed that in the developing cerebellum, neuronal contact induces radial glia formation, however, the mechanisms involved in this process are not well understood. Here we demonstrate that neuronal induction of radial glia formation is the result of sequential signaling through Notch1 and erbB receptors. First, Notch1 activation by neuronal contact induces the glial expression of the brain lipid binding protein (BLBP) and erbB2 genes. Interestingly, two different signaling pathways mediate these effects of Notch1 on transcription, BLBP expression being dependent on Su(H), whereas erbB2 is regulated by a yet unidentified Notch1 pathway. The subsequent increase in erbB2 receptor expression makes the glia more responsive to neuronal NRG, which then induces the morphological transformation into radial glia. Thus, these results unveil some of the mechanisms underlying radial glia formation.
The sensory hair cells of the inner ear undergo apoptosis after acoustic trauma or aminoglycoside antibiotic treatment, causing permanent auditory and vestibular deficits in humans. Previous studies have demonstrated a role for caspase activation in hair cell death and ototoxic injury that can be reduced by concurrent treatment with caspase inhibitors in vitro. In this study, we examined the protective effects of caspase inhibition on hair cell death in vivo after systemic injections of aminoglycosides. In one series of experiments, chickens were implanted with osmotic pumps that administrated the pan-caspase inhibitor z-Val-Ala-Asp(Ome)-fluoromethylketone (zVAD) into inner ear fluids. One day after the surgery, the animals received a 5 d course of treatment with streptomycin, a vestibulotoxic aminoglycoside. Direct infusion of zVAD into the vestibule significantly increased hair cell survival after streptomycin treatment. A second series of experiments determined whether rescued hair cells could function as sensory receptors. Animals treated with streptomycin displayed vestibular system impairment as measured by a greatly reduced vestibulo-ocular response (VOR). In contrast, animals that received concurrent systemic administration of zVAD with streptomycin had both significantly greater hair cell survival and significantly increased VOR responses, as compared with animals treated with streptomycin alone. These findings suggest that inhibiting the activation of caspases promotes the survival of hair cells and protects against vestibular function deficits after aminoglycoside treatment.
The transcription of neurotrophic factors, i.e., basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is regulated by glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) activation despite the lack of a classical glucocorticoid response element in their promoter region. A time course for corticosterone (10 mg/kg, s.c.) in adrenalectomized rats revealed a peak hormone effect at the 4 hr time interval for bFGF (110-204% increase), BDNF (53-67% decrease), GR (53-64% decrease), and MR (34-56% decrease) mRNA levels in all hippocampal subregions using in situ hybridization. c-fos mRNA levels were affected exclusively in the dentate gyrus after 50 min to 2 hr (38-46% decrease). Furthermore, it was evaluated whether corticosterone regulation of these genes depends on interactions with the transcription factor complex activator protein-1. c-fos antisense oligodeoxynucleotides were injected into the dorsal hippocampus of adrenalectomized rats. Corticosterone was given 2 hr later, and the effects on gene expression were measured 4 hr later. In CA1, antisense treatment significantly and selectively enhanced the hormone action on the expression of bFGF (44% enhanced increase) and BDNF (38% enhanced decrease) versus control oligodeoxynucleotide treatment. In addition, an upregulation of c-fos expression (89% increase) was found. There were no effects of c-fos antisense on hippocampal GR and MR expression. Thus it seems that a tonic c-fos mechanism exists within CA1, which reduces GR- and MR-mediated effects on expression of bFGF and BDNF.
To determine the role of the myristoylated amino terminus of Galpha in G protein activation, nine individual cysteine mutations along the myristoylated amino terminus of Galpha(i) were expressed in a functionally Cys-less background. Thiol reactive EPR and fluorescent probes were attached to each site as local reporters of mobility and conformational changes upon activation of Galpha(i)GDP by AlF(4)(-), as well as binding to Gbetagamma. EPR and steady state fluorescence anisotropy are consistent with a high degree of immobility for labeled residues in solution all along the amino terminus of myristoylated Galpha(i). This is in contrast to the high mobility of this region in nonmyristoylated Galpha(i) [Medkova, M., et al. (2002) Biochemistry 41, 9962-9972]. Steady state fluorescence measurements revealed pronounced increases in fluorescence upon activation for residues 14-17 and 21 located midway through the 30-amino acid stretch comprising the amino-terminal region. Collectively, the data suggest that myristoylation is an important structural determinant of the amino terminus of Galpha(i) proteins.
Carbon monoxide (CO) is proposed as a physiological messenger. CO activates cGMP and has a direct effect on potassium channels. Both actions of CO lead to hyperpolarization of a cell's resting membrane potential, suggesting that CO may function as a hyperpolarizing factor, although direct evidence is still lacking. Here we take advantage of the known membrane potential gradient that exists in the muscle layers of the gastrointestinal tract to determine whether CO is an endogenous hyperpolarizing factor. We find that heme oxygenase-2-null mice have depolarized smooth muscle cells and that the membrane potential gradient in the gut is abolished. Exogenous CO hyperpolarizes the membrane potential. Regions of the canine gastrointestinal tract that are more hyperpolarized generate more CO and have higher heme oxygenase activity than more depolarized regions. Our results suggest that CO is a critical hyperpolarizing factor required for the maintenance of intestinal smooth muscle membrane potential and gradient.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from healthy individuals contains between 1,000 and 3,000 leukocytes per ml. Little is known about trafficking patterns of leukocytes between the systemic circulation and the noninflamed CNS. In the current study, we characterized the surface phenotype of CSF cells and defined the expression of selected adhesion molecules on vasculature in the choroid plexus, the subarachnoid space surrounding the cerebral cortex, and the cerebral parenchyma. Using multicolor flow cytometry, we found that CSF cells predominantly consisted of CD4+/CD45RA-/CD27+/CD69+-activated central memory T cells expressing high levels of CCR7 and L-selectin. CD3+ T cells were present in the choroid plexus stroma in autopsy CNS tissue sections from individuals who died without known neurological disorders. P- and E-selectin immunoreactivity was detected in large venules in the choroid plexus and subarachnoid space, but not in parenchymal microvessels. CD4+ T cells in the CSF expressed high levels of P-selectin glycoprotein ligand 1, and a subpopulation of circulating CD4+ T cells displayed P-selectin binding activity. Intercellular adhesion molecule 1, but not vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 or mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule 1, was expressed in choroid plexus and subarachnoid space vessels. Based on these findings, we propose that T cells are recruited to the CSF through interactions between P-selectin/P-selectin ligands and intercellular adhesion molecule 1/lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 in choroid plexus and subarachnoid space venules. These results support the overall hypothesis that activated memory T cells enter CSF directly from the systemic circulation and monitor the subarachnoid space, retaining the capacity to either initiate local immune reactions or return to secondary lymphoid organs.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in cognitive impairment in both old experimental animals and aged humans. This implication has led to the notion that antioxidant defense mechanisms in the brain are not sufficient to prevent age-related increase in oxidative damage and that dietary intake of a variety of antioxidants might be beneficial for preserving brain function. Here we report a dramatic loss of learning and memory function from 8 to 11 months of age in mice, associated with marked increases in several markers of brain oxidative stress. Chronic systemic administration of two synthetic catalytic scavengers of reactive oxygen species, Eukarion experimental compounds EUK-189 and EUK-207, from 8 to 11 months almost completely reversed cognitive deficits and increase in oxidative stress taking place during this time period in brain. In particular, increase in protein oxidation was completely prevented, whereas increase in lipid peroxidation was decreased by approximately 50%. In addition, we observed a significant negative correlation between contextual fear learning and levels of protein oxidation in brain. These results further support the role of reactive oxygen species in age-related learning impairment and suggest potential clinical applications for synthetic catalytic scavengers of reactive oxygen species.
The synthesis and biological evaluation of novel cycloheptaquinoline antagonists of the human H(3) receptor are described. Two series of compounds, bearing either an amino substituent or an alkyne linker at the 11-position, were investigated. Modifications of the amino substituents, optimization of chain length and the effect of conformational restraints are described. Several compounds with high affinity and selectivity for the H(3) receptor were discovered.
The understanding of any neural circuit requires the identification and characterization of all its components. Morphologic classifications of neurons are, therefore, of central importance to neuroscience. We use a quantitative method to classify neurons from layer 5 of mouse primary visual cortex, based on multidimensional clustering. To reconstruct neurons, we used Golgi impregnations and biocytin injections, as well as DiOlistics, a novel technique of labeling neurons with lipophilic dyes. We performed computerized 3-D reconstructions of 158 layer 5 cells to measure a series of morphologic variables. Principal component analysis and cluster analysis were used for the classification of cell types. Five major classes of cells were found: group 1 includes large pyramidal neurons with apical dendrites that reach layer 1 with an apical tuft; group 2 consists of short pyramidal neurons and large multipolar cells with &quot;polarized&quot; dendritic trees; group 3 is composed of less extensive pyramidal neurons; group 4 includes small cells; and group 5 includes another set of short pyramidal neurons in addition to &quot;atypically oriented&quot; cells. Our sample included a relatively homogeneous group of 27 neurons that project to the superior colliculus, which clustered mainly in group 1, thus supporting the validity of the classification. Cluster analysis of neuronal morphologies provides an objective method to quantitatively define different neuronal phenotypes and may serve as a basis for describing neocortical circuits.
Three GGAs (GGA1-3) were found in humans, among which GGA3 has short and long forms of spliced variants (GGA3-S and GGA3-L). The present study analyzed expression patterns of both GGA3 variants in human tissues and cell lines. Western blot analysis revealed that the brain contained both GGA3-S and -L, while other tissues and cell lines examined predominantly expressed GGA3-S. By double immunofluorescence microscopy, GGA1 and GGA3 were localized with slightly different patterns in both the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and peripheral region. When the dominant-negative mutant, VHS-GAT domain, of GGA1 or GGA3-L was overexpressed, TGN-associated GGA1 was redistributed into the cytoplasm. However, the GGA3 distribution was not affected by the expression of either VHS-GAT domain. These results indicate that GGA3-S which would not be directly involved in the cargo protein recognition is predominantly expressed in human tissues except the brain and in cell lines.
In this study, we investigated the in vitro effect of exogenously administered insulin on the susceptibility to oxidative stress and on the accumulation of the amino acid neurotransmitters gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate in a synaptosomal fraction isolated from male Wistar rat brain cortex. Insulin (1 microM) did not affect synaptosomal lipid peroxidation induced by the oxidant pair ascorbate/Fe(2+), although under these conditions an increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) levels was observed. Under control conditions, the presence of insulin did not change the uptake of [3H]GABA or [3H]glutamate. In contrast, under oxidizing conditions, we observed a 1.8- and a 2.2-fold decrease in [3H]GABA and [3H]glutamate accumulation, respectively, and insulin reverted the lower levels of both [3H]GABA and [3H]glutamate accumulation (to 86.74+/-6.26 and 67.01+/-6.65% of control, respectively). Insulin also increased the extrasynaptosomal levels of GABA and glutamate, determined both in control and oxidizing conditions. From this study, we can conclude that insulin is a modulator of amino acid neurotransmitter transport, either directly, as seems to occur under normal conditions, or via the decrease in ATP levels and the subsequent reversion of the amino acid transporters, as seems to occur under oxidative stress conditions. The modulation of both GABA and glutamate transport might be implicated in the neuroprotective role of insulin.
Beta-amyloid (Abeta) is formed by sequential cleaving of the amyloid precursor protein by two proteolytic enzymes, beta- and gamma-secretases. Beta-secretase (BACE) is a type I transmembrane aspartic proteinase that is highly expressed in the mammalian brain. Four alternative splice variants of BACE are currently known and each encodes for a protein isoform with a different enzymatic activity. In Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, the enzymatic activity and protein levels of BACE are increased in the neocortex, suggesting their differential expression may have a role in Abeta plaque formation. We have determined the differential expression of BACE mRNA and its splice variants in eight regions of the rat and two of the human brain. In humans, the frontal cortex which shows Abeta deposition in AD, expressed three-fold more BACE than the cerebellum and four fold more than the rats' frontal cortex both of which do not form Abeta plaques. The highest BACE levels of rats were found in the frontal cortex and less in other areas. Although most human and rat brain regions expressed all four BACE variants, the human cerebellum did not express the I-457 BACE variant. Human and rat frontal cortex expressed high levels of the I-501 and I-457 variants, but I-432 was highly expressed only in the rat. Species-specific differences were evident between human and rat brain areas, suggesting that BACE transcript variants may have different evolutionary conservation. Differential expression of BACE variants may explain the broad spectrum of phenotypic abnormalities and possible pathogenetic mechanisms underlying Alzheimer's disease.
Stress and stress hormones alter the expression of mRNA for the NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in brain regions associated with the stress response. Early life stress contributes to the risk and pathophysiology of mental illness. Examining how stress hormones modulate NMDA receptor subunit gene expression before and after pubertal onset will further contribute to the understanding of how stress during adolescence relates to adult mental illness. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we measured NR1, NR2A and NR2B mRNA expression in the hippocampus and in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of rats that had undergone adrenalectomy (ADX) or sham surgery before or after puberty. Some ADX rats received corticosterone pellets that released either normal or stress levels of corticosterone for 14 days prior to sacrifice. There was a significant increase in NR1 subunit mRNA expression throughout the subfields of the hippocampus and in the PVN of ADX prepubertal rats. However, similar changes in hippocampal NR1 expression were not observed in postpubertal ADX rats. Pre- and postpubertal ADX rats implanted with a high-dose corticosterone pellet had decreased expression of PVN NR1 mRNA. Only prepubertal rats had an increase in dentate gyrus NR2A mRNA and CA3 region NR2B mRNA following high-dose replacement. These results provide evidence that glucocorticoids have differential effects on the regional expression of mRNA NMDA receptor subunits and elucidate a window during adolescence in which the NR1, NR2A and NR2B genes are responsive to glucocorticoids.
The primary goal of this study was to use the cloned neuronal Kv channels to test if pimozide (PMZD), an antipsychotic drug, modulates the activity of Kv channels. In CHO cells, PMZD blocked Kv2.1, a major neuronal delayed rectifier, in a manner that depends upon time and concentration. The estimated IC50 was 4.2 microM at +50 mV. Tail current analysis shows that PMZD reduced the amplitude of the currents, with no effect on the steady-state activation curve (V(1/2) from 14.1 to 11.1 mV) or the slope (16.7 vs. 14.0 mV). From -120 to -20 mV, PMZD did not impact the deactivation kinetics of Kv2.1. PMZD also blocked Kv1.1, another neuronal delayed rectifier, with 16.1 microM of IC50. When Kv1.1 was co-expressed with Kvbeta1, approximately 50% of the Kv1.1 were converted into an inactivating A-type current and the Kv1.1/Kvbeta1 A-type currents were insensitive to PMZD. PMZD (10 microM) had minimal effect on Kv1.4, and had no effect on the M-current candidates, KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 when co-expressed in Xenopus oocytes. In hippocampal neurons, PMZD inhibited the delayed rectifiers by approximately 60%, and A-type currents were insensitive to PMZD. The results suggest that PMZD inhibits certain neuronal Kv channels in heterologous expression systems and in hippocampal neurons. PMZD was less effective on A-type currents, presumably because its ability to block requires a prolonged opening of the K channels. It is thus conceivable that the time-dependent and/or subunit-specific inhibition of Kv channels may increase the release of neurotransmitters such as serotonin and glutamate.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are involved in regulating many metabolic and inflammatory processes. The present study explores the role of PPAR ligands in protecting neuronal cultures from toxic insults. For that purpose, we used WY14643 [4-chloro-6-(2,3-xylidino)-2-pyrimidinylthio acetic acid] as a PPARalpha agonist, L-165041 and L-783483 as PPARbeta ligands, and 15-deoxy-Delta(12,14)-PGJ2 (15d-PGJ2), troglitazone, and ciglitazone for PPARgamma. Experiments were performed using HT-22, an immortalized mouse hippocampal cell line, and SK-N-SH, a human neuroblastoma cell line. Cell viability against glutamate, hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), and serum deprivation insults was determined using a calcein acetoxymethyl (AM) assay. Of the compounds tested, only 15d-PGJ2 and troglitazone showed a dose-dependent neuroprotection from glutamate and H(2)O(2) insults in HT-22 cells. None of the PPAR agonists was protective in SK-N-SH cells. A minimum of 4-6 h preincubation with 15d-PGJ2 was required to achieve significant neuroprotection. On the other hand, troglitazone was protective even when administered simultaneously with glutamate, or for up to 8 h postglutamate insult. To investigate whether the neuroprotective effects are mediated through PPARgamma, we first determined through Western blotting that HT-22 and SK-N-SH cells express PPARgamma. However, the neuroprotective effects of those compounds are unlikely to be mediated through the PPARgamma for two reasons: (1) various concentrations of another PPARgamma agonist (ciglitazone) were not neuroprotective; (2) by itself, PPAR exhibits a low affinity for DNA, and high-affinity binding requires heterodimerization with RXR, the 9-cis-retinoic acid receptor; administering 9-cis-retinoic acid in conjunction with 15d-PGJ2 did not alter the neuroprotective effects of the latter. Our results demonstrate neuroprotective effects of 15d-PGJ2 and troglitazone that are likely independent of PPARgamma.
Neurochemical changes were examined in dopamine D1 receptor knockout (D1(-/-)), dopamine D3 receptor knockout (D3(-/-)) and dopamine D1/D3 receptor double knockout (D1(-/-)D3(-/-)) mice. The level of dopamine D1- and D2-like receptors and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor was assessed by ligand autoradiography and dopamine D1- and D2 receptor, enkephalin, dynorphin and substance P transcripts measured by in situ hybridization. D1(-/-) mice had normal GABA(A) receptor levels, reduced dynorphin and substance P, and increased enkephalin mRNA and dopamine D2-like binding. D1(-/-)D3(-/-) mice evidenced decreased dynorphin and substance P but normal enkephalin expression, whereas dopamine D2-like and GABA(A) receptor binding were increased. Major changes occur in substance P and dynorphin expression in D1(-/-) mice and these changes are unaffected by loss of dopamine D3 receptors. Upregulated dopamine D2-like binding and enkephalin in D1(-/-) mice may be due to decreased dopamine turnover. Upregulated enkephalin in D1(-/-) mice is dependent on functional dopamine D3 receptors.
We examined the feasibility of coupling the 5-HT(6) receptor to a Ca(2+) signaling read-out using a chimeric G-protein, comprising of G(alphaq) with the C-terminal five amino acids from G(alphas), to facilitate assays on the fluorometric imaging plate reader (FLIPR). Using a transient transfection assay in human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells, Ca(2+) signaling in response to serotonin (5-HT) was facilitated by co-transfection of the 5-HT(6) receptor with the G(alphaq)/G(alphas) chimera, but not with the 5-HT(6) receptor alone or with a similar chimera incorporating the C-terminal five amino acids of G(alphai3). A series of agonist concentration-response curves were constructed using the 5-HT(6)-G(alphaq)/G(alphas) signaling assay generating the following rank order of agonist potency; 5-methoxytryptamine (EC(50), 9 nM)=5-HT (12 nM)=2-methyl 5-HT (13 nM)&gt;tryptamine (86 nM)=5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT) (119 nM)&gt;lisuride (&gt;1 microM). In comparison, essentially identical EC(50) values were observed for the stimulation of cAMP accumulation with the same compounds; 5-methoxytryptamine (EC(50), 6 nM)=5-HT (6 nM)=2-methyl 5-HT (15 nM)&gt;tryptamine (91 nM)=5-CT (153 nM)&gt;lisuride (&gt;350 nM). Clozapine and SB 271046 both produced a concentration-dependent antagonism of the 5-HT-stimulated Ca(2+) response with IC(50) values of 45 and 11 nM, respectively. In contrast, aripiprazole, a recently launched atypical anti-psychotic with a novel mechanism of action described as a dopamine/serotonin stabilizer, was essentially devoid of 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist activity. Our results demonstrate that a FLIPR-based Ca(2+) signaling assay is a feasible approach to the functional characterization of 5-HT(6) receptor ligands. Moreover, the equivalent coupling efficiency, as indexed by agonist potency, observed using this system compared with the native coupling assay to cAMP suggests that the C-terminal five amino acids of G(alphas) are the major determinant for the receptor/G-protein interaction of the 5-HT(6) receptor subtype.
Eph receptors and their cognate ligand ephrins play important roles in various biological processes such as cell migration, axon guidance, and synaptic plasticity. One characteristic feature of the Eph-ephrin signal transduction is that, upon interaction with the receptor, the transmembrane B-class ephrins become tyrosine-phosphorylated and transduce intracellular signals that lead to reorganization of the cytoskeleton. Although in vitro and genetic studies have demonstrated unequivocally the significance of this reverse signaling, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. We report here that transfection of ephrin-B1 into 293 cells resulted in robust increase in JNK activity, whereas expression of truncated ephrin-B1 lacking the cytoplasmic domain had a negligible effect, indicating that the induction of JNK activity was attributed mainly to the reverse signaling. The ephrin-B1-mediated JNK activation was reduced significantly by dominant-negative TAK1, MKK4, or MKK7. Ephrin-B1 over-expressing 293 cells became rounded in morphology. Surprisingly, ephrin-B1 that lacked all six intracellular tyrosine residues still triggered JNK activation and rounding morphology of the transfected cells. Consistent with these observations, activation of JNK and the resulting morphological changes mediated by ephrin-B1 could be abolished by the JNK inhibitor SP600125 but not the Src inhibitor PP2. Taken together, our findings have identified a novel reverse signaling pathway transduced by ephrin-B1, which is independent of tyrosine phosphorylation but involves the activation of JNK through TAK1 and MKK4/MKK7 and leads to changes in cell morphology.

In the mammalian retina, besides the conventional rod-cone system, a melanopsin-associated photoreceptive system exists that conveys photic information for accessory visual functions such as pupillary light reflex and circadian photo-entrainment. On ablation of the melanopsin gene, retinal ganglion cells that normally express melanopsin are no longer intrinsically photosensitive. Furthermore, pupil reflex, light-induced phase delays of the circadian clock and period lengthening of the circadian rhythm in constant light are all partially impaired. Here, we investigated whether additional photoreceptive systems participate in these responses. Using mice lacking rods and cones, we measured the action spectrum for phase-shifting the circadian rhythm of locomotor behaviour. This spectrum matches that for the pupillary light reflex in mice of the same genotype, and that for the intrinsic photosensitivity of the melanopsin-expressing retinal ganglion cells. We have also generated mice lacking melanopsin coupled with disabled rod and cone phototransduction mechanisms. These animals have an intact retina but fail to show any significant pupil reflex, to entrain to light/dark cycles, and to show any masking response to light. Thus, the rod-cone and melanopsin systems together seem to provide all of the photic input for these accessory visual functions.
The mechanism by which target-derived Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) signaling is propagated retrogradely, over extremely long distances, to cell bodies to support survival of neurons is unclear. Here we show that survival of sympathetic neurons supported by NGF on distal axons requires the kinase activity of the NGF receptor, TrkA, in both distal axons and cell bodies. In contrast, disruption of TrkA activity exclusively in proximal axonal segments affects neither retrograde NGF-TrkA signaling in cell bodies nor neuronal survival. Ligand-receptor internalization is necessary for survival of neurons supported by NGF on distal axons. Furthermore, antibody neutralization experiments indicate that retrogradely transported NGF, within cell bodies, is critical for neuronal survival but not for growth of distal axons. Taken together, our results indicate that retrogradely transported NGF-TrkA complexes promote sympathetic neuron survival.
Transcription factors with bHLH motifs modulate critical events in the development of the mammalian neocortex. Multipotent cortical progenitors are maintained in a proliferative state by bHLH factors from the Id and Hes families. The transition from proliferation to neurogenesis involves a coordinate increase in the activity of proneural bHLH factors (Mash1, Neurogenin1, and Neurogenin2) and a decrease in the activity of Hes and Id factors. As development proceeds, inhibition of proneural bHLH factors in cortical progenitors promotes the formation of astrocytes. Finally, the formation of oligodendrocytes is triggered by an increase in the activity of bHLH factors Olig1 and Olig2 that may be coupled with a decrease in Id activity. Thus, bHLH factors have key roles in corticogenesis, affecting the timing of differentiation and the specification of cell fate.
Macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) and its receptor are upregulated in the brain in Alzheimer's disease. M-CSF induces activation and proliferation of microglial cells and expression of proinflammatory cytokines. Amyloid beta (Abeta) immunization experiments suggest that microglia have the capacity to aggressively clear Abeta from the brain under certain circumstances. We examined the role of M-CSF in phagocytosis of fluorescent microspheres and Abeta by cultured microglia. M-CSF treatment increased microglial cell phagocytosis of both microspheres and of Abeta. Antibody neutralization of M-CSF inhibited Abeta uptake induced by overexpression of the M-CSF receptor on microglia. These results suggest that M-CSF could be important in promoting microglial clearance of abnormal protein aggregates such as Abeta.
In this study, we employed RT-PCR and radioligand binding studies to evaluate the gene expression and binding characteristics, respectively, of dopamine D(1) receptors in human amniotic epithelial cells (HAEC). The results showed that HAEC natively expressed D(1) receptor mRNA, as measured by RT-PCR, which was identical to that of human brain. Saturation binding studies using [(3)H]SCH 23390 demonstrated the presence of a high affinity D(1) site in HAEC with K(D) and B(max) values of 2.01+/-0.25 nM and 32.5+/-3.7 fmol/mg protein, respectively. Competition studies showed that selective D(1) antagonists were potent displacers of [(3)H]SCH 23390 binding with a potency order consistent with D(1) receptor characteristics. The current results present compelling evidence that HAEC natively express D(1) receptor mRNA and binding sites. The results also establish a primate cell model that can possibly be used for studying D(1) receptor signal transduction and molecular mechanisms and exploring newly developed drugs acting at these receptors.
Postsynaptic alterations are currently believed to be able to fully account for NMDA-receptor-dependent long-term depression (LTD) and long-term potentiation of synaptic strength, although there is also evidence supporting changes in presynaptic release. Using dualphoton laser scan microscopy of N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(4-(dibutylamino)styryl) pyridinium dibromide (FM1-43) to directly visualize presynaptic vesicular release at Schaffer collateral-CA1 excitatory synapses in hippocampal slices, we demonstrate reduced vesicular release associated with LTD. Selective loading, by hypertonic shock, of the readily releasable vesicle pool (RRP) showed that LTD of release is a selective modification of release from the RRP. Presynaptic LTD of RRP release required activation of NMDA receptors, production and extracellular diffusion of the intercellular messenger NO, and activation of cGMP-dependent protein kinase.
The present study examined whether thrombin-induced microglial activation could contribute to death of dopaminergic neurons in the rat substantia nigra (SN) in vivo. Seven days after thrombin injection into the SN, tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry showed a significant loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons. In parallel, thrombin-activated microglia, visualized by immunohistochemical staining using antibodies against the complement receptor type 3 (OX-42) and the major histocompatibility complex class II antigens were also observed in the SN, where degeneration of nigral neurons was found. Reverse transcription PCR at various time points demonstrated that activated microglia in vivo exhibited an early and transient expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and several proinflammatory cytokines, including interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta), IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor alpha. Western blot analysis and double-label immunohistochemistry showed an increase in the expression of iNOS and COX-2 and the colocalization of these proteins within microglia. The thrombin-induced loss of SN dopaminergic neurons was partially inhibited by NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride, an NOS inhibitor, and by DuP-697, a COX-2 inhibitor. Additional studies demonstrated that extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) were activated in the SN as early as 30 min after thrombin injection, and that these kinases were localized within microglia. Inhibition of ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK reduced iNOS and COX-2 mRNA expression and rescued dopaminergic neurons in the SN. The present results strongly suggest that microglial activation triggered by endogenous compound(s) such as thrombin may be involved in the neuropathological processes of dopaminergic neuronal cell death that occur in Parkinson's disease.
Traditionally, the primary function of oligodendrocytes (OLGs) in the CNS has been considered to be myelination. Here, we investigated whether OLGs may play a trophic role, particularly during development. Neurotrophin expression was assessed in postnatal day 7 basal forebrain (BF) OLGs, using in situ hybridization and detection of myelin basic protein. Nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) mRNAs were revealed in OLGs in vivo and in culture. To determine whether OLGs support nearby neurons, we examined the influence of OLGs on BF cholinergic neurons. Neuronal function was enhanced by cocultured OLGs and OLG conditioned medium. Moreover, trophic effects of OLG conditioned medium were partially blocked by K252a, a trk tyrosine kinase inhibitor, and by neutralizing anti-BDNF or anti-NT-3 antisera, indicating that neurotrophins may mediate these effects, perhaps in concert with other signals. Our studies support a novel role for OLGs in providing local trophic support for neurons in the CNS.
Glutamatergic synaptic transmission is mediated primarily through the AMPA-type glutamate receptor (AMPAR); the regulation of this receptor underlies many forms of synaptic plasticity. In particular, phosphorylation of GluR1, an AMPAR subunit, by PKA at serine 845 (S845) increases peak open channel probability and is permissive for both the synaptic expression of the receptor and NMDA-receptor (NMDAR)-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP). Robust NMDAR activation activates PKA as well as other signaling enzymes; however, we find that maximal NMDAR activation dephosphorylates GluR1 at the PKA site S845. Coincident inhibition of phosphatases blocks NMDAR-induced dephosphorylation of S845, but surprisingly does not promote PKA phosphorylation at this site. However, we find that phosphorylation of S845 is increased by the activation of a Gs-coupled receptor, the beta1-adrenergic receptor. Interestingly, this divergent signaling occurs despite a more robust coupling of the NMDAR to cAMP generation. In addition, NMDAR activation plays a dominant role in S845 regulation, because activation of beta1AR after NMDAR activation has no detectable effect on S845 phosphorylation. These data (1) demonstrate highly specific coupling between these receptors and this substrate, (2) provide an example of a substrate critical in NMDAR-dependent LTP that is incompletely regulated by the NMDAR, and (3) highlight the importance of identifying the physiological signals that regulate these critical synaptic substrates.
Oxidative stress is believed to be the cause of cell death in multiple disorders of the brain, including perinatal hypoxia/ischemia. Glutamate, cystine deprivation, homocysteic acid, and the glutathione synthesis inhibitor buthionine sulfoximine all cause oxidative injury to immature neurons and oligodendrocytes by depleting intracellular glutathione. Although vitamin K is not a classical antioxidant, we report here the novel finding that vitamin K1 and K2 (menaquinone-4) potently inhibit glutathione depletion-mediated oxidative cell death in primary cultures of oligodendrocyte precursors and immature fetal cortical neurons with EC50 values of 30 nm and 2 nm, respectively. The mechanism by which vitamin K blocks oxidative injury is independent of its only known biological function as a cofactor for gamma-glutamylcarboxylase, an enzyme responsible for posttranslational modification of specific proteins. Neither oligodendrocytes nor neurons possess significant vitamin K-dependent carboxylase or epoxidase activity. Furthermore, the vitamin K antagonists warfarin and dicoumarol and the direct carboxylase inhibitor 2-chloro-vitamin K1 have no effect on the protective function of vitamin K against oxidative injury. Vitamin K does not prevent the depletion of intracellular glutathione caused by cystine deprivation but completely blocks free radical accumulation and cell death. The protective and potent efficacy of this naturally occurring vitamin, with no established clinical side effects, suggests a potential therapeutic application in preventing oxidative damage to undifferentiated oligodendrocytes in perinatal hypoxic/ischemic brain injury.
Perception of the acoustic world requires the simultaneous processing of the acoustic patterns associated with sound objects and their location in space. In this functional magnetic resonance experiment, we investigated the human brain areas engaged in the analysis of pitch sequences and sequences of acoustic spatial locations in a paradigm in which both could be varied independently. Subjects were presented with sequences of sounds in which the individual sounds were regular interval noises with variable pitch. Positions of individual sounds were varied using a virtual acoustic space paradigm during scanning. Sound sequences with changing pitch specifically activated lateral Heschl's gyrus (HG), anterior planum temporale (PT), planum polare, and superior temporal gyrus anterior to HG. Sound sequences with changing spatial locations specifically activated posteromedial PT. These results demonstrate directly that distinct mechanisms for the analysis of pitch sequences and acoustic spatial sequences exist in the human brain. This functional differentiation is evident as early as PT: within PT, pitch pattern is processed anterolaterally and spatial location is processed posteromedially. These areas may represent human homologs of macaque lateral and medial belt, respectively.
The timing of spikes can carry information, for instance, when the temporal pattern of firing across neurons results in correlated activity. However, in part because central synapses are unreliable, correlated activity has not been observed to propagate through multiple subsequent stages in neural circuits, although such propagation has frequently been used in theoretical models. Using simultaneous single-unit and multiunit recordings from two or three vocal control nuclei of songbirds, measurement of coherency and time delays, and manipulation of neural activity, we provide evidence here for preserved correlation of activity through multiple steps of the neural circuit for song, including a basal ganglia circuit and its target vocal motor pathway. This suggests that these pathways contain highly functionally interconnected neurons and represent a neural architecture that can preserve information about the timing of firing of groups of neurons. Because the interaction of these song pathways is critical to vocal learning, the preserved correlation of activity may be important to the learning and production of sequenced motor acts and could be a general feature of basal ganglia-cortical interaction.
Metabolic mapping with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG), a radiolabeled glucose analog, was used to assess regional activity changes in the mouse brain that result from extinction of a conditioned emotional response (CER). In the extinction group, Pavlovian tone-foot shock conditioning, followed by repeated tone-alone presentations, resulted in the reduction of the CER (freezing behavior). A second group underwent CER acquisition alone (nonextinction group), and a third group showed no CER after pseudorandom training. Then mice were injected with FDG, and tone-evoked brain activity was mapped. In the auditory system, increased activity resulted from the associative effects of acquisition training. Effects common to extinction and nonextinction groups, presumably reflecting the tone-foot shock association independently of CER expression, were found in the medial geniculate, hippocampus, and subiculum. In the extinction group, a major finding was the elevated activity in prefrontal cortex regions. In addition, brain-behavior correlations between FDG uptake and freezing behavior confirmed that subjects with higher prefrontal activity were more successful at inhibiting the CER. Interregional activity correlations showed extensive functional coupling across large-scale networks in the extinction group. The increased activity of the prefrontal cortex and its negative interactions with other regions within the extinction group suggest a functional network inhibiting the CER composed of prefrontal cortex, medial thalamus, auditory, and hippocampal regions. This is the first time that such a functional network resulting from Pavlovian extinction has been demonstrated, and it supports Pavlov's original hypothesis of extinction as the formation of cortical inhibitory circuits, rather than unlearning or reversal of the acquisition process.
Synchronous envelope fluctuations in different frequency ranges of an acoustic background enhance the detection of signals in background noise. This effect, termed comodulation masking release (CMR), is attributed to both processing within one frequency channel of the auditory system and comparisons across separate frequency channels. Here we present data on CMR from a study in field L2 of the auditory forebrain of the European starling (Sturnus vulgaris) using two 25-Hz-wide bands of masking noise that provide the opportunity to distinguish between within-channel and across-channel effects. Acoustically evoked responses were recorded from unrestrained birds via radio telemetry. The signal was a 800 msec pure tone presented at the most sensitive frequency of the units in a previously determined frequency-tuning curve (FTC). One band of masking noise was centered on the signal frequency while the flanking band of noise was presented either within the limits of the excitatory FTC (i.e., within the same frequency channel as the on-frequency masker) or in the suppression area of the FTC (i.e., in a separate channel). For flanking bands inside the excitatory FTC, signal detection thresholds based on the rate code were lower in noise maskers with identical envelope fluctuations (comodulated) than in maskers with uncorrelated envelopes resulting in a neural CMR of approximately 4-7 dB. For flanking bands inside the suppression areas, the neural CMR was reduced. Although the average neural CMR was below the behaviorally determined CMR, a subsample of between 11 and 26% of the recording sites resembled the behavioral performance.
The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) envelope protein gp120 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of HIV-1 dementia. Thus, inhibition of gp120 activity could reduce HIV toxicity in the brain. We have used primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells to examine mechanisms whereby gp120 causes cell death and to characterize neuroprotective agents. gp120 induced a time- and concentration-dependent apoptotic cell death, which was caspase-3-mediated but caspase-1 independent, and was totally blocked by the irreversible caspase-3-like protease inhibitor N-acetyl-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-chloromethylketone. Caspase-3 activation was observed only in neurons that internalize gp120, indicating that internalization is key to gp120 toxicity. Because brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) prevents caspase-3-mediated neuronal cell death, we examined whether BDNF could prevent gp120-mediated apoptosis. Preincubation of neurons with BDNF before the addition of gp120 reduced caspase-3 activation, and consequently rescued 80% of neurons from apoptosis. Most importantly, BDNF reduced the levels of CXC chemokine receptor-4 (CXCR4), a receptor that mediates HIV-1 gp120-induced apoptosis. This effect correlated with the ability of BDNF to reduce gp120 internalization and apoptosis. Moreover, BDNF blocked the neurotoxic effect of stromal-derived factor-1alpha, a natural ligand for CXCR4, further establishing a correlation between neuroprotection and downregulation of CXCR4. We propose that BDNF may be a valid therapy to slow down the progression of HIV/gp120-mediated neurotoxicity.
Tuning for speed is one key feature of motion-selective neurons in the middle temporal visual area of the macaque cortex (MT, or V5). The present paper asks whether speed is coded in a way that is invariant to the shape of the moving stimulus, and if so, how. When tested with single sine-wave gratings of different spatial and temporal frequencies, MT neurons show a continuum in the degree to which preferred speed depends on spatial frequency. There is some dependence in 75% of MT neurons, and the other 25% maintain speed tuning despite changes in spatial frequency. When tested with stimuli constructed by adding two superimposed sine-wave gratings, the preferred speed of MT neurons becomes less dependent on spatial frequency. Analysis of these responses reveals a speed-tuning nonlinearity that selectively enhances the responses of the neuron when multiple spatial frequencies are present and moving at the same speed. Consistent with the presence of the nonlinearity, MT neurons show speed tuning that is close to form-invariant when the moving stimuli comprise square-wave gratings, which contain multiple spatial frequencies moving at the same speed. We conclude that the neural circuitry in and before MT makes no explicit attempt to render MT neurons speed-tuned for sine-wave gratings, which do not occur in natural scenes. Instead, MT neurons derive form-invariant speed tuning in a way that takes advantage of the multiple spatial frequencies that comprise moving objects in natural scenes.
Activation of auditory afferents on the lateral dendrite of the Mauthner (M)-cell triggers an escape response (C-start) in goldfish. To study distinct behavioral changes and their physiological correlates on a cellular level we examined the effect of acute changes of temperature on M-cell membrane properties and intracellular responses to sound clicks and on C-start kinematics and behavior, focusing on threshold and initial escape direction, two properties determined on the M-cell level. Cooling slowed C-start motor performance, increasing response latency and decreasing peak velocity and peak acceleration, but increased the probability of triggering the escape. In addition, the likelihood of escapes in an inappropriate direction (e.g., responses toward the stimulus instead of away from it) increased at low temperatures. On a cellular level, cooling caused a distinct increase in input resistance of the M-cell and in the dendritic space constant for the auditory-evoked synaptic potentials. Moreover, cooling decreased the magnitude and delayed the onset of feedforward inhibition of the M-cell. These temperature-induced changes in the network and in the intrinsic M-cell properties combine to support behavioral hyperexcitability, but apparently also alter the directional decision-making process during an escape. More generally, our results illustrate that the balance between excitatory and inhibitory influences can determine the expression of a behavior and its modification and at the same time underline the significance of temperature for nervous system function and behavior.
Frequent chromosomal aneuploidy has recently been discovered in normal neurons of the developing and mature murine CNS. Toward a more detailed understanding of aneuploidy and its effects on normal CNS cells, we examined the genomes of cells in the postnatal subventricular zone (SVZ), an area that harbors a large number of neural stem and progenitor cells (NPCs), which give rise to neurons and glia. Here we show that NPCs, neurons, and glia from the SVZ are frequently aneuploid. Karyotyping revealed that approximately 33% of mitotic SVZ cells lost or gained chromosomes in vivo, whereas interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization demonstrated aneuploidy in postnatal-born cells in the olfactory bulb (OB) in vivo, along with neurons, glia, and NPCs in vitro. One possible consequence of aneuploidy is altered gene expression through loss of heterozygosity (LOH). This was examined in a model of LOH: loss of transgene expression in mice hemizygous for a ubiquitously expressed enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) transgene on chromosome 15. Concurrent examination of eGFP expression, transgene abundance, and chromosome 15 copy number demonstrated that a preponderance of living SVZ and OB cells not expressing eGFP lost one copy of chromosome 15; the eGFP transgene was lost in these cells as well. Although gene expression profiling revealed changes in expression levels of several genes relative to GFP-expressing controls, cells with LOH at chromosome 15 were morphologically normal and proliferated or underwent apoptosis at rates similar to those of euploid cells in vitro. These findings support the view that NPCs and postnatal-born neurons and glia can be aneuploid in vivo and functional gene expression can be permanently altered in living neural cells by chromosomal aneuploidy.
Schwann cells require laminin-2 throughout nerve development, because mutations in the alpha2 chain in dystrophic mice interfere with sorting of axons before birth and formation of myelin internodes after birth. Mature Schwann cells express several laminin receptors, but their expression and roles in development are poorly understood. Therefore, we correlated the onset of myelination in nerve and synchronized myelinating cultures to the appearance of integrins and dystroglycan in Schwann cells. Only alpha6beta1 integrin is expressed before birth, whereas dystroglycan and alpha6beta4 integrin appear perinatally, just before myelination. Although dystroglycan is immediately polarized to the outer surface of Schwann cells, alpha6beta4 appears polarized only after myelination. We showed previously that Schwann cells lacking beta1 integrin do not relate properly to axons before birth. Here we show that the absence of beta1 before birth is not compensated by other laminin receptors, whereas coexpression of both dystroglycan and beta4 integrin is likely required for beta1-null Schwann cells to myelinate after birth. Finally, both beta1-null and dystrophic nerves contain bundles of unsorted axons, but they are predominant in different regions: in spinal roots in dystrophic mice and in nerves in beta1-null mice. We show that differential compensation by laminin-1, but not laminin receptors may partially explain this. These data suggest that the action of laminin is mediated by beta1 integrins during axonal sorting and by dystroglycan, alpha6beta1, and alpha6beta4 integrins during myelination.
The acid-sensing ion channel, ASIC1, contributes to synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus and to hippocampus-dependent spatial memory. To explore the role of ASIC1 in brain, we examined the distribution of ASIC1 protein. Surprisingly, although ASIC1 was present in the hippocampal circuit, it was much more abundant in several areas outside the hippocampus. ASIC1 was enriched in areas with strong excitatory synaptic input such as the glomerulus of the olfactory bulb, whisker barrel cortex, cingulate cortex, striatum, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, and cerebellar cortex. Because ASIC1 levels were particularly high in the amygdala, we focused further on this area. We found that extracellular acidosis elicited a greater current density in amygdala neurons than hippocampal neurons and that disrupting the ASIC1 gene eliminated H+-evoked currents in the amygdala. We also tested the effect of ASIC1 on amygdala-dependent behavior; ASIC1-null mice displayed deficits in cue and context fear conditioning, yet baseline fear on the elevated plus maze was intact. These studies suggest that ASIC1 is distributed to regions supporting high levels of synaptic plasticity and contributes to the neural mechanisms of fear conditioning.
The purpose of the present study was to examine whether neurons in the caudolateral part of the intraparietal sulcus (area CIP), a part of the posterior parietal cortex, contribute to short-term memory and perceptual decision of three-dimensional (3D) surface orientation, in addition to its purely visual nature of responding selectively to 3D surface orientation. Activities of CIP neurons were recorded while monkeys performed a modified delayed matching-to-sample (DMTS) task using stereoscopic stimuli. Seventy-seven neurons were examined with a routine of the DMTS task, and 94% (72 of 77) of them showed selectivity to surface orientation. Furthermore, 82% (63 of 77) of the examined neurons showed sustained activity during delay, and 60% (38 of 63) of them showed selective delay activity depending on the sample stimulus, suggesting that they contribute to short-term memory of 3D visual features. On the other hand, 53% (41 of 77) of the examined neurons showed modulation of visual response depending on whether a stimulus appeared as a sample, match, or nonmatch stimulus (contextual modulation). The majority (73%, 30 of 41) of these neurons with contextual modulation showed activity change depending on whether the test stimuli did or did not match the sample stimuli (match-nonmatch modulation), suggesting their involvement in matching, or perceptual decision, concerning 3D visual features. These findings suggest that CIP neurons play important roles not only in the perception of 3D visual features but also in cognitive functions such as short-term memory and perceptual decision of 3D visual information.
Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is, quantitatively, a relatively minor component of the myelin membrane. Nevertheless, peritoneal administration of MOG evokes potent cellular and humoral immunoreactivity, resulting in an experimental allergic encephalitis with immunopathology similar to multiple sclerosis. Moreover, antibodies against MOG cause myelin destruction in situ. Therefore, it appears that MOG-related demyelination is dependent on anti-MOG antibody, but the mechanism(s) by which it occurs is unclear. Of potential significance are observations that some proteins are selectively partitioned into specialized plasma membrane microdomains rich in glycosphingolipids and cholesterol (&quot;lipid rafts&quot;). In particular, during ligand or antibody cross-linking, various plasma membrane receptors undergo enhanced partitioning into rafts as an obligatory first step toward participation in early signal transduction events. In contrast to mature myelin, in oligodendrocytes (OLs) in culture MOG is not raft associated [Triton X-100 (TX-100) soluble, 4 degrees C]. However, in this study we show that antibody cross-linking (anti-MOG plus secondary antibody) of MOG on the surface of OLs results in the repartitioning of approximately 95% of MOG into the TX-100-insoluble fraction. This repartitioning of MOG is rapid (&lt;or=1 min), antibody dose dependent, requires an intact cytoskeleton, leads to phosphorylation or dephosphorylation of tyrosine, serine, and threonine residues in specific proteins (e.g., beta-tubulin, Gbeta1-2), and invokes a rapid retraction of OL processes. After removal of the cross-linking antibodies, these events are reversed. We hypothesize that antibody-mediated repartitioning of MOG into TX-100-insoluble glycosphingolipid-cholesterol-rich microdomains initiates specific cellular signaling that could be related to initial steps of MOG-mediated demyelination.
Spinal activation of the cAMP pathway produces mechanical hyperalgesia, sensitizes nociceptive spinal neurons, and phosphorylates the transcription factor cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB), which initiates gene transcription. This study examined the role of the cAMP pathway in a model of chronic muscle pain by assessing associated behavioral changes and phosphorylation of CREB. Bilateral mechanical hyperalgesia of the paw was induced by administering two injections of acidic saline, 5 d apart, into the gastrocnemius muscle of male Sprague Dawley rats. Interestingly, the increases in immunoreactivity for CREB and phosphorylated CREB (p-CREB) in the spinal dorsal horn occur 24 hr, but not 1 week, after the second injection of acidic saline compared with pH 7.2 intramuscular injections. Spinal blockade of adenylate cyclase prevents the expected increase in p-CREB that occurs after intramuscular acid injection. The reversal of mechanical hyperalgesia by adenylate cyclase or protein kinase A inhibitors spinally follows a similar pattern with reversal at 24 hr, but not 1 week, compared with the vehicle controls. The p-CREB immunoreactivity in the superficial dorsal horn correlates with the mechanical withdrawal threshold such that increases in p-CREB are associated with decreases in threshold. Therefore, activation of the cAMP pathway in the spinal cord phosphorylates CREB and produces mechanical hyperalgesia associated with intramuscular acid injections. The mechanical hyperalgesia and phosphorylation of CREB depend on early activation of the cAMP pathway during the first 24 hr but are independent of the cAMP pathway by 1 week after intramuscular injection of acid.
Although the Alzheimer amyloid protein precursor (APP) has been studied intensely for more than a decade, its function in neurons is unresolved. Much less is known about its binding partner FE65. We have shown recently that APP and FE65 synergistically regulate the movement of transfected cells. It remained to be shown whether endogenous APP and FE65 could play a similar role in vivo. Here, we show that FE65, like APP, is expressed at high levels in neurons. Using a combination of immunofluorescence, live imaging, and subcellular fractionation, we find that FE65 and APP localize in vitro and in vivo to the most motile regions of neurons, the growth cones. Within growth cones, APP and FE65 concentrate in actin-rich lamellipodia. Finally, APP and FE65 interact in nerve terminals, where they associate with Rab5-containing synaptic organelles but not with synaptic vesicles. Our data are consistent with a role for the APP/FE65 complex in regulation of actin-based membrane motility in neurons, which could be important for highly dynamic processes such as neurite growth and synapse modification.
Transduction of biological signals from receptors at the plasma membrane to their targets in cytoplasm and nucleus relies on specific protein-protein interactions. A common strategy used by cells is to organize proteins in the same signaling cascade into large molecular weight, multiprotein complexes. PDZ domain proteins have been shown to play important roles in assembling various signaling complexes. Here, we first present biophysical basis of the advantages of organizing proteins in a signaling cascade into a clustered multiprotein complex. We then discuss the structure, ligand binding, and function of PDZ domains in organizing synaptic signaling complexes.



In order to evaluate sensory function in inclusion body myositis (IBM), nine patients were subjected to sensibility screening and quantitative determination of somatosensory thresholds. Data were compared with results from electrophysiological examination and muscle biopsy. On sensibility screening all but one of the IBM patients had abnormal findings in hands and/or feet mostly affecting thermal sensibility. Vibratory thresholds were abnormal in five and thermal thresholds in four of the patients. Mean vibratory thresholds were significantly (P &lt; 0.05) higher in the IBM patients when compared with the controls. Significantly increased heat pain thresholds were found in hands and feet when compared with the controls while thermal thresholds were normal. Nerve conduction velocities were decreased in three patients, EMG showed both myopathic and neuropathic abnormalities in six patients. Eight patients had neuropathic abnormalities on muscle biopsy. The sensory dysfunction found suggests an affection of peripheral nerves in IBM mainly affecting large diameter myelinated nerve fibres corroborating earlier findings of a peripheral neuropathy in IBM.

Glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs) are the histological hallmark of multiple system atrophy (MSA). In six postmortem brains of patients with MSA, 14-3-3-protein immunoreactivity was identified in GCIs predominately in the white matter tissue of the basal forebrain and cerebellum. Using double immunohistochemistry, co-localization of 14-3-3-protein and alpha-synuclein immunoreactivities in the GCIs was confirmed. The immunolabeling rate of GCIs with 14-3-3 proteins varied regionally from approximately 40% to 90%. Semiquantitative analysis yielded a significant negative correlation between degree of tissue degeneration and density of 14-3-3-protein-immunoreactive GCIs. The 14-3-3 proteins are active cofactors involved in cellular regulation through binding to phosphorylated motifs in target proteins and alpha-synuclein is a known target of 14-3-3. Our study suggests that 14-3-3 proteins are closely associated with alpha-synuclein in GCIs and 14-3-3 proteins may be candidate cofactors of alpha-synuclein in GCI formation.

There is great confusion about the concept of impulsivity despite its important clinical use. Limits with others symptoms or behaviors, like aggressiveness, are imprecise, and we find no general agreement on the definition of impulsivity in the present literature. From the point of view of neurosciences, adequate identification and measurement of a symptom as impulsivity could increase the validity of syndromic diagnoses, improve the development of animal models and genetic studies, and improve the treatment of several psychiatric disorders. Based on this perspective, the overall goals of this review article are: a) to establish the historical evolution of term, concept and behavior that we presently identify as impulsivity, starting from the classical psychopathology of the will; b) to review several concepts of impulsivity described in the scientific literature, and c) to provide basic guidelines for an operative definition, just as some authors have proposed, to create research lines and understand various discoveries that basic sciences have contributed.


The cytoarchitecture and cellular signaling mechanisms of the nervous system are complex, and this complexity is reflected at the molecular level with more genes being expressed in the nervous system than in any other tissue. Gene expression and protein function in neural cells can be regulated by methylation and acetylation. Studies of mice deficient in enzymes that control DNA methylation and of animals with a dietary deficiency of folate have established critical roles for methylation in development of the nervous system. Various neuronal proteins including histones and tubulin are regulated by acetylation which appears to serve important functions in the development, stability and plasticity of neuronal networks. Some inherited neurological disorders have recently been linked to mutations in genes that regulate DNA methylation, and alterations in DNA and protein methylation and/or acetylation have been documented in studies of age-related neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Manipulations of methylation and acetylation can affect the vulnerability of neurons to degeneration and apoptosis in experimental models of neurodegenerative disorders, suggesting a contribution to altered methylation and acetylation to the disease processes. Interestingly, dietary factors that influence DNA methylation may affect the risk of neurodegenerative disorders, for example, individuals with low dietary folate intake are at increased risk of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.
Embryonic murine neuronal networks cultured on substrate-integrated microelectrode arrays were used to quantify acute electrophysiological effects of ethanol by using extracellular, multichannel recording of action potentials. Spontaneously active frontal cortex cultures showed repeatable, concentration-dependent sensitivities to ethanol, with initial inhibition at 20 mM and a spike rate 50% effective concentration (EC50) of 48.8+/-5.4 mM. Ethanol concentrations of greater than 100 mM led to cessation of activity. The ethanol inhibitions up to the maximum tested 160 mM were reversible. Although ethanol did not change the shape of action potentials, unit-specific spike pattern effects were found. At 40 mM, ethanol decreased neuronal firing in 71%, increased firing in 20%, and generated no effect in 9% of all units observed (14 cultures, 200 discriminated units). The effects of combined application of ethanol and fluoxetine were additive. Excellent agreement with findings obtained from experimental studies with animals validates the use of these in vitro systems for alcohol research.



There is no accepted algorithm to transfer opioid-dependent patients from methadone (METH) to its new alternative, buprenorphine (BUP). Five outpatients transferred (double blind, double dummy) from METH 60 mg/day (with one day at 45 mg) to BUP 8 mg s.l. tablet. Relative to METH maintenance, BUP decreased opioid agonist symptoms (transfer day 1) and increased withdrawal symptoms (days 1 and 2) and blood pressure (day 2). Self-reported heroin use did not increase from METH maintenance levels. It may be feasible to transfer outpatients on METH 60 mg/day to BUP 8 mg/day s.l. tablet, although this pilot protocol needs refinements to improve tolerability and clinical efficacy.
We have previously identified mutations in exon three in NURR1 (NR4A2) in two patients with schizophrenia (SZ) and one patient with bipolar disease with psychotic symptoms. In the present study we analyzed the promoter region of NURR1 and identified five polymorphic sites: three were found to be in strong linkage disequilibrium with a previously identified polymorphic site in the sixth intron. One polymorphism of this haplotype and the two other independent polymorphisms were investigated for their possible association with SZ and Parkinson's disease (PD) by comparing their frequencies in a Swedish material consisting of 134 subjects with SZ and 207 matched controls and 108 subjects with PD and 125 matched controls. Exon 1 was also investigated in our Parkinson and control material but no variances were found. The distributions of the two most informative polymorphisms in the promoter were investigated in an American material as well consisting of 141 subjects with SZ and 139 matched controls. Furthermore, the identified markers were screened for association with putative endophenotypes of SZ in the Swedish material. The distribution of sequence variants among the Swedish controls matched for SZ was investigated with regard to personality. No significant genotype or allelic association of the three sequence variants with SZ or PD was found. Several comparisons regarding endophenotypes or personality indicated association at the 5% confidence level, although correction for multiple testing rendered none of these findings significant. We conclude that the identified polymorphic sites in the human NURR1 are unlikely to be involved in conferring susceptibility for SZ or PD in our patient material.
To examine the roles of cytokines in muscle regeneration, we injected cardiotoxin into mouse tibialis anterior muscle and examined the expression profiles of cytokines and related genes in the regeneration process. Expression of 40, 64, and 7 genes among 522 genes spotted on a cytokine expression array were increased more than fivefold at 48 hours, 96 hours, and 7 days after toxin injection, respectively, when compared with those of the control muscle. Especially the levels of mRNA for chemokines and chemokine receptors, many of which are potent regulators of macrophages, were highly elevated 48 hours after injury. The expression of osteopontin (OPN), a versatile regulator of inflammation and tissue repair, was up-regulated more than 118-fold in regenerating muscle at 48 hours after injury. Northern blotting confirmed that the expression of OPN was highest at 48 hours after cardiotoxin injection and declined sharply thereafter. Immunohistochemistry showed that OPN was detected both in the cytoplasm of macrophages and in necrotic muscle infiltrated with macrophages. Our studies suggest OPN may serve as an adhesion molecule that promotes macrophage binding to necrotic fibers and may be an important mediator in the early phase of muscle regeneration.
Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) is a large pentameric extracellular glycoprotein found in cartilage, tendon, and synovium, and plays structural roles in cartilage as the fifth member of the thrombospondin family. Familial mutations in type 3 repeats of COMP are known to cause pseudoachondroplasia (PSACH) and multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (EDM1). Although such mutations induce enlarged rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER) as a morphological change, the metabolic trafficking of mutated COMP remains unclear. In transfected COS7 cells, wild-type COMP was rapidly secreted into culture medium, while the great majority of COMP with the type 3 repeats mutation (D472Y) remained in the cells and a small portion of mutated COMP was secreted. This finding was followed up with a confocal study with an antibody specific to COMP, which demonstrated mutated COMP tightly associated with abnormally enlarged rER. Phosphorylated eIF2alpha, an ER stress protein, was expressed as a pathological reaction in virtually all COS7 cells expressing mutated but not wild-type COMP. Moreover, COS7 cells expressing mutated COMP exhibited significantly more apoptotic reaction than those expressing wild-type COMP. Pathological accumulation of COMP in rER and apoptosis in COS7 cells that were induced by the mutation (D472Y) in COMP imply that COMP mutations play a role in the pathogenesis of PSACH.
Kv4/K channel-interacting protein (KChIP) potassium channels are a major class of rapidly inactivating K channels in brain and heart. Considering the importance of alternative splicing to the quantitative features of KChIP gating modulation, a previously uncharacterized splice form of KChIP1 was functionally characterized. The KChIP1b splice variant differs from the previously characterized KChIP1a splice form by the inclusion of a novel amino-terminal region that is encoded by an alternative exon that is conserved in mouse, rat, and human genes. The expression of KChIP1b mRNA was high in brain but undetectable in heart or liver by RT-PCR. In cerebellar tissue, KChIP1b and KChIP1a transcripts were expressed at nearly equal levels. Coexpression of KChIP1b or KChIP1a with Kv4.2 channels in oocytes slowed K current decay and destabilized open-inactivated channel gating. Like other KChIP subunits, KChIP1b increased Kv4.2 current amplitude and KChIP1b also shifted Kv4.2 conductance-voltage curves by -10 mV. The development of Kv4.2 channel inactivation accessed from closed gating states was faster with KChIP1b coexpression. Deletion of the novel amino-terminal region in KChIP1b selectively altered the subunit's modulation of Kv4.2 closed inactivation gating. The role of the KChIP1b NH2-terminal region was further confirmed by direct comparison of the properties of the NH2-terminal deletion mutant and the KChIP1a subunit, which is encoded by a transcript that lacks the novel exon. The features of KChIP1b modulation of Kv4 channels are likely to be conserved in mammals and demonstrate a role for the KChIP1 NH2-terminal region in the regulation of closed inactivation gating.
Signaling mechanisms coupled to activation of different neurotransmitter receptors interact in the enteric nervous system. ACh excites myenteric neurons by activating nicotinic ACh receptors (nAChRs) and muscarinic receptors expressed by the same neurons. These studies tested the hypothesis that muscarinic receptor activation alters the functional properties of nAChRs in guinea pig small intestinal myenteric neurons maintained in primary culture. Whole cell patch-clamp techniques were used to measure inward currents caused by ACh (1 mM) or nicotine (1 mM). Currents caused by ACh and nicotine were blocked by hexamethonium (100 microM) and showed complete cross desensitization. The rate and extent of nAChR desensitization was greater when recordings were obtained with ATP/GTP-containing compared with ATP/GTP-free pipette solutions. These data suggest that ATP/GTP-dependent mechanisms increase nAChR desensitization. The muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (1 microM) decreased desensitization caused by ACh but not by nicotine, which does not activate muscarinic receptors. Phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (10-100 nM), an activator of protein kinase C (PKC), but not 4-alpha-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (a PKC inactive phorbol ester), increased nAChR desensitization caused by ACh and nicotine. Forskolin (1 microM), an activator of adenylate cyclase, increased nAChR desensitization, but this effect was mimicked by dideoxyforskolin, an adenylate cyclase inactive forskolin analog. These data indicate that simultaneous activation of nAChRs and muscarinic receptors increases nAChR desensitization. This effect may involve activation of a PKC-dependent pathway. These data also suggest that nAChRs and muscarinic receptors are coupled functionally through an intracellular signaling pathway in myenteric neurons.
Hypothermia improves the outcome of acute ischemic stroke, traumatic injury, and inflammation of brain tissue. We tested the hypothesis that hypothermia reduces the energy metabolism of brain tissue to a level that is commensurate with the prevailing blood flow and hence allows adequate distribution of oxygen to the entire tissue. To determine the effect of 32 degrees C hypothermia on brain tissue, we measured the sequential changes of physiological variables by means of PET in pigs. Cerebral blood flow and oxygen consumption (cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen) declined to 50% of the baseline in 3 and 5 h, respectively, thus elevating the oxygen extraction fraction to 140% of the baseline at 3 h. The results are consistent with the claim that cooling of the brain to 32 degrees C couples both energy metabolism and blood flow to a lower rate of work of the entire tissue.
We used mice deficient in neuronal nitric oxide (NO) synthase (nNOS) to specifically investigate the role of neuronal NO in the increase of cerebellar blood flow (BFcrb) produced by neural activation. Crus II, a region of the cerebellar cortex that receives trigeminal sensory afferents, was activated by low-intensity stimulation of the upper lip (5-25 V, 4-16 Hz) in anesthetized mice. BFcrb was recorded in Crus II by using a laser-Doppler flow probe. In wild-type mice, upper lip stimulation increased BFcrb in the Crus II by 28 +/- 3% (25 V, 10 Hz, n = 6). The rise in BFcrb was attenuated by 73 +/- 3% in nNOS-/- mice (P &lt; 0.05, n = 6). The increases in BFcrb produced by superfusion of Crus II with glutamate or by systemic administration of harmaline were also attenuated in nNOS-/- mice (P &lt; 0.05). In contrast, the increases in BFcrb produced by topical superfusion of Crus II with acetylcholine or adenosine and the increase in BFcrb produced by hypercapnia were not affected (P &gt; 0.05). The field potentials evoked in the Crus II by upper lip stimulation did not differ between wild-type and nNOS-null mice. These data provide the first nonpharmacological evidence that nNOS-derived NO is a critical link between glutamatergic synaptic activity and blood flow in the activated cerebellum.
The molecular mechanisms with which the juxtaglomerular apparatus accomplishes its twin functions, acute regulation of glomerular blood flow and secretion of renin, are still not clearly understood. Least understood is the role of the extraglomerular mesangial (EM) cells, also known as lacis or Goormaghtigh cells, which lie sandwiched between the macula densa and the afferent and efferent arterioles. Here, we report that immunoreactivity for phospholemman (FXYD1), a single-span membrane protein homologous to the gamma (gamma) sub-unit of the Na,K-ATPase, is found in the kidney in EM cells with the Na,K-ATPase beta2-subunit and in cortical blood vessels and the afferent arteriole with Na,K-ATPase alpha2 and beta2. Phospholemman's distribution in EM cells is distinct from that of the Na,K-ATPase gamma-subunit, which is found on the basolateral surface of macula densa cells with Na,K-ATPase alpha1 and beta1. Phospholemman is a major kinase target, and its location in the juxtaglomerular apparatus suggests that it is involved in tubuloglomerular feedback.
To reveal the peptide contents of the visually nonidentifiable neurons from a neuronal circuit of interest, we combined retrograde labeling of neurons with mass spectrometric single cell analysis. We used the neuronal circuit involved in the copulation behavior of a freshwater snail, Lymnaea stagnalis, as a model. Central neurons that control this behavior are known to send their axons to the penis nerve and innervate the penis complex. By retrograde filling from the penis nerve with nickel-lysine, these neurons were selectively labeled darkish blue. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) time-of-flight mass spectrometric analyses of single stained neurons in the parietal ganglion from different animals reveal consistently the presence of several molecular ion species in the range of 800-1200 Da. From a single neuron, six molecular ion species were further characterized with MALDI time-of-flight/time-of-flight mass spectrometry, which demonstrates that the peptides are derived from a previously reported -FLRFamide precursor.

This review examines how blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) may be harnessed to study the brain when it engages in language processing tasks. This method makes clinical and scientific contributions to understanding language function. Issues such as the lateralisation of language function, brain plasticity in health, ageing and neurological disease, and as well as how 2 different languages are processed, may all be evaluated by fMRI.

Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) maintains survival of adult motor neurons. Mice lacking the CNTF gene develop mild, progressive motor neuron loss. In the normal human population, 1 to 2.3% are homozygous for a null allele, and reports suggest this mutant is associated with a younger onset of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We have tested this hypothesis in a study of 400 subjects with ALS and 236 controls. There was no difference in age of onset, clinical presentation, rate of progression, or disease duration for those with one or two copies of the null allele, excluding CNTF as a major disease modifier in ALS.
Unilateral lesions of the occipital visual areas performed on postnatal day 5 (P5) in the ferret are not compensated by the appearance, in the lesioned hemisphere, of visual responses at ectopic locations. Instead, when parts of the visual areas are spared, they show abnormal retinotopic organizations; furthermore, callosal connections are abnormally distributed in relation to the retinotopic maps. Lesions that completely eliminate the visual areas including the posterior parietal cortex cause the appearance of abnormal callosal connections from the primary somatosensory cortex on the lesion side to the contralateral, intact, posterior parietal cortex. The occipital visual areas (17, 18, 19, and 21) of the intact hemisphere show a normal retinotopy but lose callosal connections in territories homotopic to the lesions. These findings clarify the nature and limits of structural developmental plasticity in the visual cortex. Early in life, certain regions of cortex have been irreversibly allocated to the visual areas, but two properties defining the areas, that is, retinotopy and connections, remain modifiable. The findings might be relevant for understanding the consequences of early-onset visual cortical lesions in humans.
Hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy associated with agenesis of the corpus callosum (OMIM 218000) is an autosomal recessive disease of early onset characterized by a delay in developmental milestones, a severe sensory-motor polyneuropathy with areflexia, a variable degree of agenesis of the corpus callosum, amyotrophy, hypotonia, and cognitive impairment. Although this disorder has rarely been reported worldwide, it has a high prevalence in the Saguenay-Lac-St-Jean region of the province of Quebec (Canada) predominantly because of a founder effect. The gene defect responsible for this disorder recently has been identified, and it is a protein-truncating mutation in the SLC12A6 gene, which codes for a cotransporter protein known as KCC3. Herein, we provide the first extensive review of this disorder, covering epidemiological, clinical, and molecular genetic studies.
Several bacteria of the Clostridium genus (C. botulinum) produce 150 kDa di-chainal protein toxins referred as botulinum neurotoxins or BoNTs. They associate with non-toxic companion proteins and form a complex termed botulinum toxin or BoTx. The latter is used in clinic for therapeutic purpose. BoNTs affect cholinergic nerve terminals in periphery where they block acetylcholine release, thereby causing dysautonomia and motorparalysis (i.e. botulism). The cellular action of BoNTs can be depicted according to a three steps model: binding, internalisation and intraneuronal action. The toxins heavy chain mediates binding to specific receptors followed by endocytotic internalisation of BoNT/receptor complex. BoNT receptors may comprise gangliosides and synaptic vesicle-associated proteins as synaptotagmins. Vesicle recycling induces BoNT internalisation. Upon acidification of vesicles, the light chain of the neurotoxin is translocated into the cytosol. Here, this zinc-endopeptidase cleaves one or two among three synaptic proteins (VAMP-synaptobrevin, SNAP25, and syntaxin). As the three protein targets of BoNT play major role in fusion of synaptic vesicles at the release sites, their cleavage is followed by blockage of neurotransmitter exocytosis. The duration of the paralytic effect of the BoNTs is determined by 1) the turnover of their protein target; 2) the time-life of the toxin light chain in the cytosol, and 3) the sprouting of new nerve-endings that are retracted when the poisoned nerve terminal had recovered its full functionality.
The study aims to (i) describe regional variation and gender differences in health status of older people (60 years and older) in Bangladesh, indicated by self-reported health problems and functional ability; (ii) explore influence of socio-economic factors on health status of older people. In a cross-sectional study in rural and urban Bangladesh, 696 older persons were asked about their health problems and ability to manage activities of daily living (ADL). More than 95% of older people reported health problems. Approximately 80% of elderly women in both the regions reported having four or more health problems compared with 42% and 63% elderly men in the urban and rural regions, respectively. More women (urban: 55%; rural: 36%) than men (urban: 32%; rural: 22%) also reported difficulties with ADL. Irrespective of age, sex and area of residence, those reporting greater number of health problems were more likely to report difficulty with at least one ADL task. Reporting pattern of specific health problems varied between urban and rural regions. Socio-economic indicators were found to have little influence on reporting of health problems, particularly in the rural region. Observed regional difference may be related to the influence of social and environmental factors, and level of awareness concerning certain health conditions.
This study investigated health-related quality of life, expressed as subjective wellbeing and the prevalence of depressive symptoms and insomnia, among elderly pre-lingually deaf persons using sign language. Comparisons were made with elderly hearing people. Forty-five pre-lingually deaf persons, 65 years or older, took part (a response rate of 46%). Subjective wellbeing was assessed with the Gothenburg Quality of Life (GQL) instrument. Depressive symptoms were rated with the 15-item version of the geriatric depression scale (GDS), and insomnia was measured with Livingston's sleep scale. Ratings of subjective wellbeing among elderly pre-lingually deaf people were generally high. One third of the deaf persons demonstrated depressive symptoms and nearly two thirds suffered from insomnia. There was substantial correlation between insomnia, depressive symptoms and lower subjective wellbeing. The results strengthened the assumption that depressive symptoms and sleep disturbance are more frequent among elderly pre-lingually deaf people using sign language than among hearing people. On the other hand, and contrary to our expectations, this did not imply significantly lower perceived subjective wellbeing compared with hearing elderly people. Results must be interpreted with caution due to limitations in the study.
The process of neurosecretion is an important and widespread method of biological communication among animals. Although insects and vertebrates appear to be very different, neurosecretory mechanisms and the neuropeptides themselves are often the same. The gradual acceptance of neurosecretion as a biological phenomenon, largely as a result of research done with insects, is discussed.

Acetaldehyde has been suggested to mediate a number of the pharmacological and behavioural effects of ethanol. Recently, several studies investigated the role of acetaldehyde in the subjective effects of ethanol, but obtained conflicting results. With the discriminative taste aversion (DTA) procedure, high acetaldehyde doses were shown to substitute for the discriminative stimulus effects of ethanol. In contrast, the operant drug discrimination protocol failed to show any substitution effect of acetaldehyde. Several methodological differences between the two procedures could explain these discrepancies, and particularly the absence of an individual discrimination criterion in the DTA procedure. In the present study, the DTA procedure was adapted to introduce such a criterion. In addition, the effects of acetaldehyde were compared with those of other drugs, for which the substitution effects for ethanol are well known. Rats were trained to discriminate 1.0 g/kg ethanol from saline in a DTA protocol. When the rats met the criterion of ethanol discrimination, various doses of several drugs were tested for their ethanol stimulus substitution effects: ethanol, acetaldehyde, dizocilpine, diazepam and nicotine. The results showed a clear dose-dependent discrimination of ethanol stimulus effects. In addition, dizocilpine fully substituted for ethanol, while diazepam only partially substituted. In contrast, both acetaldehyde and nicotine failed to substitute for ethanol. These results show that acetaldehyde is not significantly involved in the subjective and discriminative stimulus effects of ethanol. Acetaldehyde up to toxic doses did not substitute for the ethanol discriminative stimulus in the DTA protocol, when non-specific effects were carefully controlled.
Alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (alpha7 nAChRs) and 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A (5-HT1A) receptors have been implicated in the anxiogenic effects of centrally administered nicotine, but the receptors that mediate the anxiogenic effects of systemic nicotine are not known. This study explored whether competitive nAChR antagonists [dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE), 4 mg/kg, and methyllycaconitine (MLA), 5 mg/kg], and a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist (WAY 100635, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg) could block the effects of two anxiogenic doses of nicotine in the social interaction test of anxiety. The anxiogenic effect of 0.1 mg/kg nicotine, given 5 min before the test, was blocked by DHbetaE and WAY 100635, establishing roles for alpha4beta2 nAChRs and 5-HT1A receptors. None of the antagonists could block the effect of 0.45 mg/kg nicotine, given 30 min before the test, precluding firm conclusions about the mechanisms underlying this anxiogenic effect. However, there was evidence for a role of alpha7 nAChRs in mediating an endogenous anxiogenic tone, since MLA itself had an anxiolytic effect that was blocked by both doses of nicotine. Thus, both alpha7 and alpha4beta2 nAChRs might have a role in mediating the anxiogenic effects of nicotine.
Following the molecular cloning in the early 1990s of the metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlu1-8), research that focused on the physiology, pharmacology and function of these receptors revealed their potential role in CNS disorders. Numerous psychiatric and neurological dis-orders are indeed linked to changes in excitatory processes, in which glutamate plays a key role. In contrast to ligand-gated ion channels [N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and kainate], which are responsible for fast excitatory transmission, mGlu receptors have a more modulatory role, by contributing to fine-tuning of synaptic efficacy, and control of the accuracy and sharpness of the transmission. Given the fact that the mGlu receptors are G-protein coupled, they obviously constitute new 'drugable' targets for the treatment of various CNS disorders. Due to the recent emergence of subtype-specific ligands for Group I and II mGlu receptors, this review will concentrate on the molecular characteristics, brain localization, pharmacology and physiological role of these receptors, in order to provide further insights into their therapeutic potential.
The PDZ domains of postsynaptic density (PSD) protein-95 play a role in the localization of PSD-95 and binding partners to neuronal synapses. The identification of binding partners to these PDZ domains can help us in understanding how signalling complexes are assembled. We observed that one of the subunits in the sec6/8 or exocyst complex, sec8, contains a C-terminal consensus sequence for PDZ binding. Sec8 binds to PDZ1-2 of PSD-95, and this binding can be competed with a peptide that binds to PDZ1 and PDZ2 in the peptide-binding site. In addition, binding of sec8 is dependent on its C-terminal-binding sequence namely Thr-Thr-Val (TTV). Immunoblotting of rat tissue extracts shows that sec8 and PSD-95 are enriched in the same brain regions, and sec8 and PSD-95 have the same subcellular distribution in pheochromocytoma cells, suggesting that these proteins may interact in vivo. Immunoprecipitation studies of sec8 and PSD-95 in brain provide further evidence of a sec8 and PSD-95 interaction. Furthermore, the cytosolic PSD-95 interactor competes with sec8 for interaction with PSD-95. Taken together, our results suggest that the cytosolic PSD-95 interactor may function to regulate the ability of sec8 to bind to PSD-95.
Over most of their surface, neurons are surrounded by a narrow extracellular gap across which they make adhesive cell-cell contacts. Thus constrained, how do they regulate their geometry when osmotically perturbed? Specifically, are there any interesting consequences of local osmosis in such conditions? Using confocal imaging of shrinking neurons in culture, we observe water exiting into the cell-substratum gap. This water efflux generates a hydrostatic pressure that, at discrete (low adhesion) sites, causes the neuron's excess plasma membrane to invaginate, thus compensating for shrinkage with a pseudo-intracellular volume. To identify the minimal requirements of the process, a compartment/flux model was constructed. It comprises, essentially, a large liposome adhering in a labyrinthine fashion to a substratum. The model predicts that invaginations form at the cell-substratum interface under the influence of local osmosis, provided that adhesion across the gap is neither too tight nor too loose. Local osmosis in the central nervous system, in contrast to epithelia, is usually considered a mishap, not a physiological opportunity. We postulate, however, that local osmotic forces acting in conjunction with confined extracellular spaces could be harnessed in service of surface area, shape, and volume regulation when intense neural activity alters a neuron's osmotic balance.
1. This study explored the role of the potassium ion in endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF)-mediated vasodilatation in the bovine coronary artery. 2. Bradykinin-induced, EDHF-mediated vasodilatation was blocked by the Na(+)-K(+) ATPase inhibitor, ouabain (1 micro M), in a time-dependent manner, with maximal blockade seen after 90 min. In contrast, the K(IR) channel inhibitor, Ba(2+) (30 micro M), had no effect. 3. When the potassium content of the bathing solution was increased in a single step from 5.9 to 7-19 mM, powerful vasodilatation (max. 75.9+/-3.6%) was observed. Vasodilatation was transient and, consequently, cumulative addition of potassium produced little vasodilatation, with vasoconstriction predominating at the higher concentrations. 4. The magnitude of potassium-induced vasodilatation was similar in endothelium-containing and endothelium-denuded rings, and was unaffected by Ba(2+) (30 micro M), but abolished by ouabain (1 micro M). 5. Ouabain (1 micro M, 90 min) powerfully blocked bradykinin-induced, nitric oxide-mediated vasodilatation as well as that induced by the nitrovasodilator, glyceryl trinitrate, but that induced by the K(ATP) channel opener, levcromakalim, was hardly affected. 6. Thus, activation of Na(+)-K(+) ATPase is likely to be involved in the vasodilator responses of the bovine coronary artery to both nitric oxide and EDHF. These findings, together with the ability of potassium to induce powerful, ouabain- but not Ba(2+)-sensitive, endothelium-independent vasodilatation, are consistent with this ion contributing to the EDHF response in this tissue.
The brainstem tegmentum, including the reticular formation, contains distinct nuclei, each of which has a set of chemical, physiological and anatomical features. Damage to the brainstem tegmentum is known to cause coma, the most radical disturbance of consciousness. However, it has remained unclear which nuclei within the tegmentum are crucial for the maintenance of consciousness in humans. Accordingly, we initiated a retrospective study of MRIs obtained from 47 patients with brainstem stroke. The lesion boundaries were charted on patient MRIs and transferred onto a corresponding series of 4.7 T MRIs obtained from a control brainstem specimen that later was cut on a freezing microtome and analysed histologically. In addition, medical charts and available post-mortem materials were used to obtain relevant clinical and anatomical data to verify the MRI readings in each case. We found that in the 38 patients who did not have coma, brainstem damage either was located outside the tegmentum (n = 29) or produced a very small and unilateral compromise of the tegmentum (n = 9). In contrast, in patients who had coma (n = 9), the lesions in the tegmentum were mostly bilateral (n = 7) and were located either in the pons alone (n = 4) or in the upper pons and the midbrain (n = 5). The maximum overlap territory of the lesions coincided with the location of the rostral raphe complex, locus coeruleus, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, nucleus pontis oralis, parabrachial nucleus and the white matter in between these nuclei. We also found that four coma subjects developed hyperthermia and died in the absence of any infections. In these cases, the maximum lesion overlap was centred in the core of pontine tegmentum. Our findings suggest that lesions confined to the upper pons can cause coma in humans even in the absence of damage to the midbrain. The findings also point to the brainstem nuclei whose lesions are likely to be associated with loss of consciousness and fatal hyperthermia in humans.
Surprisingly little is known about the neural correlates of remembering real life events in the context of normal aging. We therefore asked young and older adults to retrieve real life autobiographical event memories accrued over decades, while their brains were scanned using functional MRI. There were many commonalities between the groups in the wider network of brain areas active during retrieval. Nevertheless, one key difference emerged; while left hippocampal activation was apparent in the young, bilateral hippocampal activation was evident in older adults and direct comparison between the groups confirmed significantly greater right hippocampal activation in older adults. Notably, this difference was specific to autobiographical event memory retrieval, as the groups were comparable in the areas active during semantic memory retrieval. The present findings show that even when stimuli, tasks and performance appear indistinguishable between young and older adults, neural changes occur in aging with specificity in both the memory type and the brain regions affected. In particular, the results reveal that age-related effects are detectable in the hippocampus. This highlights the need to consider how the dynamic course of normal aging interacts with pathological processes that might also affect the hippocampus. Understanding this relationship may aid prognosis, as well as providing insights into plasticity in the anatomy of memory.
Early onset blindness provides a lesion model to investigate whether experience-dependent mechanisms subtend the functional anatomy of semantic retrieval. In particular, visual deprivation might alter the neural systems underlying retrieval of semantic information that is acquired via visual experience. Using functional MRI, we demonstrate that both early blind and sighted subjects activate a left-lateralized fronto-temporal 'core' semantic retrieval system and show common effects for retrieval of visually experienced semantic information. However, irrespective of the type of semantics, blind subjects activate additional extrastriate regions, which are coupled with frontal and temporal semantic regions. The resilience of semantic retrieval responses to visual deprivation suggests a considerable degree of innate and epigenetic specification of the semantic system. In contrast, the exuberant functional connectivity between extrastriate and 'core' semantic retrieval regions might be explained by abnormal pruning processes during early neurodevelopment.
To compare mental rotation and mental size transformation, 128-channel EEG was recorded while subjects performed both tasks using random two-dimensional shapes as stimuli. Behavioural results showed significant linear effects of both size transformation and mental rotation on reaction times. Rotation ERPs showed experimental effects at two latencies: a bilateral component distributed over posterior parietal electrodes at a latency of approximately 232-300ms and a second component at approximately 424-492ms distributed over right anterior parietal electrodes. The latency and spatial distribution of this second effect is consistent with previous research indicating a functional connection between this component and mental rotation. ERPs for the size-transformation task showed an effect at 180-228ms distributed bilaterally over occipital-temporal electrodes. These results are consistent with previous hemodynamic imaging studies that show involvement of parietal cortex in mental rotation and also the involvement of BA 19 in size-transformation tasks. However, the superior temporal resolution of the present data indicates that BA 19 activation may occur at a latency that is more likely related to apparent motion than to the size-transformation operation per se.
The performance of a group of frontal lobe lesion and a group of frontal lobe dementia patients was compared with the performance of their respective matched normal control groups on two tests of inhibitory attentional control-the stop-signal reaction time task and a negative priming task. Both patient groups responded significantly slower than their respective normal control groups, but they showed only marginally significant selective impairments on the measures of inhibition. The data suggest that the specific inhibitory processes evaluated by these two tests are, in general, spared in patients with focal frontal lobe lesions or frontal lobe degeneration.
This study investigated amygdala-hippocampus's functional asymmetry in the emotional modulation of memory for stories. Thirty-nine, right-handed, drug-resistant epilepsy patients who had been submitted to unilateral temporal lobectomy (19 left and 20 right) watched either an arousing or neutral version of a story presented audio-visually. The slide sequence was the same in the neutral and arousing version, the narratives were matched for structure and comprehensibility. The set and order of the 11 slide sequence were identical in both conditions. Free recall and recognition measures were taken 2h after story presentation. Subjects in the TLE group who watched the arousing version recalled more details than the subjects who watched the neutral version (t(37)=3.4,p&lt;.001). The group who watched the arousing version recalled more details of the phase 2 of the story (t(37)=6.76,p&lt;.001). Scores in both conditions did not differ between control subjects and temporal lobectomy patients. When the right and left lesioned groups' results were analyzed separately, it was observed that the two groups did not differ in their recall of the neutral version. The right lesioned group recalled more items of the arousal than the neutral version (Z=-3.55,p&lt;.001). However the left lesioned group did not show the memory enhancement for the emotional version, in this group it was only found an enhanced recall of the more pictorial emotional segment of the narrative (Z=-3.11,p&lt;.001). This illustrates that the right amygdala can influence retention of complex emotional stimuli with verbal and pictorial arousing properties. We concluded that an intact left amygdala-hippocampus is important for enhancement of memory related to emotionally arousing verbal material.
Earlier studies suggest that interhemispheric processing increases the processing power of the brain in cognitively complex tasks as it allows the brain to divide the processing load between the hemispheres. We report two experiments suggesting that this finding does not generalize to word-picture pairs: they are processed at least as efficiently when processed by a single hemisphere as compared to processing occurring between the two hemispheres. We examined whether dividing the stimuli between the visual fields/hemispheres would be more advantageous than unilateral stimulus displays in the semantic categorization of simultaneously presented pictures, words, and word-picture pairs. The results revealed that within-domain stimuli (semantically related picture pairs or word pairs) were categorized faster in bilateral than in unilateral displays, whereas cross-domain stimuli (word-picture pairs) were not categorized faster in bilateral than in unilateral displays. It is suggested that interhemispheric sharing of word-picture stimuli is not advantageous as compared to unilateral processing conditions because words and pictures use different access routes, and therefore, it may be possible to process in parallel simultaneously displayed word-picture stimuli within a single hemisphere.
Psycholinguistic models of sentence parsing are primarily based on reading rather than auditory processing data. Moreover, both prosodic information and its potential orthographic equivalent, i.e., punctuation, have been largely ignored until recently. The unavailability of experimental online methods is one likely reason for this neglect. Here I give an overview of six event-related brain potential (ERP) studies demonstrating that the processing of both prosodic boundaries in natural speech and commas during silent reading can determine syntax parsing immediately. In ERPs, speech boundaries and commas reliably elicit a similar online brain response, termed the Closure Positive Shift (CPS). This finding points to a common mechanism, suggesting that commas serve as visual triggers for covert phonological phrasing. Alternative CPS accounts are tested and the relationship between the CPS and other ERP components, including the P600/SPS, is addressed.
This paper aims to dissociate grammatical and general cognitive (e.g., working-memory based) accounts of the processing costs elicited by word order variations in German. To this end, we present a study using event-related brain potentials (ERPs), in which dislocated arguments were instantiated either by non-pronominal or by pronominal noun phrases. This manipulation allows for a dissociation of the two competing accounts, since only a dislocation of non-pronominal arguments gives rise to a non-canonical structure. The results show that (a) in sentences with non-pronominal arguments, the determiner of a non-canonical noun phrase elicited a broadly distributed negativity, and (b) in sentences with pronominal arguments, no differences were observed for object- vs. subject-initial word orders. These findings show that the human parser is sensitive to fine-grained grammatical regularities. We therefore argue that the negativity is a reflection of a local syntactic mismatch, rather than of an increase in working-memory load.
Here we describe the detailed method for quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry adopted in our previously published short communication on differential gene expression of the postsynaptic density proteins Homer and PSD-95 in rat forebrain after acute treatment with antipsychotic drugs [de Bartolomeis et al., Mol. Brain Res. 98 (2002) 124-129]. Specific 35S radiolabeled oligodeoxyribonucleotides were used to hybridize rat forebrain sections and data analysis was carried out on digitalized images acquired by means of a CCD camera. Special emphasis has been posed on data preprocessing options applied to a dataset obtained using a transparency scanner as an alternative image capturing method.
It has been reported that attending to a particular location can modulate incoming sensory signals, as reflected by the stimulus-evoked P1 and N1 components of the visual event-related potential (ERPs) in a two-dimensional (2D) display [Attention, Space, and Action: Studies in Cognitive Neuroscience, Oxford University Press, New York, 1999, p. 31]. In contrast, in this study we examined the effect of attention in 3D space using a stereoscopic display. Stimuli were presented randomly, one at a time, in an orthogonal combination of two depths (near, far) and two 2D locations (left, right) relative to the fixation point. The task was to attend selectively to one of these four positions and to respond to a target stimulus defined by shape in the attended 3D location. The effect of 2D location selection on the P1 amplitude was greater for stimuli in the near than the far depth plane, and the amplitude of N1 increased in response to stimuli in the attended combination of 2D location and depth. These results suggest that the effect of early spatial selection on the visual ERP is not simply based on retinotopic organization of the visual field, but also on intermediate stages that construct a 3D spatial representation of the external world.
Auditory afferents terminating as mixed, electrical, and chemical, synapses on the goldfish Mauthner cells constitute an ideal experimental model to study the properties of gap junctions in the nervous system as well as to explore possible functional interactions with the other major form of interneuronal communication--chemically mediated synapses. By combining confocal microscopy and freeze-fracture replica immunogold labeling (FRIL), we found that gap junctions at these synapses contain connexin35 (Cx35), the fish ortholog of the neuron-specific human and mouse connexin36 (Cx36). Conductance of gap junction channels at these endings is known to be dynamically modulated by the activity of their co-localized chemically mediated glutamatergic synapses. By using simultaneous pre- and postsynaptic recordings at these single terminals, we demonstrate that such functional interaction takes place in the same ending, within a few micrometers. Accordingly, we also found evidence by confocal and FRIL double-immunogold labeling that the NR1 subunit of the NMDA glutamate receptor, proposed to be a key regulatory element, is present at postsynaptic densities closely associated with gap junction plaques containing Cx35. Given the widespread distribution of Cx35- and Cx36-mediated electrical synapses and glutamatergic synapses, our data suggest that the local functional interactions observed at these identifiable junctions may also apply to other electrical synapses, including those in mammalian brain.
It has been suggested that the opening of non-junctional connexin 43 (Cx43) hemichannels may play a role in cell physiology, but some workers doubt the reality of hemichannel openings. Here we show data on unitary conductance and voltage gating properties demonstrating that Cx43 hemichannels can open. Membrane depolarization &gt; +60 mV induced single hemichannel currents in HeLa cells expressing Cx43 or Cx43 with enhanced green fluorescent protein attached to the carboxy terminal (Cx43-EGFP). The conductance of single hemichannels was approximately 220 pS, about twice that of the cell-cell channels. Cx43 and Cx43-EGFP hemichannels exhibited slow transitions (&gt;5 ms) between closed and fully open states. Cx43 hemichannels also exhibited fast transitions (&lt;1 ms) between the fully open state and a substate of approximately 75 pS. Similar gating was described for their respective cell-cell channels. No comparable single channel activity was detected in the parental (nontransfected cells) or HeLa cells expressing Cx43 fused at the amino terminal with EGFP (EGFP-Cx43). The latter chimera was inserted into the surface and formed plaques, but did not express functional hemichannels or cell-cell channels. These data convincingly demonstrate the opening of Cx43 hemichannels.
The substituted cysteine accessibility method was applied to single Cx46 hemichannels to identify residues that participate in lining the aqueous pore of channels formed of connexins. Criteria for assignment to the pore included reactivity to sulfydryl-specific methanethiosulfonate (MTS) reagents from both sides of an open hemichannel and observable effects on open channel properties. We demonstrate reactivity to MTS reagents over a stretch of seventeen amino acids, D51 through L35, that constitute segments of E1 and TM1. Qualitatively, the nature of the effects caused by the Cys substitutions alone and their modification with MTS reagents of either charge indicate side chain valence is most influential in determining single channel properties with D51 and L35 defining the extracellular and intracellular limits, respectively, of the identified pore-lining region. A number of Cys substitutions beyond L35 in TM1 caused severe alterations in hemichannel function and precluded assignment to the pore. Although all six subunits can be modified by smaller MTS reagents, modifications appear limited to fewer subunits with larger reagents.
Gap junctions (GJ) are defined as contact regions between two adjacent cells containing tens to thousands of closely packed membrane channels. Cells dynamically modulate communication through GJ by regulating the synthesis, transport and turnover of these channels. Previously, we engineered a recombinant connexin43 (Cx43) by genetically appending a small tetracysteine peptide motif containing the sequence -Cys-Cys-Xaa-Xaa-Cys-Cys- to the carboxy terminus of Cx43 (Cx43-TC) (3). Cx43-TC was stably expressed in HeLa cells and was specifically labeled by exposing the cells to membrane-permeant non-fluorescent ligands, such as FlAsH (a fluorescein derivative) and ReAsH (a resorufin derivative). Direct correlation of live cell images with high resolution EM detection was possible because bound ReAsH not only becomes fluorescent, but can also be used to initiate the photoconversion of diaminobenzidine (DAB) that causes the localized polymerization of an insoluble osmiophilic precipitate then visible by EM. Cx43-TC GJ's could be labeled with ReAsH and photooxidized to give selectively stained channels. Here, how the development of these tetracysteine tags complexed with appropriate ligands are useful for experiments spanning resolution ranges from light microscopy to electron tomography to molecular purification and detection is described.
Cortical neurons die in necrosis in the low-density (LD) culture, and in apoptosis in the high-density (HD) culture under the serum-free condition without any supplements. The neuronal death in LD culture was delayed by conditioned medium (CM) factors prepared from the HD culture. The CM switched the cell death mode from necrosis to apoptosis, characterized by various cell death markers and transmission electron microscopy. The CM inhibited the rapid decrease in cellular ATP levels and [3H]-2-deoxy glucose ([3H]-2-DG) uptake in the LD culture. Inhibitors of phospholipase C and protein kinase C effectively abolished the CM-induced elevation of survival activity, [3H]-2-DG uptake and ATP levels, and necrosis-apoptosis switch. All these results suggest that CM caused the cell death mode switch from necrosis to apoptosis through phospholipase C- and protein kinase C-mediated mechanisms.
In order to clarify the basic molecular mechanisms that participate in the formation of human pituitary macroadenomas, this study, for the first time, describes the comparative proteomics between a pituitary adenoma tissue and a control tissue. A vertical, two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis system and PDQuest image analysis software were used to provide a high level of between-gel reproducibility and electrophoretic separation to accurately locate each differentially expressed protein. Mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF and LC-ESI-Q-IT) and protein databases were used to characterize each differentially expressed protein. A total of 137 differential gel spots (37 increased spot volumes, 39 decreased, 19 new and 42 lost) were found when we compared an adenoma proteome to a control proteome. Seventy-one spots (20 increased, 27 decreased, 13 new, 11 lost), representing 39 differentially regulated proteins, were identified. Five differentially regulated proteins (prolactin, cellular retinoic acid-binding protein II, G-protein beta subunit 3, secretagogin and calreticulin) were also validated with results from a comparative transcriptomics study of pituitary adenomas and controls. The functional characteristics of these differentially expressed proteins provide a differential proteomic profile between a pituitary adenoma and a control.
In this review we discuss the merits and drawbacks with the use of proteomic and peptidomic strategies for identification of proteins and peptides in their multidimensional interactions in complex biological processes. The progress in proteomics and peptidomics during the last years offer us new challenges to study changes in the protein and peptide synthesis. These strategies also offer new tools to follow post-translational modifications and other disturbed chemical processes that may be indicative of pathophysiological alteration(s). Furthermore these techniques can contribute to improvements in the diagnosis and therapy of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, and psychiatric diseases, as depression and post traumatic stress disorders. We also consider different practical aspects of the applications of mass spectrometry in clinical neuroscience, illustrated by example from our laboratories. The new proteomic and peptidomic strategies will further enable the progress for clinical neuroscience research.
Various molecular processes including unfolded protein response, protein transport, synaptic transmission and transcription are implicated in the pathology of polyglutamine diseases caused by the expanded polyglutamine-containing proteins. More than 20 transcription-related factors have been reported to interact with disease proteins, and the pathological interaction is known to repress gene expression. The whole shape of nuclear events evoked by disease proteins is now emerging with information on these transcription-related factors and with findings on the similarity between nuclear bodies and pathological inclusion bodies. This article reviews 'transcription theory', a rapidly growing hypothesis in polyglutamine diseases.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are ligand-gated ion channels that subserve a range of functions in the brain and peripheral nervous system. They are pentamers variously composed of alpha (alpha2-alpha10) and beta subunits (beta2-beta4). Pharmacological and ligand-binding studies have shown that the different subunits vary in their distribution and channel properties, but precise delineation of the in vivo function of individual subunits has been hampered by lack of subunit-specific antagonists. The development of transgenic mice with targeted deletions of specific subunits (knockout mice) or mutations in critical receptor domains (knockin mice) has extended understanding of nicotinic receptors, revealing that some subunits are necessary for viability, whereas others mediate modulatory effects on learning and memory, locomotion, anxiety, nociception, dopaminergic neurotransmission, seizure threshold, development of the visual system and autonomic function. In some cases, studies of transgenic mice have confirmed expectations derived from pharmacological and expression studies, but in other cases, compensation by related subunits has revealed a degree of functional redundancy not predicted by previous approaches.

The level of agreement between different sources of information, i.e. questionnaires, interviews and diaries, was evaluated in a sample of 129 schoolchildren, 69 girls and 60 boys, ranging in age from 7 to 17 years. Headache diagnoses and headache features showed high agreement between questionnaires and subsequent interviews. The concordance between questionnaires and interviews for headache diagnoses increased, and the number of unclassified headaches decreased, when the International Headache Society (IHS) duration criterion was excluded. When comparing headache frequency reported in questionnaires and interviews with diary recordings, the agreement was low and the frequency higher in the diaries. Overall, the agreement between questionnaires, interviews and diaries was not related to age or gender. The questionnaire may serve as a valid source of information in studies of headache in schoolchildren. Prospective recordings in diaries provide additional information, in particular of low-intensity headache. In children, the IHS duration criterion should be modified or excluded.
Face perception, recognition and priming were examined with event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and scalp event-related potentials (ERPs). Face perception was associated with haemodynamic increases in regions including bilateral fusiform and right superior temporal cortices, and a right posterior negativity (N170), most likely generated in the superior temporal region. Face recognition was associated with haemodynamic increases in fusiform, medial frontal and orbitofrontal cortices, and with a frontocentral positivity from 550 ms poststimulus. Face repetition was associated with a positivity from 400 to 600 ms and behavioural priming. Repetition of familiar faces was also associated with earlier onset of the ERP familiarity effect, and haemodynamic decreases in fusiform cortex. These data support a multi-component model of face-processing, with priming arising from more than one stage.
High density electrical mapping was used to index event-related brain activity in subjects performing parametric variations of the &quot;AX&quot;-type continuous performance task (AX-CPT) that differentially challenge control, and informative control conditions. In the AX-CPT, subjects must use context, created by a cue stimulus, to guide response to a target. Diseases such as schizophrenia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are associated with impaired AX-CPT performance. Event-related potentials (ERP) were analyzed as a function of both global and local stimulus context. The topographical analysis revealed that well-defined ERP are elicited under conditions where subjects must override a prepotent response. Activation patterns related to overriding a prepotent response (Go to No-Go) differed markedly from those associated with overriding a prepotent non-response (No-Go to Go). Dipole source mapping suggested that withholding a prepotent response is reflected primarily in anterior cingulate/dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activity during the 350-450 ms latency range following presentation of the No-Go. In contrast, preparing to respond is reflected in parietal (including area BA 40) activity during the same latency range, followed by a prolonged frontal negativity (contingent negative variation; CNV). Similar patterns of activation were observed whether the changes in preparation were triggered by cue or target stimuli, though target-elicited potentials peaked earlier.
If there is part of us that we equate with our &quot;self,&quot; it is surely the brain. What feelings and expectations, then, are stirred if we decide to give this part of ourselves--or the brain of a loved one--to be sliced, labeled, frozen, and shipped to a laboratory somewhere in the world to be used for research? The director of one of the world's largest brain banks discusses the ethical challenges, implied obligations, and standards of behavior that brain banks must meet to earn and retain the trust of those who give the last great gift--one now indispensable for progress against illnesses ranging from Alzheimer's disease to schizophrenia.
Olfactory deficits have been reported in Parkinson's disease (PD) and are thought to represent a sensitive marker of the disease. The aim of the present study was to examine the differential contribution in olfactory dysfunction of perceptual and semantic processes of odours in PD patients. Twenty-four PD patients (12 males and 12 females) and 24 control subjects (12 males and 12 females) were tested. The experiment included two sessions. Initially, 12 odorants were delivered, one per minute. For each odour, subjects were asked to rate intensity, pleasantness, familiarity and edibility using linear rating scales. The odorants were again presented and the subjects were asked to identify them. The four olfactory judgements and odour identification were severely disturbed in PD patients when compared to control subjects. These findings demonstrate major deficits for all cognitive tasks of olfactory judgement in PD, and suggest that PD is associated with disruption of olfactory areas situated in the temporal lobes and also in the prefrontal cortex.
Understanding how mammals process olfactory stimuli has motivated the development of tools and techniques which permit the simultaneous study of finely structured spatial and temporal patterns of neural activity. A technique is described that uses an array of 32 penetrating microelectrodes implanted bilaterally into the dorsal aspect of rat olfactory bulb to investigate the responses of mitral and tufted neurons to stimulation with simple enantiomer odor pairs at a number of concentrations. It is shown that stable, simultaneous recordings from up to 49 single- and multi-units can be performed for periods of up to 14 h. We show that such odors evoke unique spatial and fast-temporal activity patterns which may subserve odor discrimination. This technique is extensible to other systems neuroscience investigations of olfactory sensory processing.

Nitric oxide (NO) activates soluble guanylyl cyclase, which results in an increased synthesis of cyclic guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP), smooth muscle relaxation and vasodilation. The heme group in soluble guanylyl cyclase binds NO and allosterically activates the catalytic site. In addition, a second allosteric site that synergistically activates the enzyme has been reported. BAY 41-2272 was reported as an NO-independent activator of soluble guanylyl cyclase. Treatment with this compound results in anti-platelet activity, a decrease in blood pressure and an increase in survival, indicating a potential for treating cardiovascular diseases. YC-1, another NO-independent activator, activates soluble guanylyl cyclase and the activity is enhanced in the presence of NO. YC-1 relaxed tissue strips in organ bath. Consistent with its biochemical activity, YC-1 induced penile erection in a conscious rat model. Recently, we found a novel series of soluble guanylyl cyclase activators that also NO-independently activate soluble guanylyl cyclase and cause penile erection, suggesting a synergy with the endogenous NO production in vivo. Here I review the NO/cGMP signal transduction pathway and define soluble guanylyl cyclase modulators as a novel approach for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases and erectile dysfunction.
Tryptophan is metabolised primarily along the kynurenine pathway, of which two components are now known to have marked effects on neurons in the central nervous system. Quinolinic acid is an agonist at the population of glutamate receptors which are sensitive to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), and kynurenic acid is an antagonist at several glutamate receptors. Consequently quinolinic acid can act as a neurotoxin while kynurenic acid is neuroprotectant. A third kynurenine, 3-hydroxykynurenine, can generate free radicals and contribute to, or exacerbate, neuronal damage. Changes in the absolute or relative concentrations of these kynurenines have been implicated in a variety of central nervous system disorders such as the AIDS-dementia complex and Huntington's disease, raising the possibility that interference with their actions or synthesis could lead to new forms of pharmacotherapy for these conditions.


Mirtazapine is a novel antidepressant with a pharmacologic profile (alpha-2 antagonist, 5HT-(1A) agonist, and 5HT-(2) antagonist) that renders it potentially useful for l-dopa-induced dyskinesias. Drugs with 5HT-(1A) agonistic activity, such as buspirone and tandospirone, have been reported to be effective in reducing l-dopa-induced dyskinesias. Furthermore, 5HT-(2) antagonism may, by reducing substantia nigra pars reticulata hyperactivity, play a role in the improvement of Parkinsonian symptoms and l-dopa-induced dyskinesias, as has been observed with ritanserin, a 5HT-(2) antagonist. Alpha-2 antagonists, such as idazoxan, have recently also been reported to improve l-dopa-induced dyskinesias. The authors investigated the antidyskinetic properties of mirtazapine by designing an open-label study of 20 Parkinsonian patients with l-dopa-induced dyskinesias. Mirtazapine proved to be moderately effective in reducing l-dopa-induced dyskinesias, either alone or in association with amantadine. Mirtazapine may be of use in patients who do not respond or are intolerant to amantadine.
Carbamazepine is a well-established, effective treatment of complex partial seizures and is well tolerated in most patients. The adverse effects of carbamazepine include aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, pancytopenia, bone marrow depression, thrombocytopenia, cardiac conduction abnormalities, congestive heart failure, and peripheral edema. Hypertension or hypotension has also rarely been documented in patients with either therapeutic or toxic blood levels of carbamazepine. It is possible that carbamazepine-induced hypertension in those with therapeutic blood levels is rarely seen because most of the patients who begin treatment are young and do not have baseline hypertension. The authors describe a patient of African-American descent with a history of controlled essential hypertension who developed severe uncontrolled hypertension when started on carbamazepine. Treatment with additional antihypertensive medications did not reduce his blood pressure. In addition, he developed two episodes of transient neurologic deficits, the symptoms of which consisted of dysarthria, vertigo, and unstable gait. A substantial reduction of his carbamazepine dose resulted in the control of his blood pressure and no recurrence of his symptoms.




Traumatic CNS injury is one of the most important health issues in our society and is a risk to all athletes, both in competitive and recreational sports. Our understanding of the pathophysiology has improved tremendously in the last 20 years. This progress has led to the identification of several possible treatments for improving outcome following spinal cord injury and traumatic brain injury. As no panacea exists, improvements in experimental models have empowered researchers in their search for novel therapeutic strategies.

BP 897 is a potent (K(i) = 0.92 nM) dopamine D(3) receptor compound developed for the treatment of cocaine abuse and craving. BP 897 has a high selectivity for the dopamine D(3) versus D(2) receptors (70-fold) and a moderate affinity for 5-HT(1A) receptors, (K(i) = 84 nM), adrenergic-alpha(1) (K(i) = 60 nM) and -alpha(2) adrenoceptors (K(i) = 83 nM). BP 897 displays significant intrinsic activity at the human dopamine D(3) receptor by decreasing forskolin-stimulated cAMP levels and by stimulating mitogenesis of dopamine D(3)-expressing NG108-15 cells. Although these findings suggest that BP 897 is a partial agonist, recent studies in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells with expressed dopamine D(3) receptors demonstrated that BP 897 is devoid of any intrinsic activity but potently inhibits dopamine agonist effects (pIC(50) = 9.43 and 9.51) in agonist-induced acidification rate or increase of GTPgammaS binding, respectively. In addition, BP 897 inhibits in vivo (EC(50) = 1.1 mg/kg, i.v.) agonist-induced decrease of firing rate of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. It has been clearly shown that BP 897, 1 mg/kg, i.p., reduces cocaine-seeking behavior in rats, without producing reinforcement on its own. In rhesus monkeys, BP 897 is not self-administered (up to 30 microg/kg, i.v.) but reduces cocaine self-administration. The potential usefulness of BP 897 in the treatment of drug-seeking behavior is further supported by its effects in drug conditioning models. Although BP 897 reduces L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated monkeys, it provokes a return of parkinsonian symptoms. At high doses BP 897 has been reported to produce catalepsy in rats. Pharmacokinetic and toxicological data have not yet been published. These interesting preclinical findings with BP 897 provide additional validation for dopamine D(3) receptor as a therapeutic target for the treatment of cocaine abuse and its associated central nervous system (CNS) disorders. BP 897 recently entered phase II clinical studies.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is unique among the current brain stimulation techniques because it is relatively non-invasive. TMS markedly differs from vagus nerve stimulation, deep brain stimulation and magnetic seizure therapy, all of which require either an implanted prosthesis or general anesthesia, or both. Since its rebirth in its modern form in 1985, TMS has already shown potential usefulness in at least three important domains-as a basic neuroscience research instrument, as a potential clinical diagnostic tool, and as a therapy for several different neuropsychiatric conditions. The TMS scientific literature has now expanded beyond what a single summary article can adequately cover. This review highlights several new developments in combining TMS with functional brain imaging, using TMS as a psychiatric therapy, potentially using TMS to enhance performance, and finally recent advances in the core technology of TMS. TMS' ability to non-invasively and focally stimulate the brain of an awake human is proving to be a most important development for neuroscience in general, and neuropsychiatry in particular.
The relationship between obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and putative obsessive-compulsive (OC) spectrum disorders is unclear. This study investigates the prevalence of putative OC spectrum disorders in OCD subjects in a controlled clinical design. The putative OC spectrum disorders studied included somatoform disorders (body dysmorphic disorder [BDD] and hypochondriasis), eating disorders, tic disorders (e.g., Tourette's syndrome [TS]), and impulse control disorders (e.g., trichotillomania). Only those disorders that are commonly noted to be possibly related to OCD are studied. Included in this study were 231 subjects with a diagnosis of OCD according to DSM-IV criteria and 200 controls who were not screened for psychiatric morbidity. The subjects and controls were assessed in detail by extensive clinical and semistructured interviews by expert clinical psychiatrists. The lifetime diagnoses were made by consensus of two psychiatrists. Prevalence of tic disorders, hypochondriasis, BDD, and trichotillomania was significantly greater in OCD subjects compared to controls. However, the prevalence of sexual compulsions, pathological gambling, eating disorders, and depersonalization disorder was not greater in the OCD subjects compared to controls. The findings of this comorbidity study suggest that tic disorders, hypochondriasis, BDD, and trichotillomania are perhaps part of the OC spectrum disorders. There is a need to evaluate evidence from other sources such as epidemiological, neurobiological, and family studies to further our understanding of the concept of OC spectrum disorders.

Acute otitis media (AOM) and viral upper respiratory tract infections (URIs) represent the two most common diseases affecting the human population, and account for substantial patient morbidity and health care costs. Epidemiologic and experimental studies suggest that URIs play a causal role in the pathogenesis of AOM. Specifically, viruses can either invade the middle ear (ME) space and invoke an inflammatory response that culminates in ME effusion formation and consequent symptoms, or URIs might cause eustachian-tube dysfunction, resulting in negative ME pressures and subsequent ME effusion (hydrops ex vacuo theory). The events responsible for the inflammatory response of the human ME following viral exposure have not been well characterized. Although many prophylactic and therapeutic interventions have been evaluated for the treatment of AOM, the information on virus-specific interventions is sparse. In this article, the epidemiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, and management of viral otitis media are reviewed.
There has been a recent and dramatic growth of interest in the psychological and neural mechanisms of multisensory integration between different sensory modalities. Much of this recent research has focused specifically on how multisensory representations of body parts and of the 'peripersonal' space immediately around them, are constructed. Research has also focused on how this may lead to multisensorially determined perceptions of body parts, to action execution, and even to attributions of agency and self-ownership for the body parts in question. Converging evidence from animal and human studies suggests that the primate brain constructs various body-part-centred representations of space, based on the integration of visual, tactile and proprioceptive information. These representations can plastically change following active tool-use that extends reachable space and also modifies the representation of peripersonal space. These new results indicate that a modern cognitive neuroscience approach to the classical concept of the 'body schema' may now be within reach.
When saccading to a silent clock, observers sometimes think that the second hand has paused momentarily. This effect has been termed chronostasis and occurs because observers overestimate the time that they have seen the object of an eye movement. They seem to extrapolate its appearance back to just prior to the onset of the saccade rather than the time that it is actually fixated on the retina. Here, we describe a similar effect following an arm movement: subjects overestimate the time that their hand has been in contact with a newly touched object. The illusion's magnitude suggests backward extrapolation of tactile perception to a moment during the preceding reach. The illusion does not occur if the arm movement triggers a change in a continuously visible visual target: the time of onset of the change is estimated correctly. We hypothesize that chronostasis-like effects occur when movement produces uncertainty about the onset of a sensory event. Under these circumstances, the time at which neurons with receptive fields that shift in the temporal vicinity of a movement change their mappings may be used as a time marker for the onset of perceptual properties that are only established later.


In the rat photochemical cortical lesion model described in this unit, an intravascular photochemical reaction induces endothelial damage resulting in platelet aggregation, thrombosis, thrombotic response (secretion of factors by the platelets) and permanent cerebral vascular occlusion. Because thrombosis is produced in pial vessels, the resulting cortical infarct is generally smaller and more reproducible than in the models involving occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. The surgical procedures involved are limited, making this model generally easier to perform and less invasive than most other models of permanent focal ischemia that involve mechanical occlusion of major cerebral arteries.
Neuropilin-1 (Npn-1) is a receptor that binds multiple ligands from structurally distinct families, including secreted semaphorins (Sema) and vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF). We generated npn-1 knockin mice, which express an altered ligand binding site variant of Npn-1, and npn-1 conditional null mice to establish the cell-type- and ligand specificity of Npn-1 function in the developing cardiovascular and nervous systems. Our results show that VEGF-Npn-1 signaling in endothelial cells is required for angiogenesis. In striking contrast, Sema-Npn-1 signaling is not essential for general vascular development but is required for axonal pathfinding by several populations of neurons in the CNS and PNS. Remarkably, both Sema-Npn-1 signaling and VEGF-Npn-1 signaling are critical for heart development. Therefore, Npn-1 is a multifunctional receptor that mediates the activities of structurally distinct ligands during development of the heart, vasculature, and nervous system.
For two decades the glial sling has been hypothesized to act as a guidance substratum for developing callosal axons. However, neither the cellular nature of the sling nor its guidance properties have ever been clearly identified. Although originally thought to be glioblasts, we show here that the subventricular zone cells forming the sling are in fact neurons. Sling cells label with a number of neuronal markers and display electrophysiological properties characteristic of neurons and not glia. Furthermore, sling cells are continuously generated until early postnatal stages and do not appear to undergo widespread cell death. These data indicate that the sling may be a source of, or migratory pathway for, developing neurons in the rostral forebrain, suggesting additional functions for the sling independent of callosal axon guidance.



This article outlines some current status of clinical application of epilepsy surgery and the achievements already obtained in this field in China. The rapid development of modern science and technology has furthered the understanding and definition of the scope where surgical operations are applicable, and facilitated the continuous improvement in the diagnosis and treatment approaches. Also concerned in this article is the current status of the epilepsy-related basic research and the latest progress, with the existing problems identified and future development potential of epilepsy surgery weighted.
Both first-generation and second-generation antipsychotic medications can lower the seizure threshold, increasing the chances of seizure induction. This article reviews the published literature concerning the seizure-lowering effects of first- and second-generation antipsychotic medication. Unfortunately, rigorously controlled studies are relatively infrequent, and case reports form a large part of the available literature, limiting the confidence with which firm conclusions can be drawn. Of the first-generation antipsychotic medications, chlorpromazine appears to be associated with the greatest risk of seizure provocation, although other first-generation antipsychotics also lower seizure threshold. Conversely, molindone, haloperidol, fluphenazine, pimozide and trifluoperazine are associated with a lower risk of seizure induction. Clozapine is the second-generation antipsychotic most frequently associated with seizures, with risperidone appearing to confer a relatively low risk. Other factors such as history of seizure activity, concurrent use of other drugs that lower seizure threshold, rapid dose titration, slow drug metabolism, metabolic factors and drug-drug interactions appear to increase the chances of an antipsychotic medication inducing seizure activity.
Personality disorders and particularly antisocial personality disorders (APD) are quite frequent in opioid-dependent subjects. They show various personality traits: high neuroticism, high impulsivity, higher extraversion than the general population. Previous studies have reported that some but not all personality traits improved with treatment. In a previous study, we found a low rate of APD in a French population of opioid-dependent subjects. For this reason, we evaluated personality traits at intake and during maintenance treatment with methadone. Methods - The form A of the Eysenck Personality Inventory (EPI) was given to opioid addicts at intake and after 6 and 12 months of methadone treatment. Results - 134 subjects (96 males and 38 females) took the test at intake, 60 completed 12 months of treatment. After 12 months, the EPI Neuroticism (N) and the Extraversion-introversion (E) scale scores decreased significantly. The N score improved in the first 6 months, while the E score improved only during the second 6 months of treatment. Compared to a reference group of French normal controls, male and female opioid addicts showed high N and E scores. Demographic data and EPI scores of patients who stayed in treatment for 12 months did not differ significantly from those of dropouts (n=23). Patients with a history of suicide attempts (SA) started to use heroin at an earlier age and they showed a higher E score and a tendency for a higher N score at intake. Discussion - The two personality dimensions of the EPI changed during MMT, and the N score converged towards the score of normal controls. Opioid addicts differ from normal controls mostly in their N score. The EPI did not help to differentiate 12-month completers from dropouts. Higher E scores in patients with an SA history might reflect a higher impulsivity, which has been linked to suicidality in other patient groups.
Long-term use of valproic acid (VA), a well-tolerated anticonvulsant agent widely used for treating epilepsia, has been recently shown to inhibit histone deacetylases, which in turn are involved in the regulation of the expression of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) by suppressing gene transcription. Because estrogens are known to increase cell proliferation of human endometrial tumors, in this study we investigated whether treatment with VA may increase the proliferative response of human endometrial adenocarcinoma cells to 17-beta-estradiol through induction of ERalpha. The results clearly show that VA, at concentrations of clinical interest, significantly enhanced the proliferative activity exerted by 17-beta-estradiol in the endometrial adenocarcinoma Ishikawa cell line. Moreover, in these cells treatment with VA resulted in increased ERalpha gene expression. Similar effects of VA on cell proliferation were also observed in an ERalpha-positive breast cancer cell line (MCF-7). These findings indicate that VA might favor proliferation of estrogen-dependent human tumors.

Lipid rafts, the functional microdomains in the cell membrane, are believed to exist as liquid-ordered (Lo) phase domains along with the liquid-disordered (Ld) phase of the bulk of the cell membranes. We have examined the lipid order in model and natural membranes by time-resolved fluorescence of trimethylammonium-1,6-diphenylhexatriene incorporated into the membranes. The lipid phases were discerned by the limiting anisotropy, rotational diffusion rate and distribution of the fluorescence lifetime. In dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC)-cholesterol mixtures the gel phase exhibited higher anisotropy and a two-fold slower rotational diffusion rate of the probe as compared to the Ld phase. On the other hand, the Lo phase exhibited higher limiting anisotropy but a rotational diffusion rate comparable to the Ld phase. The Ld and Lo phases elicited unimodal distribution of lifetimes with distinct mean values and their co-existence in phospholipid-cholesterol mixtures was reflected as a biphasic change in the width of the lifetime distribution. Global analysis of the lifetimes yielded a best fit with two lifetimes which were identical to those observed in single Lo or Ld phases, but their fractional contribution varied with cholesterol concentration. Attributing the shorter and longer lifetime components to the Ld and Lo phases, respectively, the extent of the Lo/Ld phase domains in the membranes was estimated by their fractional contribution to the fluorescence decay. In ternary mixtures of egg PC-gangliosides-cholesterol, the gangliosides induced heterogeneity in the membrane but the Ld phase prevailed. The Lo phase properties were observed only in the presence of cholesterol. Results obtained in the plasma membrane and detergent-resistant membrane fractions (DRMs) isolated from U-87 MG cells revealed that DRMs mainly possess the Lo phase; however, a substantially large proportion of plasma membrane also exists in the Lo phase. Our data show that, besides cholesterol, the membrane proteins play a significant role in the organization of lipid rafts and, furthermore, a considerable amount of heterogeneity is present among the lipid rafts.
We described a patient with bilateral striatal infarcts, in whom stereotyped and disinhibited behaviors were insidiously emerged over 2 years mimicking frontotemporal dementia (FTD). A positron emission tomography with 18-fluorodeoxy glucose showed a hypometabolism in the frontal lobes, basal ganglia, and thalami. The peculiar behavioral alterations remained unchanged for the following 7 years, suggesting that the disease is not degenerative but of vascular origin. A disruption of the fronto-subcortical circuits at the level of the striatum or the anterior thalamic peduncle is attributable to the FTD-like behavioral and cognitive syndrome.
We studied the correlation between the potential causes of stroke (TOAST etiological groups) and the involvement of different vascular territories seen on computed tomography (CT) scans in patients with ischemic stroke. Information from consecutive patients with a first-ever stroke have been prospectively coded and entered into a computerized data bank (Perugia Stroke Registry). A population of 1,719 patients were evaluated: 1,284 patients (74.7%) had ischemic stroke. Large artery disease was the main cause of entire middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory infarcts (40.9%), superficial MCA territory infarcts (35.7%), and watershed infarcts (68.2%). The highest presence of emboligenic heart disease was found in the entire MCA territory infarcts (28.8%) or superficial (29.4%) supratentorial infarcts and in cerebellar infarcts (36.8%). Small artery disease was the most common presumed cause of deep MCA infarcts (75.0%) and posterior cerebral artery (PCA) territory infarcts (52.1%). In conclusion: stroke location could depend on its etiology. Lacunar infarcts are the most prevalent (36.7%), being mostly localized in the deep MCA territory; large artery disease includes more than two-thirds of watershed infarcts; the most prevalent territories involved in cardioembolic stroke are the entire MCA and posterior fossa.
Concepts for stroke units that cover the acute phase vary. Therefore, the network of acute stroke units that is being set up in Austria in a uniform way is of general interest. This nationwide network has been established in accordance to evidence-based recommendations and prespecified criteria for available resources. The location for such a unit follows a maximum of 90-min isochrones (transport time) to the hospital. The quality of the network is currently documented and the results are reported. A nationwide stroke registry was prospectively performed on 15 stroke units that were already functional in this network. The aim was to document the quality performance of Austrian stroke units, focusing on rapid admissions, ready availability of investigations and therapies performed. Outcome measures were Barthel scale, Rankin score and percentages of complications. Between August 1998 and December 2000, 2,313 patients with ischemic stroke or with primary intracerebral hemorrhage admitted to an Austrian stroke unit within 24 h after onset of symptoms were prospectively included. Forty-three percent of the patients had a moderate or severe stroke. Fifty-seven percent of all patients were admitted to the stroke unit within 3 h after the onset of symptoms. Twenty-seven percent of these patients were brought in by ambulance accompanied by an emergency physician. Two percent of patients were admitted by helicopter. Fifty-four percent of patients had their first brain imaging within 30 min after admission, another 26% within 3 h. Intravenous thrombolysis was performed in 4.1% of patients. The overall stroke-unit mortality was about 6.8% and mortality at 3 months was 12.9%. The outcome at 3 months showed a modified Rankin Scale score of 0 or 1 in 47% of patients, denoting none or mild impairment. This network of acute stroke units is highly efficient in terms of rapid admissions, short intrahospital delays, as well as rapid use of readily available investigations. Stroke units seem to be well accepted by the general public and the medical community because our data show that all types of strokes are treated in Austrian stroke units, including severe strokes. The total number of concurrently treated acute strokes in other institutions across Austria is not known and no formal comparison with other systems of hospitalized care was undertaken, therefore further research is necessary.
After a short survey of the early history of neurology and psychiatry in the Netherlands, the development of the specialty of neurology is discussed. During the 20th century the training of neurologists and the certification of specialists evolved from an informal master-fellow organization towards a strongly reglemented and legally based procedure. A nationwide Specialist Registration Commission supervises the quality of the training of specialists. Registered neurologists in the Netherlands are subject to a re-certification programme that controls the requirements to be fulfilled by the specialists such as their active involvement in patient care (for at least 16 h a week), attendance of the annual postgraduate courses in neurology (5-year cycle) and regular participation in international congresses of neurology. The undergraduate training in neurology, the neurology clerkship and the postgraduate training in neurosciences are described. Measures taken in order to maintain the balance between the supply of and the demand for neurological care in the near future are reported.
Recent evidence suggests that steroids such as oestradiol reduce ischaemia-induced neurodegeneration in both in vitro and in vivo models. A cytochrome P450 enzyme termed cyp7b that 7-hydroxylates many steroids is expressed at high levels in brain, although the role of 7-hydroxylated steroids is unknown. We have tested the hypothesis that the steroid-mediated neuroprotection is dependent on the formation of 7-hydroxy metabolites. Organotypic hippocampal slice cultures were prepared from Wistar rat pups and maintained in vitro for 14 days. Cultures were then exposed to 3 h hypoxia and neuronal damage assessed 24 h later using propidium iodide fluorescence as a marker of cell damage. Neurodegeneration occurred primarily in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer. The steroids oestradiol, dehydroepiandrosterone and epiandrosterone (EPIA) were devoid of neuroprotective efficacy when present at 100 nM pre-, during and post-hypoxia. The 7-hydroxy metabolites of EPIA, 7alpha-OH-EPIA and 7beta-OH-EPIA significantly reduced neurotoxicity at 100 nM and 10 nM. 7beta-OH-EPIA was also neuroprotective in two in vivo rat models of cerebral ischaemia: 0.1 mg/kg 7beta-OH-EPIA significantly reduced hippocampal cell loss in a model of global forebrain ischaemia, whereas 0.03 mg/kg was neuroprotective in a model of focal ischaemia even when administration was delayed until 6 h after the onset of ischaemia. Taken together, these data demonstrate that 7-hydroxylation of steroids confers neuroprotective efficacy, and that 7beta-OH-epiandrosterone represents a novel class of neuroprotective compounds with potential for use in acute neurodegenerative diseases.
RC3 is a neuronal calmodulin-binding protein and protein kinase C substrate that is thought to play an important regulatory role in synaptic transmission and neuronal plasticity. Two molecules known to regulate synaptic transmission and neuronal plasticity are Ca(2+) and calmodulin, and proposed mechanisms of RC3 action involve both molecules. However, physiological evidence for a role of RC3 in neuronal Ca(2+) dynamics is limited. In the current study we utilized cultured cortical neurons obtained from RC3 knockout (RC3-/-) and wildtype mice (RC3+/+) and fura-2-based microscopic Ca(2+) imaging to investigate a role for RC3 in neuronal Ca(2+) dynamics. Immunocytochemical characterization showed that the RC3-/- cultures lack RC3 immunoreactivity, whereas cultures prepared from wildtype mice showed RC3 immunoreactivity at all ages studied. RC3+/+ and RC3-/- cultures were indistinguishable with respect to neuron density, neuronal morphology, the formation of extensive neuritic networks and the presence of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons. However, the absence of RC3 in the RC3-/- neurons was found to alter neuronal Ca(2+) dynamics including baseline Ca(2+) levels measured under normal physiological conditions or after blockade of synaptic transmission, spontaneous intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations generated by network synaptic activity, and Ca(2+) responses elicited by exogenous application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or class I metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists. Thus, significant changes in Ca(2+) dynamics occur in cortical neurons when RC3 is absent and these changes do not involve changes in gross neuronal morphology or neuronal maturation. These data provide direct physiological evidence for a regulatory role of RC3 in neuronal Ca(2+) dynamics.
Positron emission tomography (PET) allows non-invasive assessment of physiological, metabolic and molecular processes in humans and animals in vivo. Advances in detector technology have led to a considerable improvement in the spatial resolution of PET (1-2 mm), enabling for the first time investigations in small experimental animals such as mice. With the developments in radiochemistry and tracer technology, a variety of endogenously expressed and exogenously introduced genes can be analysed by PET. This opens up the exciting and rapidly evolving field of molecular imaging, aiming at the non-invasive localisation of a biological process of interest in normal and diseased cells in animal models and humans in vivo. The main and most intriguing advantage of molecular imaging is the kinetic analysis of a given molecular event in the same experimental subject over time. This will allow non-invasive characterisation and &quot;phenotyping&quot; of animal models of human disease at various disease stages, under certain pathophysiological stimuli and after therapeutic intervention. The potential broad applications of imaging molecular events in vivo lie in the study of cell biology, biochemistry, gene/protein function and regulation, signal transduction, transcriptional regulation and characterisation of transgenic animals. Most importantly, molecular imaging will have great implications for the identification of potential molecular therapeutic targets, in the development of new treatment strategies, and in their successful implementation into clinical application. Here, the potential impact of molecular imaging by PET in applications in neuroscience research with a special focus on neurodegeneration and neuro-oncology is reviewed.
Precedence of the global over the local level in visual perception is well established by the use of compound, or hierarchical, stimuli. However, (a) virtually nothing is known concerning the fate of global precedence with normal aging, and (b) there is still a debate about the early versus late perceptual locus of the effect. The present study was planned to investigate both topics. Two experiments are reported where young adult and elderly subjects were enrolled for the recognition of compound letters either at the global or at the local level. In order to recruit late perceptual processes, the case of the letters varied in such a way that subjects had to activate graphemic codes to take their decision. It appeared that the global precedence effect was preserved. This observation shows an early perceptual source of the global precedence effect, which is then transferred to later stages of information processing. Age did not affect the global precedence phenomenon.
Epidemiological data from retrospective and case-control studies have indicated that estrogen replacement therapy can decrease the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. In addition, estrogen replacement therapy has been found to promote neuronal survival both in vivo and in vitro. We have shown that conjugated equine estrogens (CEE), containing 238 different molecules composed of estrogens, progestins, and androgens, exerted neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects in cultured neurons. In the current study, we sought to determine whether a steroidal formulation of nine synthetic conjugated estrogens (SCE) chemically derived from soybean and yam extracts is as effective as the complex multisteroidal formulation of CEE. Analyses of the neuroprotective efficacy indicate that SCE exhibited significant neuroprotection against beta amyloid, hydrogen peroxide, and glutamate-induced toxicity in cultured hippocampal neurons. Indices of neuroprotection included an increase in neuronal survival, a decrease in neurotoxin-induced lactate dehydrogenase release, and a reduction in neurotoxin-induced apoptotic cell death. Furthermore, SCE was found to attenuate excitotoxic glutamate-induced [Ca2+]i rise. Quantitative analyses indicate that the neuroprotective efficacy of SCE was comparable to that of the multisteroidal CEE formulation. Data derived from these investigations predict that SCE could exert neuroprotective effects comparable to CEE in vivo and therefore could reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease in postmenopausal women.
Tilting the head in roll to or from the upright while rotating at a constant velocity (roll while rotating, RWR) alters the position of the semicircular canals relative to the axis of rotation. This produces vertical and horizontal nystagmus, disorientation, vertigo, and nausea. With recurrent exposure, subjects habituate and can make more head movements before experiencing overpowering motion sickness. We questioned whether promethazine lessened the vertigo or delayed the habituation, whether habituation of the vertigo was related to the central vestibular time constant, i.e., to the time constant of velocity storage, and whether the severity of the motion sickness was related to deviation of the axis of eye velocity from gravity. Sixteen subjects received promethazine and placebo in a double-blind, crossover study in two consecutive 4-day test series 1 month apart, termed series I and II. Horizontal and vertical eye movements were recorded with video-oculography while subjects performed roll head movements of approx. 45 degrees over 2 s to and from the upright position while being rotated at 138 degrees /s around a vertical axis. Motion sickness was scaled from 1 (no sickness) to an endpoint of 20, at which time the subject was too sick to continue or was about to vomit. Habituation was determined by the number of head movements that subjects made before reaching the maximum motion sickness score of 20. Head movements increased steadily in each session with repeated testing, and there was no difference between the number of head movements made by the promethazine and placebo groups. Horizontal and vertical angular vestibulo-ocular reflex (aVOR) time constants declined in each test, with the declines being closely correlated to the increase in the number of head movements. The strength of vertiginous sensation was associated with the amount of deviation of the axis of eye velocity from gravity; the larger the deviation of the eye velocity axis from gravity, the more severe the motion sickness. Thus, promethazine neither reduced the nausea associated with RWR, nor retarded or hastened habituation. The inverse relationship between the aVOR time constants and number of head movements to motion sickness, and the association of the severity of motion sickness with the extent, strength, and time of deviation of eye velocity from gravity supports the postulate that the spatiotemporal properties of velocity storage, which are processed between the nodulus and uvula of the vestibulocerebellum and the vestibular nuclei, are likely to represent the source of the conflict responsible for producing motion sickness.
The aim of this study was to determine whether vergence-mediated changes in the axis of eye rotation in the human vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) would obey Listing's Law (normally associated with saccadic eye movements) independent of the initial eye position. We devised a paradigm for disassociating the saccadic velocity axis from eye position by presenting near and far targets that were centered with respect to one eye. We measured binocular 3-dimensional eye movements using search coils in ten normal subjects and 3-dimensional linear head acceleration using Optotrak in seven normal subjects. The stimuli consisted of passive, unpredictable, pitch head rotations with peak acceleration of approximately 2000 degrees /s(2 )and amplitude of approximately 20 degrees. During the pitch head rotation, each subject fixated straight ahead with one eye, whereas the other eye was adducted 4 degrees during far viewing (94 cm) and 25 degrees during near viewing (15 cm). Our data showed expected compensatory pitch rotations in both eyes, and a vergence-mediated horizontal rotation only in the adducting eye. In addition, during near viewing we observed torsional eye rotations not only in the adducting eye but also in the eye looking straight ahead. In the straight-ahead eye, the change in torsional eye velocity between near and far viewing, which began approximately 40 ms after the start of head rotation, was 10+/-6 degrees /s (mean +/- SD). This change in torsional eye velocity resulted in a 2.4+/-1.5 degrees axis tilt toward Listing's plane in that eye. In the adducting eye, the change in torsional eye velocity between near and far viewing was 16+/-6 degrees /s (mean +/- SD) and resulted in a 4.1+/-1.4 degrees axis tilt. The torsional eye velocities were conjugate and both eyes partially obeyed Listing's Law. The axis of eye rotation tilted in the direction of the line of sight by approximately one-third of the angle between the line of sight and a line orthogonal to Listing's plane. This tilt was higher than predicted by the one-quarter rule. The translational acceleration component of the pitch head rotation measured 0.5 g and may have contributed to the increased torsional component observed during near viewing. Our data show that vergence-mediated eye movements obey a VOR/Listing's Law compromise strategy independent of the initial eye position.
This study compared the mechanisms of adaptation to stable and unstable dynamics from the perspective of changes in joint mechanics. Subjects were instructed to make point to point movements in force fields generated by a robotic manipulandum which interacted with the arm in either a stable or an unstable manner. After subjects adjusted to the initial disturbing effects of the force fields they were able to produce normal straight movements to the target. In the case of the stable interaction, subjects modified the joint torques in order to appropriately compensate for the force field. No change in joint torque or endpoint force was required or observed in the case of the unstable interaction. After adaptation, the endpoint stiffness of the arm was measured by applying displacements to the hand in eight different directions midway through the movements. This was compared to the stiffness measured similarly during movements in a null force field. After adaptation, the endpoint stiffness under both the stable and unstable dynamics was modified relative to the null field. Adaptation to unstable dynamics was achieved by selective modification of endpoint stiffness in the direction of the instability. To investigate whether the change in endpoint stiffness could be accounted for by change in joint torque or endpoint force, we estimated the change in stiffness on each trial based on the change in joint torque relative to the null field. For stable dynamics the change in endpoint stiffness was accurately predicted. However, for unstable dynamics the change in endpoint stiffness could not be reproduced. In fact, the predicted endpoint stiffness was similar to that in the null force field. Thus, the change in endpoint stiffness seen after adaptation to stable dynamics was directly related to changes in net joint torque necessary to compensate for the dynamics in contrast to adaptation to unstable dynamics, where a selective change in endpoint stiffness occurred without any modification of net joint torque.
Normal subjects gradually preshape their hands during a grasping movement in order to conform the hand to the shape of a target object. The evolution of hand preshaping may depend on visual feedback about arm and hand position as well as on target shape and location at specific times during the movement. The present study manipulated object shape in order to produce differentiable patterns of finger placement along two orthogonal &quot;dimensions&quot; (flexion/extension and abduction/adduction), and manipulated the amount of available visual information during a grasp. Normal subjects were asked to reach to and grasp a set of objects presented in a randomized fashion at a fixed spatial location in three visual feedback conditions: Full Vision (both hand and target visible), Object Vision (only the object was visible but not the hand) and No Vision (vision of neither the hand nor the object during the movement). Flexion/extension angles of the metacarpophalangeal and proximal interphalangeal joints of the index, ring, middle and pinkie fingers as well as the abduction/adduction angles between the index-middle and middle-ring fingers were recorded. Kinematic analysis revealed that as visual feedback was reduced, movement duration increased and time to peak aperture of the hand decreased, in accord with previously reported studies. Analysis of the patterns of joint flexion/extension and abduction/adduction per object shape revealed that preshaping based on the abduction/adduction dimension occurred early during the reach for all visual feedback conditions (approximately 45% of normalized movement time). This early preshaping across visual feedback conditions suggests the existence of mechanisms involved in the selection of basic hand configurations. Furthermore, while configuration changes in the flexion/extension dimension resulting in well-defined hand configurations occurred earlier during the movement in the Object Vision and No Vision conditions (45%), those in the Full Vision condition were observed only after 75% of the movement, as the moving hand entered the central region of the visual field. The data indicate that there are at least two control mechanisms at work during hand preshaping, an early predictive phase during which grip selection is attained regardless of availability of visual feedback and a late responsive phase during which subjects may use visual feedback to optimize their grasp.
RA175, a new immunoglobulin superfamily member, is preferentially expressed during differentiation of P19 embryonic carcinoma (EC) cells induced by retinoic acid. In the present study, we isolated mouse RA175 cDNA in its entirety and showed that RA175 is the mouse ortholog of TSLC1, a tumor suppressor gene in human lung cancer. RA175/TSLC1 was localized in the adherent region of human lung squamous carcinoma cells and in the differentiated P19 EC cells. RA175/TSLC1 showed homophilic trans-interaction activity in a Ca(2+)-independent manner. RA175/TSLC1 was preferentially expressed in the polarized cells lining the lumen of developing mouse lung epithelium. This suggests that RA175/TSLC1 is a cell adhesion molecule that is acting as a tumor suppressor gene in the metastasis of lung tumors. RA175/TSLC1 may be necessary for cells to remain tightly associated in the epithelium, thereby suppressing metastasis.
There is a paucity of information on the roles of extracellular matrix (ECM) and substrate molecules in general with regard to the growth and differentiation of neural stem and progenitor cells. There are well-established findings of a dense, presumably astrocyte-derived ECM in the persistently neurogenic subependymal zone and its migratory extension the rostral migratory stream. Cells cultured from this region, as well as from early postnatal cerebellum, generate multipotent neurospheres, but at present there is little information as to the ECM regulation of these neural stem cell populations. The present study examined the behavior of cerebellar-derived neurospheres on the matrix components laminin, fibronectin, and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan. The results showed that laminin and fibronectin significantly increase cell migration velocity as compared to CSPG. Fibronectin effected a maximal velocity after 48 h, whereas maximal velocity on laminin and CSPG was not reached until 72 h. Both laminin and fibronectin were very permissive substrates for cellular outgrowth. Chondroitin sulfate proteoglcyan showed a significant inhibition of migratory outgrowth and velocity. These ECM molecules did not appear to affect the fate choice of neurons and glia, thus their role in neuropoietic structures may be to facilitate or deter cell movement and process outgrowth.
Mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) in the hippocampal dentate gyrus is thought to play a critical role in the hyperexcitability of the hippocampus in temporal lobe epilepsy patients. The composition of molecular signals that is needed to direct this sprouting response has not yet been elucidated to a great extent. In the present study we investigated the expression profile of Sema3A mRNA and the axonal growth-associated protein GAP-43 mRNA during the process of electrically induced epileptogenesis in rats. Sema3A is an axon guidance molecule with repellent activity on dentate granule cell axons. It is produced by neurons in the entorhinal cortex, which synapse on the dendrites of dentate granule cells. Upregulation of GAP-43 expression in granule cells has often been reported in conjunction with MFS. After induction of status epilepticus, the expression of Sema3A mRNA was temporarily downregulated in the entorhinal cortex concomitantly with an upregulation of GAP-43 mRNA in dentate granule cells. In the following days, robust MFS into the dentate molecular layer was observed. When the induction of status epilepticus was incomplete the two responses appeared to dissociate, i.e., the downregulation of Sema3A mRNA did not occur, while upregulation of GAP-43 mRNA in dentate granule cells was still displayed. However, in these rats no significant MFS was observed. These findings indicate that Sema3A mRNA downregulation is temporarily correlated with MFS, while GAP-43 upregulation per se is not, and suggest that a loss of Sema3A in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus could facilitate MFS into this area during epilepsy.
In the embryonic brain, the transcription factor Nkx2.1 is localized in the medial ganglionic eminence and the ventromedial part of the hypothalamus. In the present study, we examined the development of mesencephalic dopamine (DA) neuron system in mice lacking Nkx2.1. In normal mice, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons from mesencephalic DA cells extended bilaterally in the lateral hypothalamus at embryonic day 12.5 (E12.5) and project to the ipsilateral striatum by E14.5. In the mutant brain, mesencephalic DA cell groups appeared to develop normally, but the majority of their ascending axons were observed to cross the ventral midline of the caudal hypothalamus and project to the contralateral striatum. DiI, a fluorescent dye, placed in the ventrolateral mesencephalon of E14.5 mutant mice, further revealed that majority of DiI-labeled axons projected to the contralateral striatum, while a minor ipsilateral projection was also observed. In the ventromedial hypothalamus of mutants, the neuroepithelium of third ventricle was missing, and immunoreactivity of semaphorin 3A, a soluble type of axon repellent, which was normally localized in the neuroepithelium, was remarkably reduced. Together with the recent evidence that the expression of slit2, another axon-repellent diffusible factor, is also eliminated in the hypothalamic neuroepithelium of Nkx2.1-deficient mice, the abnormal crossing of ascending DA axons observed may be attributed to the elimination of these chemorepulsive signals in the medial part of the mutant hypothalamus.
Protein kinase C (PKC) can regulate transmitter release in several brain areas. We determined if PKC could regulate the electrically evoked release of radiolabeled glycine (Gly) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in dissected samples of several brain stem auditory nuclei, such as the major subdivisions of the cochlear nucleus (CN) and the main nuclei of the superior olivary complex (SOC). The PKC activators, phorbol 12,13-diacetate (PDA) or phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) (3 microM), elevated the release by 1.4- to 2.0-fold. The PKC inhibitor, Ro31-8220 (50 nM), did not alter the release in most of the tissues but blocked the stimulatory effects of PDA and PDBu. This suggested that PKC positively regulates glycinergic and GABAergic release in the sampled nuclei. In the dorsal CN (DCN), Ro31-8220 elevated the release of [(14)C]Gly by 23%, suggesting that PKC negatively regulates glycinergic release in a proportion of DCN synapses. We also determined if PKC could regulate release after unilateral cochlear ablation (UCA). In the anteroventral (AVCN) and posteroventral (PVCN) CN and in the lateral (LSO) and medial (MSO) superior olive, the stimulatory effects of PDBu declined after this lesion and Ro31-8220 failed to alter release. Since UCA failed to alter release in these tissues, the stability of the release correlated with the lack of regulatory capacity of PKC. In the DCN and the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB), the stimulatory effects of PDBu persisted after UCA. We previously demonstrated a postablation decline of Gly release in the DCN and elevated GABA release in the MNTB. Treatment of these tissues with Ro31-8220 reversed these changes in release. These findings suggested that PKC regulation persisted in the DCN and MNTB after UCA. Moreover, endogenous regulatory mechanisms activated after UCA probably act through PKC to alter release in these tissues. Thus, limiting PKC activation or activity might ameliorate pathological symptoms that accompany hearing loss and that stem from these plasticities in the DCN and MNTB.
Increasing evidence suggests that AMPA receptors (AMPARs) play a key role in mediating excitotoxic cell damage after acute spinal cord injury (SCI). However, the role of glial AMPARs in posttraumatic white matter injury requires further clarification. In the present study we examined the changes in AMPAR expression after SCI, the cellular distribution of these changes, and their association with apoptosis. Western blots revealed expression of GluR1, 3, and 4, but not GluR2, in spinal cord white matter. Immunohistochemistry was used to examine the distribution of AMPARs in spinal cord white matter. Quantification of AMPAR-expressing cells in spinal cord white matter indicated predominantly GluR3 expression in oligodendrocytes and predominantly GluR4 expression in astrocytes. A clip compression model of SCI was used to examine the changes in AMPAR expression in dorsal column white matter after injury. Quantitative analysis of GluR3 levels of expression indicated a significant decrease at 3 days postinjury compared to uninjured animals, followed by a recovery of expression by 2 weeks. GluR4 subunits followed a similar expression pattern. Gene message expression of GluR3 and GluR4 flip/flop mRNA splice variants exhibited a pattern of expression that correlated with protein expression. GluR3-expressing glia appeared to be more susceptible to apoptosis than GluR4-expressing cells. A large decline in GluR3-expressing oligodendrocytes suggests that this subunit may be associated with the induction of apoptosis in white matter glia, thus contributing to secondary injury mechanisms.
Phosphacan (PC) and neurocan (NC) are major chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CS-PGs) in nervous tissue and are involved in the modulation of cell adhesion and neurite outgrowth during neural development and regeneration. In the present study, we examined the effects of PC and NC on the attachment and neurite extension of adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in vitro. Treatment with PC and NC on poly-L-lysine (PL) significantly impaired both neuronal attachment and neurite extension in a concentration-dependent manner (10 microg/ml &gt; 1 microg/ml &gt; 0.1 microg/ml), and they were partially suppressed by chondroitinase ABC (ChABC) digestion. The CS-PGs applied to culture medium (1 microg/ml) also displayed inhibitory effects on neurite extension, which were not altered by ChABC treatment. These results show that PC and NC are repulsive substrata for adhesion and neurite regeneration of adult DRG neurons in vitro and suggest that both chondroitin sulfate moieties and core proteins are responsible for the inhibitory actions of the CS-PGs. We also conducted immunohistochemical analyses with the monoclonal antibodies to core proteins of PC (mAb 6B4) and NC (mAb 1G2), which revealed that only a few neurons in the DRG section were stained with these antibodies. In contrast, most DRG neurons at different stages (12 h, 1 day, 2 days, and 4 days) in culture were immunoreactive to mAb 6B4 and mAb 1G2. Taking these findings together, it is plausible that both CS-PGs expressed in the cultured neurons may play a role in the modulation of attachment, survival, and neurite regeneration.
Nitric oxide (NO) inhibits both actively induced and transferred autoimmune encephalomyelitis. To explore potential mechanisms, we examined the ability of NO to inhibit migration of T lymphoblasts through both collagen matrices and monolayers of rat brain endothelial cells. The NO donor 1-hydroxy-2-oxo-3, 3-bis (2-aminoethyl)-1-triazene (HOBAT) inhibited migration in a concentration-dependent manner. NO pretreatment of T cells inhibited migration through untreated endothelial cells, but NO pretreatment of endothelial cells had no inhibitory effect on untreated T cells. Therefore NO's migration inhibitory action was mediated through its effect on T cells and not endothelial cells. HOBAT did not inhibit migration by inducing T-cell death but rather by polarizing the T cells, resulting in a morphology suggestive of migrating cells. P70S6 kinase, shown to have a role in NO-induced migration inhibition in fibroblasts, had no role in the inhibitory effect of NO on T-cell migration. Thus, HOBAT did not alter p70S6K activity nor did rapamycin, a specific inhibitor of p70S6K, inhibit HOBAT-induced T-cell morphological changes or T-cell migration. We suggest that NO-induced morphological changes result in T cells with predefined migratory directionality, thus limiting the ability of these cells to respond to other migratory signals.

The relationship of migraine and stroke is complex. Stroke may be coincidental with migraine but migraine may confer an increased risk of stroke in women under 45 years of age and possibly in men who have migraine with aura. Stroke may mimic migraine but migraine syndromes may be symptomatic of underlying cerebrovascular disorders. True migraine-induced stroke is rare. The mechanisms of stroke induced during a migraine attack remain to be determined but probably involve an interaction between the dynamic shifts in cerebral blood flow and stroke risk factors.

The primary objectives of this pilot study were to develop a measure of adherence for depression practice guidelines and to assess the degree to which providers and patients adhere to guidelines in a VA primary care setting. The Depression Guideline Measure (DGM) is based on three national guidelines. The DGM was used to review medical records of 111 patients with Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ) scores &gt;or=10. Interrater reliability for 15 of 19 DGM checklist items was excellent (kappa &gt; 0.75). There was a broad range of adherence to guideline criteria: only 13.5% of patients were contacted for follow-up within 2 weeks, while 100% of providers documented follow-up plans. Forty percent of patients saw mental health providers, and 63% were prescribed antidepressants. A secondary objective of the study was to explore the relationship between guideline adherence and changes in PHQ scores. Among 51 patients who completed follow-up PHQs, no associations were detected. The results suggest that the DGM shows promise as a reliable measure of guideline adherence and that guideline criteria are frequently not met in busy primary care clinics. More research is needed to determine the validity of the DGM and the impact of guideline adherence on depression outcomes.
The evolving trend to use larger transgenes and their associated increased chance of unexpected genetic events mandates more careful characterization of transgenic mice. In characterizing our five new mouse strains transgenic for the BAC, bEMS4, we have identified the highest copy number reported to date: the stable incorporation of approximately 40 copies of a 194-kb expressed transgene in a single insertion site. We caution, however, that standard molecular techniques failed to identify a balanced translocation in another strain, and an inappropriate site of insertion in a third. Molecular cytogenetic analysis using metaphase FISH was the minimum level of characterization needed to reveal these unexpected genetic events. In addition, we combined FISH and SKY to identify the transgene at the breakpoints of the balanced translocation, t(3;9). This is the first description of a BAC-mediated chromosomal rearrangement and the first application of SKY to identify transgene-induced chromosomal rearrangements.
Recently discovered multipotent astrocytic stem cells are discussed in light of current nomenclature for glial precursor and lineage-associated cells in the developing, postnatal, and adult mammalian brain. Defining the phenotype of any immature cell in the nervous system is a challenge, and a position is stated that includes the need for categorizing cells within a continuum of differentiation potential. The possibility for dedifferentiating glial cells into clonogenic stem-like cells offers numerous possibilities for translating knowledge and technology from this subfield of stem cell biology to regenerative medicine. Along with the need for developing a new lexicon for defining the cellular players that contribute to the generation of glia and neurons in the developing and mature central nervous system, the relationships also need to be established among potency, repopulation attempts, and tumorigenesis of cells meeting the criteria of glial stem cells. Finally, it is possible that understanding the normal differentiation, de- and transdifferentiation potential of glial stem-like cells in the mature central nervous system will provide insights into the possible use of these cells, or biogenic factors associated with their growth and differentiation, in therapeutic approaches for a variety of neurological disorders.
A series of recent studies have demonstrated that radial glia are neural precursors in the developing cerebral cortex. These studies have further implied that these cells are the sole precursor constituents of the dorsal forebrain ventricular zone that generate the projection neurons of the cortex. In view of these new findings, this review discusses radial neurons, a progeny of cortical neurons that are generated by radial glia and adopt somal translocation as the mode of migration.
Since the discovery of radial glial cells in the human fetal forebrain, this specialized cellular population has been identified in most regions of the vertebrate brain during restricted developmental periods. However, their size, longevity, and significance for guiding migrating neurons have increased with the evolutionary expansion of the mammalian neocortex, reaching a peak in the gyrencephalic human forebrain. The phenotypic distinction of radial glial cells from the more specialized neuronal progenitors in the proliferative zones and from the migrating neurons in the intermediate zone of the primate fetal forebrain, based initially on morphological criteria, has been supported by their ultrastructural, molecular, and physiological characteristics. In addition, modern in vivo and in vitro approaches revealed that these specialized embryonic cells can also generate neuronal cell lines, which either immediately, or after several divisions, migrate along radial shaft processes of the mother cells that span the expanding and convoluted cerebral wall. The multiple functions of radial glial cells and their species-specific adaptations indicate a pivotal role in evolution, development, and pathology of the cerebral neocortex.
Neurons, neuroglia (astrocytes and oligodendrocytes), and ependymal cells are three distinct categories of neural cells in the central nervous system. In the mature brain and spinal cord, the classical histological criteria define these cells by their microscopic structure very well. During development, the precursors for all of these cells reside within the epithelium of the neural plate and its successor, the neural tube. These precursor cells are the undifferentiated, primitive neuroepithelium of the classical literature. As the cerebral vesicles enlarge and their walls thicken, the primitive neuroepithelial cells elongate, maintaining a radial orientation until they migrate. Although many, but not all, of these cells span the extent of the ventricular wall, they are the precursors of neurons, neuroglia, and ependymal cells. Thus, it is useful to retain their classical designation as primitive neuroepithelial cells and to treat them as neural precursor cells. Neural precursor cells are neither neuroglia nor neurons. It is not appropriate to call them radial glial cells anymore than it is to call them radial neuronal cells. The term &quot;radial glia&quot; has long been used to describe the mature, elongated astrocytes, represented by Bergmann cells in the cerebellum and Mller cells in the retina. Inevitably, during development, transitional forms between neural precursor cells and the neurons, neuroglia, and ependymal cells will occur. Such transitional cells are known as neuroblasts, glioblasts, or ependymoblasts, even though they may be postmitotic. Alternative terms are &quot;immature neurons,&quot; &quot;immature neuroglia,&quot; and &quot;immature ependymal cells.&quot; The migration of many neural precursor cells is accomplished by translocation rather than free cellular locomotion. There is both direct and indirect evidence to document the translocation of the nuclear/perikaryal/somal complex through the leading process of primitive neuroepithelial cells. This is conspicuous in the neocortex, where the discrete radial arrangement of pyramidal cells may result from translocation of neuroblasts, while their leading processes still contact the pial surface. Migration by translocation occurs throughout the CNS. GLIA 43:6-18, 2003.
BACKGROUND: Hepatic ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is characterized by features such as cholestasis. Mitochondria become susceptible to damage during ischemia and after reperfusion. The aim of this study was to determine if silymarin and tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDC), would prevent impairment of liver mitochondrial function following I/R injury. METHODS: Livers of male Wistar rats were subjected to 45 min of hepatic ischemia. During the 90 min of reperfusion, livers were perfused with either vehicle, silymarin, or TUDC. Changes in membrane potential, mitochondrial respiration as well as susceptibility to mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) induction were evaluated and endogenous adenine nucleotides were measured. RESULTS: In rats subjected to I/R, compared with the control group, a severe impairment of mitochondrial bioenergetics was observed. State 3 respiration was decreased and state 4 enhanced, associated with lower membrane potential developed following succinate energization. An increased susceptibility to MPT induction by calcium/phosphate was also observed. The effects of I/R injury were ameliorated in the presence of silymarin but not TUDC. Similarly, ATP levels following I/R were lower, in comparison with the control group and the silymarin treatment but not TUDC. CONCLUSION: Thus, silymarin, but not TUDC, prevents the most significant changes that occur in mitochondria during I/R, and probably, the associated cell dysfunction, through their central role in cellular bioenergetics.
C kinases (PKCs) are a family of enzymes essential for the transduction of signals in a diverse range of cell types, including neurons. The different isoforms vary in their activation requirements. Therefore, cell-specific expression of different isoforms has implications for PKC-mediated control of organ function. This study has investigated the types and distributions of PKC isoforms in the small intestine of the guinea-pig, with particular emphasis on their localisation in myenteric neurons, using immunohistochemistry and western blotting techniques. Three PKC isoforms, gamma, eta and theta, were detected in the calbindin-immunoreactive subset of intrinsic primary afferent neurons, but not in other myenteric neurons. Both gamma and theta immunoreactivities were also located in interstitial cells of Cajal. In contrast to these isoforms, immunoreactivity for PKCs lambda and epsilon was present in all myenteric neurons of the ileum. PKCalpha immunoreactivity was detected primarily in the glial network, as shown through double labelling with antibodies to the glial filament protein, S100b. Myenteric neurons were also weakly immunoreactive for this isoform. PKCdelta immunoreactivity was very highly expressed in smooth muscle, but was largely absent from neurons. Immunoreactivity for RACK1, a binding protein for PKCbeta, was detected in both calbindin-immunoreactive neurons and in smooth muscle cells. This study indicates a selective distribution of PKC isoforms to specific cell types. Isoform-specific activity of these enzymes could provide a means through which targeted modulation of intestinal function is achieved.
Dystrophic calcification of previously damaged areas of nervous tissue occurs in a wide range of human diseases. The relationship between astroglial and microglial reactions and deposits of calcium salts was studied for up to five months in rats with a brain lesion produced by systemic administration of kainate. The morphology and atomic composition of the calcium salt deposits was also studied. Two types of lesions, sclerotic and liquefactive, were observed. In sclerotic lesions hyperplasia and hypertrophy of astrocytes partially substituted for the lost neurons, reaching a maximum in about twenty-five days after treatment. In liquefactive lesions, the astrocytic reaction occurred only around the liquefactive area. Microglial reaction was similar in both types of lesion and reached its highest expression in about twenty-five days. Calcium deposits were observed in the sclerotic but not in the liquefactive lesions. Clearly distinguishable granules of calcium salts were observed in sclerotic lesions under scanning electron microscopy after only five days post-injection. The size of calcified granules increased with time reaching 40 micro m or more in diameter at five months. The atomic composition of these deposits, studied by X-ray microanalysis, showed a time-dependent increase in calcium concentration. While there was no clear relationship between astroglial and microglial reactions and calcium salt deposits, the systemic injection of kainate produced progressively larger and more concentrated calcium deposits in sclerotic, but not in liquefactive lesions.
In a previous H(2) (15)O/PET study of motor sequence learning, we used principal components analysis (PCA) of region of interest (ROI) data to identify performance-related activation patterns in normal subjects and patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). In the present study, we determined whether these patterns predicted learning performance in subsequent normal and untreated PD cohorts. Using a voxel-based PCA approach, we correlated the changes in network activity that occurred during antiparkinsonian treatment and their relationship to learning performance. We found that the previously identified ROI-based patterns correlated with learning performance in the prospective normal (P &lt; 0.01) and untreated PD (P &lt; 0.05) cohorts. Voxel analysis revealed that target retrieval was related to a network characterized by bilateral activation of the dorsolateral prefrontal, premotor and anterior cingulate cortex, the precuneus, and the occipital association areas as well as the right ventral prefrontal and inferior parietal regions. Target acquisition was associated with a different network involving activation of the caudate, putamen, and right dentate nucleus, as well as the left ventral prefrontal and inferior parietal areas. Antiparkinsonian therapy gave rise to changes in retrieval performance that correlated with network modulation (P &lt; 0.01). Increases in network activation and learning performance occurred with internal pallidal deep brain stimulation (GPi DBS); decrements in these measures were present with levodopa. Our findings suggest that network analysis of activation data can provide stable descriptors of learning performance. Network quantification can provide an objective means of assessing the effects of therapy on cognitive functioning in neurodegenerative disorders.
The concept of functional connectivity relies on the assumption that cortical areas that are directly anatomically connected will show correlations in regional blood flow (rCBF) or regional metabolism. We studied correlations of rCBF of cytoarchitectural areas 3a, 3b, 1, and 2 in the brains of 37 subjects scanned with PET during a rest condition. The cytoarchitectural areas, delineated from 10 postmortem brains with statistical methods, were transformed into the same standard anatomical format as the resting PET images. In areas 3a, 3b, and 1, somatotopically corresponding regions were intercorrelated. Area 2 was correlated with the dorsal pre-motor area. These results were in accordance with the somatosensory connectivity in macaque monkeys. In contrast, we also found correlations between areas 3b and 1 with area 4a, and SMA, and among the left and right hand sector of areas 3a, 3b, and 1. Furthermore, there were no correlations between areas 3b, 1, and 2 with SII or other areas in the parietal operculum, nor of other areas known to be directly connected with areas 3a, 3b, 1, and 2 in macaques. This indicates that rCBF correlations between cortical areas during the rest state only partly reflect their connectivity and that this approach lacks sensitivity and is prone to reveal spurious or indirect connectivity.
Event-related fMRI responses were recorded during a recognition memory test for previously studied visual objects. Some studied objects were superimposed on the same context (landscape scenes) as at study, some were superimposed on a different studied context, and some were paired with new contexts. Unstudied objects were paired with either a studied or a new context. Relative to all other stimulus classes, test stimuli where both components were unstudied elicited enhanced responses in lateral and ventral extrastriate visual cortex. This effect, which is analogous to a previously described electrophysiological result obtained with the same experimental procedure, had the same magnitude regardless of whether a test item was composed of one or two studied components, or whether a single studied component was task relevant or task irrelevant. The findings point to the existence of repetition-sensitive neural mechanisms that operate in a non-linear manner.
Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is a novel gene associated with schizophrenia by multiple genetic studies. In order to determine how mutations in DISC1 might cause susceptibility to schizophrenia, we undertook a comprehensive study of the cellular biology of DISC1 in its full-length and disease-associated mutant forms. DISC1 interacts by yeast two-hybrid, mammalian two-hybrid, and co-immunoprecipitation assays with multiple proteins of the centrosome and cytoskeletal system, including MIPT3, MAP1A and NUDEL; proteins which localize receptors to membranes, including alpha-actinin2 and beta4-spectrin; and proteins which transduce signals from membrane receptors, including ATF4 and ATF5. Truncated mutant DISC1 fails to interact with ATF4, ATF5 or NUDEL. Deletion mapping demonstrated that DISC1 has distinct interaction domains: MAP1A interacts via its LC2 domain with the N-terminus of DISC1, whereas MIPT3 and NUDEL bind via their C-terminal domains to the central coiled-coil domain of DISC1, and ATF4/5 bind via their C-terminal domains to the C-terminus of DISC1. In its full-length form, DISC1 protein localizes to predominantly perinuclear punctate structures which extend into neurites in some cells; mutant truncated DISC1, by contrast, is seen in a diffuse pattern throughout the cytoplasm and abundantly in neurites. Both forms co-localize with the centrosomal complex, although truncated less abundantly than full-length DISC1. Although both full-length and mutant DISC1 are found in microtubule fractions, neither form of DISC1 appears to bind directly to microtubules, but rather do so in a MIPT3-dependent fashion that is stabilized by taxol. Based on these data, we propose that DISC1 is a multifunctional protein whose truncation contributes to schizophrenia susceptibility by disrupting intracellular transport, neurite architecture and/or neuronal migration, all of which have been hypothesized to be pathogenic in the schizophrenic brain.
DOCK2 is a mammalian homolog of Caenorhabditis elegans CED-5 and Drosophila melanogaster Myoblast City which are known to regulate actin cytoskeleton. DOCK2 is critical for lymphocyte migration, yet the role of DOCK2 in TCR signaling remains unclear. We show here that DOCK2 is essential for TCR-mediated Rac activation and immunological synapse formation. In DOCK2-deficient T cells, antigen-induced translocation of TCR and lipid rafts, but not PKC-theta and LFA-1, to the APC interface was severely impaired, resulting in a significant reduction of antigen-specific T cell proliferation. In addition, we found that the efficacy of both positive and negative selection was reduced in DOCK2-deficient mice. These results suggest that DOCK2 regulates T cell responsiveness through remodeling of actin cytoskeleton via Rac activation.
Localizing and quantifying the sources of ElectroEncephaloGraphy (EEG) and MagnetoEncephaloGraphy (MEG) measurements is an ill-posed inverse problem, whose solution requires a spatial regularization involving both anatomical and functional priors. The distributed source model enables the introduction of such constraints. However, the resulting solution is unstable since the equation system one has to solve is badly conditioned and under-determined. We propose an original approach for solving the inverse problem, that allows to deal with a better-determined system and to temper the influence of priors according to their consistency with the measured EEG/MEG data. This Localization Estimation Algorithm (LEA) estimates the amplitude of a selected subset of sources, which are localized based on a prior distribution of activation probability. LEA is evaluated through numerical simulations and compared to a classical Weighted Minimum Norm estimation.
We describe a new approach to estimating the cortical thickness of human brains using magnetic resonance imaging data. Our algorithm is part of a processing chain consisting of a brain segmentation (skull stripping), as well as white and grey matter segmentation procedures. In this paper, only the grey matter segmentation together with the cortical thickness estimation is described. In contrast to many existing methods, our estimation method is voxel-based and does not use any surface meshes. While this fact poses a principal limit on the accuracy that can be achieved by our method, it offers tremendous advantages with respect to practical applicability. In particular, it is applicable to data sets showing severe cortical atrophies that involve areas of high curvature and extremely thin gyral stalks. In contrast to many other methods, it is entirely automatic and very fast with computation times of a few minutes. Our method has been used in two clinical studies involving a total of 27 patients and 23 healthy subjects.
The demands/needs for audiological/otological services under optimal conditions were investigated within the framework of three epidemiological investigations. The study population consisted of 559 people, 318 women and 241 men, 70-91 years old. The participants were offered audiological and otological services, including hearing aid fitting. Fifteen per cent of the participants asked for audiological/otological services. Six per cent of the participants were equipped with hearing aids as a result of the study. Almost all of those with severe hearing loss either had been equipped with hearing aids prior to the study, or took advantage of the offer to get such devices. This figure represented about half of those with moderate hearing loss and about 20% of those with mild hearing loss. After the study, 19% were equipped with hearing aids, but in all 25% had hearing aids or had expressed a wish to get one. The percentages of elderly people with mild-to-moderate hearing loss, who contemplated purchasing an aid, but did not do so, were large, between 10%, and 22%. More than 11% consulted a doctor when the opportunity was offered to them. Most of them wanted the consultation because of progressive hearing loss. Middle ear disease was another important reason for a consultation.
This paper focuses on the role of cognition in visual language processing in the deaf and hard of hearing. Although there are modality-specific cognitive findings in the literature on comparisons across speech communication modes and language (sign and speech), there is an impressive bulk of evidence that supports the notion of general modality-free cognitive functions in speech and sign processing. A working-memory framework is proposed for the cognitive involvement in language understanding (sign and speech). On the basis of multiple sources of behavioural and neuroscience data, four important parameters for language understanding are described in some detail: quality and precision of phonology, long-term memory access speed, degree of explicit processing, and general processing and storage capacity. Their interaction forms an important parameter space, and general predictions and applications can be derived for both spoken and signed language conditions. The model is mathematically formulated at a general level, hypothetical ease-of-language-understanding (ELU) functions are presented, and similarities and differences from current working-memory and speech perception formulations are pointed out.
Based on reflections on the University of Tennessee Conference on Brain Imaging and Hypnosis, the authors point the field of hypnosis toward a new generation of research that can successfully coordinate multiple methods of inquiry and effectively connect psychological with biological understanding. They examine issues concerning hypnosis as a state, hypnotic susceptibility as a trait, and the psychological processes that underlie hypnotic responses. The article indicates ways in which some old questions can, and need to, be asked in new ways. The authors illustrate how to move toward a neuropsychological understanding of hypnosis by describing the classic suggestion effect and consider candidate psychological mechanisms to explain this effect. They argue that the neuroscience of hypnosis needs to build on a sound psychological foundation and add to, rather than replace, existing levels of analysis.
Hypnosis research has contributed much to the understanding of human behavior and experience, both normal and abnormal. This paper considers ways in which neuroscience approaches may be integrated into hypnosis research to continue and enhance that contribution, as well as further reveal the nature of hypnosis itself. The authors review the influences on and advances in hypnosis research over the last century; illustrate the investigative value of hypnosis to selected phenomena across the areas of doing, feeling, believing, and remembering; and specify elements for the successful integration of neuroscience approaches into hypnosis research. The authors believe that hypnosis research offers powerful techniques to isolate psychological processes in ways that allow their neural bases to be mapped. Successful integration will be achieved when researchers add levels of explanation, rather than shift the emphasis from one level or feature to another.

History of the study of dissociation begins in the second half of the nineteenth century. It begins in the works of Hughlings Jackson and Pierre Janet, and markedly influences development of psychoanalysis and other psychological trends. According to the modern definition, dissociation represents a disturbance or alteration in the normally integrative functions of identity, memory, or consciousness. Dissociative symptoms occur mainly due to some traumatic events and probably cannot be generally explained on the basis of neurological focal lesion. However, from recent findings, it may be inferred that temporal lobe epileptic activity is important in the generation of dissociative symptoms. Recent findings show that neural networks provide an attractive framework for modeling dissociative mental processes and dissociative mechanisms. In the article we propose a new theoretical connection among neural network models of dissociation, Freeman's model of chaos in the brain and electrophysiological findings regarding dissociative states. Concluding remarks are concerned with connections of dissociation and inter-hemispheric communication.
Several recent studies have investigated relationships between post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and learning and memory problems. These reports have found in general that not only does PTSD affect trauma-related memories, but when patients with PTSD are compared with similar trauma patients without PTSD, general memory impairments have been found. The present paper reports a study in which associative learning, using Pavlovian eyeblink conditioning, was investigated in combat veterans with and without chronic PTSD, using interstimulus intervals of 500 and 1000 msec in two separate experiments. Although several recent reports suggest that larger-magnitude autonomic conditioned responses occur in patients with PTSD during Pavlovian conditioning, the present study found evidence of impaired Pavlovian eyeblink conditioning in combat veterans with and without PTSD, compared to non-combat veterans. Although these data suggest that combat leads to an impaired associative learning process regardless of whether PTSD is apparent, a group of community-dwelling combat veterans not under medical treatment showed normal conditioning, suggesting that variables other than prior combat must also be involved.



Psychophysical, basilar-membrane (BM), and single nerve-fiber tuning curves, as well as suppression of distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs), all give rise to frequency tuning patterns with stereotypical features. Similarities and differences between the behaviors of these tuning functions, both in normal conditions and following various cochlear insults, have been documented. While neural tuning curves (NTCs) and BM tuning curves behave similarly both before and after cochlear insults known to disrupt frequency selectivity, DPOAE suppression tuning curves (STCs) do not necessarily mirror these responses following either administration of ototoxins [Martin et al., J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 104, 972-983 (1998)] or exposure to temporarily damaging noise [Howard et al., J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 111, 285-296 (2002)]. However, changes in STC parameters may be predictive of other changes in cochlear function such as cochlear immaturity in neonatal humans [Abdala, Hear. Res. 121, 125-138 (1998)]. To determine the effects of noise-induced permanent auditory dysfunction on STC parameters, rabbits were exposed to high-level noise that led to permanent reductions in DPOAE level, and comparisons between pre- and postexposure DPOAE levels and STCs were made. Statistical comparisons of pre- and postexposure STC values at CF revealed consistent basal shifts in the frequency region of greatest cochlear damage, whereas thresholds, Q10dB, and tip-to-tail gain values were not reliably altered. Additionally, a large percentage of high-frequency lobes associated with third tone interference phenomena, that were exhibited in some data sets, were dramatically reduced following noise exposure. Thus, previously described areas of DPOAE interference above f2 may also be studied using this type of experimental manipulation [Martin et al., Hear. Res. 136, 105-123 (1999); Mills, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 107, 2586-2602 (2002)].

Current progress in the cognitive neurosciences is highly relevant to the development of psychoanalytic theory and practice. Neuroscience is today becoming mature enough to provide empirical biological approaches for the investigation of psychoanalytic models and observations. The current state of functional neuroimaging techniques is reviewed, selected paradigms and findings relevant to psychotherapy research are presented, and ways to pursue the dialogue between psychoanalysts and neuroscientists are discussed, as are some related obstacles and pitfalls. The emerging dialogue between psychoanalysts and neuroscientists may help not only to reestablish a solid position of psychodynamic theory and treatment in contemporary medicine, but also to bridge the division between &quot;psychological&quot; and &quot;somatic&quot; treatments, and gain important insights into the mind-brain relationship.
The clinical work of psychoanalysts can be thought of in both a narrow and a broad sense. In the narrow sense, it refers to what is commonly thought of as psychoanalytic technique, the methods analysts use to understand their patients and to convey that understanding to them. In the broad sense, it refers to the entirety of their work as clinicians: the content of understanding, as well as such things as diagnosing, estimating analyzability, recommending therapy, and prescribing medication. The current enthusiastic expectation that neuroscience will have an immediate and direct impact on clinical work in the narrow sense is misguided, but neuroscientific discoveries, it is argued, will have a major impact on psychoanalytic theory in the not too distant future. The resulting changes in metapsychology will ultimately have reverberations on clinical work in the broad sense, although psychoanalytic technique, the analyst's basic approach to patients, will remain essentially the same.
Cetacean (dolphin, whale and porpoise) brains are among the least studied mammalian brains because of the difficulty of collecting and histologically preparing such relatively rare and large specimens. Among cetaceans, there exist relatively few studies of the brain of the dwarf sperm whale (Kogia simus). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) offers a means of observing the internal structure of the brain when traditional histological procedures are not practical. Therefore, MRI has become a critical tool in the study of the brain of cetaceans and other large species. This paper represents the first MRI-based anatomically labelled three-dimensional description of the dwarf sperm whale brain. Coronal plane sections of the brain of a sub-adult dwarf sperm whale were originally acquired and used to produce virtual digital scans in the other two orthogonal spatial planes. A sequential set of images in all three planes has been anatomically labelled and displays the proportions and positions of major neuroanatomical features.

The ability to repair surface wounds is a property, necessary for long-term survival, expressed to various extents by all eukaryotic cell types except erythrocytes. The process is based on the rapid Ca(2+)-induced exocytosis of various types of specific organelles, such as lysosomes and enlargeosomes, that decreases surface tension and makes possible the spontaneous fusion of lipid monolayers at the lesion edges. The recognized importance of the process in physiology and in several cases of pathology is discussed.
EF-2 is believed to be indispensable for polypeptide chain elongation in protein synthesis and therefore for cell proliferation. Surprisingly, we could isolate ef2 null cells from Dictyostelium discoideum that exhibited almost normal growth and protein synthesis, which suggests that there is another molecule capable of compensating for EF-2 function. The knock-out of Dictyostelium EF-2 (Dd-EF2H; 101 kDa phosphoprotein) impairs cytokinesis, resulting in formation of multinucleate cells. The initiation of differentiation, including the acquisition of aggregation competence, was delayed in Dd-ef2 null cells compared with that in wild-type. By contrast, Dd-ef2 overexpression enhanced the progression of differentiation, thus indicating a positive involvement of Dd-EF2H in growth/differentiation transition.
Studies have suggested that NPFF-like peptides and their receptors play important roles in physiological and pathological conditions. Here, we show, using multiple expression modalities, that the type 2 NPFF receptor (hNPFF2) is expressed in regions of the primate spinal cord and brainstem mediating pain sensation. In situ hybridization using an NPFF2 riboprobe, and immunohistochemistry using a novel NPFF2 antibody, demonstrated strong NPFF2 expression in the superficial layer of the dorsal horn, and in the spinal trigeminal nucleus of the brainstem of the African green monkey (AGM). In addition, autoradiography using a radiolabeled NPFF analog ([125I]1DMe) revealed dense binding signal in the superficial layer of the dorsal horn in the spinal cord. The distribution pattern of hNPFF2 in the AGM spinal cord and the lower level of the brainstem are consistent with a hypothesized potential role for NPFF peptides in modulation of sensory input, opioid analgesia and morphine tolerance through spinal and supraspinal mechanisms.
An 8-year-old boy developed tremor, unsteadiness, chorea, and eye movement abnormalities on starting lamotrigine for myoclonic jerks. Investigations for a neurodegenerative disorder were negative. Symptoms and signs resolved on stopping lamotrigine. He was well and asymptomatic on follow-up after 4 years. Another 7-year-old boy who started on lamotrigine for suspected absence seizures developed abnormalities of eye movement with associated cognitive decline, which also resolved on discontinuing the medication. Eye movement abnormalities, involuntary movements, and behavioral changes appear to be unusual side effects of lamotrigine therapy.


Magnetic source imaging is claimed to have a high accuracy in epileptic focus localization and may be a guide for epilepsy surgery. Non-lesional mesiotemporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), the most common form of epilepsy operated on, has different etiologies, which may affect the choice of surgical approach. The authors compared whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG) with high-resolution EEG for source identification in MTLE. Nineteen patients with unilateral, nonlesional MTLE underwent a simultaneous 151-channel CTF MEG (CTF Systems, Inc., Port Coquitlam, British Columbia, Canada) and 64-channel EEG recordings with sleep induction. Three independent observers selected spikes from the EEG and MEG recordings separately. Only when there was interobserver agreement (kappa&gt;0.4) on the presence of spikes in recordings were consensus spikes averaged. EEG and MEG equivalent current dipoles (ECD) were then integrated in the head model of the patient reconstructed from MRI. The results were compared with intraoperative electrocorticography findings. Spikes were detected in 32% of MEGs and 42% of EEGs. No patient showed MEG spikes only. Equivalent current dipole modeling correctly localized the source to the temporal lobe in four out of five MEG and three out of eight EEG recordings. MEG localized sources were more superficial and EEG localized sources were deeper. Unfortunately, basal temporal lobe areas were only partially covered by the sensor helmet of the MEG setup. Best correlation between EEG or MEG findings and electrocorticography findings was between horizontal EEG dipole orientation and prominent neocortical spiking; these patients also had a less favorable prognosis. Magnetic source imaging is currently unlikely to alter the surgical management of MTLE. The yield of spikes is too low, and ECD modeling shows only partial correlation with electrocorticography findings. Moreover, the whole-head MEG helmet provides insufficient coverage of the temporal lobe.

Adductor spasmodic dysphonia (SD) is a focal laryngeal dystonia, characterised by strangled, effortful speech with breaks in pitch and phonation. Injection of laryngeal muscles with BTX is widely used in the treatment of SD. A consecutive series of 169 patients with SD, of whom 144 were treated with BTX injections, seen at St. Vincent's Hospital between 1983 and 1999 were studied prospectively. Patients underwent neurological, quantitative voice and otolaryngological assessment. Females (62.1%) outnumbered males (37.9%) and the mean age at diagnosis was 56 years (range 19-88). Adductor SD (89.4%) was more frequent than abductor SD (1.8%) or mixed SD (4.7%). Stridor was present in 14 patients (8.3%) and in 7 was the sole manifestation of the laryngeal dystonia. The median treatment outcome score was excellent in 63.2%, very good in 18.5%, satisfactory in 14.7% and unsatisfactory in 3.5%. Poorer treatment outcome was associated with abductor SD (OR = 4.69, CI [1.23, 17.92] p=0.024] and age &gt;65 (OR = 2.83, CI [0.95, 8.42] p=0.049). Mild post-injection paralytic dysphonia was associated with longer lasting treatment (4.42 vs. 3.62 months p&lt;0.001) and superior treatment outcome rating (1.37 vs. 1.81 p&lt;0.001). We conclude that BTX injections are highly effective and severe adverse events are rare. Older age and abductor SD may confer a relatively poorer treatment outcome. Mild post-injection paralytic dysphonia may be a marker for more effective and lasting treatment in adductor SD.

Having expanded their original role as primary treatment for depression to preferred treatment for anxiety disorders, antidepressants are now emerging as potential therapeutic agents for many other disorders characterized by distressing or even painful somatic symptoms.

Numerous studies investigated physiological correlates of the processing of musical information in adults. How these correlates develop during childhood is poorly understood. In the present study, we measured event-related electric brain potentials elicited in 5- and 9-year-old children while they listened to (major-minor tonal) music. Stimuli were chord sequences, infrequently containing harmonically inappropriate chords. Our results demonstrate that the degree of (in)appropriateness of the chords modified the brain responses in both groups according to music-theoretical principles. This suggests that already 5-year-old children process music according to a well-established cognitive representation of the major-minor tonal system and according to music-syntactic regularities. Moreover, we show that, in contrast to adults, an early negative brain response was left predominant in boys, whereas it was bilateral in girls, indicating a gender difference in children processing music, and revealing that children process music with a hemispheric weighting different from that of adults. Because children process, in contrast to adults, music in the same hemispheres as they process language, results indicate that children process music and language more similarly than adults. This finding might support the notion of a common origin of music and language in the human brain, and concurs with findings that demonstrate the importance of musical features of speech for the acquisition of language.
This series of three event-related potential experiments explored the issue of whether the underlying mechanism of working memory (WM) supporting language processing is inhibitory or activational in nature. These different cognitive mechanisms have been proposed to explain the more efficient processing of subjects with a high WM span compared to those with a low WM span. Participants with high and low WM span were presented with sentences containing a homonym followed three words later by a nominal disambiguation cue and a final disambiguation using a verb. At the position of the disambiguation cue, inhibitory or activational WM mechanisms predict contrasting results. When activation is the underlying mechanism for efficient processing, the prediction is that high memory span persons activate both meanings of the homonym equally in WM, whereas low memory span persons only have one meaning present. When inhibition is the underlying mechanism, the predictions are the reverse. The ERP data, in particular, the variations of the meaning related N400 component, showed clear evidence for inhibition as the underlying cognitive mechanism in high-span readers. For low-span participants the cueing towards the dominant or the subordinate meaning elicited an equivalently large N400 component suggesting that both meanings are active in WM. In high-span subjects, the dominant disambiguation cue elicited a smaller N400 than the subordinate one, indicating that for these subjects particularly the dominant meaning is active. The experiments showed that inhibitory processes are probably underlying WM used during language comprehension in high-span subjects. Moreover, they demonstrate that these subjects can use their inhibition in a more flexible manner than low-span subjects. The effects that these processing differences have on the efficiency of language parsing are discussed.
The sting of the parasitoid wasp Ampulex compressa is unusual, as it induces a transient paralysis of the front legs followed by grooming behavior and then by a long-term hypokinesia of its cockroach prey. Because the wasp's goal is to provide a living meal for its newborn larva, the behavioral changes in the prey are brought about by manipulating the host behavior in a way beneficial to the wasp and its offspring. To this end, the wasp injects its venom cocktail with two consecutive stings directly into the host's central nervous system. The first sting in the thorax causes a transient front leg paralysis lasting a few minutes. This paralysis is due to the presence of a venom component that induces a postsynaptic block of central cholinergic synaptic transmission. Following the head sting, dopamine identified in the venom appears to induce 30 min of intense grooming. During the long-term hypokinesia that follows the grooming, specific behaviors of the prey are inhibited while others are unaffected. We propose that the venom represses the activity of head ganglia neurons thereby removing the descending excitatory drive to the thoracic neurons.
Specificity of olfactory receptor neurones plays an important role in food and host preferences of a species, and may have become conserved or changed in the evolution of polyphagy and oligophagy. We have identified a major type of plant odour receptor neurones responding to the sesquiterpene germacrene D in three species of heliothine moths, the polyphagous Heliothis virescens and Helicoverpa armigera and the oligophagous Helicoverpa assulta. The neurones respond with high sensitivity and selectivity to (-)-germacrene D, as demonstrated by screening via gas chromatography with numerous mixtures of plant volatiles. Germacrene D was present in both host and non-host plants, but only in half of the tested species. The specificity of the neurones was similar in the three species, as shown by the &quot;secondary&quot; responses to a few other sesquiterpenes. The effect of (-)-germacrene D was about ten times stronger than that of the (+)-enantiomer, which again was about ten times stronger than that of (-)-alpha-ylangene. Weaker effects were obtained for (+)-beta-ylangene, (+)-alpha-copaene, beta-copaene and two unidentified sesquiterpenes. The structure-activity relationship shows that the important properties of (-)-germacrene D in activating the neurones are the ten-membered ring system and the three double bonds acting as electron-rich centres, in addition to the direction of the isopropyl-group responsible for the different effects of the germacrene D enantiomers.
Temporal precision of spiking response in cortical neurons has been a subject of intense debate. Using a canonical model of spike generation, we explore the conditions for precise and reliable spike timing in the presence of Gaussian white noise. In agreement with previous results we find that constant stimuli lead to imprecise timing, while aperiodic stimuli yield precise spike timing. Under constant stimulus the neuron is a noise perturbed oscillator, the spike times follow renewal statistics and are imprecise. Under an aperiodic stimulus sequence, the neuron acts as a threshold element; the firing times are precisely determined by the dynamics of the stimulus. We further study the dependence of spike-time precision on the input stimulus frequency and find a non-linear tuning whose width can be related to the locking modes of the neuron. We conclude that viewing the neuron as a non-linear oscillator is the key for understanding spike-time precision.
Three experiments were performed to determine why removal of the corpora allata (the glands that produce juvenile hormone) causes honey bees to fail to return to their hive upon initiating flight. In Experiment 1, the naturally occurring flights of allatectomized bees were tracked with radar to determine whether the deficit is physical or cognitive. The results indicated a physical impairment: allatectomized bees had a significantly slower ground speed than sham and untreated bees during orientation flights, but otherwise attributes such as flight range and area were normal. Flight impairment was confirmed in Experiment 2, based on observations of takeoff made in the field at the hive entrance. The allatectomized group had a significantly smaller percentage of flightworthy bees than did the sham and untreated groups. Experiment 3 confirmed the flight impairment in laboratory tests and showed that allatectomy causes a decrease in metabolic rate. Allatectomized bees had significantly lower metabolic rates than untreated and sham bees, while allatectomized bees receiving hormone replacement had intermediate values. These results indicate that allatectomy causes flight impairment, probably partly due to effects on metabolic rate. They also suggest that juvenile hormone plays an additional, previously unknown, role in coordinating the physiological underpinning of division of labor in honey bee colonies.
Glutamate elicits a variety of effects in insects, including inhibitory and excitatory signals at both neuromuscular junctions and brain. Insect glutamatergic neurotransmission has been studied in great depth especially from the standpoint of the receptor-mediated effects, but the molecular mechanisms involved in the termination of the numerous glutamatergic signals have only recently begun to receive attention. In vertebrates, glutamatergic signals are terminated by Na(+)/K(+)-dependent high-affinity excitatory amino acid transporters (EAAT), which have been cloned and characterized extensively. Cloning and characterization of a few insect homologues have followed, but functional information for these homologues is still limited. Here we report a study conducted on a cloned mosquito EAAT homologue isolated from the vector of the dengue virus, Aedes aegypti. The deduced amino acid sequence of the protein, AeaEAAT, exhibits 40-50% identity with mammalian EAATs, and 45-50% identity to other insect EAATs characterized thus far. It transports L-glutamate as well as L- and D-aspartate with high affinity in the micromolar range, and demonstrates a substrate-elicited anion conductance when heterologously expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes, as found with mammalian homologues. Analysis of the spatial distribution of the protein demonstrates high expression levels in the adult thorax, which is mostly observed in the thoracic ganglia. Together, the work presented here provides a thorough examination of the role played by glutamate transport in Ae. aegypti.
The search for 'the how and the where' of memory formation in the brain, the engram, is still one of the unattained 'Holy Grails' of neuroscience. Over the years, various paths have been trodden in attempts to attain this goal, and while tantalizing glimpses appear now and then on the scientific horizon, the Grail still has not been grasped. One of the paths that investigators have walked is the invertebrate 'model system' approach. Some invertebrates possess relatively simple nervous systems that mediate relatively simple behaviours that are both interesting and trainable. In this commentary, we would like to shed light on a relatively new player, the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis L., that is being used in the quest to illuminate 'the how and the where' the nervous systems encode and store memory. We will show that it is possible to demonstrate that a single neuron is a site of memory formation and storage for a form of associative learning in this lowly snail. It may be that the Grail is a little closer to being grasped.

Stress is becoming more significant for women, along with the increasing number of women in the workforce. The present study compared women with respect to burnout and coping abilities, and related to the impact of educational level on differences in coping strategies. Women with coronary heart disease reported a higher level of burnout and had the highest scores demonstrating lack of coping, which indicates lesser coping abilities. Differences concerning strain reduction, self-control and emotional distancing are discussed in terms of living conditions. We also discuss that in order to optimize the outcome of rehabilitation and prevention we need more research on women, of women and especially from women's point of view.
The relationship between apolipoprotein E (apoE) genotype and cognitive performance was examined in 200 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). Differences between composite measures of verbal and nonverbal functioning were used to define asymmetric patterns of cognition. Patients who were homozygous for apoE epsilon4 demonstrated relatively worse nonverbal as compared to verbal cognitive ability. In contrast, participants who were heterozygous for apoE epsilon4 or who possessed no epsilon4 allele demonstrated relatively equivalent verbal and nonverbal cognitive abilities. Although age and dementia severity also contributed to these patterns, apoE genotype appears to have a significant unique contribution to cognitive performance in these individuals. The epsilon4 allele may thus be associated with a specific neurocognitive phenotype among patients with AD, with the overall pattern of cognitive asymmetry dependent upon epsilon4 dose.
Studies have shown occasional evidence of increased physiological activity in patients with primary insomnia. We hypothesized that metabolic rate, as measured by overall oxygen use (VO2), might be a more general index of increased physiological activity. An initial experiment found elevated VO2 both at night and during the day in patients with primary insomnia as compared with matched normal sleepers. A second experiment found significant but more modest increases in VO2 in patients with Sleep State Misperception Insomnia [who complain of poor sleep but who had normal sleep by electroencephalographic (EEG) criteria]. In a third experiment, normal young adults were given caffeine 400 mg three times per day (TID) for 1 week as a means of increasing VO2 and possibly producing other symptoms of insomnia. Participants developed many symptoms consistent with those seen in patients with primary insomnia (poor sleep, increased latency on the Multiple Sleep Latency Test, increasing fatigue despite physiological activation, and increased anxiety on the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI)). In a final experiment, physiological arousal was again produced by caffeine to determine if sleep with elevated arousal would be less restorative. All subjects (Ss) slept for 3.5 h after being given 400 mg of caffeine. During 41 h of sleep deprivation that followed, there was no significant condition difference for the Multiple Sleep Latency Test or mood measures. The results provided only weak support for the idea that sleep is less restorative after physiological arousal.

Hyperhomocysteinemia has recently been suggested to contribute to the progression of the so-called chronic rejection or cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) in heart-transplant patients in which the major determinant of the increase in homocysteine (Hcy) was the progressive decline of renal function. The exact mechanisms of tissue injury by Hcy is unknown, but some aspects of its toxicity have been related to its capacity for altering the redox state of plasma and forming protein adducts by intermediate lactone. To study the relationships between Hcy levels and variations in the redox state governed by thiols, plasma levels of Hcy, cysteine, glutathione, cysteinylglycine, and corresponding disulfides and protein-mixed disulfides were evaluated in subjects with moderate hyperhomocysteinemia represented by heart-transplant patients with (HTRF) and without (HT) renal failure, as well as patients with renal failure of different origin (RF), and compared with those of a control group (C) of normal subjects matched for age and sex. Plasma levels of Hcy and the corresponding protein mixed disulfides increased progressively in HTs, RFs, and HTRFs with respect to control. These changes were correlated with cysteine variations (as cystine and protein-mixed disulfides) but not with glutathione or cysteinylglycine that varied only as disulfides with a similar tendency. Moreover, an alteration in the plasma redox was evidenced by the decrease in thiol/disulfide ratios of cysteine, Hcy, and cysteinylglycine. In all groups, cysteine was directly correlated with Hcy but not with glutathione or cysteinylglycine, which in turn were correlated each other. Therefore levels of plasma cysteine were more linked to Hcy than to metabolism of glutathione. The clinical meaning of cysteine changes remains undefined and requires further study.
Extracellular nucleotides exert autocrine/ paracrine effects on ion transport by activating P2 receptors. We studied the effects of extracellular ATP and UTP on the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) channel stably expressed in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells (CHO-BQI cells). CFTR activity was measured using the (125I) iodide efflux technique and whole-cell patch-clamp recording in response to either forskolin or xanthine derivatives. Using RT-PCR and intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) measurement, we showed that CHO-BQI cells express P2Y2 but not P2Y4 receptors. While ATP and UTP induced similar increases in [Ca2+]i, pre-addition by one of these two agonists desensitized the response for the other, suggesting that ATP- and UTP-induced [Ca2+]i increases were mediated by a common receptor, which was identified as the P2Y2 subtype. CFTR activity was reduced by ATP and UTP but not by ADP or adenosine applications. This inhibitory effect of ATP on CFTR activity was not due to a change in cAMP level. Furthermore, CFTR activation by forskolin or IBMX failed to promote [Ca2+]i increase, suggesting that CFTR activation did not generate an ATP release large enough to stimulate P2Y2 receptors. Taken together, our results show that endogenous P2Y2 receptor activation downregulates CFTR activity in a cAMP-independent manner in CHO cells.
Neural coding of sensory input is a major unsolved issue in neuroscience. Current experimental methods rely on neural activity recording or visualization following sensory stimulation. Most of them, however, do not include behavioral correlates on the actual perception by the animal. We present a novel approach to address olfaction and coding in adult Drosophila. Sensory input was selectively blocked in two subsets of sensory neurons that project to different, albeit overlapping, groups of central targets, by means of tetanus toxin expressed under the control of the yeast transcription factor Gal4. Glomeruli DL1, DL2, VM1, and VM4 were tested following stimulation with benzaldehyde, ethyl acetate, propionic acid, butanol, or acetone at various concentrations. The behavioral response was found to be modified in an odorant-specific and a concentration-dependent manner. Sensory input to DL2 and, to a minor extent, VM1 and/or VM4, appear to be required for benzaldehyde perception, while acetone is processed through DL1. None of these glomeruli, however, seem necessary for butanol perception. In addition, sexual differences were observed for some stimuli. These results demonstrate the behavioral relevance of odor representation as maps of glomerular activity generated in the antennal lobes following specific sensory input. The strategy used here should be useful to characterize olfactory coding, as new and selective Gal4 lines become available.
The two mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), are involved in the control of gene expression via phosphorylation and activation of the transcription factors cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) and Elk-1. Here, we have examined the effect of haloperidol and clozapine, two anti-psychotic drugs, and eticlopride, a selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, on the state of phosphorylation of ERK1/2, CREB and Elk-1, in the mouse dorsal striatum. Administration of the typical anti-psychotic haloperidol stimulated the phosphorylation of ERK1/2, CREB and Elk-1. Virtually identical results were obtained using eticlopride. In contrast, the atypical anti-psychotic clozapine reduced ERK1/2, CREB and Elk-1 phosphorylation. This opposite regulation was specifically exerted by haloperidol and clozapine on ERK, CREB, and Elk-1 phosphorylation, as both anti-psychotic drugs increased the phosphorylation of the dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) at the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) site. The activation of CREB and Elk-1 induced by haloperidol appeared to be achieved via different signalling pathways, as inhibition of ERK1/2 activation abolished the stimulation of Elk-1 phosphorylation without affecting CREB phosphorylation. This study shows that haloperidol and clozapine induce distinct patterns of phosphorylation in the dorsal striatum. The results provide a novel biochemical paradigm elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying the distinct therapeutic actions of typical and atypical anti-psychotic agents.
Glucose deprivation provides a reliable model to investigate cellular responses to metabolic dysfunction, and is reportedly associated with permanent cell death in many paradigms. Consistent with previous studies, primary cultures of rat striatal neurones exposed to 24-h hypoglycaemia showed dramatically decreased sodium 2,3-bis(2-methoxy-4-nitro-5-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium-5-carboxanilide (XTT) metabolism (used as a marker of cell viability) and increased TUNEL staining, suggesting widespread DNA damage typical of apoptotic cell death. Remarkably, restoration of normal glucose levels initiated a sustained recovery in XTT staining, along with a concomitant decrease in TUNEL staining, even after 24 h of hypoglycaemia, suggesting recovery of damaged neurones and repair of nicked DNA. No alterations in the levels of four DNA repair proteins could be detected during hypoglycaemia or recovery. A reduction in intracellular calcium concentration was seen in recovered cells. These data suggest that striatal cells do not die after extended periods of glucose deprivation, but survive in a form of suspended animation, with sufficient energy to maintain membrane potential.
There is substantial evidence that excitotoxicity and oxidative damage may contribute to Huntington's disease (HD) pathogenesis. We examined whether the novel anti-oxidant compound BN82451 exerts neuroprotective effects in the R6/2 transgenic mouse model of HD. Oral administration of BN82451 significantly improved motor performance and improved survival by 15%. Oral administration of BN82451 significantly reduced gross brain atrophy, neuronal atrophy and the number of neuronal intranuclear inclusions at 90 days of age. These findings provide evidence that novel anti-oxidants such as BN82451 may be useful for treating HD.
Insulin signalling is well studied in peripheral tissue, but not in neuronal tissue. To gain more insight into neuronal insulin signalling we examined protein kinase B (PKB) and extracellular regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) regulation in serum-deprived Neuro2a cells. Insulin phosphorylated PKB in a dose-dependent manner but reduced phosphorylation of ERK1/2. Both processes were phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) dependent. Interestingly, blockade of PI3K in combination with insulin induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2. The phosphorylation of ERK1/2 could be blocked with a specific inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein/ERK kinase (MEK), suggesting that it was mediated through the highly conserved Ras-Raf-MEK-ERK1/2 pathway. Prolonged exposure to high concentrations of insulin resulted in a desensitized PI3K-PKB route. The insulin-induced inhibition of ERK1/2 phosphorylation was also diminished when the PI3K-PKB route was desensitized. Blockade of PI3K in combination with insulin, however, still resulted in an unaltered MEK-dependent phosphorylation of ERK1/2. We conclude that PI3K is an important integrator of insulin signalling in Neuro2a cells as it regulates activation of PKB and inhibition of ERK1/2, and is sensitive to the duration of the insulin stimulus.
Dopamine (DA) and glutamate neurotransmission is thought to be critical for psychostimulant drugs to induce immediate early genes (IEGs) in the caudate-putamen (CPu). We report here, however, that the ability of DA and glutamate NMDA receptor antagonists to attenuate amphetamine-evoked c-fos mRNA expression in the CPu depends on environmental context. When given in the home cage, amphetamine induced c-fos mRNA expression predominately in preprodynorphin and preprotachykinin mRNA-containing neurons (Dyn-SP+ cells) in the CPu. In this condition, all of the D1R, D2R and NMDAR antagonists tested dose-dependently decreased c-fos expression in Dyn-SP+ cells. When given in a novel environment, amphetamine induced c-fos mRNA in both Dyn-SP+ and preproenkephalin mRNA-containing neurons (Enk+ cells). In this condition, D1R and non-selective NMDAR antagonists dose-dependently decreased c-fos expression in Dyn-SP+ cells, but neither D2R nor NR2B-selective NMDAR antagonists had no effect. Furthermore, amphetamine-evoked c-fos expression in Enk+ cells was most sensitive to DAR and NMDAR antagonism; the lowest dose of every antagonist tested significantly decreased c-fos expression only in these cells. Finally, novelty-stress also induced c-fos expression in both Dyn-SP+ and Enk+ cells, and this was relatively resistant to all but D1R antagonists. We suggest that the mechanism(s) by which amphetamine evokes c-fos expression in the CPu varies depending on the stimulus (amphetamine vs. stress), the striatal cell population engaged (Dyn-SP+ vs. Enk+ cells), and environmental context (home vs. novel cage).
Despite the generally restrictive nature of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), circulating lymphocytes can infiltrate into the central nervous system (CNS) during a variety of disease states. Although the contributions of these lymphocytes to CNS-associated disease have been identified in some viral models, the factors which govern this infiltration following herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection remain to be elucidated. We have developed a murine model of HSV encephalitis (HSE) to define the relationship among psychological stress, the recruitment of HSV-specific T cells into the CNS, and the development of HSE. Naive mice, as well as mice that had been vaccinated with a recombinant vaccinia virus (rVVESgB498-505) that elicits the generation of HSV-1 gB498-505-specific CD8(+) T cells, were infected intranasally (i.n.) with HSV-1 McIntyre. Beginning one day prior to HSV-1 infection and continuing for a total of 9 days, naive and vaccinated mice were exposed to a well-established stressor, restraint stress. Naive, stressed mice exhibited increased symptoms of HSE and HSE-associated mortality as compared to non-stressed controls. A concomitant increase in CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells in the brain was observed throughout the infection, with CD8(+) T cells outnumbering CD4(+) T cells. The development of HSE in these naive, stressed mice was accompanied by a delayed infiltration of gB498-505-specific CD8(+) T cells after HSV spread into the brain. In contrast, both stressed and non-stressed rVVESgB498-505-vaccinated mice possessed gB498-505-specific CD8(+) T cells prior to HSV challenge and were protected against HSE despite having detectable HSV-1 DNA in the brain. Together, these findings suggest that a delayed infiltration of CD8(+) T cells into the brain may promote HSE in naive mice, while the presence of HSV-specific CD8(+) T cells in the brain prior to HSV challenge is protective, possibly by limiting HSV replication and spread within the CNS.
Multiple movement disorders presenting in the same family are rare. We present an unusual family where generalized dystonia, Huntington's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy and secondary paroxysmal dyskinesia co-exist. The index case presented with young-onset dystonia and tested negative for the DYT1 gene deletion. Her father was similarly affected. The father's brother (paternal uncle of the index) also had abnormal movements-a mixture of chorea and dystonia-and tested positive for the HD expansion. His son had secondary paroxysmal dyskinesia, and tested negative for the HD expansion. The index case and her father were also negative for the HD expansion. A paternal aunt of two of the cases had a clinical diagnosis of progressive supranuclear palsy. Dystonia is known to be a genetically heterogeneous condition. The co-existence of inherited generalized dystonia with other movement disorders may provide clues to its genetic localization.



Ca2+ currents are thought to enhance glutamate excitotoxicity. To investigate whether reduced expression of the Ca2+ limiting GluR2(B) subunit enhances seizure-induced vulnerability to either CA1 or CA3 neurons, we delivered GluR2(B) oligodeoxynucleotides (AS-ODNs) to the dorsal hippocampus of adult rats before inducing kainate (KA) seizures. After knockdown, no changes in behavior, electrographic activity, or histology were observed. In contrast, GluR2(B) knockdown and KA-induced status epilepticus produced accelerated histological injury to the ipsilateral CA3a-b and hilar subregions. At 8 to 12 h, the CA3a was preferentially labeled by both silver and TUNEL methods. TUNEL staining revealed 2 types of nuclei. They were round with uniform label, features of necrosis, or had DNA clumping or speckled chromatin deposits within surrounding cytosol, features of apoptosis. At 16 to 24 h, many CA3a-c neurons were shrunken, eosinophilic, argyrophilic, or completely absent. Immunohistochemistry revealed marked decreases in GluR2(B) subunits throughout the hippocampus, NR1 immunoreactivity was also reduced but to a lesser extent. In contrast, GluR1 and NR2A/B immunohistochemistry was relatively uniform except in regions of cell loss or within close proximity to the CA1 infusion site. At 144 h, the CA3 was still preferentially injured although bilateral CA1 injury was also observed in some AS-ODN-, S-ODN-, and KA-only-treated animals. Glutamate receptor antibodies revealed generalized decreases in the CA3 with all probes tested at this delayed time. In contrast, GluR2(B) expression was increased within CA1 irregularly shaped, injured neurons. Therefore, hippocampal deprivation of GluR2(B) subunits is insufficient to induce cell death in mature animals but may accelerate the already known CA3/hilar lesion, possibly by triggering apoptosis within CA3 neurons. CA1 and DG survive the first week despite their loss of GluR2(B) subunits, suggesting that other intrinsic properties such as increased Na+ conductance and reduced ability of the GluR2(B) subunit to interact with certain cytoplasmic proteins may be responsible for the augmented cell death rather than changes in AMPA receptor-mediated Ca2+ permeability. Alternatively, changes in allosteric interactions that affect other receptor classes of high density at the mossy fiber synapse (e.g. KA receptors) may augment KA neurotoxicity. Latent GluR2(B) increases in CA1 injured neurons support a role for AMPA receptor subunit alterations in seizure-induced tolerance.
A vertical asymmetry in memory-guided saccadic eye movements has been previously demonstrated in humans and in rhesus monkeys. In the upright orientation, saccades generally land several degrees above the target. The origin of this asymmetry has remained unknown. In this study, we investigated whether the asymmetry in memory saccades is dependent on body orientation in space. Thus animals performed memory saccades in four different body orientations: upright, left-side-down (LSD), right-side-down (RSD), and supine. Data in all three rhesus monkeys confirm previous observations regarding a significant upward vertical asymmetry. Saccade errors made from LSD and RSD postures were partitioned into components made along the axis of gravity and along the vertical body axis. Up/down asymmetry persisted only in body coordinates but not in gravity coordinates. However, this asymmetry was generally reduced in tilted positions. Therefore the upward bias seen in memory saccades is egocentric although orientation in space might play a modulatory role.
Channel density is a fundamental factor in determining neuronal firing and is primarily regulated during development through transcriptional and translational regulation. In adult rats, striatal cholinergic interneurons have a prominent A-type current and co-express Kv4.1 and Kv4.2 mRNAs. There is evidence that Kv4.2 plays a primary role in producing the current in adult neurons. The contribution of Kv4.2 and Kv4.1 to the A-type current in cholinergic interneurons during development, however, is not known. Here, using patch-clamp recording and semi-quantitative single-cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) techniques, we have examined the postnatal development of A-type current and the expression of Kv4.2 and Kv4.1 in rat striatal cholinergic interneurons. A-type current was detectable at birth, and its amplitude was up-regulated with age, reaching a plateau at about 3 wk after birth. At all ages, the current inactivated with two time constants: one ranging from 15 to 27 ms and the other ranging from 99 to 142 ms. Kv4.2 mRNA was detectable at birth, and the expression level increased exponentially with age, reaching a plateau by 3 wk postnatal. In contrast, Kv4.1 mRNA was not detectable during the first week after birth, and the expression level did not show a clear tendency with age. Taken together, our results suggest that Kv4.2 plays an essential role in producing the A-type current in striatal cholinergic interneurons during the entire course of postnatal development.
Temporal summation of heat pain during repetitive stimulation is dependent on C nociceptor activation of central N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor mechanisms. Moderate temporal summation is produced by sequential triangular ramps of stimulation that control skin temperature between heat pulses but do not elicit distinct first and second pain sensations. Dramatic summation of second pain is produced by repeated contact of the skin with a preheated thermode, but skin temperature between taps is not controlled by this procedure. Therefore relationships between recordings of skin temperature and psychophysical ratings of heat pain were evaluated during series of repeated skin contacts. Surface and subcutaneous recordings of skin temperatures revealed efficient thermoregulatory compensation for heat stimulation at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) ranging from 2 to 8 s. Temporal summation of heat pain was strongly influenced by the ISIs and cannot be explained by small increases in skin temperature between taps or by heat storage throughout a stimulus series. Repetitive brief contact with a precooled thermode was utilized to evaluate whether temporal summation of cold pain occurs, and if so, whether it is influenced by skin temperature. Surface and subcutaneous recordings of skin temperature revealed a sluggish thermoregulatory compensation for repetitive cold stimulation. In contrast to heat stimulation, skin temperature did not recover between cold stimuli throughout ISIs of 3-8 s. Psychophysically, repetitive cold stimulation produced an aching pain sensation that progressed gradually and radiated beyond the site of stimulation. The magnitude of aching pain was well related to skin temperature and thus appeared to be established primarily by peripheral factors.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is characterized by the overt symptoms of impulsiveness, hyperactivity, and inattention. A frontostriatal pathophysiology has been hypothesized to produce these symptoms and lead to reduced ability to inhibit unnecessary or inappropriate behavioral responses. Oculomotor tasks can be designed to probe the ability of subjects to generate or inhibit reflexive and voluntary responses. Because regions of the frontal cortex and basal ganglia have been identified in the control of voluntary responses and saccadic suppression, we hypothesized that children and adults diagnosed with ADHD may have specific difficulties in oculomotor tasks requiring the suppression of reflexive or unwanted saccadic eye movements. To test this hypothesis, we measured eye movement performance in pro- and anti-saccade tasks of 114 ADHD and 180 control participants ranging in age from 6 to 59 yr. In the pro-saccade task, participants were instructed to look from a central fixation point toward an eccentric visual target. In the anti-saccade task, stimulus presentation was identical, but participants were instructed to suppress the saccade to the stimulus and instead look from the central fixation point to the side opposite the target. The state of fixation was manipulated by presenting the target either when the central fixation point was illuminated (overlap condition) or at some time after it disappeared (gap condition). In the pro-saccade task, ADHD participants had longer reaction times, greater intra-subject variance, and their saccades had reduced peak velocities and increased durations. In the anti-saccade task, ADHD participants had greater difficulty suppressing reflexive pro-saccades toward the eccentric target, increased reaction times for correct anti-saccades, and greater intra-subject variance. In a third task requiring prolonged fixation, ADHD participants generated more intrusive saccades during periods when they were required to maintain steady fixation. The results suggest that ADHD participants have reduced ability to suppress unwanted saccades and control their fixation behavior voluntarily, a finding that is consistent with a fronto-striatal pathophysiology. The findings are discussed in the context of recent neurophysiological data from nonhuman primates that have identified important control signals for saccade suppression that emanate from frontostriatal circuits.
Recordings were made from single neurons in the rat inferior colliculus in response to sinusoidally amplitude-modulated sounds (10-s duration) presented to the contralateral ear. Neural responses were determined for different rates of modulation (0.5 Hz to 1 kHz) at a depth of 100%, and modulation transfer functions were generated based on firing rate (MTFFR) and vector strength (MTFVS). The effects of AMPA, NMDA, and GABAA receptor antagonists were examined by releasing drugs iontophoretically through a multibarrel pipette attached to a single-barrel recording pipette. Both the AMPA receptor antagonist, 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium (NBQX), and the NMDA receptor antagonist, (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) resulted in a decrease in firing rate, and the GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline, produced an increase in the firing rate in most of the cells examined. In some cases, the shape of the MTFFR was modified slightly by receptor antagonists, but in most cases, the peak firing rate that determined a neuron's best modulation frequency remained the same. Also there were no changes during delivery of either excitatory or inhibitory antagonists in the maximum response synchrony at the peak of the MTFVS although some changes were noticed at off-peak modulation rates particularly with the AMPA receptor antagonist, NBQX.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is a structure uniquely positioned to integrate stress information and regulate both stress and reward systems. Consistent with this arrangement, evidence suggests that the BNST, and in particular the noradrenergic input to this structure, is a key component of affective responses to drugs of abuse. We have utilized an in vitro slice preparation from adult mice to determine synaptic and membrane properties of these cells, focusing on the dorsal and ventral subdivisions of the anterolateral BNST (dBNST and vBNST) because of the differential noradrenergic input to these two regions. We find that while resting membrane potential and input resistance are comparable between these subdivisions, excitable properties, including a low-threshold spike (LTS) likely mediated by T-type calcium channels and an Ih-dependent potential, are differentially distributed. Inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs and EPSPs, respectively) are readily evoked in both dBNST and vBNST. The fast IPSP is predominantly GABAA-receptor mediated and is partially blocked by the AMPA/kainate-receptor antagonist CNQX. In the presence of the GABAA-receptor antagonist picrotoxin, cells in dBNST but not vBNST are more depolarized and have a higher input resistance, suggesting tonic GABAergic inhibition of these cells. The EPSPs elicited in BNST are monosynaptic, exhibit paired pulse facilitation, and contain both an AMPA- and an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated component. These data support the hypothesis that neurons of the dorsal and ventral BNST differentially integrate synaptic input, which is likely of behavioral significance. The data also suggest mechanisms by which information may flow through stress and reward circuits.
Using whole cell recordings, I analyzed the intrinsic discharge properties for 285 neurons in Rexed's laminae III-V of isolated hamster spinal cord preparations. Neurons were characterized by their responses to step-wise and ramp-hold depolarizing current applied through the recording pipettes. Tonic cells (133/285; 47%) fired repetitively during step-wise current application. Firing decayed linearly (-0.14 to -4.3 imp . s(-1) . s(-1)) or was bimodal, with an initial exponential phase (tau approximately 450 ms) followed by a linear decline (-0.02 to -6.3 imp . s(-1) . s(-1)); discharge frequency was unrelated to current trajectory. Phasic-firing cells (108/285; 38%) responded with a burst discharge having an initial rapid, exponential decrease (tau approximately 30 ms) and subsequent linear decline (-1 to -78 imp . s(-1) . s(-1)). Phasic cells were activated preferentially by fast current ramps (slope, 70 pA/s-2.2 nA/s) with the number and frequency of impulses increasing with current slope. Delayed-firing cells (44/285; 15%), responded to current steps with an accelerating firing following a substantial latent period (0.5-4 s) and discharged during current ramps with slopes less than approximately 100 pA/s. Intracellular staining revealed a significant association between electrophysiological profile and neuronal morphology. A majority of presumed projection cells (22/30; 73%) exhibited tonic firing to step-wise activation. The preponderance of phasic and delayed firing cells, 93% (42/45) and 71% (12/17), respectively, were interneurons with local or intersegmental terminations. Differential sensitivity to static and time-varying components of membrane current suggest differences in neuronal signaling properties that may have important implications for integration of mechanosensory information in the deep spinal dorsal horn.
Recent electrophysiological studies of cultured dorsal root and trigeminal ganglion neurons have suggested that multiple ionic mechanisms underlie the peripheral detection of cold temperatures. Several candidate &quot;cold receptors,&quot; all of them ion channel proteins, have been implicated in this process. One of the most promising candidates is TRPM8, a nonselective cationic channel expressed in a subpopulation of sensory neurons that is activated both by decreases in temperature and the cooling compound menthol. However, evidence for the expression of TRPM8 in functionally defined cold-sensitive neurons has been lacking. Here, we combine fluorometric calcium imaging of cultured rat trigeminal neurons with single-cell RT-PCR to demonstrate that there are distinct subpopulations of cold responsive neurons and that TRPM8 likely contributes to cold transduction in one of them. TRPM8 is preferentially expressed within a subset of rapidly responsive, low-threshold (approximately 30 degrees C), cold-sensitive neurons. A distinct class of slowly responsive cold-sensitive neurons that is activated at lower temperatures (approximately 20 degrees C) generally lacks detectable TRPM8 mRNA. Together with previous findings, our data support the notion that cold responsive neurons are functionally heterogeneous.
Hippocampal slices obtained from C57BL/6 mice (3-25 mo) were used to investigate the effects of aging on excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) elicited in dentate gyrus with lateral perforant path stimulation. The maximal amplitude of the EPSP, as well as the degree of paired-pulse facilitation, was significantly reduced in animals aged 12 mo or more compared with younger animals (&lt;12 mo). Although all animals showed equivalent short-term potentiation (STP) in response to high-frequency stimulation, this did not translate into a long-lasting increase in synaptic efficacy in the older animals. A significant degree of long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic efficacy was only observed in animals &lt;12 mo of age when measured 30 min after induction. Blocking GABAA-mediated inhibition significantly enhanced STP in younger and older animals; however, a significant degree of LTP was again only observed in slices taken from younger animals. These data indicate that the lateral perforant path input to the dentate gyrus is altered by the aging process, and that this results in a reduction in the capacity of this input to exhibit long-lasting synaptic plasticity.
The anatomical connections of the pregeniculate complex (PrGC) with components of the visual-ocular motor system suggested its contribution to ocular motor behavior. Subsequent studies reported saccade-related activity in the primate PrGC. To determine its contribution, we characterized pregeniculate units (n = 128) in alert macaques during ocular motor tasks and visual stimulation. We found that 36/109 saccade-related units exhibited postsaccadic bursts or pauses in tonic discharge for saccades of any amplitude or direction. In contrast to previous results, 46/109 responses preceded or coincided with the saccade, while 47/109 responses were directionally tuned. Pregeniculate units were modulated not only in association with saccades (109/128) but also with smooth eye movements and visual motion (20/128) or eye position (23/128). Multiple ocular motor signals were recorded from 19% of the units, indicating signal convergence on individual neurons. Visual responses were demonstrated in 51% of PrGC units: visual field illumination modulated the resting discharge of 33 units; the responses of 37 saccade-related units and all 23 position-dependent units were modulated by visual stimulation. Early saccadic activity in the PrGC suggests that it contributes more to gaze than postsaccadic modulation of visual or ocular motor activity. The patterns of saccadic responses and the modulation of PrGC activity in association with a variety of visual-ocular motor behaviors suggest its potential role as a relay between the parietal cortex and elements of the brain stem ocular motor pathways, such as the superior colliculus and pretectal nucleus of the optic tract.
The glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb (OB) contains synaptic connections between olfactory sensory neurons and OB neurons as well as connections among OB neurons. A subpopulation of external tufted cells and periglomerular cells (juxtaglomerular neurons) expresses dopamine, and recent reports suggest that dopamine can inhibit olfactory sensory neuron activation of OB neurons. In this study, whole cell electrophysiological and primary culture techniques were employed to characterize the neuromodulatory properties of dopamine on glutamatergic transmission between rat OB mitral/tufted (M/T) cells and interneurons. Immunocytochemical analysis confirmed the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme for dopamine synthesis, in a subpopulation of cultured neurons. D2 receptor immunoreactivity was also observed in cultured M/T cells. Dopamine reduced spontaneous excitatory synaptic events recorded in interneurons. Although the D1 receptor agonist SKF38393 and the D2 receptor agonist bromocriptine mesylate mimicked this effect, evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) recorded from monosynaptically coupled neuron pairs were attenuated by dopamine and bromocriptine but not by SKF38393. Neither glutamate-evoked currents nor the membrane resistance of the postsynaptic interneuron were affected by dopamine. However, evoked calcium channel currents in the presynaptic M/T cell were diminished during the application of either dopamine or bromocriptine, but not SKF38393. Dopamine suppressed calcium channel currents even after nifedipine blockade of L-type channels, suggesting that inhibition of the dihydropyridine-resistant high-voltage activated calcium channels implicated in transmitter release may mediate dopamine's effects on spontaneous and evoked synaptic transmission. Together, these data suggest that dopamine inhibits excitatory neurotransmission between M/T cells and interneurons via a presynaptic mechanism.
To investigate the brain stem control of saccadic eye movements, the paramedian pontine reticular formation (PPRF) in rhesus monkeys was temporarily and partially inactivated with the local anesthetic lidocaine. The influence on ipsilesional, contralesional, and upward saccades was examined. While the effects of the inactivation on contralesional and upward saccades were inconsistent and small, consistent and marked modifications were observed for ipsilesional movements. For ipsilesional, horizontal saccades, all lidocaine injections caused a decrease in peak velocity and a proportional increase in duration, which substantially altered the shape of the velocity profile. The rise in duration usually fell short of preventing hypometric saccades at the peak of the effect. However, as the lidocaine effect dissipated, the amplitude often returned to control, even though the velocity and duration remained compromised. For ipsilesional, oblique saccades, the effect of lidocaine on the horizontal component was similar to that for horizontal saccades. The vertical component of oblique saccades was also influenced, albeit to a much lesser extent: the duration of the vertical component typically increased, while the vertical peak velocity either decreased or exhibited no significant change. These results were compared with simulations of three prominent models for cross-coupling oblique saccades. In general, these results of the temporary inactivation of PPRF are consistent with the predictions of local feedback models for saccadic control.
The details of oriented visual stimuli are better resolved when they are horizontal or vertical rather than oblique. This &quot;oblique effect&quot; has been confirmed in numerous behavioral studies in humans and to some extent in animals. However, investigations of its neural basis have produced mixed and inconclusive results, presumably due in part to limited sample sizes. We have used a database to analyze a population of 4,418 cells in the cat's striate cortex to determine possible differences as a function of orientation. We find that both the numbers of cells and the widths of orientation tuning vary as a function of preferred orientation. Specifically, more cells prefer horizontal and vertical orientations compared with oblique angles. The largest population of cells is activated by orientations close to horizontal. In addition, orientation tuning widths are most narrow for cells preferring horizontal orientations. These findings are most prominent for simple cells tuned to high spatial frequencies. Complex cells and simple cells tuned to low spatial frequencies do not exhibit these anisotropies. For a subset of simple cells from our population (n = 104), we examined the relative contributions of linear and nonlinear mechanisms in shaping orientation tuning curves. We find that linear contributions alone do not account for the narrower tuning widths at horizontal orientations. By modeling simple cells as linear filters followed by static expansive nonlinearities, our analysis indicates that horizontally tuned cells have a greater nonlinear component than those tuned to other orientations. This suggests that intracortical mechanisms play a major role in shaping the oblique effect.
To investigate a possible effect of the apolipoprotein (APOE) epsilon4 allele on memory decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD), we examined 64 AD patients with the APOE epsilon3/3, epsilon3/4, or epsilon4/4 allele using the Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog) and its subtests at the initial examination and at the 1-year follow-up visit. One-year changes in the scores of the Word Recall subtest, Word Recognition subtest, and total ADAS-Cog were significantly correlated with the number of APOE epsilon4 alleles after controlling for the effects of age, sex, education, test interval, and baseline scores. Findings revealed that APOE epsilon4 allele is related to an accelerated memory decline in AD.




Although perihematoma brain edema can significantly modify neurologic outcome after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), our knowledge of its natural history is incomplete. We report on the correlation between hematoma (HV) and edema volumes (EV) in 14 patients with ICH during the first week after the ictus using MRI volumetric analysis. We conducted a retrospective MRI volumetric analysis of intraparenchymal hematomas and surrounding perihematoma brain edema in 14 patients with ICH. The mean age was 54.4 years (range 32-71 years). The time from symptom onset to MRI was 3.5 days (range 1-6) days, and the etiology of ICH was as follows: hypertension (70%), arteriovenous malformation rupture (19%), and postpallidotomy (11%). The mean HV was 15 mL (range 0.9-67.4 mL), and the mean EV was 17.3 mL (range 2.8-50.6 mL). Using linear regression analysis, we demonstrated EV to be significantly and directly related to HV: (EV) = 7.68 + 0.64(HV); r = 0.8; P = 0.001. In conclusion, we report significant and direct correlation between the HV and EV within the first week after ICH. The clinical implications of this observation, if confirmed, will help to better design clinical trials in ICH research as well as to better allocate adequate clinical resources in high-risk subgroups of patients with ICH.
Traumatic spinal cord injury is frequently associated with brain injury and with alterations in respiratory and cardiovascular function that require critical care management. Complications include respiratory failure, atelectasis, pneumonia, neurogenic shock, autonomic dysreflexia, venous thromboembolism, and sepsis. While complications may be managed with supportive care, the goal of ameliorating neurologic outcome has proved elusive. Methylprednisolone, when instituted &lt;8 hours after traumatic spinal cord injury, was associated in two clinical trials with statistically significant improvements in motor scores at 6 months and 1 year; however, critical reappraisal of these data raises questions about their validity and clinical relevance. Until more evidence of clinically effective therapies is available, acute management must be driven by pathophysiologic principles, with emphasis on interventions that attenuate secondary neurologic injury; these include the rational use of immobilization, cautious airway management, and promotion of cord perfusion and oxygenation with the appropriate level of hemodynamic and respiratory support. Clinical trials of pharmacologic neuroprotection have yielded disappointing results, but the ongoing elucidation of spinal cord repair and regenerative mechanisms suggests new therapeutic prospects.

Retinal images evolve continuously over time owing to self-motions and to movements in the world. Such an evolving image, also known as optic flow, if arising from natural scenes can be locally decomposed in a Bayesian manner into several elementary components, including translation, expansion, and rotation. To take advantage of this decomposition, the brain has neurons tuned to these types of motions. However, these neurons typically have large receptive fields, often spanning tens of degrees of visual angle. Can neurons such as these compute elementary optic-flow components sufficiently locally to achieve a reasonable decomposition? We show that human discrimination of angular velocity is local. Local discrimination of angular velocity requires an accurate estimation of the center of rotation within the optic-flow field. Inaccuracies in estimating the center of rotation result in a predictable systematic error when one is estimating local angular velocity. Our results show that humans make the predicted errors. We discuss how the brain might estimate the elementary components of the optic flow locally by using large receptive fields.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ), nocistatin, and prepro-N/OFQ 160-187 (C-peptide) are all derived from the same precursor protein. We examine the pharmacological mechanisms of nocistatin- and C-peptide-induced pronociceptive responses in a novel algogenic-induced nociceptive flexion test in mice. The intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of nocistatin- and C-peptide induced pronociceptive responses in a range of 0.01 to 10 or 1 pmol, respectively, which showed 100- to 1000-fold less potent effects than the N/OFQ. The nociceptive effects of both peptides were not affected by 1-[(3R,4R)-1-cyclooctylmethyl-3-hydroxymethyl-4-piperidyl]-3-ethyl-1,3-dihydro-2H-benzimidazole-2-one (J-113397) (i.pl.), an N/OFQ receptor antagonist, indicating that they are mediated by a novel mechanism independent of activation of N/OFQ receptor. Like N/OFQ, nocistatin-induced nociception was abolished by i.pl. injection of pertussis toxin, phospholipase C inhibitor, or CP-99994, a neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist, indicating that nocistatin may elicit nociception through a substance P release from nociceptor endings via activation of Gi/o and phospholipase C. The nociception was abolished by neonatal pretreatment (s.c.) with capsaicin or by i.t. pretreatment with CP-99994, but not MK-801 (i.t.), an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist. In contrast, C-peptide-induced nociception was attenuated by the pretreatment with antisense oligodeoxynucleotide for Galphas (i.t.) and with KT-5720 (i.pl.), a cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor, but not with pertussis toxin. The nociception was neither attenuated by neonatal capsaicin nor by i.t. injection with CP-99994, but it was attenuated by i.t. injection with MK-801. These results suggest that nocistatin and C-peptide derived from prepro-N/OFQ stimulate distinct nociceptive fibers through different in vivo signaling mechanisms.
The alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor is thought to play an important role in the pathogenesis of several neurological disorders as well as normal brain function. The search for AMPA receptor antagonists as potential therapeutics is ongoing. Here, we describe the functional characterization of a novel noncompetitive AMPA receptor antagonist, 2-[N-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-methylamino]-4H-pyrido[3,2-e]-1,3-thiazin-4-one (YM928). This compound inhibited AMPA receptor-mediated toxicity in primary rat hippocampal cultures with an IC50 of 2 micro M. Its manner of inhibition was noncompetitive as the agonist concentration was increased. YM928 blocked AMPA-induced intracellular calcium influx with an IC50 of 3 micro M and antagonized AMPA-induced inward currents with an IC50 of 1 micro M in cultured cells. YM928 displaced neither [3H]AMPA binding nor other existing glutamate receptor-related ligand binding in rat brain membranes. In terms of in vivo activity, YM928 had an anticonvulsant effect in sound-induced seizures in DBA/2 mice 45 min after oral administration at 3 mg/kg. Thus, YM928 has potential as an oral therapeutic drug for various types of neurological disorders.
Use-dependent N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonists produce behaviors in human volunteers that resemble schizophrenia and exacerbate those behaviors in schizophrenic patients, suggesting that hypofunction of NMDAR-mediated neuronal circuitry may be involved in the etiology of clinical schizophrenia. Activation of the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5) enhances NMDAR-mediated currents in vitro. Thus, activation of mGluR5 could potentiate hypofunctional NMDARs in neuronal circuitry relevant to schizophrenia. To further elucidate the role of mGluR5, the present study examined the effects of mGluR5 antagonist administration, with and without coadministration of the use-dependent NMDAR antagonist phencyclidine (PCP), on locomotor activity and prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response in rodents. We further examined PPI in mGluR5 knockout mice. Finally, we examined PPI after administration of the mGluR5 agonist 2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) alone and in combination with amphetamine. The data indicate that the mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine has no effect on locomotor activity or PPI by itself but does potentiate both PCP-induced locomotor activity and disruption of PPI. We further found that mGluR5 knockout mice display consistent deficits in PPI relative to their wild-type controls. Finally, the data indicate that CHPG has no effect on PPI by itself, but ameliorates amphetamine-induced disruption of PPI. Collectively, these data suggest that mGlu5 receptors play a modulatory role on rodent PPI and locomotor behaviors and are consistent with the hypothesis that mGlu5 agonist/potentiators may represent a novel approach for antipsychotic drug development.
Activation or blockade of cannabinoid CB1 receptors markedly alters many effects of opioids. In the present study, we investigated whether the cannabinoid antagonist (N-piperidinyl-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methylpyrazole-3-carboxamide (SR-141716A) could alter the reinforcing effects of heroin in rats. A Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) drug-discrimination procedure was first used to determine effective CB1 antagonist doses of SR-141716A and optimal pretreatment times for self-administration studies. Subsequently, Sprague-Dawley rats learned to self-administer heroin under three different schedules of intravenous drug injection: a continuous reinforcement schedule [fixed ratio (FR)1], a five-response, fixed ratio schedule (FR5), and a progressive ratio schedule. Then, SR-141716A (1 mg/kg i.p.) was administered 60 min before the start of the session for three consecutive daily sessions. SR-141716A markedly decreased heroin self-administration under the progressive ratio schedule at heroin doses ranging from 12.5 to 100 micro g/kg/injection. In contrast, SR-141716A had no effect on heroin self-administration under the FR1 schedule at heroin doses of 50 or 100 micro g/kg/injection, but produced small decreases in self-administration at lower doses (25 and 12.5 micro g/kg/injection). Consistent with a behavioral economics evaluation, SR-141716A produced a small but significant decrease in self-administration of the higher 50 micro g/kg/injection dose of heroin when the fixed ratio requirement was raised to five (FR5). Thus, blockade of CB1 receptors differentially decreased the reinforcing efficacy of heroin depending on the number of responses required for each injection (price). These findings indicate a facilitatory modulation of opioid reward by endogenous cannabinoid activity and provide support for the use of cannabinoid CB1 antagonists as medications for heroin addiction.
The growing need for a better understanding of large-scale brain dynamics has stimulated in the last decade the development of new and more advanced data analysis techniques. Progress in this domain has greatly benefited from developments in nonlinear time series analysis. This review gives a short overview of some of the nonlinear properties one may wish to infer from brain recordings and presents some examples and recent applications.
This review is an attempt to highlight the value of human intracranial recordings (intracranial electro-encephalography, iEEG) for human brain mapping, based on their technical characteristics and based on the corpus of results they have already yielded. The advantages and limitations of iEEG recordings are introduced in detail, with an estimation of their spatial and temporal resolution for both monopolar and bipolar recordings. The contribution of iEEG studies to the general field of human brain mapping is discussed through a review of the effects observed in the iEEG while patients perform cognitive tasks. Those effects range from the generation of well-localized evoked potentials to the formation of large-scale interactions between distributed brain structures, via long-range synchrony in particular. A framework is introduced to organize those iEEG studies according to the level of complexity of the spatio-temporal patterns of neural activity found to correlate with cognition. This review emphasizes the value of iEEG for the study of large-scale interactions, and describes in detail the few studies that have already addressed this point.
Sensory guidance of behavior often involves standard visuo-motor mapping of body movements onto objects and spatial locations. For example, looking at and reaching to grasp a glass of wine requires the mapping of the eyes and hand to the location of the glass in space, as well as the formation of a hand configuration appropriate to the shape of the glass. But our brain is far more than just a standard sensorimotor mapping machine. Through evolution, the brain of advanced mammals, in particular human and non-human primates, has acquired a formidable capacity to construct non-standard, arbitrary mapping using associations between external events and behavioral responses that bear no direct relationship. For example, we have all learned to stop at a red traffic light and to go at a green one, or to wait for a specific tone before dialing a phone number and to hang up when hearing a busy signal. These arbitrary associations are acquired through experience, thereby providing primates with a rich and flexible sensorimotor repertoire. Understanding how they are learned, and how they are recalled and used when the context requires them, has been one of the challenging issues for cognitive neuroscience. Valuable insights have been gained over the last two decades through the convergence of multiple complementary approaches. Human neuropsychology and experimental lesions in monkeys have identified a network of brain structures important for conditional sensorimotor associations, whereas imaging studies in healthy human subjects and electrophysiological recordings in awake monkeys have sought to identify the different functional processes underlying the overall function. The present review focuses on the contribution of a network linking the prefrontal cortex, basal ganglia, and dorsal premotor cortex, with special emphasis on results from recording experiments in monkeys. We will first review data pointing to a specific contribution of each component of the network to the performance of well-learned arbitrary visuo-motor associations, as well as data suggesting how novel associations are formed. Then we will propose a model positing that each component of the fronto-striatal network makes a specific contribution to the formation and/or execution of sensorimotor associations. In this model, the basal ganglia are thought to play a key role in linking the sensory, motor, and reward information necessary for arbitrary mapping.
One might take the exploration of sensory cortex in the first decades of the last century as the opening chapter of modern neuroscience. The combined approaches of (i) measuring effects of restricted ablation on functional capacities, both in the clinic and the laboratory, together with (ii) anatomical investigations of cortical lamination, arealization, and connectivity, and (iii) the early physiological probing of sensory representations, led to a fundamental body of knowledge that remains relevant to this day. In our time, there can be little doubt that its organization as a mosaic of columnar modules is the pervasive functional property of mammalian sensory cortex [Brain 120 (1997) 701]. If one accepts the assertion that columns and maps must improve the functioning of the brain (why else would they be the very hallmark of neocortex?), then the inevitable question is: exactly what advantages do they permit? In this review of our recent presentation at the workshop on Homeostasis, plasticity and learning at the Institut Henri Poincar, we will outline a systematic approach to investigating the role of modular, map-like cortical organization in the processing of sensory information. We survey current evidence concerning the functional significance of cortical maps and modules, arguing that sensory cortex is involved not solely in the online processing of afferent data, but also in the storage and retrieval of information. We also show that the topographic framework of primary sensory cortex renders the encoding of sensory information efficient, fast and reliable.
The response selectivities of neurons in adult primary sensory cortices depend on intricate patterns of synaptic connections; these selectivities are arranged over cortex in equally rich fashion. Characterising these patterns, and particularly the activity-dependence (and independence) of their developmental trajectories, has been a major task for experimental and theoretical neuroscience. Here, we describe and analyse a paradigmatic algorithm for activity-dependent development of the refinement and generation of neuronal selectivities, and relate it to some of the wealth of suggestions in the literature.
The spiking response of a primary visual cortical cell to a stimulus placed within its receptive field can be up- and down-regulated by the simultaneous presentation of objects or scenes placed in the &quot;silent&quot; regions which surround the receptive field. We here review recent progresses that have been made both at the experimental and theoretical levels in the description of these so-called &quot;Center/Surround&quot; modulations and in the understanding of their neural basis. Without denying the role of a modulatory feedback from higher cortical areas, recent results support the view that some of these phenomena result from the dynamic interplay between feedforward projections and horizontal intracortical connectivity in V1. Uncovering the functional role of the contextual periphery of cortical receptive fields has become an area of active investigation. The detailed comparison of electrophysiological and psychophysical data reveals strong correlations between the integrative behavior of V1 cells and some aspects of &quot;low-level&quot; and &quot;mid-level&quot; conscious perception. These suggest that as early as the V1 stage, the visual system is able to make use of contextual cues to recover local visual scene properties or correct their interpretation. Promising ideas have emerged on the importance of such a strategy for the coding of visual scenes, and the processing of static and moving objects.
Brain computation, in the early visual system, is often considered as a hierarchical process in which features extracted in a given sensory relay are not present in previous stages of integration. In particular, orientation preference and its fine tuning selectivity are functional properties shared by most cortical cells and they are not observed at the preceding geniculate stage. A classical problem is identifying the mechanisms and circuitry underlying these computations. Several organizational principles have been proposed, giving different weights to the feedforward thalamocortical drive or to intracortical recurrent architectures. Within this context, an important issue is whether intracortical inhibition is fundamental for the genesis of stimulus selectivity, or rather normalizes spike response tuning with respect to other features such as stimulus strength or contrast, without influencing the selectivity bias and preference expressed in the excitatory input alone. We review here experimental observations concerning the presence or absence of inhibitory input evoked by non-preferred orientation/directions. Intracellular current clamp and voltage clamp recordings are analyzed in the light of new methods allowing us (1) to increase the visibility of inhibitory input, and (2) to continuously measure the visually evoked dynamics of input conductances. We conclude that there exists a diversity of synaptic input combinations generating the same profile of spike-based orientation selectivity, and that this diversity most likely reflects anatomical non-homogeneities in input sampling provided by the local context of the columnar and lateral intracortical network in which the considered cortical cell is embedded.
The response properties of neurons of the postero-medial barrel sub-field of the somatosensory cortex (the cortical structure receiving information from the mystacial vibrissae can be modified as a consequence of peripheral manipulations of the afferent activity. This plasticity depends on the integrity of the cortical cholinergic innervation, which originates at the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM). The activity of the NBM is related to the behavioral state of the animal and the putative cholinergic neurons are activated by specific events, such as reward-related signals, during behavioral learning. Experimental studies on acetylcholine (ACh)-dependent cortical plasticity have shown that ACh is needed for both the induction and the expression of plastic modifications induced by sensory-cholinergic pairings. Here we review and discuss ACh-dependent plasticity and activity-dependent plasticity and ask whether these two mechanisms are linked. To address this question, we analyzed our data and tested whether changes mediated by ACh were activity-dependent. We show that ACh-dependent potentiation of response in the barrel cortex of rats observed after sensory-cholinergic pairing was not correlated to the changes in activity induced during pairing. Since these results suggest that the effect of ACh during pairing is not exerted through a direct control of the post-synaptic activity, we propose that ACh might induce its effect either pre- or post-synaptically through activation of second messenger cascades.
The study of experience-dependent plasticity has been dominated by questions of how Hebbian plasticity mechanisms act during learning and development. This is unsurprising as Hebbian plasticity constitutes the most fully developed and influential model of how information is stored in neural circuits and how neural circuitry can develop without extensive genetic instructions. Yet Hebbian plasticity may not be sufficient for understanding either learning or development: the dramatic changes in synapse number and strength that can be produced by this kind of plasticity tend to threaten the stability of neural circuits. Recent work has suggested that, in addition to Hebbian plasticity, homeostatic regulatory mechanisms are active in a variety of preparations. These mechanisms alter both the synaptic connections between neurons and the intrinsic electrical properties of individual neurons, in such a way as to maintain some constancy in neuronal properties despite the changes wrought by Hebbian mechanisms. Here we review the evidence for homeostatic plasticity in the central nervous system, with special emphasis on results from cortical preparations.

This paper details the first study of the effects of dopamine D1 receptor antagonism on the regulation of human sleep EEG (electroencephalogram). The investigational drug NNC-687 (NNC 01-0687/CEE 03-310) was administered to 20 healthy young men in doses of 5, 10, and 15 mg in a double blinded, placebo controlled, crossover design. In rats, dopamine D1 receptor antagonism can produce large increases in the amounts of both rapid eye-movement (REM) and non-rapid eye-movement (NREM) sleep. In this study, drug effects were most prominent in the first NREM period. D1 antagonism markedly reduced the peak-amplitude of delta EEG waves but increased their instantaneous frequency as well as enhancing the total number, incidence, and burst-duration of sleep spindles. The length of the first NREM period was increased up to 47% over baseline. Despite these large increases in NREM sleep time, the amount of delta EEG power accumulated over the first NREM period was conserved at baseline levels. We note that the sleep-EEG profile of D1 antagonism is very similar to that of GABAA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) receptor modulators and suggest that D1 antagonism may alter the properties of the neuronal networks which generate delta and spindle, and K-complex EEG waveforms through the upstream modulation of GABAA receptor activity.
One of the most difficult problems in experimental and clinical neurology is how to facilitate recovery of the ability to walk voluntarily. Local spinal mechanisms, descending input from the brain, and ascending sensory feedback to the brain are required for non-treadmill, self-initiated stepping. In evaluating the integrity of axons connecting the brain and spinal cord in neural injury models, the selection of behavioral tests may be at least as important as the histological procedures, if not more so. A comprehensive and clinically meaningful test battery should include assessments of brain-dependent movement capacity. Behavioral enrichment procedures that prominently encourage self-initiation of stepping have been used to facilitate plasticity and motor function after brain or spinal cord injury. Progressive degeneration characteristic of parkinsonian models can be slowed or halted altogether by forced exercise and limb use. Behavioral interventions may work partly because the animal adopts alternative behavioral strategies to compensate for impaired performance. However, mounting evidence suggests that motor rehabilitation can also promote restoration of function or prevent slow degeneration of tissue by engaging constitutively available mechanisms that protect, repair, rewire, or reactivate cells.
Impaired platelet function has been associated with an increased propensity for intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The role of platelet count and dysfunction in spontaneous ICH (SICH) is poorly understood. We tested the hypotheses that patients with SICH have subtle platelet dysfunction associated with ICH progression and larger ICH size. In a retrospective case series, we compared platelet counts in patients with SICH with age-matched controls with neuromuscular disorders admitted to a Neurosciences Critical Care Unit (NCCU). In a subset of patients, platelet function was measured within one week of ICH. Computerized tomography (CT) scans were performed within 24 hours of the event and ICH volume determined by the ABC/2 method. Comparison of 43 patients with SICH and 35 age-matched controls with neuromuscular disease demonstrated significant decreases in platelet counts over the first few days of admission to the NCCU (Nadir: 149 +/- 9 vs 202 +/- 12 IU/mm3; P = .001). There was a significant correlation between a fall in platelet count and change in hematoma size in 28 patients (P = .01). Seventeen patients were enrolled prospectively to study platelet function. Patients were divided into 2 groups based on ICH volume: &lt; or = 30 cc and &gt; 30 cc. There was an association of low platelet count at a median of 4 days with larger ICH volume (P = .01). Platelet function abnormalities, including aggregation to arachidonic acid, collagen, and ADP and ATP release reactions to thrombin and collagen, and a prolonged bleeding time were common findings in ICH patients compared to standardized controls. Platelet dysfunction was more common in large versus small ICH (80% vs 50%). Two patients with significant (&gt;15%) hematoma enlargement within the first 24 hours had significant early decreases in platelet counts and extensive platelet dysfunction. In conclusion, platelet dysfunction is common among patients with SICH. Low platelet count and platelet dysfunction may be factors in expansion of ICH volume. Further prospective studies with larger sample size are needed to assess this association.


This study has two goals. The first goal is to assess the prevalence of psychiatric disorders in orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) candidates by means of standardized procedures because there has been little research concerning psychiatric problems of potential OLT candidates using standardized instruments. The second goal focuses on identifying predictors of these psychiatric disorders. One hundred sixty-five elective OLT candidates were assessed by our unit. Psychiatric diagnoses were based on the Structured Clinical Interview for the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition. Patients also were assessed using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) and the Spielberger Anxiety Index, State and Trait forms (STAI-X1 and STAI-X2). Severity of cirrhosis was assessed by applying Child-Pugh score criteria. Chi-squared and general linear model analysis of variance were used to test the univariate association between patient characteristics and both clinical psychiatric diagnoses and severity of psychiatric diseases. Variables with P less than.10 in univariate analyses were included in multiple regression models. Forty-three percent of patients presented at least one psychiatric diagnosis. Child-Pugh score and previous psychiatric diagnoses were independent significant predictors of depressive disorders. Severity of psychiatric symptoms measured by psychometric scales (HDRS, STAI-X1, and STAI-X2) was associated with Child-Pugh score in the multiple regression model. Our data suggest a high rate of psychiatric disorders, particularly adjustment disorders, in our sample of OLT candidates. Severity of liver disease emerges as the most important variable in predicting severity of psychiatric disorders in these patients.
Early ischemic change after stroke can be demonstrated with diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and quantified by measuring the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and/or lesion volume. We examined the reliability and reproducibility of lesion volume and ADC measurement on DWI images, and discuss the implications for clinical studies. Using 38 DWI scans from 15 stroke patients, two observers (a physicist and a neuroscience graduate) blind to each other, recorded the lesion volume on DWI sequences, measured the ADC values in this volume and calculated the ratio of ischemic: control ADC (ADCr). One observer repeated his measurements blind to his first, and also examined the effect on lesion volume and ADC of deliberately varying by only one pixel, the outline of the visible boundary of the lesion. The inter and intra-rater reliability were worse for lesion volume than ADC or ADCr measurements: lesion volume, inter-rater coefficient of variation (CoV) 85 +/- 130%, intra-rater CoV 20+/-SD80% (p &lt; 0.05); ADC inter-rater CoV 7.7 +/- SD 19%, intra-rater CoV 0.2 +/- SD 12% (p = NS); and ADCr inter-rater CoV 8 +/- SD27%, intra-rater CoV 0.8 +/- SD73% (p = NS). Altering the position of the outline tracing of the lesion boundary by one pixel altered the measured volumes by 22 +/- SD25% (p &lt; 0.05), but ADC values were altered by only 2.9 +/- SD4.9% and ADCr by 2.7 +/- SD4.8% (p = NS). ADC and ADCr values are more reliable and reproducible than DWI lesion size in acute ischemic stroke because altering where the lesion boundary is measured has a much greater impact on lesion volume than on the ADC or ADCr. This effect is greatest in large lesions.
Personality profiles are often typical for specific illnesses, e.g., the type A personality and heart disease. We hypothesize that many more such patterns exist, and have developed a scheme in which many diseases can be classified, depending on hemispheric dominance (i.e., integrated, intellectualising or emotional) and type of autonomic control (i.e., dominance of either sympathetic or parasympathetic system, or an increase in both types of autonomic outflow). Our hypothesis is based on recent findings in neurophysiology, involving the early rearing environmental effects on the developing orbitofrontal cortex, and attachment theory. We conclude with implications for therapy, and a discussion of the limitations of our hypothesis.
The evidence of increased vascular morbidity and mortality associated with depression has generated research interest in studying the mechanisms or causal pathways underlying this association. Recent advances in molecular genetics have demonstrated that serotonin transporter gene functional polymorphism may confer susceptibility for affective disorder as well as for some cardiovascular risk factors. Taking into account these genetic findings, this article proposes a hypothesis that serotonin transporter gene functional polymorphism may be a plausible candidate gene to study the genetic mechanisms of depression-related increased vascular morbidity and mortality. Future research projects to test this hypothesis is warranted.
The perivitelline space of mammalian oocytes changes in size and composition during preimplantation development. Often overlooked in the past, this space contains a hyaluronan-rich extracellular matrix prior to fertilization and a cortical granule envelope following release of the cortical granules at fertilization. The hyaluronan-containing matrix of unfertilized oocytes is well developed in some species such as opossums and humans but is scant in rodents including the hamster and mouse. The significance of the hyaluronan-rich matrix, which attaches to the plasma membrane of the oocytes, is not fully understood. However, hyaluronan, which can inhibit membrane fusion, is present in the perivitelline space (PVS) of unfertilized oocytes and must be negotiated by the fertilizing sperm. Following fertilization, the cortical granule envelope forms as the cortical granules disperse, thereby causing the PVS to increase significantly in size. Calcium is important in the dispersion of the cortical granules following exocytosis. Once formed, the cortical granule envelope in some species is about the same thickness as the zona pellucida, but it is not readily visualized unless it is stained with fluorescent probes or examined ultrastructurally after following stabilization with ruthenium red. The envelope contains proteins that remain in the PVS until the time of blastocyst hatching. Although little work has been done on the functions of the cortical granule envelope, several studies are consistent with the idea that it plays a role in blocking polyspermy. While nicotine increases polyspermy in sea urchins, its effects on polyspermy in human smokers have not been characterized, but could be addressed in human in vitro fertilization labs.

A broad consensus does exist among main authors on the importance of parafunctional habits in the etiopathogenesis of temporomandibular disorders (TMD). Mechanisms through which an intense parafunctional activity determined a pathological effect on the temporomandibular joints (TMJs) and their related structures have still not been definitively clarified; nevertheless, before investigating those mechanisms, it's useful to study predisposing, triggering and/or worsening factors of parafunctions themselves. At present the theory, once widely accepted, according to which occlusal interferences can trigger a muscular hyperactivity through the activation of periodontal receptors, has lost a lot of credit. Recently, the hypothesis that bruxism and other parafunctions have a central etiology has become more and more accepted. In such a context, the role of the psychic component assumes a strong relevance, particularly for its relation with the limbic system, which is the part of the central nervous system (CNS) that regulates emotions. Such a hypothesis is confirmed by clinical practice, but it doesn't explain why some patients have reported a worsening of parafunctional activities after occlusal adjustment. The aim of this study is to investigate this issue through a critical review of the literature, indicating how the 2 theories might be complementary for the development and worsening of a parafunctional habit. From this review, despite the number of clinical opinions, there emerges a lack of methodologically appropriate associative works and controlled clinical trials which consent to clarify the effective importance of psychic and/or occlusal factors in the etiopathogenesis of parafunctional habits.
Genetic studies have shown that retinoic acid (RA) signaling is required for mouse retina development, controlled in part by an RA-generating aldehyde dehydrogenase encoded by Aldh1a2 (Raldh2) expressed transiently in the optic vesicles. We examined the function of a related gene, Aldh1a1 (Raldh1), expressed throughout development in the dorsal retina. Raldh1(-/-) mice are viable and exhibit apparently normal retinal morphology despite a complete absence of Raldh1 protein in the dorsal neural retina. RA signaling in the optic cup, detected by using a RARE-lacZ transgene, is not significantly altered in Raldh1(-/-) embryos at embryonic day 10.5, possibly due to normal expression of Aldh1a3 (Raldh3) in dorsal retinal pigment epithelium and ventral neural retina. However, at E16.5 when Raldh3 is expressed ventrally but not dorsally, Raldh1(-/-) embryos lack RARE-lacZ expression in the dorsal retina and its retinocollicular axonal projections, whereas normal RARE-lacZ expression is detected in the ventral retina and its axonal projections. Retrograde labeling of adult Raldh1(-/-) retinal ganglion cells indicated that dorsal retinal axons project to the superior colliculus, and electroretinography revealed no defect of adult visual function, suggesting that dorsal RA signaling is unnecessary for retinal ganglion cell axonal outgrowth. We observed that RA synthesis in liver of Raldh1(-/-) mice was greatly reduced, thus showing that Raldh1 indeed participates in RA synthesis in vivo. Our findings suggest that RA signaling may be necessary only during early stages of retina development and that if RA synthesis is needed in dorsal retina, it is catalyzed by multiple enzymes, including Raldh1.
Administration of opioid agonists or antagonists has been reported to regulate proliferation or survival of neural progenitors in vivo. Here we report that beta-endorphin and selective mu-opioid receptor (MOR) and delta-opioid receptor (DOR) agonists stimulate proliferation of isolated rat adult hippocampal progenitors (AHPs). The AHPs were found to express DORs and MORs, but not kappa-opioid receptors. Incubation with beta-endorphin for 48 h increased the number of AHPs found in mitosis, the total DNA content, and the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen. This proliferative effect from beta-endorphin on AHPs was antagonized by naloxone. The beta-endorphin-induced proliferation was mediated through phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 and dependent on phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and both intra- and extracellular calcium. These data suggest a role for the opioid system in the regulation of proliferation in progenitors from the adult hippocampus.
Current through voltage-gated calcium channels of rat retinal ganglion cells was recorded using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. All cells displayed high-voltage-activated currents, and 75% of these also displayed low-voltage-activated (LVA) currents. Currents could be separated on the basis of their voltage/time dependence and sensitivity to nickel ions. The group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist (2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (APDC; 100 microM) increased LVA current by 40% as did the nonselective mGluR agonist (+/-)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (tACPD; 100 microM). Neither the group I mGluR agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (100 microM) nor 5-hydroxytryptamine (100 microM) enhanced LVA current. In the presence of (S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (100 microM), a group I/II mGluR antagonist, the tACPD-induced enhancement of LVA current was blocked. The voltage dependence of the activation or inactivation kinetics was unchanged in the presence of tACPD. Inclusion in the pipette solution of GDP-beta-S (1 mM) blocked the enhancement of the LVA current by APDC, whereas GTP-gamma-S (0.5 mM) prevented recovery of the enhancement. The tACPD-mediated enhancement of the LVA current was still present in cells pretreated with pertussis or cholera toxins (500 ng x ml(-1)). Genistein (10 microM) prevented the enhancement of the LVA current. These results suggest that LVA current can be enhanced by activation of mGluR2, by a mechanism that is G-protein dependent and may involve a protein tyrosine kinase step.
Although ATP-sensitive K+ channels continue to be explored for their therapeutic potential, developments in high-affinity radioligands to investigate native and recombinant KATP channels have been less forthcoming. This study reports the identification and pharmacological characterization of a novel iodinated 1,4-dihydropyridine KATP channel opener, [125I]A-312110 [(9R)-9-(4-fluoro-3-125iodophenyl)-2,3,5,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrano[3,4-b]thieno[2,3-e]pyridin-8(7H)-one-1,1-dioxide]. Binding of [125I]A-312110 to guinea pig cardiac (KD = 5.8 nM) and urinary bladder (KD = 4.9 nM) membranes were of high affinity, saturable, and to a single set of binding sites. Displacement of [125I]A-312110 by structurally diverse potassium channel openers (KCOs) indicated a similar rank order of potency in both guinea pig cardiac and bladder membranes (Ki, heart): A-312110 (4.3 nM) &gt; N-cyano-N'-(1,1-dimethylpropyl)-N&quot;-3-pyridylguanidine (P1075) &gt; (-)-N-(2-ethoxyphenyl)-N'-(1,2,3-trimethylpropyl)-2-nitroethene-1,1-diamine (Bay X 9228) &gt; pinacidil &gt; (-)-cromakalim &gt; N-(4-benzoyl phenyl)-3,3,3-trifluro-2-hydroxy-2-methylpropionamine (ZD6169) &gt; 9-(3-cyanophenyl)-3,4,6,7,9,10-hexahydro-1,8-(2H,5H)-acridinedione (ZM244085) &gt; diazoxide (16.7 microM). Displacement by KATP channel blockers, the sulfonylurea glyburide, and the cyanoguanidine N-[1-(3-chlorophenyl)cyclobutyl]-N'-cyano-N&quot;-3-pyridinyl-guanidine (PNU-99963) were biphasic in the heart but monophasic in bladder with about a 100- to 500-fold difference in Ki values between high- and low-affinity sites. Good correlations were observed between cardiac or bladder-binding affinities of KCOs with functional activation as assessed by their respective potencies to either suppress action potential duration (APD) in Purkinje fibers or to relax electrical field-stimulated bladder contractions. Collectively, these results demonstrate that [125I]A-312110 binds with high affinity and has an improved activity profile compared with other radiolabeled KCOs. [125I]A-312110 is a useful tool for investigation of the molecular and functional properties of the KATP channel complex and for the identification, in a high throughput manner, of both novel channel blockers and openers that interact with cardiac/smooth muscle-type KATP channels.
Bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express a two-pore/four-transmembrane segment bTREK-1 K+ channel that sets the resting potential and couples hormonal signals to depolarization-dependent Ca2+ entry and cortisol secretion. It was discovered that corticotropin (1-2000 pM) enhances the expression of bTREK-1 mRNA and membrane current in cultured AZF cells. Forskolin and 8-pcpt-cAMP mimicked corticotropin induction of bTREK-1 mRNA, but angiotensin II (AII) was ineffective. The induction of bTREK-1 mRNA by corticotropin was partially blocked by the A-kinase antagonist H-89. 8-(4-Chloro-phenylthio)-2-O-methyladenosine-3'-5'-cyclic monophosphate, a cAMP analog that activates cAMP-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factors (Epac), failed to increase bTREK-1 mRNA. Corticotropin-stimulated increases in bTREK-1 mRNA were eliminated by inhibitors of protein synthesis or gene transcription. bTREK-1 current disappeared after 24 h in serum-supplemented medium, but in the presence of corticotropin, bTREK-1 expression was maintained for at least 48 h. The enhancement of bTREK-1 mRNA and ionic current contrasts with the corticotropin-induced down-regulation of the Kv1.4 voltage-gated K+ current and associated mRNA in AZF cells. These results demonstrate that corticotropin rapidly and potently induces the expression of bTREK-1 in AZF cells at the pretranslational level by a cAMP-dependent mechanism that is partially dependent on A-kinase but independent of Epac and Ca2+. They further indicate that prolonged stimulation of AZF cells by corticotropin, as occurs during long-term stress or disease, may produce pronounced changes in the expression of genes encoding ion channels, thereby reshaping the electrical properties of these cells to enhance or limit cortisol secretion.
Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) was identified as a novel gene disrupted by a (1;11)(q42.1;q14.3) translocation that segregated with schizophrenia in a Scottish family. Predicted DISC1 product has no significant homology to other known proteins. Here, we demonstrated the existence of DISC1 protein and identified fasciculation and elongation protein zeta-1 (FEZ1) as an interacting partner of DISC1 by a yeast two-hybrid study. FEZ1 and its nematode homolog are reported to represent a new protein family involved in axonal outgrowth and fasciculation. In cultured hippocampal neurons, DISC1 and FEZ1 colocalized in growth cones. Interactions of these proteins were associated with F-actin. In the course of neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells, upregulation of DISC1/FEZ1 interaction was observed as along with enhanced extension of neurites by overexpression of DISC1. The present study shows that DISC1 participates in neurite outgrowth through its interaction with FEZ1. Recent studies have provided reliable evidence that schizophrenia is a neurodevelopmental disorder. As there is a high level of DISC1 expression in developing rat brain, dysfunction of DISC1 may confer susceptibility to psychiatric illnesses through abnormal development of the nervous system.
We have mapped and sequenced both chromosome breakpoints of a balanced t(6;11)(q14.2;q25) chromosome translocation that segregates with a schizophrenia-like psychosis. Bioinformatics analysis of the regions revealed a number of confirmed and predicted transcripts. No confirmed transcripts are disrupted by either breakpoint. The chromosome 6 breakpoint region is gene poor, the closest transcript being the serotonin receptor 1E (HTR1E) at 625 kb telomeric to the breakpoint. The chromosome 11 breakpoint is situated close to the telomere. The closest gene, beta-1,3-glucuronyltransferase (B3GAT1 or GlcAT-P), is 299 kb centromeric to the breakpoint. B3GAT1 is the key enzyme during the biosynthesis of the carbohydrate epitope HNK-1, which is present on a number of cell adhesion molecules important in neurodevelopment. Mice deleted for the B3GAT1 gene show defects in hippocampal long-term potentiation and in spatial memory formation. We propose that the translocation causes a positional effect on B3GAT1, affecting expression levels and making it a plausible candidate for the psychosis found in this family. More generally, regions close to telomeres are highly polymorphic in both sequence and length in the general population and several studies have implicated subtelomeric deletions as a common cause of idiopathic mental retardation. This leads us to the hypothesis that polymorphic or other variation of the 11q telomere may affect the activity of B3GAT1 and be a risk factor for schizophrenia and related psychoses in the general population.
This study investigated force adaptation in humans during goal-directed flexion forearm motion. The ability of the motor system to adapt to changes in internal or external forces is essential for the successful control of voluntary movement. In a first experiment, we examined how under- or overdamping differentially affected the length of the adaptation and the arm kinematics between force transitions. We found that transitions diverging from a null-force produced larger transition effects than transitions converging to a null force condition, indicating that re-adaptation was less error-prone. Whether the subjects had previously experienced underdamping or the null-force had no significant impact on the spatial trajectory after switching to overdamping. That is, prior force experience had no differential effect on the spatial transition kinematics. However, the transitions underdamping-to-overdamping and underdamping-to-null force did produce differently strong transition effects. These results indicate that exposure to the new force rather than previous force-field experience is responsible for transition- and after-effects. In a second experiment, we investigated whether learning was law-like-that is, whether it generalized to unvisited workspace. Subjects were tested in new, unvisited workspaces in the null-force condition after sufficient training in either force condition. The occurrence of transferred after-effects indicated that adaptation to both positive and negative damping was mediated by rule-based rather than exclusive associative processes.
We report on a patient with pathologically proven variant Creutzfeld-Jakob disease in whom chorea was a presenting feature of the disease, and was unaccompanied by the typical prodrome of psychiatric disturbance or sensory symptoms.
We present the clinical history of a woman with idiopathic episodic focal lingual dystonic spasms. Although dystonic spasms of the tongue have been reported as a primary persistent phenomenon and as a feature of secondary dystonias, primary episodic lingual dystonias are rare, tend to be unilateral, and in contrast to most other paroxysmal movement disorders, do not appear responsive to anti-epileptic drugs.
We assessed the use of coping strategies in Parkinson's disease patients with visual hallucinations, using a semi-structured questionnaire. We found that 36 of our 46 Parkinson's disease subjects with hallucinations (78%) used coping strategies: cognitive techniques in 69%; interactive techniques in 62%; and visual techniques in 33%.
A specific allele of the NACP-Rep1 polymorphism within the alpha-synuclein promoter was found to be associated both with Parkinson's disease and essential tremor. We repeated the association study on a large series of Italian patients with essential tremor using a panel of polymorphisms within the alpha-synuclein gene. Our results did not confirm the association reported previously and failed to identify a alpha-synuclein specific haplotype as susceptibility factor for essential tremor.
We document a new oculomotor phenomenon in a patient with pathologically proven progressive supranuclear gaze palsy (PSP), namely that vertical gaze excursion improves with larger pursuit targets. We used computerised video-oculography during vertical smooth pursuit eye movements (SPEM) of circular targets of diameter 0.16 degrees and 16 degrees, sinusoidally oscillating at 0.08 Hz (peak-to-peak amplitude 49 degrees). Increasing target size improved vertical gaze excursion from 10 degrees to 25 degrees. There was no concomitant increase in slow phase eye velocity. The findings could be explained by a potentiation of the position control mechanism of pursuit by target size due to increased activation of brainstem pursuit-optokinetic pathways and to higher order attentional mechanisms. This observation may be useful in the clinical assessment of PSP patients with severe neck rigidity in whom the doll's head-eye manoeuvre cannot be performed by comparing the degree of vertical gaze palsy during smooth pursuit testing between at least two differently sized targets and observing whether there is a larger excursion in response to a large target such as a newspaper.
We assessed the feasibility and psychometric properties of two commonly used health status questionnaires in Parkinson's disease (PD): the generic Nottingham Health Profile (NHP) and the disease-specific 39-item Parkinson's disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39), from a cross-sectional postal survey of PD patients (N = 81), using traditional and Rasch measurement methodologies. Overall response rate was 88%. Both questionnaires were found feasible, although the NHP performed less well. The PDQ-39 had fewer floor effects and was better able to separate respondents into distinct groups than the NHP, whereas the latter exhibited less ambiguous dimensionality and better targeting of respondents with non-extreme scores. Reliability and validity indices were similar, and potential differential item functioning by age and gender groups was found for both questionnaires. PDQ-39 response alternatives indicated ambiguity. With few exceptions, questionnaire scales were unable to meet recommended standards fully. While preliminary, this study illustrates the need for thorough evaluation of outcome measures and has implications beyond the questionnaires used here. Although promising, both questionnaires warrant further developmental work and stronger support of measurement validity before they could be considered fully suitable for valid use in PD, in particular in earlier stages of the disease.
Four patients presented with slowly progressive, bilateral, asymmetric weakness and muscle atrophy in the lower extremities, accompanied by cramps and fasciculations. Sensory symptoms were insignificant. There was no bladder or bowel disturbance. Upper extremities and cranial nerves were normal. Weakness was found in lumbosacral myotomes, ranging from L2 to S1. The tendon reflexes varied, and extensor plantar responses were found in one case with proximal leg involvement. Nerve conduction studies were normal, but segmental chronic and often active denervation confined to the weak myotomes in the lower extremities was found in the electromyogram. Magnetic resonance imaging showed evidence of spondylotic lumbosacral myelopathy associated with disc herniation or osteophytic arthropathy at the T11/T12 spinal level in all patients, with increased signal within the adjacent cord. This unusual purely motor presentation may result from ischemic myelopathy secondary to compression of the anterior spinal artery.
Music consists of precisely patterned sequences of both movement and sound that engage the mind in a multitude of experiences. We move in response to music and we move in order to make music. Because of the intimate coupling between perception and action, music provides a panoramic window through which we can examine the neural organization of complex behaviors that are at the core of human nature. Although the cognitive neuroscience of music is still in its infancy, a considerable behavioral and neuroimaging literature has amassed that pertains to neural mechanisms that underlie musical experience. Here we review neuroimaging studies of explicit sequence learning and temporal production--findings that ultimately lay the groundwork for understanding how more complex musical sequences are represented and produced by the brain. These studies are also brought into an existing framework concerning the interaction of attention and time-keeping mechanisms in perceiving complex patterns of information that are distributed in time, such as those that occur in music.
The comparative study of music and language is drawing an increasing amount of research interest. Like language, music is a human universal involving perceptually discrete elements organized into hierarchically structured sequences. Music and language can thus serve as foils for each other in the study of brain mechanisms underlying complex sound processing, and comparative research can provide novel insights into the functional and neural architecture of both domains. This review focuses on syntax, using recent neuroimaging data and cognitive theory to propose a specific point of convergence between syntactic processing in language and music. This leads to testable predictions, including the prediction that that syntactic comprehension problems in Broca's aphasia are not selective to language but influence music perception as well.
We propose a theoretical framework for exploring the evolution of the music faculty from a comparative perspective. This framework addresses questions of phylogeny, adaptive function, innate biases and perceptual mechanisms. We argue that comparative studies can make two unique contributions to investigations of the origins of music. First, musical exposure can be controlled and manipulated to an extent not possible in humans. Second, any features of music perception found in nonhuman animals must not be part of an adaptation for music, and must rather be side effects of more general features of perception or cognition. We review studies that use animal research to target specific aspects of music perception (such as octave generalization), as well as studies that investigate more general and shared systems of the mind/brain that may be relevant to music (such as rhythm perception and emotional encoding). Finally, we suggest several directions for future work, following the lead of comparative studies on the language faculty.

Repeated cocaine treatment and withdrawal produces changes in brain function thought to be involved in relapse to drug use. Withdrawal from repeated cocaine reduced in vivo extracellular glutamate in the nucleus accumbens of rats by decreasing the exchange of extracellular cystine for intracellular glutamate. In vivo restoration of cystine/glutamate exchange by intracranial perfusion of cystine or systemically administered N-acetylcysteine normalized the levels of glutamate in cocaine-treated subjects. To determine if the reduction in nonvesicular glutamate release is a mediator of relapse, we examined cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug seeking after cocaine self-administration was stopped. Reinstatement was prevented by stimulating cystine/glutamate exchange with N-acetylcysteine and restoring extracellular glutamate. Thus, withdrawal from repeated cocaine increases susceptibility to relapse in part by reducing cystine/glutamate exchange, and restoring exchanger activity prevents cocaine-primed drug seeking.
From molecules, single cells and tissues to whole organisms, our insights into Ca2+ signalling and the corresponding physiological phenomena are growing exponentially. Here, we describe the improvements that have been made in the development of the probes and instrumentation that are used for Ca2+ imaging and the expanding applications of Ca2+ imaging in basic and applied research.

We demonstrate that the BCM learning rule follows directly from STDP when pre- and postsynaptic neurons fire uncorrelated or weakly correlated Poisson spike trains, and only nearest-neighbor spike interactions are taken into account.
We describe a patient who presented with a clinical syndrome of limbic encephalitis, narcolepsy, and cataplexy. The anti-Ma2 antibody was positive. Although there was no mass on imaging, orchiectomy was performed in this patient, and testicular carcinoma was found. This is the first known case of limbic encephalitis and anti-Ma2 antibody to be associated with cataplexy and possible narcolepsy. Neurological symptoms precede the diagnosis of cancer in 50% of patients with paraneoplastic syndromes, and clinicians are therefore strongly advised to evaluate patients with neurological symptoms for this condition.
Physical activity appears to attenuate the decline of cognitive function typically observed in older men and women. The P300 component of the event-related potential (ERP) is particularly affected by aging and allows for basic neurobiological assessment of cognitive function. Three aspects of the P300 component (i.e. latency, amplitude, and area under the curve (AUC)), elicited by an oddball task, were derived to assess cognitive function in young and older participants (N=73) who were further classified as high- and low-active. The low-active elderly participants exhibited larger AUC values than those observed in all other groups which were undifferentiated. That is, the high-active elderly and the young participants exhibited smaller AUC values than the low-active older group. In conclusion, higher levels of physical activity in the elderly may be associated with a reduction in the neural resources allocated in response to simple cognitive challenge. This interpretation is consistent with the concept of psychomotor efficiency proposed by Hatfield and Hillman [The psychophysiology of sport: a mechanistic understanding of the psychology of superior performance. In: Singer RN, Hausenbias HA, Janelle CM, editors. Handbook of sport psychology. 2nd ed. New York: Wiley; 2001, p. 362-88].
Peripherin is a type III intermediate filament protein detected in axonal spheroids associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The overexpression of peripherin induces degeneration of spinal motor neurons during aging in transgenic mice and in cultured neuronal cells derived from peripherin transgenic embryos. Here, we investigated whether peripherin is a contributor of pathogenesis in mice overexpressing a mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1(G37R)) gene linked to familial ALS. This was done by the generation and analysis of SOD1(G37R) mice that either overexpress a peripherin transgene (G37R;TgPer mice) or lack the endogenous peripherin gene (G37R;Per-/- mice). Surprisingly, upregulation or suppression of peripherin expression had no effects on disease onset, mortality, and loss of motor neurons in SOD1(G37R) mice. These results provide compelling evidence that peripherin is not a key contributor of motor neuron degeneration associated with toxicity of mutant SOD1.
Multiple sclerosis is characterized by multiple lesions with selective loss of myelin and oligodendrocytes, leading to deficits of sensation and movement, as well as cognitive disabilities. Consequently, a major research endeavor is to identify strategies to enhance oligodendrocyte regeneration and remyelination. FGF-2 is a potent mitogen for OPCs, and it is induced in astrocytes in animal models of demyelinating diseases in conjunction with successful remyelination. However, the factors responsible for inducing FGF-2 after demyelination in astrocytes are unknown. Here we show that CNTF mRNA and protein increase coincident with spinal cord remyelination in mice recovering from MHV-induced demyelination. We identify CNTF within astrocytes surrounding and within remyelinating lesions, and show that CNTF increases FGF-2 ligand and receptor mRNAs in spinal cord after direct application. Furthermore, we show that CNTF increases FGF-2 mRNA approximately 2.5-fold in cultured mouse spinal cord astrocytes. Altogether, these results strongly implicate CNTF as an important cytokine in demyelinating disease and as an upstream regulator of FGF-2 production in astrocytes during early remyelination.
The neural basis for the association between taste and odor was investigated in the rat. First, behavioral procedures to study the mechanisms underlying the association between qualitative aspects of the odor and taste in rats were developed. Rats were presented with several pairings of the 0.3 mol/L NaCl solution and a flavor, and pairings of distilled water and another flavor. Then the rats received an IP injection of a furosemide to develop sodium deficiency. On the next day, the rats were presented with either of two types of odor-flavored water: water in which the flavor had been paired with NaCl, or water in which the flavor (grape or coffee) had been paired with distilled water. Normal rats avoided ingesting the water flavored with the odor previously paired with NaCl. Sodium-deprived rats, however, ingested the water flavored with that odor. Rats with lesions in either the insular cortex or in the prefrontal cortex neither preferred nor avoided the water flavored with the odor paired with NaCl. It was concluded that rats acquire association between taste and odor, and that the insular and the prefrontal cortices of the rats were involved in this association.
Increased levels of extracellular glutamate are a consistent feature of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) associated with liver failure and other hyperammonemic pathologies. Reduction of glutamate uptake has been described in ammonia-exposed cultured astrocytes, synaptosomes, and in animal models of hyperammonemia. In the present study, we examine the effects of pathophysiological concentrations of ammonia on D-aspartate (a non-metabolizable analog of glutamate) uptake by cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons. Exposure of these cells to ammonia resulted in time-dependent (24% reduction at 24h and 60% reduction at 5 days, P&lt;0.001) and dose-dependent (21, 37, and 57% reduction at 1, 2.5, and 5mM for 5 days, P&lt;0.01) suppression of D-aspartate uptake. Kinetic analyses revealed significant decreases in the velocity of uptake (V(max)) (37% decrease at 2.5mM NH(4)Cl, P&lt;0.05 and 52% decrease at 5mM NH(4)Cl, P&lt;0.001) as well as significant reductions in K(m) values (25% reduction at 2.5mM NH(4)Cl, P&lt;0.05 and 45% reduction at 5mM NH(4)Cl, P&lt;0.001). Western blotting, on the other hand, showed no significant changes in the neuronal glutamate transporter EAAC1/EAAT3 protein, the only glutamate transporter currently known to be expressed by these cells. In addition, 1H combined with 13C-NMR spectroscopy studies using the stable isotope [1-13C]-glucose demonstrated a significant increase in intracellular glutamate levels derived from the oxidative metabolism of glucose, rather than from the deamidation of exogenous glutamine in cultured granule neurons exposed to ammonia. The present study provides evidence that the effects of ammonia on glutamate uptake are not solely an astrocytic phenomenon and that unlike the astrocytic glutamate transporter counterpart, EAAT3 protein expression in cultured cerebellar granule cells is not down-regulated when exposed to ammonia. Decrease of glutamate uptake in these cellular preparations may afford an additional regulatory mechanism aimed at controlling intracellular levels of glutamate and ultimately the releasable pool of glutamate in neurons.
Pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate (PDTC) is a compound displaying antioxidant, pro-oxidant and metal chelator properties in different cell types. It has been described that PDTC may exert either anti-apoptotic or apoptotic activity. Moreover it is known that this agent regulates the activity of redox-sensitive transcription factors, such as AP-1 and NF-kappaB. Using cerebellar granule cells (CGCs), a well-described model of neuronal primary cultures, we investigated the effects of different concentrations of this compound on cell viability and the intracellular mechanisms involved. PDTC used at concentrations, as low as 1 microM, exerts cytotoxic effects on CGC through the activation of the apoptotic machinery with a maximal efficacy for concentration of 10 microM. The PDTC-dependent apoptosis is correlated to a biphasic and long-lasting increase of AP-1 binding to the DNA, apparently without affecting the NF-kappaB whose activity was reduced only at much higher concentrations (100 microM). PDTC treatment enhanced ERK phosphorylation (maximal effect 1h) and p38 phosphorylation (maximal effect 7h) that was accompanied by an increase of both mRNA and protein of c-Jun. In conclusion the results presented show that PDTC exerts apoptotic effects on CGC, that are correlated to the activation of stress-pathways, involving mainly AP-1 and MAPKs.

Although estrogen is best known for its effects on the maturation and differentiation of the primary and secondary sex organs, increasing evidence suggests that its influence extends beyond this system, and its activity in the CNS may initiate, or influence our susceptibility to neurodegenerative decline. Estrogen has been proposed to act as a neuroprotectant at several levels, and it is probable that deprivation of estrogen as a result of menopause exposes the aging or diseased brain to several insults. In addition, estrogen deprivation is likely to initiate or enhance degenerative changes caused by oxidative stress, and to reduce the brain's ability to maintain synaptic connectivity and cholinergic integrity leading to the cognitive decline seen in aged and disease-afflicted individuals.
Steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1) amplifies genomic steroid hormone signal transduction and has been implicated in steroid-mediated sexual differentiation of the mammalian nervous system. We investigated the possible effect of an SRC-1 null mutation on 2 morphological endpoints of androgenic signaling: the number and size of motoneurons within the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB). In wild-type C57/BL6 mice, SRC-1 immunoreactive nuclei were observed within the SNB and one of its target muscles, the levator ani. However, SRC-1 null mice were indistinguishable from sex-matched wild-type littermates in both SNB number and cross-sectional area of SNB motoneurons. Similarly, we found no difference between SRC-1 null and wildtype littermates in the number or size of motoneurons in the retrodorsolateral nucleus, a motor pool that is not typically sexually differentiated in either number or size. These results demonstrate that SRC-1 is not essential for the development and maintenance of a sexually dimorphic neuromuscular system.
This technical note describes the construction of posterior probability maps that enable conditional or Bayesian inferences about regionally specific effects in neuroimaging. Posterior probability maps are images of the probability or confidence that an activation exceeds some specified threshold, given the data. Posterior probability maps (PPMs) represent a complementary alternative to statistical parametric maps (SPMs) that are used to make classical inferences. However, a key problem in Bayesian inference is the specification of appropriate priors. This problem can be finessed using empirical Bayes in which prior variances are estimated from the data, under some simple assumptions about their form. Empirical Bayes requires a hierarchical observation model, in which higher levels can be regarded as providing prior constraints on lower levels. In neuroimaging, observations of the same effect over voxels provide a natural, two-level hierarchy that enables an empirical Bayesian approach. In this note we present a brief motivation and the operational details of a simple empirical Bayesian method for computing posterior probability maps. We then compare Bayesian and classical inference through the equivalent PPMs and SPMs testing for the same effect in the same data.
Cognitive reserve (CR) is the ability of an individual to cope with advancing brain pathology so that he remains free of symptomatology. Epidemiological evidence and in vivo neurometabolic data suggest that CR may be mediated through education or IQ. The goal of this study was to investigate CR-mediated differential brain activation in 17 healthy young adults and 19 healthy elders. Using nonquantitative H(2)(15)O PET scanning, we assessed relative regional cerebral blood flow while subjects performed a serial recognition memory task under two conditions: nonmemory control (NMC), in which one shape was presented in each study trial; and titrated demand (TD), in which study list length was adjusted so that each subject recognized shapes at approximately 75% accuracy. A factor score that summarized years of education and scores on two IQ indices was used as an index of CR. Voxel-wise, multiple regression analyses were performed with TD minus NMC difference PET counts as the dependent variable and the CR variable as the independent variable of interest. We identified brain regions where regression slopes were different from zero in each separate group, and also those where regression slopes differed between the two age groups. The slopes were significantly more positive in the young in the right inferior temporal gyrus, right postcentral gyrus, and cingulate, while the elderly had a significantly more positive slope in left cuneus. Brain regions where systematic relationships between CR and brain activation differ as a function of aging are loci where compensation for aging has occurred. They may mediate differential ability to cope with brain changes in aging.
This study aimed to explore the heterogeneity of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and detect differences in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and cognitive function between progressive mild cognitive impairment (PMCI) and stable mild cognitive impairment (SMCI) in order to identify specific changes useful for early diagnosis of dementia. SPECT was performed in 82 MCI subjects and 20 controls using Tc-99m hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime. Cognitive functions were tested in five domains which included episodic memory, semantic memory, visuospatial function, attention, and general cognitive function. After the initial examination, MCI subjects were clinically followed for an average of 2 years. Twenty-eight subjects progressed to dementia and were defined as PMCI at baseline and 54 subjects remained stable and were defined as SMCI at baseline. The baseline rCBF and cognitive function of PMCI, SMCI, and controls were compared. PMCI had decreased relative rCBF in the parietal lobes and increased relative rCBF in prefrontal cortex compared to SMCI and controls at baseline. The cognitive function of PMCI was more severely impaired compared to SMCI with respect to episodic memory and visuospatial and general cognitive function. Both SPECT and neuropsychological tests had moderate discriminant function between PMCI and SMCI at baseline with the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve at 75-77%. The combination of these two methods improved the diagnostic accuracy with the area under the ROC curve at 82-84%. Semantic memory and attention were negatively correlated with left prefrontal relative rCBF among the study population. The results show that the clinical heterogeneity of MCI is reflected in different patterns of psychological and CBF changes. Combined SPECT investigation and neuropsychological testing might predict the future development of dementia in patients with MCI.
Effects of gender and age on structural brain asymmetry were studied by 3D texture analysis in 380 adults. Asymmetry is detected by comparing the complex 3D gray-scale image patterns in the left and right cerebral hemispheres as revealed by anatomical T1-weighted MRI datasets. The Talairach and Tournoux parcellation system was applied to study the asymmetry on five levels: the whole cerebrum, nine coronal sections, 12 axial sections, boxes resulting from both coronal and axial subdivisions, and by a sliding spherical window of 9 mm diameter. The analysis revealed that the brain asymmetry increases in the anterior-posterior direction starting from the central region onward. Male brains were found to be more asymmetric than female. This gender-related effect is noticeable in all brain areas but is most significant in the superior temporal gyrus, Heschl's gyrus, the adjacent white matter regions in the temporal stem and the knee of the optic radiation, the thalamus, and the posterior cingulate. The brain asymmetry increases significantly with age in the inferior frontal gyrus, anterior insula, anterior cingulate, parahippocampal gyrus, retrosplenial cortex, coronal radiata, and knee region of the internal capsule. Asymmetry decreases with age in the optic radiation, precentral gyrus, and angular gyrus. The texture-based method reported here is based on extended multisort cooccurrence matrices that employ intensity, gradient, and anisotropy features in a uniform way. It is sensitive, simple to reproduce, robust, and unbiased in the sense that segmentation of brain compartments and spatial transformations are not necessary. Thus, it should be considered as another tool for digital morphometry in neuroscience.
Neuroimaging (PET and fMRI) studies have identified a set of brain areas responding more to faces than to other object categories in the visual extrastriate cortex of humans. This network includes the middle lateral fusiform gyrus (the fusiform face area, or FFA) as well as the inferior occipital gyrus (occipital face area, OFA). The exact functions of these areas in face processing remain unclear although it has been argued that their primary function is to distinguish faces from nonface object categories-&quot;face detection&quot;-or also to discriminate among faces, irrespective of their visual familiarity to the observer. Here, we combined the data from two previous positron emission tomography (PET) studies to show that the functionally defined face areas are involved in the automatic discrimination between unfamiliar faces and familiar faces. Consistent with previous studies, a face localizer contrast (faces-objects) revealed bilateral activation in the middle lateral fusiform gyrus (FFA, BA37) and in the right inferior occipital cortex (OFA, BA19). Within all the regions of the right hemisphere, larger levels of activation were found for unfamiliar as compared to familiar faces. These results suggest that the very same areas involved in categorizing faces at the basic or individual level, play a role in differentiating familiar faces from new faces, showing an overlap between visual and presemantic mnesic representations of faces in the right hemisphere.
Recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) work has suggested that cortical reorganisation might have an adaptive role in limiting the clinical impact of multiple sclerosis (MS) structural damage. In this study, we investigated whether, in patients with MS, the presence and extent of structural damage of the normal-appearing brain tissue are associated with the extent of the movement-associated pattern of cortical activations. Using fMRI and a general search method, we assessed the patterns of brain activations associated with simple motor tasks in 12 right-handed patients with clinically definite MS and nonspecific T2-weighted abnormalities on conventional MRI scans of the brain and compared them with those from 12 sex- and age-matched right- handed healthy controls. Also investigated were the extent to which the fMRI changes correlated with normal-appearing white matter and grey matter (GM) pathology, measured using diffusion tensor MRI. When performing the simple motor task with the dominant hand, MS patients had more significant activations of the ipsilateral supplementary motor area (SMA), the ipsilateral superior frontal sulcus, the contralateral superior temporal gyrus, and the thalamus than controls. On the contrary, healthy subjects showed more significant activations of the medial part of the contralateral parieto-occipital fissure and the ipsilateral primary sensorimotor cortex (SMC) than patients with MS. In patients with MS, the relative activation of the ipsilateral SMA was correlated with the peak height (r = -0.88, P &lt; 0.001) and position (r = 0.87, P &lt; 0.001) of the GM mean diffusivity histogram. This study shows that cortical reorganisation occurs over a rather distributed sensorimotor network even in patients with MS and nonspecific abnormalities on conventional brain MRI scans. This suggests that, in patients with MS, an increased recruitment of movement-associated cortical network can be elicited by the presence of normal-appearing tissue pathology, which is independent of macroscopic T2-weighted abnormalities.
In the present event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study, the neural implementation of human working memory was reinvestigated using a factorial design with verbal and visuospatial item-recognition tasks each performed under single-task conditions, under articulatory suppression, and under visuospatial suppression. This approach allowed to differentiate between brain systems subserving domain-specific working memory processes and possible neural correlates of more &quot;central&quot; executive or storage functions. The results of this study indicate (1) a domain-specific functional-neuroanatomical organization of verbal and visuospatial working memory, (2) a dual architecture of verbal working memory in contrast to a unitary macroscopic architecture of visuospatial working memory, (3) possible neural correlates for a domain-unspecific &quot;episodic buffer&quot; in contrast to a failure to find brain areas attributable to a &quot;central executive,&quot; and (4) competition for neuronal processing resources as the causal principle for the occurrence of domain-specific interference in working memory.
In this paper we investigate the within-subject variability of dynamical aspects of the BOLD response obtained in a series of fMRI sessions several days apart. Five different parameters describing the temporal behavior of trial-averaged time courses, such as time-to-peak and time-to-onset, were estimated and analyzed with respect to their variability across nine sessions. Results show that small variances of the estimated parameters can be found, provided that the analysis is restricted to voxels activated in all individual sessions. Among the investigated parameters, time-to-peak shows the most stable behavior. These results were obtained using two different analysis methods, the estimation of the parameters directly from trial-averaged time courses and fitting trial-averaged time courses to an assumed hemodynamic response function. Both methods yield comparable results.
We describe a Bayesian estimation and inference procedure for fMRI time series based on the use of General Linear Models with Autoregressive (AR) error processes. We make use of the Variational Bayesian (VB) framework which approximates the true posterior density with a factorised density. The fidelity of this approximation is verified via Gibbs sampling. The VB approach provides a natural extension to previous Bayesian analyses which have used Empirical Bayes. VB has the advantage of taking into account the variability of hyperparameter estimates with little additional computational effort. Further, VB allows for automatic selection of the order of the AR process. Results are shown on simulated data and on data from an event-related fMRI experiment.
The &quot;line-bisection&quot; task has proven an especially useful clinical tool for assessment of spatial neglect syndrome in neurological patients. Here, we investigated the neural processes involved in performing this task by recording high-density event-related potentials from 128 scalp electrodes in normal observers. We characterized a robust net negative potential from 170-400 ms poststimulus presentation that correlates with line-bisection judgments. Topographic mapping shows three distinct phases to this negativity. The first phase (approximately 170-190 ms) has a scalp distribution exclusively over the right parieto-occipital and lateral occipital scalp, consistent with generators in the region of the right temporo-parietal junction and right lateral occipital cortices. The second phase (approximately 190-240 ms) sees the emergence of a second negative focus over the right central parietal scalp, consistent with subsequent involvement of right superior parietal cortices. In the third phase (approximately 240-400 ms), the topography becomes dominated by this right central parietal negativity. Inverse source modeling confirmed that right hemisphere lateral occipital, inferior parietal, and superior parietal regions were the likeliest generators of the bulk of the activity associated with this effect. The line stimuli were also presented at three contrast levels (3, 25, and 100%) in order to manipulate both the latency of stimulus processing and the relative contributions from magnocellular and parvocellular inputs. Through this manipulation, we show that the line-bisection effect systematically tracks/follows the latency of the N1 component, which is considered a temporal marker for object processing in the ventral visual stream. This pattern of effects suggests that this task invokes an allocentric (object-based) form of visuospatial attention. Further, at 3% contrast, the line-bisection effect was equivalent to the effects seen at higher contrast levels, suggesting that parvocellular inputs are not necessary for successful performance of this task.
Aging reduces cerebral blood flow in association cortices during rest. However, the influence of age on functional brain activation is still controversial. The aim of our study was to examine age dependency of brain activation in primary and association cortices. Therefore, changes in the concentration of oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin as well as changes in the redox state of cytochrome-c-oxidase (Cyt-Ox) were measured by functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) in the lateral prefrontal and motor cortices during an event-related Stroop interference task. Fourteen young (23.9 +/- 3.1 years old) and 14 elderly subjects (65.1 +/- 3.1) participated in the study. Data revealed two effects of aging on brain activation: (1) Elderly and young subjects used the lateral prefrontal cortex to cope with interference during the Stroop task. In young subjects, the vascular response was higher during incongruent than neutral trials in the entire examined lateral prefrontal cortex. However, in the elderly, all lateral prefrontal regions showed a hemodynamic response but not necessarily a specific interference effect. (2) The hemodynamic response was reduced in elderly subjects in the lateral prefrontal association cortex, but obviously not in the motor cortex. We propose that calculating effect sizes is the only reliable approach to analyze age-related effects in fNIRS studies, because they are independent from the assumed differential pathlength factor. In summary, our findings suggest that aging decreases the hemodynamic response in the frontal association cortex during functional activation, omitting the primary motor cortex.
Theories of visual selective attention posit that both spatial location and nonspatial stimulus features (e.g., color) are elementary dimensions on which top-down attentional control mechanisms can selectively influence visual processing. Neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that regions of superior frontal and parietal cortex are critically involved in the control of visual-spatial attention. This frontoparietal control network has also been found to be activated when attention is oriented to nonspatial stimulus features (e.g., motion). To test the generality of the frontoparietal network in attentional control, we directly compared spatial and nonspatial attention in a cuing paradigm. Event-related fMRI methods permitted the isolation of attentional control activity during orienting to a location or to a nonspatial stimulus feature (color). Portions of the frontoparietal network were commonly activated to the spatial and nonspatial cues. However, direct statistical comparisons of cue-related activity revealed subregions of the frontoparietal network that were significantly more active during spatial than nonspatial orienting when all other stimulus, task, and attentional factors were equated. No regions of the frontal-parietal network were more active for nonspatial cues in comparison to spatial cues. These findings support models suggesting that subregions of the frontal-parietal network are highly specific for controlling spatial selective attention.
Recent functional imaging studies have referred to a posterior region of the left midfusiform gyrus as the &quot;visual word form area&quot; (VWFA). We review the evidence for this claim and argue that neither the neuropsychological nor neuroimaging data are consistent with a cortical region specialized for visual word form representations. Specifically, there are no reported cases of pure alexia who have deficits limited to visual word form processing and damage limited to the left midfusiform. In addition, we present functional imaging data to demonstrate that the so-called VWFA is activated by normal subjects during tasks that do not engage visual word form processing such as naming colors, naming pictures, reading Braille, repeating auditory words, and making manual action responses to pictures of meaningless objects. If the midfusiform region has a single function that underlies all these tasks, then it does not correspond to visual word form processing. On the other hand, if the region participates in several functions as defined by its interactions with other cortical areas, then identifying the neural system sustaining visual word form representations requires identification of the set of regions involved. We conclude that there is no evidence that visual word form representations are subtended by a single patch of neuronal cortex and it is misleading to label the left midfusiform region as the visual word form area.
Primary brain ischemia following subarachnoid hemorrhage is a major cause of morbidity and mortality. This study aims to determine whether changes in cerebral tissue oxygenation are related to cerebral blood flow changes in the acute phase following experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage. The endovascular puncture model was used to study subarachnoid hemorrhage in male Wistar rats with a tissue oxygenation probe and a laser Doppler probe placed contralateral to the side of hemorrhage. Following the subarachnoid hemorrhage intracranial pressure rose to 53.0 +/- 9.8 mmHg (mean +/- SEM). This was associated with a fall in cerebral blood flow to 43.9% +/- 7.1% of its baseline value and a fall in tissue oxygenation to 42.8% +/- 7.7% of baseline. The time course of the fall and recovery in tissue oxygenation was closely correlated to that of the cerebral blood flow (r = 0.66, p = 0.02). The fall in cerebral blood flow was associated with a 42.1% +/- 6.47% fall in the concentration of moving blood cells and a rise of 181.2% +/- 27.2% in velocity indicating acute microcirculatory vasoconstriction. Interstitial tissue oxygenation changes mirrored changes in cerebral blood flow indicating that a change in oxygen delivery was occurring.

Pre-exposure to psychostimulants enhances the rewarding and psychomotor stimulating effects of subsequent drug exposure. Currently, there is a prevalence of adolescent exposure to the psychostimulants methylphenidate (MPD) and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). However, there is a paucity of investigation concerning the long-term behavioral consequences of exposure to these stimulants during adolescence. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of MPD and MDMA exposure in adolescence on cocaine-induced reward and psychomotor stimulation in adulthood. Adolescent Swiss-Webster mice received intraperitoneal injections of saline, MPD (10 mg/kg) or MDMA (10 mg/kg) from PD 26 to PD 32. Animal weights were monitored during and after drug administration. One month later, cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) and locomotor activity (LMA) were investigated. MPD and MDMA inhibited weight increase from PD 28 to PD 39 compared to the saline group, but weights amongst the three groups equalized by PD 46. MDMA exposure resulted in the same magnitude of cocaine (20 mg/kg)-induced CPP as saline exposure; however, MPD exposure caused significantly less CPP. Two weeks following extinction of CPP and withdrawal from cocaine, a priming injection of cocaine (5 mg/kg) reinstated significantly higher CPP in the MPD and MDMA groups than in the saline group. In the LMA experiments, cocaine (15 mg/kg) was administered for 5 consecutive days. On days 1 and 5, cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion in the MPD group was significantly higher than in the saline and MDMA groups. After a 2-week withdrawal period, cocaine (5 mg/kg) evoked significantly higher LMA responses in the MPD and MDMA groups compared to the saline group. Results suggest that exposure of mice to both MPD and MDMA during adolescence involves long-lasting neural adaptations, manifested as sensitized responses to cocaine-induced reward and psychomotor stimulation following cocaine withdrawal.
General anaesthetics exhibiting enantioselectivity afford valuable tools to assess the fundamental mechanisms underlying anaesthesia. Here, we characterised the actions of the R-(+)- and S-(-)-enantiomers of etomidate. In mice and tadpoles, R-(+)-etomidate was more potent (approximately 10-fold) than S-(-)-etomidate in producing loss of the righting reflex. In electrophysiological and radioligand binding assays, the enantiomers of etomidate positively regulated GABAA receptor function at anaesthetic concentrations and with an enantioselectivity paralleling their in vivo activity. GABA-evoked currents mediated by human recombinant GABAA receptors were potentiated by either R-(+)- or S-(-)-etomidate in a manner dependent upon receptor subunit composition. A direct, GABA-mimetic, effect was similarly subunit dependent. Modulation of GABA receptor activity was selective; R-(+)-etomidate inhibited nicotinic acetylcholine, or 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor subtypes only at supra-clinical concentrations and ionotropic glutamate receptor isoforms were essentially unaffected. Acting upon reticulothalamic neurones in rat brain slices, R-(+)-etomidate prolonged the duration of miniature IPSCs and modestly enhanced their peak amplitude. S-(-)-etomidate exerted qualitatively similar, but weaker, actions. In a model of locomotor activity, fictive swimming in Xenopus laevis tadpoles, R-(+)- but not S-(-)-etomidate exerted a depressant influence via enhancement of GABAergic neurotransmission. Collectively, these observations strongly implicate the GABAA receptor as a molecular target relevant to the anaesthetic action of etomidate.
Recently, there has been great interest in errorless learning as a new intervention technique. This may be because there are data from both basic neuroscience and clinical application that suggest it is superior to more traditional trial and error methods. In the contemporary literature the most prominent investigations of errorless learning are those designed for rehabilitation of memory impairments. These studies include numerous demonstrations of effective amelioration of word finding difficulties using errorless intervention. The aphasic literature contains no examples of purely errorless learning methods, however, some studies have successfully treated anomia using error reducing techniques. This suggests that errorless learning could be advantageous for treating aphasic disorders, in particular anomia. To explore this idea, we discuss previous research and review two current theories of errorless learning. We provide our own framework for thinking about errorless and errorful learning. In addition, a review of the anomia treatment literature (from 1985 to the present) is presented and conclusions drawn on the methods of treating the word finding difficulties of patients with aphasia.
While many have suggested that protein synthesis may mediate the action of antipsychotic drugs, it is difficult to test. In this math modeling study it is found that the time course of action of the drugs are compatible with a protein-synthesis model and, furthermore, that the half-lives required by the model are indeed found in relevant proteins in the brain.
This paper addresses the issue of stability and flexibility of neural systems, and how a balance can be achieved. Assuming a close correspondence with cognitive and mental processes, we use a cortical neural network model to investigate how regulation of the neurodynamics can result in an efficient information processing, in terms of learning and associative memory. In particular, we use this model to investigate relations between structure, dynamics, and function of a neural system, and how the stability-flexibility dilemma may be solved by proper regulation. We focus on the complex neurodynamics and its modulation, and how this is related to the neural circuitry, where synaptic modification and network pruning are considered. Finally, we discuss the relevance of these results to clinical and experimental neuroscience and speculate on a link between neural instability and mental disorders.
The mechanisms of anesthesia are surprisingly little understood. The present article summarizes current knowledge about the function of general anesthetics at different organization levels of the nervous system. It argues that a consensus view can be constructed, assuming that general anesthetics modulate the activity of ion channels, the main targets being GABA and NMDA channels and possibly voltage-gated and background channels, thereby hyperpolarizing neurons in thalamocortical loops, which lead to disruption of coherent oscillatory activity in the cortex. Two computational cases are used to illustrate the possible importance of molecular level effects on cellular level activity. Subtle differences in the mechanism of ion channel block can be shown to cause considerable differences in the modification of the oscillatory activity in a single neuron, and consequently in an associated network. Finally, the relation between the anesthesia problem and the classical consciousness problem is discussed, and some consequences of introducing the phenomenon of degeneracy into the picture are pointed out.
The knowledge that spontaneous or induced convulsions can improve mental disorders has been present for several centuries. electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) has undergone fundamental changes since its introduction, and in the last 15-20 years there has been a legitimate renewal of interest for this therapy. Today the indications for use of ECT seem well codified, and its technique and practices have evolved considerably. It is now firmly established as an important and effective method of treating certain severe forms of depression. However, still very little is known about the mechanism of ECT. In this paper, first, we will give a short overview as to how far we have got concerning ECT in relation to various clinical and biological variables. Second, we will describe ECT in relation to electroencephalographic (EEG) technique and clinical outcome as well as give some proposals as to how to go on with the data analysis of EEG. In conclusion, the superior effect of ECT compared to other antidepressives in severe depression may depend on neurochemical and neurobiological cascade effects initiated by repeated treatments. Above all, ECT offers a unique experimental opportunity to study how neuromodulation of the major transmitter systems may be involved in brain dynamics and alteration of connectivity.
A fundamental impediment to an &quot;Integrative Neuroscience&quot; is the sense that scientists building models at one particular scale often see that scale as the epicentre of all brain function. This fragmentation has begun to change in a very distinctive way. Multidisciplinary efforts have provided the impetus to break down the boundaries and encourage a freer exchange of information across disciplines and scales. Despite huge deficits of knowledge, sufficient facts about the brain already exist, for an Integrative Neuroscience to begin to lift us clear of the jungle of detail, and shed light upon the workings of the brain as a system. Integrations of brain theory can be tested using judicious paradigm designs and measurement of temporospatial activity reflected in brain imaging technologies. However, to test realistically these new hypotheses requires consistent findings of the normative variability in very large numbers of control subjects, coupled with high sensitivity and specificity of findings in psychiatric disorders. Most importantly, these findings need to be analyzed and modeled with respect to the fundamental mechanisms underlying these measures. Without this convergence of theory, databases, and methodology (including across scale physiologically realistic numerical models), the clinical utility of brain imaging technologies in psychiatry will be significantly impeded. The examples provided in this paper of integration of theory, temporospatial integration of neuroimaging technologies, and a numerical simulation of brain function, bear testimony to the ongoing conversion of an Integrative Neuroscience from an exemplar status into reality.
Topiramate is currently used in the treatment of epilepsy, but this anticonvulsant drug has also been reported to exert mood-stabilizing effects and induce weight loss in patients. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is abundantly and widely distributed in the mammalian central nervous system and centrally administered NPY markedly reduces pharmacologically induced seizures and induces antidepressant-like activity as well as feeding behavior. Two other peptides, galanin and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), have also been proposed to play a modulatory role in mood, appetite, and seizure regulation. Consequently, we investigated the effects of single and repeated topiramate (10 days, once daily: 40 mg/kg i.p.) or vehicle treatment in 'depressed' flinders sensitive line (FSL) and control Flinders resistant line (FRL) rats on brain regional peptide concentrations of NPY, galanin, and CRH. The handling associated with repeated injections reduced hippocampal levels of NPY- and galanin-like immunoreactivities (LI) while NPY- and CRH-LI levels were increased in the hypothalamus, regardless of strain or treatment. In the hippocampus, concentrations of NPY-LI, galanin-LI, and CRH-LI were lower in FSL than FRL animals. Repeated topiramate treatment selectively normalized NPY-LI in this region in the FSL animals. In the hypothalamus, galanin-LI was reduced in FSL compared to FRL animals. Topiramate elevated the hypothalamic concentrations of NPY-LI, CRH-LI, and galanin-LI in both strains. Furthermore, topiramate elevated serum leptin but not corticosterone levels. The present findings show that topiramate has distinct effects on abnormal hippocampal levels of NPY, with possible implications for its anticonvulsant and mood-stabilizing effects. Furthermore, stimulating hypothalamic NPY-LI, CRH-LI and galanin-LI as well as serum leptin levels may be associated with the weight loss-inducing effects of topiramate.
Anxiety may play a role in the initiation of smoking and there is evidence to suggest that sex and age may predetermine responses to nicotine. At present, the greatest increase in smoking is in women and it is often accompanied by dieting. The purpose of the present study was to investigate how the impact of dietary restriction might modify the effects of nicotine in female adult and adolescent rats. The effects of nicotine in the elevated plus-maze test of anxiety were compared in free-feeding animals and those subjected to dietary restriction that reduced body weight to 85% of free-feeding weight. In nondeprived adult females, nicotine (0.05-0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) reduced the percentage of time spent on the open arms, indicating anxiogenic effects. However, the effects of nicotine were dramatically changed in food-restricted adult females and 0.05 mg/kg had a striking anxiolytic effect. No significant effects of nicotine were found in the adolescent female rats, suggesting a role of circulating sex hormones in modulating nicotine's effects on anxiety. However, in the adolescent females, dietary restriction significantly increased the percentages of time spent and entries onto the open arms, without changing closed arm entries, indicating an anxiolytic effect. These results raise the important possibility that, in prepubertal girls, dietary restriction may have anxiolytic effects and this might contribute to the onset of anorexia. Circulating female hormones reduce this effect, but in adult females the combination of dietary restriction and nicotine may have important anxiolytic effects that impact on the initiation of regular smoking.
The involvement of adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptors in the motor effects of caffeine is still a matter of debate. In the present study, counteraction of the motor-depressant effects of the selective A(1) receptor agonist CPA and the A(2A) receptor agonist CGS 21680 by caffeine, the selective A(1) receptor antagonist CPT, and the A(2A) receptor antagonist MSX-3 was compared. CPT and MSX-3 produced motor activation at the same doses that selectively counteracted motor depression induced by CPA and CGS 21680, respectively. Caffeine also counteracted motor depression induced by CPA and CGS 21680 at doses that produced motor activation. However, caffeine was less effective than CPT at counteracting CPA and even less effective than MSX-3 at counteracting CGS 21680. On the other hand, when administered alone in habituated animals, caffeine produced stronger motor activation than CPT or MSX-3. An additive effect on motor activation was obtained when CPT and MSX-3 were coadministered. Altogether, these results suggest that the motor-activating effects of acutely administered caffeine in rats involve the central blockade of both A(1) and A(2A) receptors. Chronic exposure to caffeine in the drinking water (1.0 mg/ml) resulted in tolerance to the motor effects of an acute administration of caffeine, lack of tolerance to amphetamine, apparent tolerance to MSX-3 (shift to the left of its 'bell-shaped' dose-response curve), and true cross-tolerance to CPT. The present results suggest that development of tolerance to the effects of A(1) receptor blockade might be mostly responsible for the tolerance to the motor-activating effects of caffeine and that the residual motor-activating effects of caffeine in tolerant individuals might be mostly because of A(2A) receptor blockade.
This study examined the effects of beta-adrenergic and muscarinic blockade on spatial learning and strategy use in the water maze. Male Long-Evans rats received systemic injections of propranolol (PRO; 10 or 20 mg/kg) or scopolamine (SCO; 0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg) either singly or in combination. To separate strategies learning from spatial learning approximately half of the rats underwent water maze strategies pretraining prior to drug administration and spatial training. PRO did not impair performance in any group. SCO impaired naive but not pretrained rats. PRO and SCO given together in high doses impaired all aspects of behavior in both naive and pretrained rats, and caused sensorimotor disturbances in some groups. PRO (10 mg/kg) and SCO (0.3 mg/kg) together caused a specific spatial reversal learning impairment in pretrained rats without causing strategies impairments or sensorimotor disturbances. Nadolol administered with SCO failed to produce the same impairments as PRO, suggesting that PRO produced its effects by acting on central nervous system sites. These results point to a greater than additive impairing effect of PRO and SCO on adaptive behavior, and a specific role for beta-adrenergic and cholinergic systems working in conjunction in spatial learning. They also suggest that some of the behavioral and cognitive impairments seen in Alzheimer patients or patients receiving pharmacotherapy with beta-adrenergic antagonists in which cholinergic activity is also compromised may result from the combined impairment of beta-adrenergic and cholinergic systems.
Although acupuncture is increasingly utilized for medical therapy, its mechanism of action remains uncertain. We used transcranial magnetic stimulation to demonstrate lateralized effects of motor cortex excitability with this technique. Right-sided reduction in motor cortex excitability and a tendency to the opposite effect on the left side was seen with acupuncture. Sham needle insertions did not result in significant changes of motor cortex excitability. These findings provide new neurophysiological evidence of cortical excitability modulation complementary to findings derived from functional neuroimaging studies.
Biofeedback-assisted modulation of electrocortical activity has been established to have intrinsic clinical benefits and has been shown to improve cognitive performance in healthy humans. In order to further investigate the pedagogic relevance of electroencephalograph (EEG) biofeedback (neurofeedback) for enhancing normal function, a series of investigations assessed the training's impact on an ecologically valid real-life behavioural performance measure: music performance under stressful conditions in conservatoire students. In a pilot study, single-blind expert ratings documented improvements in musical performance in a student group that received training on attention and relaxation related neurofeedback protocols, and improvements were highly correlated with learning to progressively raise theta (5-8 Hz) over alpha (8-11 Hz) band amplitudes. These findings were replicated in a second experiment where an alpha/theta training group displayed significant performance enhancement not found with other neurofeedback training protocols or in alternative interventions, including the widely applied Alexander technique.
Intrastriatal hemorrhage in rats causes neurodegenaration of the substantia nigra (SN) followed by the appearance of ED1(+) cells (macrophage/microglia). ED1(+) cells were observed for at least 8 weeks after hemorrhage. Phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) was shown in ED1(+) cells with the expression of both brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA and BDNF, suggesting that activated-p38 MAPK(+)/ED1(+) cells would produce BDNF and may exhibit trophic effect on the degenerating neurons in the SN. However, in ELISA, BDNF protein decreased significantly in ipsilateral SN at 7 days after hemorrhage, which may be due to a dramatic decrease of BDNF immunoreactive neurons in pars compacta. Data suggest that activation of p38 MAPK in ED1(+) cells infiltrating in ipsilateral SN after hemorrhage may produce BDNF, but that the amount of BDNF produced from ED1(+) cells is insufficient for the rescue of degenerating neurons.
In this article, we will focus on three fundamental issues concerning language processing in the human brain, and update recent advances made by functional neuroimaging and magnetic stimulation studies of language. First, we will provide the first experimental evidence that the neural basis of sentence comprehension is indeed specialized. Specifically, our recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study has clarified that the human left prefrontal cortex (PFC) is more specialized in the syntactic processes of sentence comprehension than other domain-general processes such as short-term memory. Second, the distinction between explicit and implicit syntactic processes will be clarified, based on our fMRI studies that elucidate syntactic specialization in the left PFC. Third, we will advance a hypothesis stating that distinct subregions of the left PFC are recruited for the syntactic integration of lexico-semantic information. The current direction of research in the neuroscience of language is beginning to reveal the uniqueness of the human mind.

We report a case of echinococcal disease affecting the brain and the kidney. The case is unusual because of multiplicity of the intracerebral lesion and sparing of the liver and lungs. The intracerebral lesion was presented with epileptic convulsions. This was successfully treated surgically. Subsequently renal echinococcal cysts were identified. These were treated by partial nephrectomy due to the location of the cysts. The patient is disease free at 8 years.
A report of Gilles de la Tourette syndrome in a 16-year-old male and a 20-year-old female from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, illustrating difficulties in diagnosis, comorbidity and management. A successful trial of clozapine therapy after failure of conventional treatments is reported over a period of more than 2 years and discussed.
A case of huge occipital myxomatous plexiform neurofibroma is presented. The lesion slowly enlarged since childhood and was associated with suboccipital bone hypoplasia. At operation the lesion was clearly originating from the occipital nerve and was totally excised. The case represents a rare occurrence of occipital myxomatous plexiform neurofibroma and suboccipital bone hypoplasia in the absence of evidence of neurofibromatosis.
Cerebral infarction of newborn infants is a rare condition. It remains the least predictable etiology of neonatal seizures, and the appreciation of its occurrence among physicians needs to be re-addressed. The most common presenting feature is seizure. We report 2 full term newborn infants who developed middle cerebral infarction. These infants presented primarily with ischemic limbs for several hours before the evolution of seizures.
We present a case of meningitis caused by Hemophilus influenzae type-b in an immunocompetent 41-year-old Saudi lady. The patient was successfully treated with Ceftriaxone for 10 days. A review of Hemophilus influenzae meningitis in adults and the impact of conjugated vaccine on the epidemiology of the disease are given.







Pervasive developmental disorders are severe childhood psychiatric disorders that afflict millions of children worldwide. Despite availability of tremendous data on these disorders, there is a paucity of information among clinicians including mental health professionals. Pervasive developmental disorders, caused by multiple neurobiological and environmental etiologies, are characterized mainly by impaired social interactions, impaired communication and language, and abnormal repetitive interests and behaviors. A clear understanding of the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of pervasive developmental disorders requires routine developmental surveillance, extensive clinical diagnostic workup and laboratory investigations. The children with pervasive developmental disorders need a multimodal treatment approach. In Arabian Gulf countries, research is warranted to explore different aspects of these disorders.
Temporal lobe epilepsies (TLE) represent the majority of the partial symptomatic/cryptogenic epilepsies. Excellent results of epilepsy surgery in well-selected patients have encouraged a search for localizing and lateralizing signs that could assist in the identification of the best surgical candidates. Seizure types in TLE include simple partial, complex partial and secondarily generalized seizures. Temporal lobe seizures most often arise in the amygdalo-hippocampal region. More than 90% of patients with mesial TLE report an aura, most commonly an epigastric sensation that often has a rising character. Other autonomic symptoms, psychic symptoms, and certain sensory phenomena (such as olfactory) also occur. The complex partial seizures of mesial TLE often involve motor arrest, oroalimentary automatisms or non-specific extremity automatisms at onset. Ictal manifestations that have lateralizing value include dystonic posturing (contralateral), early head turning (usually ipsilateral), and adversive head turning in transition to generalization (contralateral). Well-formed ictal language favors right temporal localization. Ictal vomiting, spitting, and drinking tend to be right sided. The duration of TLE complex partial seizures is generally greater than one minute and postictal confusion usually occurs. When postictal aphasia is noted a left-sided lateralization is favored. A lateral temporal onset is less common in TLE, and is most often suggested by an auditory aura. Somatosensory and visual auras are highly unlikely with TLE, and suggest neocortical extratemporal localization. A cephalic aura is non-specific, but is more common in frontal lobe epilepsy.
The deposition of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) causes the long-term pathological cascade of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neprilysin is a rate-limiting peptidase, which participates in Abeta degradation in brain. As demonstrated by reverse genetics, the disruption of neprilysin gene causes an elevation in endogenous Abeta levels in the mouse brain in a gene-dose-dependent manner. Therefore, a reduction of neprilysin activity will contribute to Abeta deposition and thus to AD development. Neprilysin is localized at presynapses and on axons, and its expression levels are decreased at the terminal zones and on axons of the lateral perforant pathway and the mossy fibers with aging in mice, suggesting that local concentrations of Abeta are likely to be elevated at the sites, which play crucial roles on certain forms of learning and memory and are highly vulnerable to AD. Overexpression of neprilysin decreased both extracellular and intracellular Abeta levels in primary cortical neurons. These results indicate that up-regulation of neprilysin activity would be a relevant strategy for therapy and prevention through reduction of the Abeta levels. Recently, we have found that a certain neuropeptide regulates the expression of neprilysin in primary neurons. Since a number of receptors for neuropeptides are G-protein-coupled receptors, we would control brain Abetalevels pharmacologically by the manipulation of neprilysin activity.

A lifetime of exposure to noise is likely to have negative effects on the hearing, but the interaction between noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) and age-related hearing loss is difficult to determine. The most commonly accepted assumption is a simple accumulating effects of noise and ageing on the hearing. However, both a less than additive effect as well as a supraadditive effect has been proposed. Recently an interesting interaction between NIHL and age-related hearing loss has been reported (Gates et al., 2000). NIHL before old age reduces the effects of ageing at noise-associated frequencies, but accelerates the deterioration of hearing in adjacent frequencies. Findings from the longitudinal and cross-sectional gerontological and geriatric population study of 70-year-olds in Gothenburg, Sweden supports these observations. The incidence of tinnitus increases in old age, but not at the same high rate as presbyacusis. According to the gerontological and geriatric population study in Gothenburg tinnitus in old age is related more to hearing loss than to ageing. There are no simple correlations between exposure to noise during the active years and tinnitus in old age.
The role of neuropeptide Y (NPY) in feeding behavior and zinc deficiency-induced anorexia has been controversial because hypothalamic NPY levels are elevated in both zinc deficiency and food restriction. A recent report shows that while NPY is released from terminals in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of food-restricted animals, this release is significantly impaired in zinc-deficient animals. Zinc deficiency may therefore cause anorexia by inhibiting the release of NPY that is required for receptor activation.
Our previous study demonstrated an increase in alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor sensitivity in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) associated with enhanced net descending inhibition after inflammatory hyperalgesia. The present study further studied the time-dependent changes in AMPA-produced inhibition after inflammation and the underlying molecular mechanisms. Inflammation was induced by intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA, 0.2ml). There was a significant increase in AMPA-produced inhibition at 5h that was further enhanced at 24h (P&lt;0.05), as compared to that at 3h post-inflammation. The AMPA-produced inhibition returned to the control level at 14 days post-inflammation. We analyzed mRNA and protein levels of the GluR1 and GluR2 AMPA receptor subunits in the RVM at 2h to 14 days post-inflammation. AMPA receptor subunits exist in the two 'flip' and 'flop' isoforms that differentially affect the desensitization properties of the receptor. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis indicated that there was a significant upregulation of mRNAs encoding the GluR1-flip (5-24h), GluR2-flip (24h) and GluR2-flop (24h) isoforms in the RVM after inflammation, whereas the levels of GluR1-flop mRNAs showed no significant change. Western blots demonstrated that the GluR1 protein levels were significantly upregulated at 24h-3 days (P&lt;0.05) post-inflammation, compared to that of naive animals. GluR2 protein levels remained unchanged. Immunohistochemistry further demonstrated an increase in GluR1-like immunoreactivity localized to the RVM at 24h post-inflammation. These findings suggest that AMPA receptors in the RVM undergo selective transcriptional and translational modulation following inflammation and may contribute to activity-dependent plasticity in descending pain modulatory systems after prolonged noxious input.
The spinothalamic tract (STT) has been classically viewed as the major ascending pathway for pain transmission while the dorsal column (DC) was thought to be involved primarily in signaling innocuous stimuli. Recent clinical studies have shown that limited midline myelotomy, which transects fibers in the DC, offers good pain relief in patients with visceral cancer pain. Experimental studies provided evidence that a DC lesion decreases the activation of thalamic neurons by visceral stimuli and suggested that this effect is due to transection of the axons of postsynaptic dorsal column (PSDC) neurons. In our study, Fos protein expression in retrogradely labeled STT and PSDC neurons in the lumbosacral enlargement in rats was used as an anatomical marker of enhanced activation to compare the role of these neurons in cutaneous and visceral pain. The noxious stimuli used were intradermal injection of capsaicin and distention of the ureter. Retrogradely labeled PSDC neurons were found in laminae III-IV and in the vicinity of the central canal. STT neurons were located in laminae I, III-VII and X. Ureter distention evoked Fos expression in PSDC and STT neurons located in all laminae in which retrogradely labeled cells were found, with the maximum in the L(2) spinal segment. The Fos-positive PSDC neurons represented a significantly higher percentage of the retrogradely labeled PSDC neurons (19.3+/-2.3% SEM) than of the STT Fos-positive neurons (13.2+/-1.5% SEM). Intradermal capsaicin injection also evoked Fos expression in both PSDC and STT neurons, but with no significant difference between these two, when expressed as a percentage of the retrogradely labeled cells (11.6+/-2.9% SEM, 10.8+/-1.1% SEM). These results show that both PSDC and STT neurons are activated by cutaneous and visceral noxious stimuli. Their particular role in transmission and modulation of painful stimuli needs to be investigated further.
This study was designed to assess the role of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and its receptor in the generation and maintenance of secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin in rats. Paw withdrawal responses (PWRs) to von Frey hairs with different bending forces applied on the rat paw were tested in this study. CGRP(8-37), a specific antagonist of CGRP 1 receptors, was delivered through a microdialysis fiber inserted across the dorsal horn. Post- and pretreatment paradigms were followed. When CGRP(8-37) was administered 1h after capsaicin injection, the mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia were partially reversed in a dose-dependent manner. On the other hand, when rats were treated with CGRP(8-37) prior to capsaicin injection, the PWRs to von Frey applications were significantly reduced as compared to control animals. Collectively, these results suggest that CGRP receptors present in the dorsal horn are involved in the generation and maintenance of nociceptive behaviors associated with cutaneous inflammation.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) activity in the spinal cord plays a key role in sensitization to sensory stimuli during acute inflammation. In contrast, intrathecal administration of COX-2 specific inhibitors has minimal analgesic effects in an incisional model of postoperative pain. We investigated the role of COX isoforms in this model by examining the expression of COX-1 and the effect of intrathecal COX inhibitors. A 1cm longitudinal incision was made through skin, fascia and muscles of the plantar aspect of the left paw in male rats, and withdrawal threshold to von Frey filaments measured. Rats were perfused at 1, 2, 3, 5, and 7 days after incision, and COX-1 immunohistochemistry was performed on L3 to S2 spinal cord and gracile nucleus sections. Other rats received intrathecally the COX-1 preferring inhibitor, ketorolac, the specific COX-1 inhibitor, SC-560, the COX-2 inhibitor, NS-398 or vehicle 1 day after surgery. Withdrawal threshold was measured at intervals up to 5 days later. COX-1 immunoreactivity increased in glia in the ipsilateral L4-L6 spinal dorsal horn and ipsilateral gracile nucleus after incision. Mechanical allodynia peaked on postoperative day 1, and COX-1 immunoreactivity increased on day 1, peaked on day 2, and declined thereafter. Ketorolac and SC-560 dose-dependently increased withdrawal threshold in this model, but NS-398 had no effect. These results suggest that COX-1 plays an important role in spinal cord pain processing and sensitization after surgery. Increased COX-1 activity could precede the up-regulation of COX-1 protein, and spinally administered specific COX-1 inhibitors may be useful to treat postoperative pain.
For the past two decades, staging studies have been used to stratify children with medulloblastoma into risk groups. Therapeutic approaches have been based on separation of patients into 'average-risk' and 'poor-risk' categories. The extent of disease at diagnosis has been most reproducibly shown to be of prognostic significance, but age at diagnosis and amount of residual disease after surgery or extent of resection have also been commonly incorporated into stratification schemata. Tumor histology has been variably related to outcome. Biologic markers, especially molecular genetic findings, have not yet been incorporated into risk classifications, but will likely add to the understanding of medulloblastoma and may significantly alter concepts of staging and treatment.

The efficiency of higher cortical functions, such as memory and speed of complex information processing, tends to decrease with advancing age in normal healthy individuals. Recently, a high habitual intake of caffeine was found associated with better verbal memory performance and psychomotor speed in several cross-sectional population studies. We tested the hypothesis that habitual caffeine intake can reduce or postpone age-related cognitive decline in healthy adults. For this purpose, the cognitive performance of all participants in the Maastricht Aging Study (MAAS), aged between 24 and 81 years, was reassessed after 6 years. Information on the intake of caffeine-containing beverages was available from the baseline questionnaire. After 6 years, 1376 (75.6%) individuals were available for reassessment. After correction for demographic characteristics, baseline performance and health status, there were small albeit significant associations between the overall estimated caffeine intake at baseline and the 6-year change in complex motor speed (motor choice reaction time). The earlier found association between caffeine intake and verbal memory performance was not apparent in this longitudinal study. These results imply that the longitudinal effect of habitual caffeine intake is limited and will not promote a substantial reduction in age-related cognitive decline at a population level.
Ethanol and cocaine are frequently abused in combination, but little is known about how the subjective effects of the two drugs interact. The ability of ethanol and other GABA(A)-active compounds to alter the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine was tested. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to discriminate cocaine (10 mg/kg ip) from saline using either single- or cumulative-dosing methods. In single-dose testing, ethanol (0.1-0.5 g/kg) dose-dependently decreased cocaine-appropriate responding following the training dose of cocaine. Ethanol (0.5 g/kg) produced a rightward shift in the cocaine cumulative dose-effect curve. Ethanol (0.1-1.0 g/kg) failed to substitute for the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine and the higher doses (1-2 g/kg) completely suppressed responding. Indirect GABA(A) agonists diazepam (benzodiazepine site) and pentobarbital (barbiturate site) did not block the discriminative stimulus effects of cumulative doses of cocaine. The GABA(A) antagonist pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) (10-40 mg/kg) did not substitute for cocaine. These findings suggest that ethanol can modulate the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine, and that these effects may not be mediated by the actions of ethanol at the GABA(A) receptor.
This review takes a translational neuroscience perspective on the role of glutamate systems in human ethanol abuse and dependence. Ethanol is a simple molecule with profound effects on many chemical systems in the brain. Glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain. Glutamatergic systems are targets for the actions of ethanol via its antagonism of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of the glutamate receptor and other mechanisms. The modulation of glutamatergic function by ethanol contributes to both euphoric and dysphoric consequences of ethanol intoxication. Adaptations within glutamatergic systems appear to contribute to ethanol tolerance and dependence and to both acute and protracted features of ethanol withdrawal. Perhaps because of the important glutamatergic mediation of the behavioral effects of ethanol, glutamatergic systems appear to contribute to the vulnerability to alcoholism, and novel glutamatergic agents may play a role in the treatment of ethanol abuse and dependence.
Progressive deposition of amyloid beta peptide in the senile plaques is a principal event in the neurodegenerative process of Alzheimer's disease. Several reports have demonstrated that amyloid beta is cytotoxic using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) as an indicator of viability in cells. With the MTT assay, we screened an in-house library to find compounds which suppress amyloid beta-induced inhibition of MTT reduction. We have previously reported that 6-ethyl-N,N'-bis(3-hydroxyphenyl)[1,3,5]triazine-2,4-diamine (named RS-0466), found in an in-house library, was capable of significantly inhibiting amyloid beta-induced cytotoxicity in HeLa cells. From further screening hits, we newly focused on 4-(7-hydroxy-2,2,4-trimethyl-chroman-4-yl)benzene-1,3-diol (named RS-4252), which show comparable potency to RS-0466 to ameliorate amyloid beta-induced cytotoxicity. Furthermore, RS-4252 reversed the decrease in phosphorylated Akt by amyloid beta. These results imply that RS-4252 or one of its derivatives has the potential to be a therapeutic for Alzheimer's disease patients, and that activation of Akt is at least in part involved in the effect.

This study was to investigate the presence of dopamine (DA) D(2)receptors mRNA and binding sites in human amniotic epithelial cells (HAEC). RT-PCR revealed that HAEC express DA D(2)receptor mRNA that is having 100 per cent homology with human DA D(2)receptors. Radioligand saturation binding studies showed a [3H]YM-09151-2 high affinity binding site with a K(D)and B(max)values of 0.53+/-0.09 nM and 119.6+/-8.5 fmol/mg protein, respectively. Competition experiments demonstrated that selective D(2)antagonists such as spiroperidol, domperidone and eticlopride potently competed with [3H]YM-09151-2 binding, whereas selective D(1)antagonists like SCH 23390 displayed weaker competition for the binding sites. The rank order of potency of these compounds in competing with [3H]YM-09151-2 for the binding sites was consistent with the pharmacology of the DA D(2)receptors. All competition curves were better fitted to a one-site model with a Hill coefficient around unity, indicating that [3H]YM-09151-2 is labelling a single population of receptors. These results provide evidence that HAEC natively express DA D(2)receptor mRNA and binding sites. Although the physiological function of D2 receptors in HAEC is currently unclear, the present results suggest that these cells could represent a source of human DA D(2)receptors without transformation or cloning procedures.
The basic motor patterns underlying rhythmic limb movements during locomotion are generated by neuronal networks located within the spinal cord. These networks are called Central Pattern Generators (CPGs). Isolated spinal cord preparations from newborn rats and mice have become increasingly important for understanding the organization of the CPG in the mammalian spinal cord. Early studies using these preparations have focused on the overall network structure and the localization of the CPG. In this review we concentrate on recent experiments aimed at identifying and characterizing CPG-interneurons in the rodent. These experiments include the organization and function of descending commissural interneurons (dCINs) in the hindlimb CPG of the neonatal rat, as well as the role of Ephrin receptor A4 (EphA4) and its Ephrin ligand B3 (EphrinB3), in the construction of the mammalian locomotor network. These latter experiments have defined EphA4 as a molecular marker for mammalian excitatory hindlimb CPG neurons. We also review genetic approaches that can be applied to the mouse spinal cord. These include methods for identifying sub-populations of neurons by genetically encoded reporters, techniques to trace network connectivity with cell-specific genetically encoded tracers, and ways to selectively ablate or eliminate neuron populations from the CPG. We propose that by applying a multidisciplinary approach it will be possible to understand the network structure of the mammalian locomotor CPG. Such an understanding will be instrumental in devising new therapeutic strategies for patients with spinal cord injury.
The trabecular meshwork (TM) tissue is responsible for maintaining the physiologic intraocular pressure (IOP) of the ocular globe. To perform this function the TM must rely on a variety of mechanisms. These mechanisms, acting either independently or in a coordinated manner, are governed by the expression of TM genes. Expression profiles of TM from adult intact tissue and infant cultured cells revealed the high level of diversity of the TM transcriptome, with only about 1% of its genes represented by more than 4 clones in any of the libraries. The profiles also revealed genes whose presence is associated with previously undescribed TM functions such the one that protects the TM tissue against calcification. These findings support the existence of numerous regulatory mechanisms in the TM and may help explaining the low percentage of glaucoma patients associated with each mutated glaucoma gene. Failure to maintain a physiological pressure can result in elevated IOP, a condition often associated with the development of glaucoma. Experimentally, different time-periods of an elevated pressure insult lead to the altered expression of distinct sets of genes. Thus, the ability of the TM to respond to mechanical and biochemical insults is possibly driven by induction or repression of a number of genes that, most likely, are different from those involved in regulation of normal IOP. None of the genes currently linked to glaucoma was present in the expression profile libraries whereas their expression in the TM was highly induced by effectors known to be causative of glaucomatous conditions. This analysis leads to the speculation that glaucoma candidate genes might be more related to genes responding to insults than to those involved in the maintenance of normal TM physiology. A recent study implicating the common stress mediator NF-kappaB in glaucoma would support this notion. Future library profiles utilizing distinct RNA sources together with differential expression studies between normal and glaucoma-triggering conditions and individual characterization of selected genes will help elucidate the relevant mechanisms for the regulation of IOP.
Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) has become a powerful and widely used technique for proteomic analyses. However, the limited ability of 2-DE to resolve transmembrane and glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins has slowed the identification of proteins from membrane-rich biological samples. Myelin is an unusually lipid-rich membrane with relatively few major proteins but many quantitatively minor proteins, most of which have an unknown identity and/or function. The goal of this study was to identify the optimal conditions of 2-DE for the separation of myelin proteins. We have identified two detergents, the nonionic n-dodecyl beta-D-maltoside and the zwitterionic amidosulfobetaine ASB-14, that are more effective in solubilizing myelin proteins than the commonly used zwitterionic detergent 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)- dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPS). These detergents significantly enhance the solubility of both transmembrane (e.g., the highly hydrophobic and multiply acylated myelin proteolipid protein) and GPI-anchored (e.g., contactin and neuronal cell adhesion molecule) myelin proteins and enable their resolution by 2-DE. We conclude that these detergents are effective tools for the 2-DE analysis of myelin, and that they may be more generally useful for the analysis of membrane-rich biological samples.
This paper describes the use of fluorescence two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis in a multiplex analysis of two distinct proteomes. As a model system, cerebral cortex tissues were analyzed from neurokinin1 receptor knockout (NK(1)R-/-) and wild type (NK(1)R+/+) mice in an attempt to identify molecular pathways involved in the function of this protein. Paired NK(1)R-/- and NK(1)R+/+ samples were labeled with fluorescent Cy3 and Cy5 dyes and electrophoresed on the same two-dimensional gels. Scanning the gels at wavelengths specific for each dye revealed the two different proteomes which were overlaid and the differences in abundance of specific protein spots were determined by the Amersham Biosciences DeCyder Differential In-gel Analysis software. A Cy2-labeled sample pool was co-electrophoresed with all Cy3- and Cy5-labeled sample pairs as an internal standard providing a link for inter-gel comparisons and for more robust statistical analysis of the data. Eight spots were found to be upregulated and two downregulated in the NK(1)R-/- mice compared to NK(1)R+/+ controls. Matrix assisted laser desorption/ionisation-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass fingerprinting was used to identify the proteins. The results illustrate the power of this multiplex proteomics technology and illustrate how proteomics can be used to understand gene function.


The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) has been found to be hyperactive at rest, during symptom provocation, and after commission of errors in cognitive tasks. This hyperactivity might reflect an abnormality in conflict detection, a hypothesized basic mechanism for the action-monitoring function of the ACC. This hypothesis was tested using functional magnetic resonance imaging, by scanning 11 OCD patients and 13 matched control subjects while they performed a version of the continuous-performance task with four trial types that induced graded levels of response conflict. Although a behavioral index of conflict (i.e., accuracy) was similar for patients and control subjects, the ACC activation was increased in patients during high-conflict trials. The error-related activity in the same brain region was also higher in patients, consistent with previous electrophysiological findings. Both conflict- and error-related activity showed trends for positive correlations with severity of OCD symptoms, but not with anxiety. These findings suggest that as part of an overactive action-monitoring system, the ACC is more directly involved in the pathophysiology of OCD than previously thought.
The postsynaptic density (PSD) is an ultrastructural specialization of the glutamatergic excitatory synapses, at the cytosolic surface of the postsynaptic membrane of dendritic spines. The PSD is a highly organized transductional machinery that tunes the excitatory signaling from presynaptic terminals. Hundreds of proteins have been isolated in the PSD including glutamate receptors, kinases, as well as scaffolding, association, and cytoskeleton proteins. Homer is a family of PSD proteins involved in the cross-interaction between metabotropic glutamate receptors and intracellular signal transduction systems. Homer1a (H1a) is the only inducible isoform of the Homer family, whereas all the other isoforms (H1b/c, H2, and H3) are constitutively expressed. Further, H1a exhibits a ligand-binding motif but not the homomultimerization domain. H1a induction disrupts the clusters of PSD factors formed by constitutive Homers. Several stimuli have been demonstrated to induce H1a gene expression in the central nervous system, including the administration of antipsychotics. Homer-regulated PSD remodeling may represent a mechanism of synaptic plasticity and a putative target for both pharmacotherapy and pharmacogenomics of behavioral disorders.








Several studies have identified a negativity [the phonological mismatch negativity (PMN)] preceding the N400 during auditory sentence comprehension. The present study investigated whether the PMN reflects a prelexical or lexical stage of spoken word recognition. Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded to investigate phonological processing independently from lexical/semantic influences during a task requiring metalinguistic analysis of speech stimuli. Participants were instructed to omit the initial phoneme from a word (&quot;clap&quot; without the/k/) after which they heard a correct (lap) or incorrect (cap, ap, nose) answer. The PMN (peaking at 270 ms) was largest to incorrect items and did not differentiate between items that shared the same rime and items that were phonologically unrelated to the correct choice. Further, the PMN did not differ between word (cap) and nonword (ap) choices. The P300 was largest to correct items but was also seen to choices that rhymed with the correct answer. It is concluded that the PMN serves as a neural marker for the analysis of acoustic input merging with prelexical phonemic expectations.
Two experiments are reported in which two target stimuli, T1 and T2, were presented at variable stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs). In Experiment 1, T1 and T2 were visual stimuli embedded in a rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) stream of distractors. Participants were asked to report T1 and T2 at the end of the stream. In Experiment 2, T1 was an auditory stimulus, and T2 a visual stimulus embedded in an RSVP stream. Participants made a speeded discriminative response to T1, and reported T2 at the end of the stream. An attentional blink (AB) effect was observed in both experiments: T2 report suffered at short SOA compared to long SOA. During the AB, the amplitude of the P300 component of the event-related potential (ERP) locked to T2 onset was sensibly reduced in both experiments. Behavioral and ERP results were very similar across the two experiments. Implications for models of the AB effect are discussed.
Although near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) was developed as a tool for clinical monitoring of tissue oxygenation, it also has potential for neuroimaging. A wide range of different NIRS instruments have been developed, and instruments for continuous intensity measurements with fixed spacing [continuous wave (CW)-type instruments], which are most readily available commercially, allow us to see dynamic changes in regional cerebral blood flow in real time. However, quantification, which is necessary for imaging of brain functions, is impossible with these CW-type instruments. Over the past 20 years, many different approaches to quantification have been tried, and several multichannel time-resolved and frequency-domain instruments are now in common use for imaging. Although there are still many problems with this technique, such as incomplete knowledge of how light propagates through the head, NIRS will not only open a window on brain physiology for subjects who have rarely been examined until now, but also provide a new direction for functional mapping studies.


We present two experiments that examine the effects of colour transformation between study and test (from black and white to colour and vice versa, of from incorrectly coloured to correctly coloured and vice versa) on implicit and explicit measures of memory for diagnostically coloured natural objects (e.g., yellow banana). For naming and coloured-object decision (i.e., deciding whether an object is correctly coloured), there were shorter response times to correctly coloured-objects than to black-and-white and incorrectly coloured-objects. Repetition priming was equivalent for the different stimulus types. Colour transformation did not influence priming of picture naming, but for coloured-object decision priming was evident only for objects remaining the same from study to test. This was the case for both naming and coloured-object decision as study tasks. When participants were asked to consciously recognize objects that they had named or made coloured-object decisions to previously, whilst ignoring their colour, colour transformation reduced recognition efficiency. We discuss these results in terms of the flexibility of object representations that mediate priming and recognition.
Streptococcus pyogenes (or group A beta hemolytic streptococcus) is a pathogenic bacterium that can give rise to a range of invasive and autoimmune diseases, although it is more widely known as the cause of tonsillitis. It is particularly interesting to note that this germ only causes disease in humans. For many years it has been acknowledged that it can cause an autoimmune brain disease (Sydenham s chorea). Yet, the spectrum of post streptococcal brain disorders has recently been extended to include other movement disorders such as tics or dystonia. A number of systematic psychiatric studies have shown that certain emotional disorders generally accompany the movement disorder (particularly, obsessive compulsive disorder). The proposed pathogenetic mechanism is that of a neuronal dysfunction in which antibodies play a mediating role. The antibodies that are produced after the streptococcal infection cross react with neuronal proteins, and more especially so in individuals with a propensity. This represents a possible model of immunological mimicry and its potential importance with respect to certain idiopathic disorders such as Tourette syndrome and obsessive compulsive disorder.

The first part of the paper highlights the remarkable legacy of the silver methods, with special emphasis on the travails and opportunities offered by the various Nauta methods and their modifications. When the tracer methods based on axoplasmic flow were introduced in the early 1970s, they were exploited on a backdrop of a basic anatomical framework, which had already been established through the tracing of the major CNS pathways by the aid of the silver methods, especially the widely used Nauta-Gygax methods and their modifications. Some of the silver methods that were developed in the late 1960s for the staining of degenerating boutons (e.g. the Fink-Heimer method and de Olmos cupric silver method) provided the necessary technical improvements that eventually led to a new and more productive way to look at the basal forebrain functional/anatomical organization; if it was not for the silver methods, we would in all likelihood still be promoting the nebulous notion of the substantia innominata rather than the concepts of the ventral striatopallidal system and the extended amygdala. The discovery and elaboration of these two macroanatomical systems symbolize what might deservedly be called the &quot;new anatomy&quot; of the basal forebrain. Following a review of the critical experiments which led to the development of the new anatomy of the basal forebrain, its topography in the human is reviewed in drawings of an abbreviated series of coronal sections. The discovery of the ventral striatopallidal system and its thalamic projection to the mediodorsal thalamus rather than to the ventral anterior-ventral lateral thalamic complex ushered in the idea of parallel cortico-subcortical reentrant circuits, which to a large extent has replaced the limbic system as a theoretical framework for neuropsychiatric disorders. The extended amygdala, which appears as a large ring formation around the internal capsule, is still controversial in some quarters, although it is slowly but surely making its way into the general neuroscience literature, especially in the field of addictive disorders. The ventral striatopallidal system and the extended amygdala are interwoven in a complex fashion with the basal nucleus of Meynert within the basal forebrain. Together, these three systems represent important output channels for so-called &quot;limbic&quot; forebrain regions, especially orbitomedial prefrontal cortex and medial temporal lobe structures, which are increasingly implicated in major neuropsychiatric disorders.

The central feature of drug addiction is compulsive drug use--loss of control over apparently voluntary acts of drug seeking and drug taking. Drug addiction, as a chronic brain disease, may result from abnormal engagement of long-term associative memory. Addiction and memory are likely to share much in common in the aspects of neural adaptations, synaptic plasticity, and related molecular mechanisms. This paper reviews the possible roles of learning mechanisms in the development of relapse, sensitization, and drug addiction, abnormal associative learning and compulsive behavior, addiction memory and addiction, multiple memory systems and the development of addiction, and emphasize the importance of synaptic plasticity and addiction memory in drug addiction. Addiction is characterized by the involvement of specific learning patterns of information. Addiction is closely related to the disorder of associate learning that depends on dopamine. Hippocampus may play a key role in addiction. At last, we put forward the future directions for research.
Calpain is a calcium-activated protease and has two ubiquitously distributed mammalian isoforms, namely calpain 1 (calpain I, mu-calpain and CAPN1) and calpain 2 (calpain II, m-calpain and CAPN2). Calpains regulate the function of many proteins by limited proteolysis. To determine the nature of different subtypes of calpain on degradation of microtubule-associated protein tau, the rat cortex extracts were incubated with 0.2 mmol/L, 1 mmol/L, 3 mmol/L and 5 mmol/L of CaCl(2 )for 15 min at 37 degrees C, respectively, and it was found that Ca(2+) treatment at concentrations 1-5 mmol/L led to significant proteolysis of the tau protein and this degradation was blocked by calpain inhibitor, calpeptin. In addition, when the extracts containing 1 mmol/L CaCl(2 )were treated with mu-calpain inhibitor (0.05 micromol/L of calpastatin) or m-calpain inhibitor (100 micromol/L calpain inhibitor IV) or both, the Ca(2+)-induced degradation of tau protein was blocked to about 8.6% 92.5% and 97.8% compared with the group with 1 mmol/L CaCl(2), respectively. These data suggest that both mu-calpain and m-calpain in brain cortex extracts are activated by Ca(2+) and both of them degraded tau protein, although, m-calpain plays a more important role in proteolysis of the tau protein.
This paper analyzes the variation of suicide by day of the week in alcohol dependence, with public holidays taken into consideration. From 1949 through 1969, 1,312 patients with alcohol dependence were admitted to the Department of Psychiatry in Lund. By 1997, a total of 102 (99 men) alcoholic patients had taken their own life. Suicide victims with severe depression and other diagnoses were compared. There was a suicide peak on the first two days after weekends and holidays in patients with alcohol dependence (p &lt; .05). Alcohol withdrawal is proposed as a contributor to the suicide peak.
Synaptic nests are closely packed collections of synaptic endings. Nests may be deficient in the glial processes which usually separate terminals in the CNS and which transport much of the glutamate associated with high levels of excitatory activity. We hypothesized that nests might lack glial glutamate transporters, but possibly would conserve neuronal glutamate transporter. Although present throughout the brain, nests are especially numerous in the cochlear nucleus. We performed immunoelectron microscopy by preembedding peroxidase and immunogold methods and by postembedding immunogold to detect expression of the glutamate transporters GLAST, GLT-1, and EAAC1 in the mouse cochlear nucleus. Our results show that the glial transporters, GLAST and GLT-1, are absent in synaptic nests. This deficiency is not compensated by the neuronal transporter EAAC1, which is poorly represented in nests. Outside synaptic nests, all three glutamate transporters are strongly expressed in the cochlear nucleus. Thus, glutamate released outside nests should be quickly bound by transporters and removed from the extracellular glutamate pool. Glutamate released within synaptic nests may persist long enough to permit diffusion to extrajunctional targets in the nest, including presynaptic receptors. Consequently, synaptic nests may play a role in modulation of synaptic activity but also in excitotoxic mechanisms.


For many years the cognitive processes underlying recognition memory have been the subject of considerable interest in experimental psychology. To account for a broad range of behavioral findings, psychologists have put forward a variety of 'dual-process' models, all of which propose that recognition memory is supported by two forms of memory - familiarity and recollection - that differ in their speed of operation and the specificity of the retrieved information. More recently, the dual-process framework has been extended to encompass findings from studies investigating the neural basis of recognition memory. Results from neuropsychological, ERP and functional neuroimaging studies can be accommodated within the framework, and suggest that familiarity and recollection are supported by distinct neural mechanisms.
Is the approximate representation of large numbers in adult humans bound to a sensory modality or other aspects of the stimulus presentation, or are these non-verbal numerical representations abstract? A recent paper by Barth, Kanwisher and Spelke provides compelling evidence that non-verbal mental magnitudes are modality-independent.



Defective handling of proteins is a central feature of major neurodegenerative diseases. The discovery that neuronal dysfunction or degeneration can be caused by mutations in single cellular proteins has given new opportunities to model the underlying disease processes by genetic modification of cells in vitro or by generation of transgenic animals carrying the disease-causing gene. Recent developments in recombinant viral-vector technology have opened up an interesting alternative possibility, based on direct gene transfer to selected subregions or subsets of neurons in the brain. Using the highly efficient adeno-associated virus or lentivirus vectors, recent reports have shown that overexpression of mutated human huntingtin or alpha-synuclein in neurons in the striatum or substantia nigra induces progressive neuropathology and neurodegeneration, similar to that seen in Huntington's and Parkinson's diseases. Targeted overexpression of disease-causing genes by recombinant viral vectors provides a new and highly flexible approach for in vivo modeling of neurodegenerative diseases, not only in mice and rats but also in primates.
Sensory experience is known to shape the maturation of cortical circuits during development. A paradigmatic example is the effect of monocular deprivation on ocular dominance of visual cortical neurons. Although visual cortical plasticity has been widely studied since its initial discovery by Hubel and Wiesel &gt;40 years ago, the description of the underlying molecular mechanisms has lagged behind. Several new findings are now beginning to close this gap. Recent data deepen our knowledge of the factors involved in the intercellular communication and intracellular signaling that mediate experience-dependent plasticity in the developing visual cortex. In addition, new findings suggest a role for the extracellular matrix in inhibition of ocular-dominance plasticity in the adult visual cortex.
The numbers, types and locations of stem cells in the nervous system have been the subject of much discussion. This review summarizes data on the types of stem cell present at different stages of development and in the adult brain, and the markers suggested to distinguish between the various possibilities that have been reported. We present evidence that more than one class of stem cell is present in the developing and adult nervous systems, and that it might be possible to distinguish between stem-cell populations and to localize the cell of origin of a particular neurosphere, based on markers that persist in culture and by using universal stem-cell markers prospectively to identify stem cells in vivo.

Multiple neurochemical mechanisms (neurotransmitters, regulatory peptides, neurotrophic growth factors, and proteins of the signaling transducer systems) maintain the integrity of nerve cell circuits, facilitate the responses to environmental demands and promote the recovery of a function after injury. The recent application of modern approaches of molecular and cellular biology to the problem of &quot;diseased (bad) brain&quot; reveals a remarkable capacity within brain cells for adaptation to aging and resistance to a disease. The death of neurons in different neurological disorders involves apoptotic biochemical cascades leading to mitochondrial alterations, upstream pro-apoptotic effectors, and caspases activation. At the cellular level, neuronal apoptosis in ischemic and neurodegenerative disorders may be triggered by oxidative stress, mitochondrial compromise and disruption of calcium homeostasis. Both genetic and environmental factors, and the aging process itself, contribute to initiation of such neuronal apoptosis. Neuroprotective (antiapoptotic) signal pathways involving neurotrophic factors, neuropeptides, and mediators able to counteract with effects of aging and genetic predisposition in experimental models and clinical events of neuro-destructive disorders.
Cat retinal ganglion cells of the Y (or alpha) type respond to luminance changes opposite those preferred by their receptive-field centers with a transient hyperpolarization. Here, we examine the spatial organization and synaptic basis of this light response by means of whole-cell current-clamp recordings made in vitro. The hyperpolarization was largest when stimulus spots approximated the size of the receptive-field center, and diminished substantially for larger spots. The hyperpolarization was largely abolished by bath application of strychnine, a blocker of glycinergic inhibition. Picrotoxin, an antagonist of ionotropic GABA receptors, greatly reduced the attenuation of the hyperpolarizing response for large spots. The data are consistent with a model in which (1) the hyperpolarization reflects inhibition by glycinergic amacrine cells of bipolar terminals presynaptic to the alpha cells, and perhaps direct inhibition of the alpha cell as well; and (2) the attenuation of the hyperpolarization by large spots reflects surround inhibition of the glycinergic amacrine by GABAergic amacrine cells. This circuitry may moderate nonlinearities in the alpha-cell light response and could account for some excitatory and inhibitory influences on alpha cells known to arise from outside the classical receptive field.
This study assessed accuracy of visually perceived vertical and trunk median plane orientation in 41 subjects: 17 had unilateral brain lesions including the posterior parietal lobe (PPL), 8 had lesions outside PPL, and 16 were neurologically normal. Vertical perception errors clearly increased with size of unilateral lesions to PPL and posterior superior temporal gyrus (PSTG). Median plane perception errors increased only slightly with size of unilateral lesions to frontal lobe premotor areas and supramarginal gyrus. These results are compatible with the hypothesis that accurate visual vertical perception depends critically on intact PPL and PSTG in both cerebral hemispheres while accurate median plane perception likely involves a bihemispheric network that can compensate for lesions to one hemisphere.


Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common type of dementia in the elderly population. Three genes have been identified as responsible for the rare early-onset familial form of the disease: the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene, the presenilin 1 (PSEN1) gene and the presenilin 2 (PSEN2) gene. Mutations in these genes, however, account for less than 5% of the total number of AD cases. The remaining 95% of AD patients are mostly sporadic late-onset cases, with a complex aetiology due to interactions between environmental conditions and genetic features of the individual. In this paper, we review the most important genes supposed to be involved in the pathogenesis of AD, known as susceptibility genes, in an attempt to provide a comprehensive picture of what is known about the genetic mechanisms underlying the onset and progression of AD. Hypotheses about the role of each gene in the pathogenic pathway are discussed, taking into account the functions and molecular features, if known, of the coded protein. A major susceptibility gene, the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene, found to be associated with sporadic late-onset AD cases and the only one, whose role in AD has been confirmed in numerous studies, will be included in a specific chapter. As the results reported by association studies are conflicting, we conclude that a better understanding of the complex aetiology that underlies AD may be achieved likely through a multidisciplinary approach that combines clinical and neurophysiological characterization of AD subtypes and in vivo functional brain imaging studies with molecular investigations of genetic components.
Both push-pull and microdialysis methods are utilized to measure norepinephrine and serotonin in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. This experiment was designed to determine which technique is better for measurement of norepinephrine and serotonin in the spinal cord and also to determine if the samples are best collected with or without perchloric acid. Sample stability and an assay validation for precision, limit of quantification, and limit of detection were also performed. Push-pull or microdialysis catheters were placed transversely through the dorsal horn and the catheter was perfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Noxious pinch (20 s/min for 10 min) was used to evoke a change in the concentration of catecholamines. Samples were collected before, during and after pinch. No basal concentrations of epinephrine and serotonin were found with microdialysis. Although basal concentrations of norepinephrine were measured by microdialysis, there was no change in response to noxious pinch. The push-pull technique coupled with collection of samples without perchloric acid showed that significant increases in serotonin and norepinephrine are measurable in response to noxious pinch. In contrast, when samples were collected with perchloric acid present there was no change in serotonin or norepinephrine in response to pinch. The stability of catecholamines is greatly affected by perchloric acid such that there is a near complete loss of ability to detect serotonin and norepinephrine by 24 h in samples collected by push-pull. In contrast, samples collected without perchloric acid showed only a 20% reduction in concentration by 24 h. Even without perchloric acid, by 1 wk there was a 50% or greater loss in the concentrations of norepinephrine in push-pull samples. Thus, to measure changes in catecholamines in the dorsal horn, push-pull collected without perchloric provides measurable, reliable and valid results if analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography within 24 h.
The reproducibility of motor unit twitches obtained using spike-triggered averaging (STA) was examined in the human first dorsal interosseus. For each motor unit (30 total) a series of STA twitches was derived using a 30 s averaging window. Within each averaging window, eight independent measures characterizing motor unit discharge and whole muscle force properties were recorded. These included the mean and standard deviation (S.D.) of the interspike interval (ISI), the mean and S.D. of pre and post-trigger ISIs used in averaging, and mean and S.D. of whole muscle force. To determine the relative importance of the independent variables on twitch reproducibility, the variables were used in a multiple regression analysis performed on STA twitch peak force (PF), time to peak force (TTP) and time of half-force decay (HFD). It was found that PF was significantly correlated to the mean and S.D. of whole muscle force, and mean post-trigger ISI. TTP was significantly correlated to the S.D. of the post-trigger ISI and mean whole muscle force while HFD was related to the mean and S.D. of the pre-trigger ISI and the mean post-trigger ISI. It was concluded that by minimizing whole muscle force variability and the mean and S.D. of acceptable ISIs used in the STA process, the reproducibility of the STA twitch is improved.
Pavlovian fear conditioning in rodents often involves the assessment of freezing behaviour. Since human-based scoring is labour-intensive and subject to biases, several automated methods have been proposed, but few of them have been assessed for temporal definition. An accurate method for the automated analysis of freezing in rats is presented. It is based on a comparison of contrast from successive video images (Learn. Mem. 7 (2000) 58). A major improvement involves subtracting a previously recorded image of the empty background from each frame before processing. This simple operation greatly improves reliability, since it cancels the influence of video noise outside the region of interest in the image (the rat), and can also take advantage of the movements of a patterned animal over a textured background. The technique is compared with manual scoring and with the Anagnostaras method in a trace fear conditioning experiment. The method is appropriate to monitor the time course of freezing behaviour. The same system with a different threshold can also score locomotor activity. A quantitative evaluation of the residual errors inherent to automated methods is attempted.
The expression of the nucleotide receptors P2X1, P2X2, P2X7, P2Y1, P2Y2 and P2Y4, in the pancreas of the streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat was investigated using immunohistochemistry. In diabetic animals, P2X7 receptor expression, normally located in the outer periphery of the islet, was increased and located inside the islet. Double-labelling experiments, using antibodies raised against insulin, somatostatin and glucagon, showed, for the first time, an increase in immunostaining for P2X7 receptors on islet glucagon-containing alpha cells (which had migrated to the interior), while no P2X7 receptors were found in beta and delta cells. P2Y1 receptors were present in intra-islet capillaries, while P2Y4 receptors were found on both alpha and beta cells. P2Y1 and P2Y2 receptor expression was also found in pancreatic duct cells and P2X1, P2X2, P2Y1 and P2Y2 receptors were identified in small blood vessels.
We investigated whether oligomerization of adenosine A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) and dopamine D(2) receptor (D(2)R) exists in living cells using modified bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET(2)) technology. Fusion of these receptors to a donor, Renilla luciferase (Rluc), and to an acceptor, modified green fluorescent protein (GFP(2)), did not affect the ligand binding affinity, subcellular distribution, and coimmunoprecipitation of the receptors. BRET was detected not only between Myc-D(2)R-Rluc and A(2A)R-GFP(2) but also between HA-tagged A(2A)R-Rluc and A(2A)R-GFP(2). These results indicate A(2A)R, either homomeric or heteromeric with D(2)R, exists as an oligomer in living cells.
Intercellular communication involves either direct cell-cell contact or release and uptake of diffusible signals, two strategies mediated by distinct and largely nonoverlapping sets of molecules. Here, we show that the neural cell adhesion molecule NCAM can function as a signaling receptor for members of the GDNF ligand family. Association of NCAM with GFRalpha1, a GPI-anchored receptor for GDNF, downregulates NCAM-mediated cell adhesion and promotes high-affinity binding of GDNF to p140(NCAM), resulting in rapid activation of cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinases Fyn and FAK in cells lacking RET, a known GDNF signaling receptor. GDNF stimulates Schwann cell migration and axonal growth in hippocampal and cortical neurons via binding to NCAM and activation of Fyn, but independently of RET. These results uncover an unexpected intersection between short- and long-range mechanisms of intercellular communication and reveal a pathway for GDNF signaling that does not require the RET receptor.
N-CAM has now been identified as a receptor for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). This finding solves a long-standing question regarding RET-independent GDNF signaling, and reveals a novel pathway distinct from both GDNF-RET and N-CAM-N-CAM signaling. Functional assays of Schwann cell migration and axon growth of CNS neurons suggest physiological significance for this GDNF-N-CAM pathway.
The effects of 1-ethyl-2-benzimidazolinone (1-EBIO) and riluzole on human prostate cancer cells, LNCaP and PC-3, were evaluated using rubidium (86Rb(+)) efflux and proliferation assays. 1-EBIO and riluzole evoked concentration-dependent increases in 86Rb(+) efflux from LNCaP and PC-3 cells that were sensitive to inhibition by intermediate-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel (IK(Ca)) blockers clotrimazole and charybdotoxin. Blockers of large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK(Ca)) channel, iberiotoxin, or small-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (SK(Ca)) channel, apamin or scyllatoxin, had no effect. Concurrently, both 1-EBIO and riluzole evoked concentration-dependent increases in proliferation from human prostate cancer cell lines (LNCaP and PC-3 cells). Clotrimazole and charybdotoxin, but not iberiotoxin, apamin or scyllatoxin, inhibited 1-EBIO- and riluzole-evoked increases in proliferation from LNCaP and PC-3 cells. N-(3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-N'-(2-hydroxy-5-chlorophenyl)urea (NS-1608) and 2-amino-5-(2-fluorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrrole-3-carbonitrile (NS-8), BK(Ca) channel openers had no effect on LNCaP and PC-3 proliferation. These results demonstrate that IK(Ca) channels play an important role in the regulation of human prostate cancer cell proliferation.
Central administration of neurotensin (NT) results in a variety of neurobehavioral effects which, depending upon the administration site, resemble the effects of antipsychotic drugs (APDs) and psychostimulants. All clinically effective APDs exhibit significant affinities for dopamine D(2) receptors, supporting the hypothesis that an increase in dopaminergic tone contributes to schizophrenic symptoms. Psychostimulants increase extracellular dopamine (DA) levels and chronics administration can produce psychotic symptoms over time. APDs and psychostimulants induce Fos and NT expression in distinct striatal subregions, suggesting that changes in gene expression underlie some of their effects. To gain insight into the functions of NT, we analyzed APD and psychostimulant induction of Fos in NT knockout mice and rats pretreated with the NT antagonist SR 48692. In both NT knockout mice and rats pretreated with SR 48692, haloperidol-induced Fos expression was markedly attenuated in the dorsolateral striatum; amphetamine-induced Fos expression was reduced in the medial striatum. These results indicate that NT is required for the activation of specific subpopulations of striatal neurons in distinct striatal subregions in response to both APDs and psychostimulants. This review integrates these new findings with previous evidence implicating NT in both APD and psychostimulant responses.
The hypothalamus has been long considered important in feeding and other motivated behaviors. The identification of neuropeptides expressed in the hypothalamus has initiated efforts to better elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms involved. The neuropeptides orexin and melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) are expressed in the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and have been implicated in regulation of feeding behavior. Neurons expressing these neuropeptides have extensive projections to regions of the brain important for behavioral responses to drugs of abuse, raising the possibility that the pathways may also be important in addiction. Regulation of LH intracellular signaling pathways in response to drugs of abuse supports a role for the LH neuropeptides in addiction.
Many aspects of drug abuse and addiction share neurobiological substrates with the modulatory processes underlying the response and adaptation to acute stress. In particular, the ascending noradrenergic system has been implicated in facilitating the response to stress, and in stress-induced reinstatement of drug seeking behavior. Thus, to better understand the link between stress and addictive behaviors, it would be informative to understand better the modulatory function of the ascending noradrenergic system, and its interaction with other neurotransmitters with which it is closely associated or co-localized, such as the neuropeptide galanin. In this paper, we review a series of studies investigating the functional interactions of norepinephrine and galanin in modulating the behavioral response to acute stress in two components of the extended amygdala, the central nucleus of the amygdala and the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. We showed that norepinephrine facilitates behavioral reactivity to stress on the elevated plus-maze and social interaction tests. However, when stress-induced activation of the noradrenergic system was enhanced by blocking inhibitory adrenergic autoreceptors, galanin release was recruited in the central amygdala, acting to attenuate the behavioral response to stress. By contrast, stress-induced galanin release in the lateral bed nucleus appeared to be independent of enhanced noradrenergic activation, and unlike the central amygdala, both galanin and norepinephrine facilitated behavioral stress reactivity in the bed nucleus. The different modes of interaction and differential region- and response-specificity of galanin and norepinephrine suggest that a complex neural circuit interconnecting these two regions is involved in the modulatory effects of norepinephrine and galanin on the behavioral response to stress. Such complexity may allow for flexibility and plasticity in stress adaptation, and may also contribute to behavioral changes induced by chronic drug administration. Thus, the interaction of galanin and norepinephrine may be a viable target for the future development of novel therapeutic strategies for treating behavioral disorders related to stress or drug abuse.


Synapses are specialized intercellular junctions in which cell adhesion molecules connect the presynaptic machinery for neurotransmitter release to the postsynaptic machinery for receptor signalling. Neurotransmitter release requires the presynaptic co-assembly of Ca2+ channels with the secretory apparatus, but little is known about how synaptic components are organized. Alpha-neurexins, a family of &gt;1,000 presynaptic cell-surface proteins encoded by three genes, link the pre- and postsynaptic compartments of synapses by binding extracellularly to postsynaptic cell adhesion molecules and intracellularly to presynaptic PDZ domain proteins. Using triple-knockout mice, we show that alpha-neurexins are not required for synapse formation, but are essential for Ca2+-triggered neurotransmitter release. Neurotransmitter release is impaired because synaptic Ca2+ channel function is markedly reduced, although the number of cell-surface Ca2+ channels appears normal. These data suggest that alpha-neurexins organize presynaptic terminals by functionally coupling Ca2+ channels to the presynaptic machinery.
Oct-6 is a POU III domain transcription factor whose primary role is thought to be developmental. It is expressed in embryonic stem cells, Schwann cells, and in neuronal subpopulations during telencephalic development. Its best characterised role is in Schwann cells where it is thought to regulate myelin specific gene expression. Expression of Oct-6 was recently discovered in neurons in post-mortem human schizophrenic specimens while being undetectable in matched controls. This study of human tissue contrasted in a number of regards with earlier studies of rodent brain, and questioned what we can consider to be normal adult expression of this gene. In this study, we have investigated Oct-6 expression via in situ hybridisation and Western blot analysis in normal adult female mice of different ages. We show that both RNA and protein levels of Oct-6 expression are highly sustained in the adult and aging cerebellum, whereas they are attenuated in the telencephalon by PW30 (postnatal week 30). These observations suggest that Oct-6 expression takes place in a sex and age dependent way.
A pathogenic role of inflammatory factors has been proposed both in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VD). A previous report indicated the presence of polymorphism C-850T of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha as a genetic risk factor for VD and, associated with apolipoprotein E epsilon 4, for AD. We have assessed the association between TNF-alpha polymorphism and dementias in Italian populations of AD, VD and elderly controls. The influence of TNF-alpha polymorphism on dementia has not been confirmed in this segment of the Italian population.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether the absence of gravitational cues during weightlessness could alter the posture and static eye deviation of Earth compensated rats with peripheral vestibular lesions. The responses of bilaterally (BL) and unilaterally (UL) labyrinthectomized rats at a compensated stage (40-43 days after lesion) during parabolic flight were compared with those at an acute stage (2-7 h after lesion) on Earth. When free-floating in 0 g, UL animals showed the same postural pattern as during water immersion just after surgery. The most striking observation was a continuous roll body motion at about 4 Hz, and a skewed asymmetric posture. When restrained in 0 g, static eye deviation was also comparable to that observed at an acute stage. A return to a compensated posture and gaze was observed within a few seconds following the end of the weightlessness conditions. BL animals were less affected. These results suggest that vestibular compensation after unilateral lesion can be disrupted momentarily and is a fragile state during which the otolith system in the remaining vestibular apparatus presumably plays a continuous role.
Nicotine has previously been shown to affect both long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression and to reverse age-related impairments of LTP in the hippocampus. Levels of proinflammatory cytokines are known to be elevated with age and to inhibit LTP. In the present study we have investigated the effects of three pro-inflammatory cytokines on nicotine-enhanced LTP in the rat hippocampus in vitro. In the presence of nicotine the inhibitory effect of interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-18 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha on LTP was eliminated. Furthermore, significant depotentiation of established LTP could not be obtained in slices treated with nicotine. These experiments demonstrate that nicotine can reverse the inhibitory effects of pro-inflammatory cytokines on LTP.
Bradykinin (BK) plays an important role in the pathophysiological processes accompanying pain and inflammation. Selective bradykinin B1 receptor antagonists have been shown to be anti-nociceptive in animal models and could be novel therapeutic agents for the treatment of pain and inflammation. We have explored chemical modifications in a series of dihydroquinoxalinone sulfonamides to evaluate the effects of various structural changes on biological activity. The optimization of a screening lead compound, facilitated by a homology model of the BK B1 receptor, culminated in the discovery of a potent human BK B1 receptor antagonist. Results from site-directed mutagenesis studies and experiments in an animal pain model are presented.
The generation of gamma-secretase inhibitors which block the release of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) has long been an attractive therapeutic avenue for treatment or prevention of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Such inhibitors would reduce levels of Abeta available for aggregation into toxic assemblies that lead to the plaque pathology found in affected brain tissue. Cumulative evidence suggests that the S3 cleavage of Notch is also dependent on presenilins (PS) and is carried out by the multimeric PS-containing gamma-secretase complex. It is therefore possible that Notch function could be affected by gamma-secretase inhibitors. To assess the relationship between the cleavage of these substrates in the same system, Western blot cleavage assays have been established using a human cell line stably expressing both the beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP) and the truncated Notch1 receptor fragment NotchDeltaE. Thus, a direct correlation may be made, following inhibitor treatment, of the decrease in the levels of the cleavage products, Abeta peptide and the Notch intracellular domain (NICD), as well as the increase in stabilized levels of both substrates. This analysis has been performed with a range of selected gamma-secretase inhibitors from six distinct structural classes. Changes in all four species usually occur in concert and with remarkably good agreement. A significant cleavage window is not clearly apparent in any case. Thus, these Notch and beta-APP cleavages cannot be dissected apart easily since they show the same pharmacological profile of inhibition. Whether this translates into proportionally reduced Notch signaling in vivo, however, remains to be seen.



APOE polymorphisms were studied in 200 unrelated patients with primary dystonia as well as 300 age-matched control subjects. Although no difference was found in APOE genotype between the patients with dystonia and the controls, APOE-epsilon4 carriers developed the disease on average approximately 10 years earlier than APOE-epsilon4 noncarriers (p = 0.0012). This suggests that APOE-epsilon4 genotype affects the clinical presentation of primary dystonia.
The acute antidyskinetic effects of IV amantadine in HD were evaluated. A 2-hour IV infusion of amantadine or placebo was administered to nine patients with HD on two different days in a double-blind, randomized crossover fashion. All patients subsequently received oral amantadine unblinded for a 1-year period. A reduction of dyskinesia scores was reported during both IV and oral amantadine treatment (p &lt; 0.05). No significant changes were observed in neuropsychological tests or psychiatric rating scales.
The cerebellum is implicated in the pathogenesis of essential tremor (ET). The authors examined the excitability of the cerebellothalamocortical pathway in ET and found it to be normal. Tremor reset occurred with motor cortex stimulation but not with cerebellar stimulation. These findings suggest that the abnormal oscillatory activity in ET does not originate in the cerebellar cortex but are consistent with the abnormal activity being transmitted through the cerebellothalamocortical pathway being driven by abnormal cerebellar afferent input from areas such as the inferior olive.


The early molecular events in the perception of bitter taste start with the binding of specific water-soluble molecules to G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) encoded by the Tas2r family of taste receptor genes. The identification of the complete TAS2R receptor family repertoire in mouse and a comparative study of the Tas2r gene families in mouse and human might help to better understand bitter taste perception. We have identified, cloned, and characterized 13 new mouse Tas2r sequences, 9 of which encode putative functional bitter taste receptors. The encoded proteins are between 293 and 333 amino acids long and share between 18% and 54% sequence identity with other mouse TAS2R proteins. Including the 13 sequences identified, the mouse Tas2r family contains approximately 30% more genes and 60% fewer pseudogenes than the human TAS2R family. Sequence and phylogenetic analyses of the proteins encoded by all mouse and human Tas2r genes indicate that TAS2R proteins present a lower degree of sequence conservation in mouse than in human and suggest a classification in five groups that may reflect a specialization in their functional activity to detect bitter compounds. Tas2r genes are organized in clusters in both mouse and human genomes, and an analysis of these clusters and phylogenetic analyses indicates that the five TAS2R protein groups were present prior to the divergence of the primate and rodent lineages. However, differences in subsequent evolutionary processes, including local duplications, interchromosomal duplications, divergence, and deletions, gave rise to species-specific sequences and shaped the diversity of the current TAS2R receptor families during mouse and human evolution.

During embryonic development, gonadal steroid hormones (androgens and estrogens) are thought to organize the sexual differentiation of the brain in the heterogametic sexes of higher vertebrates (males in mammals, females in birds). Brain differentiation of the homogametic sexes is thought to proceed by default, not requiring sex hormones for sex-specific organization. In gallinaceous birds such as the Japanese quail, female brain organization is thought to develop via estrogen-dependent demasculinization of a default male brain phenotype. We performed male donor-to-female host (MF), female-to-male (FM), male-to-male (MM), and female-to-female (FF) isotopic, isochronic transplantation of the forebrain primordium in Japanese quail embryos before gonadal differentiation had occurred; brain chimeras had a forebrain (including the hypothalamus) originating exclusively from donor cells. MM, FF, and MF chimeras all showed sexual behavior governed by the genetic sex of the host. In contrast, FM chimeras (genetically female forebrain, all other tissues genetically male) showed no mounting and only rudimentary crowing behavior. Although MM, FF, MF, and FM chimeras all showed host-typical production of steroid hormones during embryonic life, only FM chimeras were hypogonadal, had atypical low levels of circulating testosterone in adulthood, and showed reduction (crowing) or absence (mounting) of reproductive behaviors. Morphological features of the medial preoptic nucleus (a sexually dimorphic brain area) also were not male-like in FM males. These data demonstrate a brain-intrinsic, genetically determined component that organizes the sex-typical production of gonadal hormones in adulthood and call for a reevaluation of the mechanisms underlying brain sexual differentiation in other higher-vertebrate species.
New neurons are generated from stem cells in a few regions of the adult mammalian brain. Here we provide evidence for the generation of dopaminergic projection neurons of the type that are lost in Parkinson's disease from stem cells in the adult rodent brain and show that the rate of neurogenesis is increased after a lesion. The number of new neurons generated under physiological conditions in substantia nigra pars compacta was found to be several orders of magnitude smaller than in the granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. However, if the rate of neuronal turnover is constant, the entire population of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra could be replaced during the lifespan of a mouse. These data indicate that neurogenesis in the adult brain is more widespread than previously thought and may have implications for our understanding of the pathogenesis and treatment of neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease.
In ClC chloride (Cl(-)) channels, unlike cation-selective ion channels, ion permeation is intimately coupled to fast gating. Recent research comparing the crystallographic structure of a bacterial ClC channel with functional studies of a Torpedo ClC channel suggests that gating depends on the negatively charged carboxyl group on a glutamate residue, which blocks the channel pore. In this model, the permeating Cl(-) competes with the carboxyl group for an anion-binding site in the channel pore. This model of Cl(-) competition with a glutamate gate helps explain the effect of intracellular Cl(-) on channel gating; the mechanism underlying the effects of extracellular Cl(-), however, remains to be determined, as does the nature of the Cl(-) channel slow gate.
A group of integral membrane proteins, known as C-tail anchored, is defined by the presence of a cytosolic NH2-terminal domain that is anchored to the phospholipid bilayer by a single segment of hydrophobic amino acids close to the COOH terminus. The mode of insertion into membranes of these proteins, many of which play key roles in fundamental intracellular processes, is obligatorily posttranslational, is highly specific, and may be subject to regulatory processes that modulate the protein's function. Although recent work has elucidated structural features in the tail region that determine selection of the correct target membrane, the molecular machinery involved in interpreting this information, and in modulating tail-anchored protein localization, has not been identified yet.
We have demonstrated the central projections of muscle C or group IV afferent fibers in the guinea pig by tracing arborizations in the spinal cord. C afferent fibers from the gastrocnemius muscle (GCM) were electrophysiologically identified by conduction velocity (less than 1 m/second). A single neuron in the lumbar 5 dorsal root ganglion (L5 DRG) was intracellularly labeled with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L). After iontophoretic injection of PHA-L, we processed the lumbar cord and L5 DRG for PHA-L immunohistochemistry. Six muscle C afferent fibers from 40 animals were labeled, and whole trajectories were recovered. Labeled fibers were reconstructed by tracing of the arbor in serial parasagittal sections. The GCM C afferents projected rostrocaudally for two or three segments and ran at the surface of the dorsal funiculus, giving off collaterals into laminae I and II and sometimes into parts of lamina III. We determined, based on the branching pattern and form of the terminal plexus, that the branching of muscle C afferent fibers showed an intermediate pattern that fell morphologically between the terminal patterns of somatic and visceral afferents. The numbers and sizes of fiber swellings and terminal swellings were measured on all collateral branches. We found that the area of distribution of the terminal swellings of muscle C afferent fibers is larger than that of somatic terminals but that the density of terminal swellings in the terminal area was lower than that of the somatic terminals.
Although the effects of mitogens on the synthesis of interleukin-2 (IL-2) and IL-2 receptor (IL-2r) have been described, a detailed in situ analysis of the spatio-temporal changes of the expression of the IL-2 gene and the three IL-2r components in lymphoid tissues is still missing. Therefore, we analyzed the IL-2 and IL-2r expression after a staphylococcal enterotoxin A (SEA)-induced T cell activation on a cellular and anatomical basis in the Wistar rat. SEA caused a rapid induction of IL-2 mRNA in T cells of spleen, lymph node, and thymus, followed by the appearance of high systemic IL-2 serum levels (5 ng/ml), and a significant increase of CD25 on CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocytes. The histotopographic analysis of the IL-2r chains revealed a strong upregulation of IL-2r alpha (alpha) and IL-2r beta (beta) mRNAs in similar T cell specific compartments of spleen, lymph node, and thymus as seen for IL-2 mRNA. The abundant constitutive expression of IL-2r gamma (gamma) mRNA was unaffected by SEA. The parallel upregulation of IL-2, IL-2ralpha, and beta chains in conjunction with the continuous presence of the IL-2rgamma chain predominantly in T cell regions of immune organs suggests that the biological effects of IL-2 are essentially limited to T cells, at least after superantigen stimulation.
The cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF(alpha)) may act within the neural circuitry of the medullary dorsal vagal complex (DVC) to affect changes in gastric function such as gastric stasis, loss of appetite, nausea, and vomiting. The definitive demonstration that endogenously generated TNF(alpha) is acting within the DVC circuitry to affect these changes has been impeded by the lack of an antagonist for TNF(alpha). The present studies used localized central nervous system microinjections of the TNF-adsorbant construct (TNFR:Fc) to specifically neutralize the ability of endogenously produced TNF(alpha) to activate NST neurons. Our studies reveal that TNFR:Fc suppresses induction of cFos normally evoked by TNF(alpha). These results validate our hypothesis that circulating TNF(alpha) may act directly within the DVC to affect gastric function in a variety of pathophysiological states.
Cytisine very potently binds and activates the alpha 3 beta 4 and alpha 7 nicotinic subtypes, but only partially agonises the alpha 4 beta 2 subtype. Although with a lower affinity than cytisine, new cytisine derivatives with different substituents on the basic nitrogen (CC1-CC8) bind to both the heteromeric and homomeric subtypes, with higher affinity for brain [3H]epibatidine receptors. The cytisine derivatives were tested on the Ca(2+) flux of native or transfected cell lines expressing the rat alpha 7, or human alpha 3 beta 4 or alpha 4 beta 2 subtypes using Ca(2+) dynamics in conjunction with a fluorescent image plate reader. None elicited any response at doses of up to 30-100 microM, but all inhibited agonist-induced responses. Compounds CC5 and CC7 were also electrophysiologically tested on oocyte-expressed rat alpha 4 beta 2, alpha 3 beta 4 and alpha 7 subtypes. CC5 competitively antagonised the alpha 4 beta 2 and alpha 3 beta 4 subtypes with similar potency, whereas CC7 only partially agonised them with maximum responses of respectively 3% and 11% of those of 1 mM acetylcholine. Neither compound induced any current in the oocyte-expressed alpha 7 subtype, and both weakly inhibited acetylcholine-induced currents. Adding chemical groups of a different class or size to the basic nitrogen of cytisine leads to compounds that lose full agonist activity on the alpha 3 beta 4 and alpha 7 subtypes.
The ability of 2,6 Di-tert-butyl-4-(-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-propyl)-phenol (CGP7930), a positive allosteric modulator of GABA(B) receptors, to regulate GABA(B) receptor-induced stimulation and inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity in rat brain was investigated. In olfactory bulb granule cell layer and in frontal cortex, CGP7930 potentiated the stimulatory effects of (-)-baclofen and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) on basal and corticotropin-releasing hormone-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities, respectively. In these stimulatory responses, CGP7930 enhanced both agonist potencies and maximal effects. When GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity of frontal cortex was examined, CGP7930 increased the agonist potencies but failed to affect the maximal effect of (-)-baclofen and modestly increased that of GABA. Similar results were obtained for the inhibition of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase in striatum and cerebellum. Western blot analysis of each membrane preparation showed the presence of GABA(B2) receptor subunit, a putative site of action of CGP7930. These data indicate that CGP7930 positively modulates brain GABA(B) receptors coupled to either stimulation or inhibition of cyclic AMP signalling.
The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) plays an important role in the regulation of body weight in rodents. Mutations in the coding region of the MC4R are found more frequently in obese individuals, supporting the hypothesis that also in humans deficient melanocortin signaling may lead to obesity. Family studies that were carried out to demonstrate the relevance of single mutations for obesity were mostly inconclusive, most likely due to small sample size and complexity of the trait. In addition, the existing pharmacological data of the mutant receptors are limited in that for most mutations the effect on receptor expression level and Agouti-related protein (AgRP) pharmacology have not been studied. The aim of the present study was to gain further insight into the impact of the MC4R mutations on receptor function. Eleven missense mutations were tested for cell surface expression, affinity for alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and AgRP-(83-132), and the biological response to alpha-MSH. All mutants were poorly expressed at the cell surface, as measured by 125I-[Nle4-D-Phe7]alpha-MSH binding, and only a few mutants showed altered pharmacology for alpha-MSH and AgRP. Hemagglutinin-tagged mutant receptors were retained in the intracellular environment. These pharmacological data provide a basis to estimate the quantitative effect of MC4R mutations for the development of obesity.
A phase 1, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose escalation study of the purine derivative, AIT-082 (Neotrofin, NeoTherapeutics) was conducted in mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients to evaluate multiple-dose safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics. Possible short-term effects of AIT-082 on cognition and memory were preliminarily investigated. AIT-082 is currently being developed as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders. Pre-clinical studies indicate that AIT-082 has memory enhancing properties, stimulates neuritogenesis and the production of neurotrophic factors. Patients received an oral dose of AIT-082 or placebo daily for one week. Thirty-six AD patients were divided into three dose cohorts; each dose cohort consisted of twelve patients with 8 patients randomized to AIT-082 and 4 to placebo. The 3 doses of AIT-082 evaluated in this study were 100 mg/day, 500 mg/day, and 2,000 mg/day. There were no serious adverse events at any dose and the drug was well tolerated without significant side effects. AIT-082 was orally and rapidly absorbed, resulting in peak serum concentrations within 2 hours with an elimination half-life of approximately 20 hours. Higher doses resulted in corresponding increases in peak concentrations and areas under the curve (AUC). There was an approximate 2-fold accumulation in AIT-082 with daily dosing (as reflected by the AUC) at steady state. There were no significant differences by treatment arm on the clinical or neuropsychological evaluations. AIT-082 was rapidly absorbed by the oral route with a half-life suitable for dosing once or twice daily. No problems with tolerability or safety were found. AIT-082 appears suitable for testing in larger clinical trials for the treatment of AD and other neurologic disorders.



Local neuronal networks that are responsible for walking are poorly characterized in mammals. Using an innovative approach to identify interneuron inputs onto motorneuron populations in a neonatal rodent spinal cord preparation, we have investigated the network responsible for left-right coordination of the hindlimbs. We demonstrate how commissural interneurons (CINs), whose axons traverse the midline to innervate contralateral neurons, are organized such that distinct flexor and extensor centers in the rostral lumbar spinal cord define activity in both flexor and extensor caudal motor pools. In addition, the nature of some connections are reconfigured on switching from rest to locomotion via a mechanism that might be associated with synaptic plasticity in the spinal cord. These results from identified pattern-generating interneurons demonstrate how interneuron populations create an effective network to underlie behavior in mammals.
Regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) modulate heterotrimeric G proteins in part by serving as GTPase-activating proteins for Galpha subunits. We examined a role for RGS9-2, an RGS subtype highly enriched in striatum, in modulating dopamine D2 receptor function. Viral-mediated overexpression of RGS9-2 in rat nucleus accumbens (ventral striatum) reduced locomotor responses to cocaine (an indirect dopamine agonist) and to D2 but not to D1 receptor agonists. Conversely, RGS9 knockout mice showed heightened locomotor and rewarding responses to cocaine and related psychostimulants. In vitro expression of RGS9-2 in Xenopus oocytes accelerated the off-kinetics of D2 receptor-induced GIRK currents, consistent with the in vivo data. Finally, chronic cocaine exposure increased RGS9-2 levels in nucleus accumbens. Together, these data demonstrate a functional interaction between RGS9-2 and D2 receptor signaling and the behavioral actions of psychostimulants and suggest that psychostimulant induction of RGS9-2 represents a compensatory adaptation that diminishes drug responsiveness.
Action potential-independent transmitter release is random and produces small depolarizations in the postsynaptic neuron. This process is, therefore, not thought to play a significant role in impulse propagation across synapses. Here we show that calcium flux through presynaptic neuronal nicotinic receptors leads to mobilization of store calcium by calcium-induced calcium release. Recruitment of store calcium induces vesicular release of glutamate in a manner consistent with synchronization across multiple active zones in the CA3 region of the rat hippocampus. This modulation of action potential-independent release of glutamate is sufficient to drive the postsynaptic pyramidal cell above its firing threshold, thus providing a mechanism for impulse propagation.
RGS proteins act as negative regulators of G protein signaling, and there is growing evidence that the RGS family is important for regulating signaling in neurons. Two articles in this issue of Neuron (Martemyanov et al. and Rahman et al.) shed light on the function of one family member, RGS9-2, in behavioral responses to dopamine signaling in the striatum and on the relationship between its structure and its function.
The embryonic nervous system is refined over the course of development as a result of the twin processes of naturally occurring cell death and selective axon pruning. Recent studies provide new insights into the molecular events that underlie axon pruning and underscore the diversity of refinement processes employed by the nervous system during development.








During the past decade, evidence from research on mood disorders has demonstrated that remission is the optimal outcome of treatment. However, there continues to be considerable variability in the specific characteristics that are accepted as indicators of remission. Increasing knowledge of mood disorders and their underlying mechanisms may allow for the development of a new diagnostic and assessment system that no longer is based solely on symptoms and other descriptive phenomena. Continued advances in neuroscience may allow for more knowledge of the underlying neurobiological status and more accurate assessments of the underlying disease state and response to treatment, thus enabling physicians to use treatments that will most effectively bring patients back to euthymia and a truly disease-free healthy state. Until then, remission should continue to be based on the descriptive and experiential phenomena of symptoms and psychosocial functioning.
The biosynthesis of the majority of biologically active peptides ends with an obligatory alpha-amidation step that is catalyzed only by peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM). The utility of two mechanisms proposed for this copper- and ascorbate-dependent monooxygenase was examined using site-directed mutagenesis and intrinsic tryptophan fluorescence. Retention of full activity by PHMccGln(170)Ala and -Asn eliminates a critical role for Gln(170) in a substrate-mediated electron transfer pathway. The 20-fold reduction in V(max) observed for PHMccGln(170)Glu and -Leu is consistent with a key role for conformational changes in this region. Mutation of Tyr(79), situated near Cu(A), to Trp reduced V(max) 200-fold. Measurement of changes in intrinsic fluorescence allowed determination of a K(d) for copper (0.06 microM) and for a peptidylglycine substrate, Phe-Gly-Phe-Gly (0.8 microM). Although the peptidylglycine substrate bound more tightly at pH 7.0 than at pH 5.5, V(max) decreased 25-fold at neutral pH. Total quenching of the signal from Trp(79) in apoPHMccTyr(79)Trp along with its greatly reduced V(max) defines a critical role for Cu(A) in the rate-limiting step of the reaction. Taking into account our data and the results of kinetic, spectroscopic, and crystallographic studies, we propose a mechanism in which substrate-mediated activation of molecular oxygen binding at Cu(A) completes a pathway for electron transfer from Cu(B).
Menadione (MQ), a quinone used with cancer chemotherapeutic agents, causes cytotoxicity to endothelial cells (EC). Previous studies have suggested that MQ induces an oxidative stress and dysfunction in EC by either increasing hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) production or depleting intracellular glutathione (GSH), the main intracellular antioxidant. Since a primary function of EC is to form a barrier to fluid movement into tissues, protecting organs from edema formation and dysfunction, our aim was to see if MQ would cause a barrier dysfunction and to ascertain the mechanism. Using diffusional permeability to fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled bovine serum albumin (FITC-BSA) as a measure of barrier function, we found that 15 micro M MQ incubated with a bovine pulmonary artery EC (BPAEC) monolayer for 4 h produced a profound barrier failure ( approximately 7-fold increase in permeability) with a parallel fall in glutathione, almost to depletion. These two events were highly correlated. Immunofluorescent imaging showed formation of paracellular holes consistent with a loss or rearrangement of cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion molecules. H(2)O(2) (100 micro M), a concentration which gave about the same increase in permeability as MQ, only slightly decreased GSH concentration. Antioxidants, such as catalase (CAT) and dimethylthiourea (DMTU), which were able to block the H(2)O(2)-induced changes, had no effect on the MQ-induced permeability and GSH changes, suggesting that H(2)O(2) was not involved in MQ-induced effects. MQ caused a severe EC cytotoxicity as judged by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage from the EC, whereas H(2)O(2) caused only a minor increase. Also, MQ profoundly inhibited the activities of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), key thiol enzymes involved in glutathione and ATP metabolism, whereas H(2)O(2) produced only a slight decrease in these activities. We conclude that the cytotoxicity of MQ and resulting barrier dysfunction correlate with GSH depletion and inactivation of key metabolic enzymes, compromising antioxidant defenses, rather than being consistent with H(2)O(2)-mediated oxidative stress.

Most neuronal models of learning assume that changes in synaptic strength are the main mechanism underlying long-term memory (LTM) formation. However, we show here that a persistent depolarization of membrane potential, a type of cellular change that increases neuronal responsiveness, contributes significantly to a long-lasting associative memory trace. The use of a model invertebrate network with identified neurons and known synaptic connectivity had the advantage that the contribution of this cellular change to memory could be evaluated in a neuron with a known function in the learning circuit. Specifically, we used the well-understood motor circuit underlying molluscan feeding and showed that a key modulatory neuron involved in the initiation of feeding ingestive movements underwent a long-term depolarization following behavioral associative conditioning. This depolarization led to an enhanced single cell and network responsiveness to a previously neutral tactile conditioned stimulus, and the persistence of both matched the time course of behavioral associative memory. The change in the membrane potential of a key modulatory neuron is both sufficient and necessary to initiate a conditioned response in a reduced preparation and underscores its importance for associative LTM.

In the hippocampus of freely moving rats, neurons have been recorded that fire predominantly when the animal travels through a particular area while exploring the environment (so-called 'place cells'). This study investigates if the neuronal firing characteristics of such cells are modulated by attention, expectation of reward or memory load. A total of 16 electrodes were implanted in the CA1 region of the hippocampus of 3-month-old Long-Evans rats. Using a tetrode recording system, single neurons were recorded while a rat explored an 8-arm maze and retrieved pellets at the end of each arm. It was found that 31 out of 67 neurons showed place cell characteristics, while the other cells either fired in more than one place or fired along whole arms of the maze. Interestingly, 11 of the 31 neurons showed enhanced firing activity when the animal entered a baited arm but did not fire when the arm was visited again after the bait had been retrieved. In a second experiment, only four out of eight arms were baited. Firing rates of 46 neurons were analysed, and all cells (spatial or non-spatial) fired more in baited arms than in non-baited ones (P&lt;0.001). In a reversal task in which the previously unbaited four arms were subsequently baited, neuronal activity was increased in the newly baited arms (42 cells analysed, P&lt;0.001). Since no alterations to the maze or cues have been made, we interpret the increased firing probability of neurons in baited arms compared to unbaited arms as a correlate for 'attention' or 'expectation'.
Low doses of alcohol impair movement and reduce anxiety. Most assessments of movement under ethyl alcohol (alcohol) in the rat have been tests of whole body movements, however. There has been no examination of the effects of alcohol on skilled limb movements, such as reaching for food with a forelimb. This was the purpose of the present study. Rats were trained to reach through a slot of a box with a forelimb in order to obtain a food pellet located on an external shelf. Once asymptotic performance was achieved, rats were given alcohol (20 ml of 8, 12 or 20% (v/v) solution) in separate tests to establish a relationship between alcohol ingestion and skilled reaching performance. Acute treatment with all doses of alcohol impaired postural support, but doses of 8 and 12% alcohol improved skilled reaching success. Qualitative analysis of the movements used for reaching at doses of 8 and 12% indicated that some limb components of the reaching movement were also impaired, perhaps secondarily due to impaired posture. In contrast, the reaching success of rats with unilateral dopamine depletion, induced with the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in the nigrostriatal bundle, was impaired by the same dose of alcohol that improved reaching success in control rats. The finding of improved success in reaching associated with reduced postural support in normal rats suggests a differential action of alcohol on movement subsystems underlying posture relative to skilled movement that depends upon an intact dopaminergic system. The results are also discussed with respect to the relationship of subsystems of movement and anxiety.
We previously observed that 5 months old serotonin 1B receptor knockout (5-HT1BKO) mice exhibited a facilitation of learning in a long-term spatial memory task in a water maze. In this study, we attempted to assess whether this effect might persist during aging. We compared the performances of young-adult (3 months old) and aged (22 months old) 5-HT1BKO and wild type (WT) mice in the same task. Young-adult and aged KO mice exhibited facilitated acquisition of the reference memory task as compared to their respective WT controls. Generally, the performance of aged KO was similar to that of young-adult WT on the parameters defining performance and motor (swim speed) aspects of the task. During probe trials, all mice presented a spatial selectivity, which was, however, less pronounced in aged than in young-adult WT. No such age-related effect was observed in KO mice. In a massed spatial learning task, aged KO and WT mice globally exhibited the same level of performance. Nevertheless, young-adult and aged KO mice were superior to their WT controls as concerns the working memory component of the task. The data suggest that 5-HT1BKO mice are more resistant than WT to age-related memory decline as concerns both reference/long-term and working/short-term spatial memory.
The still unknown contribution of the D4 receptors to memory consolidation was studied examining the memory effects of the dopamine D4 agonist PD168,077, the putative dopamine D4 antagonist L745,870, their mutual combination, and the combination of the D4 agonist with representative compounds acting as agonist or antagonist on the D1, D2 and the D3 receptors. Memory consolidation was assessed in C57BL/6J mice using the one-trial step-through inhibitory avoidance task, the compounds being injected immediately after training (foot-shock) and performance measured 24h later. PD168,077 (0.5-10mg/kg) dose-dependently improved memory performance and L745,870 (0.05-5mg/kg) at doses lower than 1mg/kg increased and at doses higher than 1mg/kg impaired memory performance. PD168,077 did not affect the paradoxical promnesic effect of low doses (0.1-0.5mg/kg) of L745,870, but antagonised the memory-impairing effect induced by 5mg/kg L745,870. The D1 antagonist SCH23390 (0.025-0.05 mg/kg) and the D2 antagonist eticlopride (0.01-0.05 mg/kg) antagonised the promnesic effects of PD168,077, which attenuated the decreasing effect on memory consolidation of both D1 and D2 antagonists. Accordingly, the D1 agonist SKF38393 (5-20mg/kg) and the D2 agonist quinelorane (0.1-1 mg/kg) both synergistically magnified the memory-improving effects of the D4 agonist. The dopamine D3 antagonist U99194A (2.5-10mg/kg) did not affect the promnesic effects induced by the D4 agonist, which nevertheless abolished the U99194A-induced promnesic effects. Additionally, the amnesic effects produced by the D3 agonist 7-OH-DPAT (0.01-1 microg/kg) was attenuated by PD168,077. These results suggest a potential role of dopamine D4 receptors in memory consolidation, which would be similar to that of the D1 and D2 receptors and probably opposite to that of the D3 receptors.
2-Amino-4-azaindoles have been identified as a structurally novel class of BK(Ca) channel openers. Their synthesis from 2-chloro-3-nitropyridine is described together with their in vitro properties assessed by 86Rb(+) efflux and whole-cell patch-clamp assays using HEK293 cells stably transfected with the BK(Ca) alpha subunit. In vitro functional characterization of BK(Ca) channel opening activity was also assessed by measurement of relaxation of smooth muscle tissue strips obtained from Landrace pig bladders. The preliminary SAR data indicate the importance of steric bulk around the 2-amino substituent.
A fundamental organizing feature of the retina is the presence of regularly spaced distributions of neurons, yet we have little knowledge of how this patterning emerges during development. Among these retinal mosaics, the spatial organization of the dopaminergic amacrine cells is unique: using nearest-neighbor and Vornoi domain analysis, we found that the dopaminergic amacrine cells were neither randomly distributed, nor did they achieve the regularity documented for other retinal cell types. Autocorrelation analysis revealed the presence of an exclusion zone surrounding individual dopaminergic amacrine cells and modeling studies confirmed this organization, as the mosaic could be simulated by a minimal distance spacing rule defined by a broad set of parameters. Experimental studies determined the relative contributions of tangential dispersion, fate determination, and cell death in the establishment of this exclusion zone. Clonal boundary analysis and simulations of proximity-driven movement discount tangential dispersion, while data from bcl-2 overexpressing mice rule out feedback-inhibitory fate-deterministic accounts. Cell death, by contrast, appears to eliminate dopaminergic amacrine cells that are within close proximity, thereby establishing the exclusion zone surrounding individual cells and in turn creating their mosaic regularity.
Reeler and yotari mice, which are mutant for Reelin or Dab1, respectively, show disorders of cerebral cortical lamination. We injected horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into the upper lumbar enlargement to label corticospinal tract (CST) neurons and wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated HRP (WGA-HRP) into the ventral lateral nucleus of the thalamus to label corticothalamic tract (CTT) neurons in both 19-day-old yotari and reeler mice with the aim of discovering whether or not they show differences in the distribution pattern of layer V or layer VI neurons. Similar injections of tracers were made in normal controls. HRP-labeled CST neurons, which were exclusively distributed in layer V of the normal cortex, were radially scattered in the cortex of both mutants, but those in reeler were more deeply distributed than in yotari. WGA-labeled CTT neurons, which were mainly located in layer VI in the normal cortex, were superficially distributed just beneath the pia mater in both reeler and yotari cortex. The present quantitative study shows that the distribution pattern of layer V neurons, but not layer VI neurons, differs between reeler and yotari mice, suggesting that the Reelin and Dab1 proteins may play different roles in the migration and cell positioning of layer V neurons.
In the central nervous system (CNS), the Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger plays a fundamental role in controlling the changes in the intracellular concentrations of Na(+) and Ca(2+) ions. These cations are known to regulate neurotransmitter release, cell migration and differentiation, gene expression, and neurodegenerative processes. In the present study, nonradioactive in situ hybridization and light immunohistochemistry were carried out to map the regional and cellular distribution for both transcripts and proteins encoded by the three known Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger genes NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3. NCX1 transcripts were particularly expressed in layers III-V of the motor cortex, in the thalamus, in CA3 and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, in several hypothalamic nuclei, and in the cerebellum. NCX2 transcripts were strongly expressed in all hippocampal subregions, in the striatum, and in the paraventricular thalamic nucleus. NCX3 mRNAs were mainly detected in the hippocampus, in the thalamus, in the amygdala, and in the cerebellum. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that NCX1 protein was mainly expressed in the supragranular layers of the cerebral cortex, in the hippocampus, in the hypothalamus, in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area, and in the granular layer of the cerebellum. The NCX2 protein was predominantly expressed in the hippocampus, in the striatum, in the thalamus, and in the hypothalamus. The NCX3 protein was particularly found in the CA3 subregion, and in the oriens, radiatum, and lacunoso-moleculare layers of the hippocampus, in the ventral striatum, and in the cerebellar molecular layer. Collectively, these results suggest that the different Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger isoforms appear to be selectively expressed in several CNS regions where they might underlie different functional roles.


Casein kinase-2 (CK2) is a pleiotropic and constitutively active serine/threonine protein kinase composed of two catalytic (alpha and/or alpha') and two regulatory beta-subunits, whose regulation is still not well understood. In the present study, we show that the catalytic subunits of human CK2, but not the regulatory beta-subunits, are readily phosphorylated by the Src family protein tyrosine kinases Lyn and c-Fgr to a stoichiometry approaching 2 mol phosphotyrosine/mol CK2alpha with a concomitant 3-fold increase in catalytic activity. We also show that endogenous CK2alpha becomes tyrosine-phosphorylated in pervanadate-treated Jurkat cells. Both tyrosine phosphorylation and stimulation of activity are suppressed by the specific Src inhibitor 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl)pyrazolo[3,4- d ]pyrimidine. By comparison, mutations giving rise to inactive forms of CK2alpha do not abrogate and, in some cases, stimulate Lyn and c-Fgr-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of CK2. Several radiolabelled phosphopeptides could be resolved by HPLC, following tryptic digestion of CK2alpha that had been phosphoradiolabelled by incubation with [(32)P]ATP and c-Fgr. The most prominent phosphopeptide co-migrates with a synthetic peptide encompassing the 248-268 sequence, phosphorylated previously by c-Fgr at Tyr(255) in vitro. The identification of Tyr(255) as a phosphorylated residue was also supported by MS sequencing of both the phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated 248-268 tryptic fragments from CK2alpha and by on-target phosphatase treatment. A CK2alpha mutant in which Tyr(255) was replaced by phenylalanine proved less susceptible to phosphorylation and refractory to stimulation by c-Fgr.
The primary purpose of this article is to review the anatomy of central projections of the vestibular nerve in amniotes. We also report primary data regarding the central projections of individual horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-filled afferents innervating the saccular macula, horizontal semicircular canal ampulla, and anterior semicircular canal ampulla of the gerbil. In total, 52 characterized primary vestibular afferent axons were intraaxonally injected with HRP and traced centrally to terminations. Lateral and anterior canal afferents projected most heavily to the medial and superior vestibular nuclei. Saccular afferents projected strongly to the spinal vestibular nucleus, weakly to other vestibular nuclei, to the interstitial nucleus of the eighth nerve, the cochlear nuclei, the external cuneate nucleus, and nucleus y. The current findings reinforce the preponderance of literature. The central distribution of vestibular afferents is not homogeneous. We review the distribution of primary afferent terminations described for a variety of mammalian and avian species. The tremendous overlap of the distributions of terminals from the specific vestibular nerve branches with one another and with other sensory inputs provides a rich environment for sensory integration.
Nitric oxide (NO) is believed to act as an intercellular signal that regulates synaptic plasticity in mature neurons. We now report that NO also regulates the proliferation and differentiation of mouse brain neural progenitor cells (NPCs). Treatment of dissociated mouse cortical neuroepithelial cluster cell cultures with the NO synthase inhibitor L-NAME or the NO scavenger hemoglobin increased cell proliferation and decreased differentiation of the NPCs into neurons, whereas the NO donor sodium nitroprusside inhibited NPC proliferation and increased neuronal differentiation. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) reduced NPC proliferation and increased the expression of neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) in differentiating neurons. The stimulatory effect of BDNF on neuronal differentation of NPC was blocked by L-NAME and hemoglobin, suggesting that NO produced by the latter cells inhibited proliferation and induced neuronal differentiation of neighboring NPCs. A similar role for NO in regulating the switch of neural stem cells from proliferation to differentiation in the adult brain is suggested by data showing that NO synthase inhibition enhances NPC proliferation and inhibits neuronal differentiation in the subventricular zone of adult mice. These findings identify NO as a paracrine messenger stimulated by neurotrophin signaling in newly generated neurons to control the proliferation and differentiation of NPC, a novel mechanism for the regulation of developmental and adult neurogenesis.
In the common Azorean rock-pool blenny, Parablennius parvicornis, males exhibit alternative reproductive morphologies: (1) larger males defend nest sites, provide parental care, have anal glands (involved in pheromone release), testicular glands, and low gonad:body weight ratio (GSI) and (2) smaller, younger, males do not defend nests, have reduced glands and high GSI. These smaller non-nesting males behave as satellites (associated with nests) or sneakers (moving among nests), attempting to achieve parasitic fertilizations via sperm competition. In non-mammals, arginine vasotocin (AVT) is a key hypothalamic peptide involved in the control of reproductive behavior and physiology, and several fish species that exhibit alternative male reproductive morphs show polymorphism in AVT brain chemistry. We conducted an immunocytochemical study to generate comparative data on this intertidal blenny. Our analysis showed no difference in AVT-immunoreactive cell number or size between the male morphs, which is consistent with studies on other fish, including blennies. The number of AVT cells was positively correlated to fish body mass, while cell size showed no such relation. If corrected for body mass, the smaller non-nesting males have significantly more cells than the large nesting males. Our data suggest that the size and number of forebrain AVT cells develops initially to allow for reproduction in the young non-nesting males and this pattern does not appear to change when males take on the nesting morphotype later in life. This result appears to be consistent in many fishes with alternative male morphotypes.
In Teleost fish examined to date the ocular rod opsin gene, rho, is intronless, unlike the rod opsin genes of other vertebrate classes which possess a five exon/four intron structure. We have examined in silico the structure of rho (which is expressed uniquely in the retina) and the closely related extraretinal rod-like opsin (exo-rhodopsin) gene, errlo (which is expressed uniquely in the pineal), in the puffer-fish, Fugu rubripes (Takifugu rubripes). Whilst the ocular rho is intronless in common with other Teleosts, the pineal errlo has the five exon/four intron structure common to the rod opsin gene of other vertebraes. A comparison of the sequence surrounding the errlo and rho loci indicates that the errlo locus is syntenic with RHO, the human rod opsin gene, rather than rho. We suggest that the intronless rho may have arisen through an ancient retrotransposition of a mature mRNA originating from errlo. This duplication event has occurred early in the evolution of the Actinopterygii (ray-finned fish) since the rho of the primitive Actinopterygians such as sturgeon, bowfin, and gar is also intronless. Since it appears that the intron containing errlo is the ancestral opsin gene that gave rise to the intronless rho in the Teleostei, errlo is therefore the true orthologue of the rod opsin gene in other vertebrate classes. We suggest that loss of expression of errlo in the retina could be related to the metabolic and physiological advantages, such as a reduction in splicing events during RNA processing, that may be conferred through possession of an additional, intronless rod opsin gene in the form of rho.
Like Lewis rats, DA rats are an experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE)-susceptible strain and develop severe EAE upon immunization with myelin basic protein (MBP). However, there are several differences between the two strains. In the present study we induced acute EAE in DA rats by immunization with MBP and MBP peptides and examined the Ag specificity and TCR repertoire of encephalitogenic T cells. It was found that although immunization with MBP and a peptide corresponding to its 62-75 sequence (MBP(62-75)) induced clinical EAE, the responses of lymph node T cells isolated from MBP-immunized rats to MBP(62-75) was marginal, indicating that this peptide contains major encephalitogenic, but not immunodominant, epitopes. The TCR analysis by CDR3 spectratyping of spinal cord T cells revealed that Vbeta10 and Vbeta15 spectratype expansion was always found in MBP(62-75)-immunized symptomatic rats. On the basis of these findings, we examined the encephalitogenicity of Vbeta10- and Vbeta15-positive T cells. First, the adoptive transfer experiments revealed that Vbeta10-positive T line cells derived from MBP(62-75)-immunized rats induced clinical EAE in recipients. Second, administration of DNA vaccines encoding Vbeta10 and Vbeta15, alone or in combination, ameliorated MBP(62-75)-induced EAE. Collectively, it was strongly suggested that Vbeta10- and Vbeta15-positive T cells are encephalitogenic. Analyses of the Ag specificity and T cell repertoire of pathogenic T cells performed in this study provide useful information for designing specific immunotherapies against autoimmune diseases.
We studied the upper (UMN) and lower motor neuron (LMN) innervations of 159 hands from 81 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Eleven patients with various chronic LMN disorders causing weakness in the abductor digiti minimi (ADM) muscle served as LMN controls. Thirty healthy subjects served as normal controls. Cortical motor threshold, central conduction time (CMCT), and motor-evoked response amplitude (MEP) after transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) were studied, and the MEP/M wave ratio was calculated. The data was analyzed in the ALS subjects in groups defined by ADM muscle strength and by the presence or absence of clinical signs of UMN involvement. CMCT was not increased in the ALS or LMN disease groups. The threshold was higher in limbs with both weak ADM muscles and UMN signs. The MEP/M wave amplitude ratio was increased in weak muscles in the ALS patients, notably in limbs with no UMN signs, and also in weak muscles in patients with other chronic LMN disorders. It was frequently decreased in strong muscles. There was no difference between bulbar-onset and limb-onset ALS groups, and there was no correlation between threshold and disease duration. We suggest that expressing the data as an index and utilising the MEP/M wave amplitude ratio as a variable is a sensitive method for detecting UMN abnormality in ALS in particular in early affected muscles.
We studied 31 patients with relapsing-remitting (RR) multiple sclerosis (MS) in which we performed an urodynamic study, the pudendal cortical evoked potentials, the tibial cortical evoked potentials and the cranial and cervical spinal cord magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We calculated the T(1) and T(2) lesion load (LL) and brain parenchymal fraction (BPF) of whole brain, frontal lobes, pons and cervical spinal cord. We also estimated the cross-sectional area at C(2) level. Spearman's rank correlation analysis showed a relationship between symptoms of sexual dysfunction and age (r=0.73, p&lt;0.0001), cognitive performances (r=-0.63, p&lt;0.0001), level of independence (r=-0.63, p&lt;0.0001), disability (r=0.56, p&lt;0.001), symptoms of anxiety (r=0.55, p&lt;0.001) and depression (r=0.50, p&lt;0.005), disease duration (r=0.42, p&lt;0.02) and parenchymal atrophy in the pons (r=-0.38, p=0.031). Sexual dysfunction was not correlated with any other MRI measure, urodynamic patterns or cortical evoked potentials. In multiple regression analysis, sexual dysfunction was predicted only by T(1) lesion load of the pons. In conclusion, we confirmed previous correlations of sexual dysfunction with various clinical variables and demonstrated an association between sexual dysfunction and destructive lesions in the pons, as detected by MRI, in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.
Patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) and/or variants who were refractory or intolerant of standard therapies were treated with etanercept, 25 mg twice per week. Ten patients underwent treatment, and manual muscle strength, sensory thresholds and functional abilities were tested prior to and 4-6 months after initiating therapy. Three patients had significant improvement and three others had possible improvement. Based on these preliminary observations, treatment with etanercept may be considered in patients with CIDP, who cannot undergo standard therapies, although its efficacy in CIDP needs to be examined in a double-blinded, controlled clinical trial.
Consolidation and reconsolidation of long-term memory have been shown to be dependent on the synthesis of new proteins, but the specific molecular mechanisms underlying these events remain to be elucidated. The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway can trigger genomic responses in neurons, leading to changes in protein synthesis, and several studies have identified its pivotal role in synaptic plasticity and long-term memory formation. In this study, we analyze the involvement of this pathway in the consolidation and reconsolidation of long-term recognition memory, using an object recognition task. We show that inhibition of the MAPK pathway by intracerebroventricular injection of the MEK [MAPK/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)] inhibitor UO126 blocks consolidation of object recognition memory but does not affect short-term memory. Brain regions of the entorhinal cortex-hippocampal circuitry were analyzed for ERK activation, and it was shown that consolidation of recognition memory was associated with increased phosphorylation of ERK in the dentate gyrus and entorhinal cortex, although total expression of ERK was unchanged. We also report that inhibition of the MAPK pathway blocks reconsolidation of recognition memory, and this was shown to be dependent on reactivation of the memory trace by brief reexposure to the objects. In addition, reconsolidation of memory was associated with an increase in the phosphorylation of ERK in entorhinal cortex and CA1. In summary, our data show that the MAPK kinase pathway is required for both consolidation and reconsolidation of long-term recognition memory, and that this is associated with hyperphosphorylation of ERK in different subregions of the entorhinal cortex-hippocampal circuitry.
We studied cellular mechanisms of synchronization of epileptiform activity induced by kainic acid in a novel preparation of superfused rat hippocampus in vivo. Under urethane anesthesia, kainate induced epileptic population spikes occurring at 30-40 Hz. Pyramidal cells fired exclusively during population spikes with an average probability of 0.34 on rebound of rhythmic GABA(A)-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic events. Excitatory synaptic events contributed little to seizure activity. Rhythmic epileptiform activity was suppressed by blocking GABA(A) receptors and was slowed by barbiturates. Thus, GABAergic inhibition is instrumental in synchronizing kainate-induced epileptiform rhythmic activity in the gamma frequency band in the intact hippocampus in vivo.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of human primary motor cortex (M1) changes cortical excitability at the site of stimulation and at distant sites without affecting simple motor performance. The aim of this study was to explore how rTMS changes regional excitability and how the motor system compensates for these changes. Using functional brain imaging, activation was mapped at rest and during freely selected finger movements after 30 min of 1 Hz rTMS. rTMS increased synaptic activity in the stimulated left M1 and induced widespread changes in activity throughout areas engaged by the task. In particular, movement-related activity in the premotor cortex of the nonstimulated hemisphere increased after 1 Hz rTMS. Analyses of effective connectivity confirmed that the stimulated part of M1 became less responsive to input from premotor and mesial motor areas. Conversely, after rTMS our results were consistent with increased coupling between an inferomedial portion of left M1 and anterior motor areas. These results are important for three reasons. First, they show changes in motor excitability to central inputs from other cortical areas (as opposed to peripheral or exogenous inputs used in previous studies). Second, they suggest that maintenance of task performance may involve activation of premotor areas contralateral to the site of rTMS, similar to that seen in stroke patients. Third, changes in motor activations at the site of rTMS suggest an rTMS-induced remodeling of motor representations during movement. This remapping may provide a neural substrate for acute compensatory plasticity of the motor system in response to focal lesions such as stroke.
The time scale of hippocampal involvement in retrieving memories, particularly those more remote, is still a matter of debate. Some propose that the hippocampus is not involved in the retrieval of remote memories, whereas others assert that it is necessary for memory retrieval in perpetuity. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to examine the effect of remoteness on the neural basis of memory. We used a parametric event-related random-effects design in a large group of subjects to overcome some of the limitations of previous neuroimaging studies. We found that the hippocampi were significantly active during the retrieval of autobiographical memories. Notably, the two hippocampi diverged in their responses to remoteness. The right hippocampus showed a temporal gradient, decreasing in activity the more remote the autobiographical memories. No such effect was apparent in the left hippocampus, suggesting its invariant involvement in remembering autobiographical events throughout the lifespan. The dorsal amygdalas showed a temporal gradient similar to the right hippocampus, but emotional valence and intensity were not directly associated with changes in activity. The current results indicate that consideration of lateral asymmetry may help to broaden the scope of theoretical interpretations concerning hippocampal involvement in remote memory.
Successful communication between two people depends first on the recognition of the intention to communicate. Such intentions may be conveyed by signals directed at the self, such as calling a person's name or making eye contact. In this study we use functional magnetic resonance imaging to show that the perception of these two signals, which differ in modality and sensory channel, activate common brain regions: the paracingulate cortex and temporal poles bilaterally. These regions are part of a network that has been consistently activated when people are asked to think about the mental states of others. Activation of this network is independent of arousal as measured by changes in pupil diameter.
Development of midbrain dopaminergic neurons is known to depend on inductive signals derived from the ventral midline, including Sonic hedgehog (Shh) as one of the identified molecules. Here we show that in addition to Shh, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta is required for both induction and survival of ventrally located midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Like Shh, TGF-beta is expressed in early embryonic structures such as notochord and floor plate, as well as in the area where midbrain dopaminergic neurons are developing. Treatment of cells dissociated from the rat embryonic day (E) 12 midbrain floor with TGF-beta significantly increases the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive dopaminergic neurons within 24 hr. Neutralization of TGF-beta in vitro completely abolishes the induction of dopaminergic neurons. In the absence of TGF-beta, Shh cannot induce TH-positive neurons, and vice versa, neutralizing endogenous Shh abolishes the capacity of TGF-beta to induce dopaminergic neurons in vitro. Furthermore, neutralization of TGF-beta in vivo during chick E2-7 but not E4-7 resulted in a significant reduction in TH-positive neurons in the ventral midbrain floor but not in the locus coeruleus or diencephalon, which suggests that the TGF-beta is required for the induction of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons with a critical time period at E2/E3. Furthermore, neutralization of TGF-beta between E6 and 10, a time period during maturation of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons when no further inductive cues are required, also resulted in a significant loss of dopaminergic neurons, suggesting that TGF-beta is required for the promotion of survival of ventral midbrain dopaminergic neurons as well. Together, our results identify TGF-beta as an essential mediator for the induction and maintenance of midbrain dopaminergic neurons.
The mouse homeodomain protein, Engrailed-1, is generally viewed as an essential player in the early establishment and maintenance of the midbrain/hindbrain region that gives rise to the cerebellum and midbrain. In keeping with this, engineered null mutations at this locus have been reported to lead to perinatal lethality accompanied by near-total absence of cerebellar and caudal midbrain structures. We report here that these cerebellar phenotypes are nearly completely suppressed on a C57BL/6J genetic background. All cell types are present and arranged properly in both the cortex and the deep nuclei, and cell counts reveal no significant absence of cerebellar Purkinje cells. Folial patterns are nearly normal, although an apparent fusion of lobules IV and V is consistently noted. Significantly, no change in the Engrailed-2 mutant phenotype occurs after a similar background switch, and whole-mount in situ hybridization reveals identical En2 expression patterns in wild-type C57BL/6J and 129/Sv mice. One likely mechanism for the En1-/- phenotype suppression is a temporal and/or spatial change in the pattern of Engrailed-2 expression apparent only in the absence of Engrailed-1. In support of this, C57BL/6-En1-/- embryos that are also En2+/- lack a cerebellum and caudal midbrain: a phenotype identical to 129/Sv-En1-/- mice.
Here we characterize a novel neuronal kinase, cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5)/p35-regulated kinase (cprk). Cprk is a member of a previously undescribed family of kinases that are predicted to contain two N-terminal membrane-spanning domains and a long C terminus, which harbors a dual-specificity serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase domain. Cprk was isolated in a yeast two-hybrid screen using the neuronal cdk5 activator p35 as &quot;bait.&quot; Cprk interacts with p35 in the yeast-two hybrid system, binds to p35 in glutathione S-transferase fusion pull-down assays, and colocalizes with p35 in cultured neurons and transfected cells. In these cells, cprk is present with p35 in the Golgi apparatus. Cprk is expressed in a number of tissues but is enriched in brain and muscle and within the brain is found in a wide range of neuronal populations. Cprk displays catalytic activity in in vitro kinase assays and is itself phosphorylated by cdk5/p35. Cdk5/p35 inhibits cprk activity. Cdk5/p35 may therefore regulate cprk function in the brain.
Various neurotransmitters excite neurons by suppressing a ubiquitous, voltage-dependent, noninactivating K+ conductance called the M-conductance (gM). In bullfrog sympathetic ganglion neurons the suppression of gM by the P2Y agonist ATP involves phospholipase C (PLC). The present results are consistent with the involvement of the lipid and inositol phosphate cycles in the effects of both P2Y and muscarinic cholinergic agonists on gM. Impairment of resynthesis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) with the phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase inhibitor wortmannin (10 microm) slowed or blocked the recovery of agonist-induced gM suppression. This effect could not be attributed to an action of wortmannin on myosin light chain kinase or on phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. Inhibition of PIP2 synthesis at an earlier point in the lipid cycle by the use of R59022 (40 microm) to inhibit diacylglycerol kinase also slowed the rate of recovery of successive ATP responses. This effect required several applications of agonist to deplete levels of various phospholipid intermediates in the lipid cycle. PIP2 antibodies attenuated the suppression of gM by agonists. Intracellular application of 20 microm PIP2 slowed the rundown of KCNQ2/3 currents expressed in COS-1 or tsA-201 cells, and 100 microm PIP2 produced a small potentiation of native M-current bullfrog sympathetic neurons. These are the results that might be expected if agonist-induced activation of PLC and the concomitant depletion of PIP2 contribute to the excitatory action of neurotransmitters that suppress gM.
It has been shown that cytoplasmic RNA oxidation occurs to a great extent in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. The goal of this study was to isolate and identify oxidized RNA species in AD. We show that significant amounts of poly(A)+ mRNAs are oxidized in AD brains. RNA oxidation is not random but highly selective. Importantly, many identified oxidized mRNA species have been implicated in the pathogenesis of AD. Quantitative analysis revealed that some mRNA species are more susceptible to oxidative damage. We also investigated the biological consequence of oxidatively damaged mRNAs by expressing them in cell lines. Our data indicated that abnormal processing of proteins occurred to the oxidized mRNAs. This may implicate the potential contribution of RNA oxidation in the pathogenesis of AD.
Purkinje neurons generate high-frequency action potentials and express voltage-gated, tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium channels with distinctive kinetics. Their sodium currents activate and inactivate during depolarization, as well as reactivate during repolarization from positive potentials, producing a &quot;resurgent&quot; current. This reopening of channels not only generates inward current after each action potential, but also permits rapid recovery from inactivation, leading to the hypothesis that resurgent current may facilitate high-frequency firing. Mutant med mice are ataxic and lack expression of the Scn8a gene, which encodes the NaV1.6 protein. In med Purkinje cells, transient sodium current inactivates more rapidly than in wild-type cells, and resurgent current is nearly abolished. To investigate how NaV1.6-specific kinetics influence firing patterns, we recorded action potentials of Purkinje neurons isolated from wild-type and med mice. We also recorded non-sodium currents from Purkinje cells of both genotypes to test whether the Scn8a mutation induced changes in other ion channels. Last, we modeled action potential firing by simulating eight currents directly recorded from Purkinje cells in both wild-type and med mice. Regular, high-frequency firing was slowed in med Purkinje neurons. In addition to disrupted sodium currents, med neurons had small but significant changes in potassium and leak currents. Simulations indicated that these modified non-sodium currents could not account for the reduced excitability of med cells but instead slightly facilitated spiking. The loss of NaV1.6-specific kinetics, however, slowed simulated spontaneous activity. Together, the data suggest that across a range of conditions, sodium currents with a resurgent component promote and accelerate firing.
Mitochondria were simultaneously isolated from striatum and cortex of adult rats and compared in functional assays for their sensitivity to calcium activation of the permeability transition. Striatal mitochondria showed an increased dose-dependent sensitivity to Ca2+ compared with cortical mitochondria, as measured by mitochondrial depolarization, swelling, Ca2+ uptake, reactive oxygen species production, and respiration. Ratios of ATP to ADP were lower in striatal mitochondria exposed to calcium despite equal amounts of ADP and ATP under respiring and nonrespiring conditions. The Ca2+-induced changes were inhibited by cyclosporin A or ADP. These responses are consistent with Ca2+ activation of both low and high permeability pathways constituting the mitochondrial permeability transition. In addition to the striatal supersensitivity to induction of the permeability transition, cyclosporin A inhibition was less potent in striatal mitochondria. Immunoblots indicated that striatal mitochondria contained more cyclophilin D than cortical mitochondria. Thus striatal mitochondria may be selectively vulnerable to the permeability transition. Subsequent mitochondrial dysfunction could contribute to the initial toxicity of striatal neurons in Huntington's disease.
The neural substrates of memory likely include long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic strength that results from high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the afferent pathway. The mechanisms that underlie the maintenance of LTP include RNA and protein synthesis, although the contribution of these molecular events typically does not become essential until several hours after LTP induction. We here show that, different from this pattern, (1) LTP maintenance at the mossy fiber (MF) input to CA3 pyramidal cells in the hippocampus depends on protein and RNA synthesis soon after LTP induction, and (2) some of these molecular events are controlled by signaling from the presynaptic granule cell soma. Bath application of the protein synthesis inhibitor emetine or cycloheximide 1 hr after MF LTP induction in hippocampal slices caused loss of MF potentiation. In contrast, application of emetine 1 hr after LTP induction at the commissural-associational input to CA3 pyramidal cells had no effect on this form of LTP. Administration of emetine or the RNA synthesis inhibitor actinomycin-D before delivery of HFS to MF input also caused a rapid decay of MF potentiation, although neither drug had an effect on the amplitude or the time-constant of decay of post-tetanic potentiation (PTP). Similarly, transection of MF axons near granule cell somas had no effect on baseline or PTP parameters but caused loss of potentiation at a rate comparable with that after actinomycin-D application. These results indicate that the mechanisms that underlie MF LTP maintenance differ from those involved in LTP maintenance at other glutamatergic synapses.
Peripheral sensory nerve terminals (PSNTs) have a dual function: reporting normal and abnormal sensations and releasing trophic factors to maintain the structure and function of epithelial cells. Although it is widely considered that intracellular Ca2+ plays a critical signaling role for both functions, the role of Ca2+ signaling has never been studied in PSNTs, primarily because of their small size and anatomical inaccessibility. Here, using epifluoresence microscopy and a fluorescent Ca2+ indicator, we report that action potentials or chemical irritation can elicit transient rises in [Ca2+]i (Ca2+ transients) in PSNTs within the corneal epithelium of the rat. In vitro electrical stimulation of the ciliary nerves in the eye, or electrical field stimulation of the cornea, evoked Ca2+ transients with a magnitude that was proportional to the number of stimuli applied over the range of 1-10 stimuli. Ca2+ transients were significantly blocked by 1 mm lidocaine, 4.1 microm saxitoxin (STX), or L-type Ca2+ channel antagonists (1 mm diltiazem or 20 microm nifedipine). The nociceptive agonist capsaicin (1 microm) elicited Ca2+ transients in all nerve terminals studied. Capsaicin-evoked Ca2+ transients were completely blocked by the vanilloid receptor 1 antagonist capsazepine (100 microm). In contrast, capsaicin-evoked Ca2+ transients were not attenuated by preincubation with 4.1 microm STX or 20 microm nifedipine. These findings demonstrate, for the first time, that nerve impulses or chemical stimulation promote Ca2+ entry into PSNTs, including nociceptors.
Depression is characterized by a lack of &quot;motivation&quot; rather than a lack of &quot;physical space&quot; to move around. This study was designed to evaluate predictivity of an open space swimming test for antidepressant activity of various antidepressants in rats. Without drug treatment, rats showed a significant reduction in the distance moved (increased immobility) over successive trials in an open space water pool. Three major classes of antidepressants and a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) were tested. Repeated treatment (10 mg/kg x 3 per day) of imipramine, a prototypical tricyclic antidepressant, iproniazid, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, mianserin, an atypical antidepressant, and alaproclate, an SSRI, all significantly reduced the immobility. These results suggest that the open space swimming test is highly predictive of antidepressant action and is more sensitive to the drug treatments. The measurement is more objective than that of the forced swimming test and does not involve judging and scoring the animals' movement or lack of movement by investigators. The demonstrated effectiveness of three major types of antidepressants and an SSRI suggests that the effects on the test are not restricted to a particular underlying molecular mechanism of action. Thus, this swimming test shows promising potential as a screen for novel antidepressants and, perhaps, for revealing some of the underlying pathophysiology of depression.
The rotorod test, in which animals walk on a rotating drum, is widely used to assess motor status in laboratory rodents. Performance is measured by the duration that an animal stays up on the drum as a function of drum speed. Here we report that the task provides a rich source of information about qualitative aspects of walking movements. Because movements are performed in a fixed location, they can readily be examined using high-speed video recording methods. The present study was undertaken to examine the potential of the rotorod to reveal qualitative changes in the walking movements of hemi-Parkinson analogue rats, produced by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the nigrostriatal bundle to deplete nigrostriatal dopamine (DA). Beginning on the day following surgery and then periodically over the next two months, the rats were filmed from frontal, lateral, and posterior views as they walked on the rotorod. Behavior was analyzed by frame-by-frame replay of the video records. Rating scales of stepping behavior indicated that the hemi-Parkinson rats were chronically impaired in their posture and in the use of the limbs contralateral to the DA-depletion. The contralateral limbs not only displayed postural and movement abnormalities, they participated less in initiating and sustaining propulsion than did the ipsilateral limbs. These findings not only reveal new deficits secondary to unilateral DA-depletion, but also show that the rotorod can provide a robust tool for the qualitative analysis of movement.
Hair cell calcium channels regulate membrane excitability and control synaptic transmission. The present investigations focused on determining whether calcium channels vary between hair cells of different characteristic frequencies or if multiple channel types exist within a hair cell, each serving a different function. To this end, turtle auditory hair cells from high- (317 +/- 27 Hz) and low-frequency (115 +/- 6 Hz) positions were voltage clamped using the whole-cell recording technique, and calcium currents were characterized based on activation, inactivation and pharmacological properties. Pharmacological sensitivity to dihydropyridines (nimodipine, Bay K 8644), benzothiazepines (diltiazem) and acetonitrile derivatives (verapamil, D600) and the insensitivity to non-L-type calcium channel antagonists support the conclusion that only L-type calcium channels were present. Fast activation rise times (&lt; 0.5 ms), hyperpolarized half-activation potentials and a relative insensitivity to nimodipine suggest the channels were of the alpha1D (CaV1.3) variety. Although no pharmacological differences were found between calcium currents obtained from high- and low-frequency cells, low-frequency cells activated slightly faster and at hyperpolarized potentials, with half-activating voltages of -43 +/- 1 mV compared to -35 +/- 1 mV. Inactivation was observed in both high- and low-frequency cells. The time course of inactivation required three time constants for a fit. Long depolarizations could result in complete inactivation. The voltage of half-inactivation was -40 +/- 2 mV for high-frequency cells and -46 +/- 2 mV for low-frequency cells. Calcium channel inactivation did not significantly alter hair cell electrical resonant properties elicited from protocols where the membrane potential was hyperpolarized or depolarized prior to characterizing the resonance. A bell-shaped voltage dependence and modest sensitivities to intracellular calcium chelators and external barium ions suggest that inactivation was calcium dependent.
Glutamate either depolarizes or hyperpolarizes retinal neurons. Those are the initial and primary effects. Using a voltage probe (oxonol, DiBaC4 (5)) to study dissociated zebrafish retinal neurons, we find a secondary, longer-term effect: a post-excitatory restoration of membrane potential, termed after-hyperpolarization (AHP). AHP occurs only in neurons that are depolarized by glutamate and typically peaks about 5 min after glutamate application. AHP is seen in dissociated horizontal cells (HCs) and hyperpolarizing, or OFF type, bipolar cells (HBCs). These cells commonly respond with only an AHP component. AHP never occurs in depolarizing, or ON type, bipolar cells (DBCs), which are cell types hyperpolarized by glutamate. AHP is blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX). It is evoked by kainate, AMPA and the AMPA-selective agonist (S)-5-fluorowillardiine, but not by NMDA, D-aspartate, the kainate-selective agonist SYM 2081 or by DL-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (DL-AP4). Cells with exclusively AHP responses are tonically depolarized. Resting potentials can be restored by nifedipine, suggesting a tonic, depolarizing action of L-type Ca2+ channels. However AHP is not blocked by nifedipine and is insensitive to [Cl-]o. AHP is blocked by Li+o substitution for Na+o and by ouabain. A mechanism is proposed in which Na+ entering through ionotropic AMPA channels stimulates Na+,K+-ATPase, which, by electrogenic action, restores membrane potential, generating the AHP response. Patterns of ATPase immunoreactivity support localization in the outer plexiform layer (OPL) as cone pedicles, HCs and BCs were positively labelled. Labelling was weaker in the inner plexiform layer (IPL) than in nuclear layers, though two IPL bands of immunoreactive BC terminals could be discerned, one in sublamina a and the other in sublamina b. Persistent stimulation of distal retina by photoreceptor glutamate may induce increased expression and activity of Na+,K+-ATPase, with a consequent impact on distal glutamate responses.


To determine if endogenous testosterone (T) is related to physiological responses to aggressive stimuli in human males, students in a behavioral neuroscience laboratory class conducted an experiment that determined if levels of salivary T in adult males are correlated with autonomic and/or somatic responses to angry facial expressions. Each student collected a saliva sample from one subject and, within 30 minutes of collecting the sample, measured heart rate (HR), skin conductance (SC), and corrugator supercilii electromyographic (EMG) responses to emotionally neutral, happy, and angry male facial expressions. Salivary T levels were analyzed by an enzyme-linked immunoassay. A significant, positive correlation was found between levels of salivary T and HR responses to angry and happy, but not neutral, male facial expressions. This laboratory experience not only provided students with the opportunity to design and conduct a scientific experiment, but it also generated preliminary data suggesting that levels of salivary T collected within 30 minutes of testing are related to autonomic responses to emotional social stimuli in humans. If verified by future experiments, this finding would be consistent with the hypothesis that fluctuations in circulating T might influence ongoing social behavior in human males by rapidly modulating autonomic responses to emotional social stimuli. The potential significance of such a general mechanism for the regulation of aggressive behavior is discussed.
The interdisciplinary nature of neuroscience makes it one of the most fascinating and complex subjects to address in the classroom. This can be compounded, however, by the addition of theology or a faith-related context at a religious institution (RI). The addition of theology and faith can enrich student appreciation and understanding of neuroscience and stimulate discussion in the classroom. This provides a practical way to make the course content relevant to students who may see neuroscience as antagonistic towards their faith. Over the past century questions of human experience and personhood that were long held to be under the authority of religion now can be addressed from findings in neuroscience. While there has been debate on a variety of topics which range from positions on origins to ethical questions about the nature of research (i.e. stem cells, cloning), it is important that teaching faculty at RIs be prepared to deal with the hard questions faced by students of faith. Recommendations for faculty are given including: self assessment of personal position on matters of faith and science, framing a number of models for the integration of neuroscience and theology, 'Worldviews', and mentoring students who are struggling with reconciling their faith with neuroscience. While this paper is designed for teachers at RIs, it may also aid teaching faculty at other institutions who may benefit from an awareness of this framework and aid in teaching students of faith in a secular setting.
As neuroscience research and discovery undergoes phenomenal growth worldwide, undergraduate students are seeking complete laboratory experiences that go beyond the classic classroom curriculum and provide mentoring in all aspects of science. Stock, in-class, laboratory experiences with known outcomes are less desirable than discovery-based projects in which students become full partners with faculty in the design, conduct and documentation of experiments that find their way into the peer-reviewed literature. The challenges of providing such experiences in the context of a primarily undergraduate institution (PUI) can be daunting. Faculty teaching loads are high, and student time is spread over a variety of courses and co-curricular activities. In this context, undergraduates are often reluctant, or ill equipped, to take individual initiative to generate and perform empirical studies. They are more likely to become involved in a sustained, faculty-initiated research program. This paper describes such a program at Baldwin-Wallace College. Students frequently start their laboratory activities in the freshman or sophomore year and enter into a system of faculty and peer mentoring that leads them to experience all aspects of the research enterprise. Students begin with learning basic laboratory tasks and may eventually achieve the status of &quot;Senior Laboratory Associate&quot; (SLA). SLAs become involved in laboratory management, training of less-experienced students, manuscript preparation, and grant proposal writing. The system described here provides a structured, but encouraging, community in which talented undergraduates can develop and mature as they are mentored in the context of a modern neuroscience laboratory. Retention is very good - as most students continue their work in the laboratory for 2-3 years. Student self-reports regarding their growth and satisfaction with the experiences in the laboratory have been excellent and our neuroscience students' acceptance rate in graduate, medical and veterinary schools has been well above the College average. The system also fosters faculty productivity and satisfaction in the context of the typical challenges of conducting research at a PUI.
Pituitary-derived factors, including ACTH, have been widely implicated in initiating adrenal regeneration. However, recent work has demonstrated that adrenal regeneration is also modulated by adrenal nerves that extensively reinnervate the regenerating adrenal. Moreover, transection of the splanchnic nerve removes sensory calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and preganglionic sympathetic vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT)-positive fibers from the regenerating gland and delays regeneration. However, it is not known whether the splanchnic nerve effects on adrenal regeneration are mediated by the CGRP-positive or VAChT-positive innervation. The present studies use the drug capsaicin, a neurotoxin selective for a subset of primary afferent neurons, to specifically remove CGRP-positive fibers from the adrenal gland and assess subsequent effects on the recovery of adrenal mass and function after surgical enucleation. Male, Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized and treated with capsaicin (vs. vehicle) periaxonally to the thoracic splanchnic nerve (33 mM, 15 minutes) or systemically (30-100 mg/kg for 4 days, s.c.). After 7-12 days of recovery, rats received right adrenalectomy and left adrenal enucleation. At 14 and 21 days postenucleation, prestress and poststress plasma and adrenals glands were collected; adrenals were weighed and fixed for immunolabeling of CGRP-positive nerve fibers. Periaxonal capsaicin treatment decreased adrenal CGRP content prior to surgical enucleation; however, reinnervation by CGRP-positive fibers was not prevented and regeneration was not affected. Systemic capsaicin treatment attenuated the reinnervation by CGRP-positive fibers and increased the rate, but not extent, of adrenal regeneration. These results support the hypothesis that adrenal innervation represents an extra-ACTH mechanism to modulate the rate of adrenal regeneration.
Somatostatin and its analogs such as WOC 3B were compared for their ability to alter the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and prostaglandins and to affect chloride secretory capacity, determined by activity of neural reflexes or by the influence of immune mediators and other secretagogues. In guinea pig colon set up in flux chambers, the multi-tyrosinated sst1/sst2 receptor preferring somatostatin agonist, WOC 3B, inhibited stroking-evoked 5-HT release without affecting basal release. WOC 3B had no effect on stroking-induced or basal prostaglandin E2 release (PGE2). Neither 5-HT nor PGE2 release was dependent on neural input. Tetrodotoxin induced a decrease in basal short circuit current (Isc) indicative of a decrease in chloride secretion. The decrease in basal Isc during neural blockade was highly correlated with the decrease in basal Isc when WOC 3B was used. In piroxicam- and atropine-treated tissues, to eliminate prostaglandins and cholinergic muscarinic input to crypts, WOC 3B further reduced the piroxicam-resistant and not the atropine resistant Isc during brush stroking the mucosa. Somatostatin and WOC 3B reduced the stroking-evoked Isc with similar half maximum concentrations of 1-2 nM. WOC 3B reduced by more than 50% dimaprit-evoked cyclical Isc. The rank order of potencies in inhibiting dimaprit-evoked Isc was: Somatostatin-14=WOC 3B&gt;CH275=DC-32-92&gt;DC-23-48&gt; &gt;DC-32-87=DC-32-97. Low nanomolar concentrations of WOC 3B primarily inhibited the neural effects of carbachol and forskolin on Isc without altering their epithelial effects. Equi-molar concentrations (4 nM) of CH275, a somatostatin sst1 receptor agonist, and the somatostatin sst2 receptor agonist, [Tyr(3)]-octreotide, inhibited dimaprit-evoked Isc by 25% and 26%, and their effects were additive. The results suggest that WOC 3B, a somatostatin analogue containing three tyrosine residues, has anti-secretory effects due to activation of somatostatin sst1 and sst2 receptors on enteric neurons.
BACKGROUND: Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency has been associated with acute psychosis, catatonic schizophrenia, and bipolar disorders by previous inconclusive reports. A particularly disproportionate rate of enzyme deficiency was found in manic schizoaffective patients from 662 lithium patients surveyed in Sardinia. The purpose of this study was to describe clinical characteristics which may be potentially associated with G6PD deficiency. METHODS: Characteristics of episodes, course of illness, family pattern of illness, laboratory tests, and treatment response of 29 G6PD-deficient subjects with a Research Diagnostic Criteria diagnosis of manic schizoaffective disorder were abstracted from available records. RESULTS: The most peculiar pattern was that of acute recurrent psychotic manic episodes, mostly characterized by loosening of associations, agitation, catatonic symptoms, and/or transient confusion, concurrent hyperbilirubinemia, positive psychiatric family history, and partial response to long-term lithium treatment. CONCLUSIONS: A relationship between psychiatric disorder and G6PD deficiency is to be searched in the bipolar spectrum, particularly among patients with a history of acute episodes with psychotic and/or catatonic symptoms or with transient confusion.
Behavioral immobility during forced swim is usually considered a consequence of inescapable stress, and is used to screen antidepressant drugs. However, immobility in this test may also result from inhibition of neural functions because of brain hypothermia due to body cooling. To explore this possibility, we measured brain temperature dynamics during a 10-min forced swim in cold (25 degrees C) and warm (37 degrees C) water and correlated brain temperatures with behavioral changes. Cold water forced swim resulted in significant brain hypothermia (-6-7 degrees C) and immobility, while no immobility was observed during warm water forced swim, when brain temperature transiently increased (0.5 degrees C) then decreased below baseline in the post-swim period. These data suggest that immobility, which rapidly develops during forced swim in cold water, may result from dramatic inhibition of neural functions because of severe brain hypothermia.
MPTP is a neurotoxin thought to damage dopaminergic neurons through free radical formation. MPTP is metabolized in the brain to MPP(+), which is taken up into dopaminergic neurons via the dopamine transporter and assumed to impair mitochondrial function. We used striatal synaptosomes and telencephalic mitochondria to further investigate MPP(+) mechanism of action. For comparison, the respiratory toxins FCCP, a cyanide analog that uncouples mitochondrial ATP production, and rotenone, a NADH dehydrogenase inhibitor, were also tested. FCCP, MPP(+) and rotenone caused a rapid but stable decrease in [3H]dopamine (DA) uptake by striatal synaptosomes. Two free radical scavengers, the salen-manganese complex EUK-134, and the spin trap s-PBN, did not prevent MPP(+)-induced decrease in DA uptake. However, addition of ATP during synaptosome preparation resulted in partial recovery of MPP(+)-induced [3H]DA uptake decrease. Generation of oxygen free radicals by treatment of telencephalic mitochondria with MPP(+), FCCP, or rotenone, was evaluated by measuring DCF fluorescence, while light emission by the luciferin-luciferase complex was used to determine ATP levels. MPP(+), unlike rotenone, did not produce oxygen free radicals, but rather blocked ATP production in mitochondria, as did FCCP and rotenone. Taken together, these results suggest that MPP(+) toxicity, at least during its initial stages, is primarily due to a decrease in ATP synthesis by mitochondria and not to free radical formation.
Multiple PDZ domain protein 1 (MUPP1), a putative scaffolding protein containing 13 PSD-95, Dlg, ZO-1 (PDZ) domains, was identified by a yeast two-hybrid screen as a serotonin2C receptor (5-HT2C R)-interacting protein (Ullmer, C., Schmuck, K., Figge, A., and Lubbert, H. (1998) FEBS Lett. 424, 63-68). MUPP1 PDZ domain 10 (PDZ 10) associates with Ser458-Ser-Val at the carboxyl-terminal tail of the 5-HT2C R. Both Ser458 and Ser459 are phosphorylated upon serotonin stimulation of the receptor (Backstrom, J. R., Price, R. D., Reasoner, D. T., and Sanders-Bush, E. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 23620-23626). To investigate whether phosphorylation of these serines in the receptor regulates MUPP1 interaction, we used several approaches. First, we substituted the serines in the receptor carboxyl tail with aspartates to mimic phosphorylation (S458D, S459D, or S458D/S459D). Pull-down assays demonstrated that Asp mutations at Ser458 significantly decreased receptor tail interaction with PDZ 10. Next, serotonin treatment of 5-HT2C R/3T3 cells resulted in a dose-dependent reduction of receptor interaction with PDZ 10. Effects of serotonin on receptor-PDZ 10 binding could be blocked by pretreatment with a receptor antagonist. Alkaline phosphatase treatment reverses the effect of serotonin, indicating that agonist-induced phosphorylation at Ser458 resulted in a loss of MUPP1 association and also revealed a significant amount of basal phosphorylation of the receptor. We conclude that 5-HT2C R interaction with MUPP1 is dynamically regulated by phosphorylation at Ser458.
One important action of growth factors is their participation in tissue repair; however, the signaling pathways involved are poorly understood. In a model of corneal wound healing, we found that two paracrine growth factors, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), induced rapid and marked activation and prompt nuclear accumulation of phospho-p38 (p-p38) and -ERK1/2 (p-ERK1/2), but not of JNK (p-JNK1/2), in corneal epithelial cells. Interruption of p38 and ERK1/2 signaling pathways by pretreatment with inhibitors SB203580 and PD98059 and subsequent stimulation with HGF or KGF abolished the activation and nuclear localization. Inhibition of either one of these mitogen-activated protein kinases, p38 or ERK1/2, induced a robust cross-activation of the other. In immunofluorescence studies of wounded cornea, p-p38, unlike p-ERK1/2, was immediately detectable in epithelium after injury. Inhibition of p38 by SB203580 blocked migration of epithelial cells almost completely. In contrast, PD98059 seemed to slightly increase the migration, through concomitant activation of p38. Unlike ERK1/2, p38 did not significantly contribute to proliferation of epithelial cells. Inhibition of either the ERK1/2 or p38 pathway resulted in delayed corneal epithelial wound healing. Interruption of both signaling cascades additively inhibited the wound-healing process. These findings demonstrate that both p38 and ERK1/2 coordinate the dynamics of wound healing: while growth factor-stimulated p38 induces epithelial migration, ERK1/2 activation induces proliferation. The cross-talk between these two signal cascades and the selective action of p38 in migration appear to be important to corneal wound healing, and possibly wound healing in general, and may offer novel drug targets for tissue repair.

We describe the postnatal development of calretinin expression in the mouse barrel cortex by immunohistochemistry. A densely staining neuropil and numerous cell bodies appeared throughout layer V, but only within barrel septa of layer IV, at postnatal day 4. This staining pattern became most robust at postnatal day 8. Thereafter, calretinin expression became reduced until the third postnatal week when it attained its mature levels, and the barrel-specific staining was no longer apparent.
Chronic ethanol treatment (CET) during development produces cellular adaptations resulting in tolerance to the acute effects of ethanol (EtOH). The objectives of this study were to determine whether CET during the prenatal period (PCET) followed by a period of in vitro CET (PCET-CET) altered intracellular calcium [Ca(2+)](i) and produced tolerance to acute EtOH treatment (AET), and whether nerve growth factor (NGF) modulated the effects of PCET-CET in cultured developing rat septal neurons. Fetuses were obtained from EtOH-fed and sucrose-fed (diet-control) female rats. Neurons from PCET fetuses were cultured in the presence of NGF (+NGF) and 200 mg/dl (mg %) EtOH and diet-control cultures received NGF and no EtOH. PCET and diet-control cultures were then divided into two groups, +NGF and -NGF (withdrawn from NGF), and exposed acutely to one of five doses of EtOH during stimulation with potassium (K(+)) chloride. [Ca(2+)](i) was measured using fura-2. PCET-CET did not affect resting [Ca(2+)](i). PCET-CET decreased and acute EtOH withdrawal increased overall K(+)-stimulated changes in [Ca(2+)](i), but only in +NGF PCET neurons. Reducing the level of EtOH from 200 to 100 mg % decreased overall K(+)-stimulated [Ca(2+)](i) in -NGF PCET neurons. The effects of PCET-CET or PCET-CET combined with NGF on overall K(+)-stimulated changes in [Ca(2+)](i) occurred mostly in the early and middle phases of the K(+)-response. NGF reduced overall K(+)-stimulated changes in [Ca(2+)](i) in PCET neurons during EtOH withdrawal and during AET with 200 mg % EtOH and increased overall K(+)-stimulated changes in [Ca(2+)](i) during AET with 400 and 800 mg % EtOH. There was no effect of NGF on overall K(+)-stimulated changes in [Ca(2+)](i) in diet-control neurons with the exception that NGF-treatment decreased overall K(+)-stimulated changes in [Ca(2+)](i) during AET with 400 mg % EtOH. The effects of AET on overall K(+)-stimulated changes in [Ca(2+)](i) mostly occurred in +NGF PCET neurons. In conclusion, CET during development of the brain could adversely affect Ca(2+)-dependent functions such as neuronal migration, neurite outgrowth, and synaptogenesis in neurons even in the presence of neurotrophin support.

Very few studies have examined the event-related potentials associated with the retention of temporal information for later use. In the present experiment, event-related potentials were recorded during two duration reproduction tasks in which a delay was introduced between the encoding and the reproduction phases. Furthermore, working memory demands were varied during the delay (number of durations to be memorized and degree of manipulation of the durations). These variables had no significant effect on the amplitude of the contingent negative variation observed during duration encoding. By contrast, the amplitude of the slow wave recorded over middle frontal regions during the delay increased with working memory demands, which confirms the key role played by these frontal regions in the cognitive processes engaged during the retention of duration in working memory.
To assess the role of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in migraine, we analyzed the -174 G/C IL-6 gene polymorphism in 268 patients with migraine and 305 controls. No significant difference in the distribution of IL-6 genotypes (chi(2)=0.601, P=0.74) and allelic frequencies (chi(2)=0.024, P=0.876) was found. When patients were subdivided into subgroups (migraine with aura, migraine without aura and mixed headaches), IL-6 alleles were similarly distributed. Comparison of the clinical features of the disease with the -174 G/C IL-6 genotypes showed no significant difference. In conclusion, we found no significant association between the -174 G/C IL-6 polymorphism and the occurrence or the clinical features of migraine.
We have investigated repair of DNA containing 8-oxoguanine and certain mismatches in cell-free extracts from mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) using a plasmid substrate with a single lesion at a defined position. Repair synthesis was monitored in a small restriction fragment with different size single strands in order to follow the fate of repair reactions in both strands at the same time. An important part of the study was to assess the role of OGG1 in various repair reactions and the experiments were carried out with extracts from mouse embryonic fibroblasts diploid for a mogg1 deletion (Ogg1(-/-)) as well as wild type. In wild type, DNA containing 8-oxoG:C was repaired in the expected fashion predominantly through short-patch repair. Overall repair was reduced to 20% in the Ogg1(-/-) extracts and to 40% if only long-patch repair was considered. The 8-oxoG:A pair was processed similarly in wild type and Ogg1(-/-) extracts and repair synthesis at A as well as at 8-oxoG could be demonstrated, however, to the same extent in Ogg1(-/-) and wild type for both strands. Extracts from Ogg1(-/-) behaved normally in the correction of A:C and C:C mismatches, with a strong bias for correction of A for A:C and no significant strand discrimination for C:C. Similar experiments with extracts from Escherichia coli showed a 50% reduction in the repair of 8-oxoG:C in fpg extracts and an increase to 50% above wild type in mutY. These results show that the mouse OGG1 is the major enzyme for 8-oxoG repair in the MEF cells and does not participate in mismatch repair of A:C or C:C. Furthermore, 8-oxoG opposite A appears to be repaired by a two-step repair pathway with sequential removal of A and 8-oxoG mediated by enzymes different from OGG1.
We have previously shown that in the aged CNS there is a free radical-dependent upregulation of Bcl-2 associated with perturbations of NFkappaB function. Both Bcl-2 and NFkappaB are key players in the cellular machinery devoted to cope with stress and regulate neuronal apoptosis. To study whether effects on NFkappaB are part of the Bcl-2 anti-apoptotic mechanism, we examined the effect of Bcl-2 on NFkappaB transcriptional activity in PC12 cells and determined the role thereby of Bcl-2 phosphorylation (required for the anti-apoptotic function of Bcl-2). Our results indicate that over-expression of Bcl-2 significantly decreases NFkappaB-promoted transcription and that this effect is independent of Bcl-2 phosphorylation. We conclude that such Bcl-2 effect on NFkappaB activity is distinct from its anti-apoptotic action.
Is functional neuroimaging a royal way to understand brain function or is it a new phrenology without an exact understanding what we measure? After two decades of imaging revolution, more and more authors ask this question. Brain functions are multidimensional, which can be approached from the point of (1) behavioural measures, (2) brain activation as reflected by blood flow and metabolic changes, (3) electrical activity of cells and cell-populations, and (4) neurotransmitter dynamics (release, receptor binding and reuptake). Using imaging techniques, we must take into consideration that even during the simplest task all of these processes operate in a closely interacting manner. Therefore, before drawing final conclusions about brain functions on the basis of a single aspect of these mechanisms, we must clarify the exact relationship among them. In this paper, we address this issue in order to draw attention to a number of uncertainties and controversies in the relationship of the four facets of brain functions.
FERM domain including Rho GEF (FIR) belongs to Dbl family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors and specifically activates biochemical pathways specific for Rac1. FIR was shown to regulate neurite remodeling of the embryonic neurons. Here we report a distribution of FIR mRNA in adult rat brain using in situ hybridization. The expression was found all throughout the brain with the most intensive signals in hippocampus, piriform cortex, red nucleus and nuclei of cranial nerves. The signal was predominantly localized in the neuronal cells.
Dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the ventral midbrain nuclei, substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc, A9) and ventral tegmental area (VTA, A10), play important roles in the control of movement, emotion, cognition, and reward related behavior. Although several transcription factors have been shown to be critical for midbrain DA neuron development, there has been no report of factor(s) that differentially regulate individual DA neuronal groups. Based on its highly restricted expression in the SNc and VTA in the brain, we hypothesize that the homeobox transcription factor Pitx3 may critically regulate the development of ventral midbrain DA neurons. In this study, we report that in Pitx3-deficient ak/ak mice, DA neurons in the SNc and the nigrostriatal pathway fail to develop properly, and DA levels are reduced to 10% of the wild type mice in the dorsal striatum. On the contrary, A10 neurons are intact in ak/ak mice and DA levels within their projection areas are not affected. This region-specific defect was already evident in newborn mice, suggesting that the defect had occurred during the early stages of mouse development. Taken together, our results indicate that Pitx3 is the first known transcription factor that may critically and selectively control proper development of A9 DA neurons and the nigrostriatal pathway. This observation is of great importance in understanding the mechanisms of DA neuron development and may also help us to understand the mechanism of selective degeneration of A9 DA neurons in Parkinson's disease and to devise novel therapeutic approaches for the disorder.

The authors show that prismatic adaptation can reduce tactile inattention in stroke patients with unilateral neglect. Four patients with visuospatial neglect and tactile extinction underwent 10-minute application of 20 degrees right-shifting prismatic lenses during pointing. This improved contralesional tactile perception in all patients, even for a task requiring no exploration or spatial motor responses. This finding suggests a potential role for prismatic adaptation in the rehabilitation of multiple sensory modalities in patients with neglect.

G proteins modulate synaptic transmission. Regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins accelerate the intrinsic GTPase activity of Galpha subunits, and thus terminate G protein activation. Whether RGS proteins themselves are under cellular control is not well defined, particularly in native cells. In dorsal root ganglion neurons overexpressing RGS3, we find that G protein signaling is rapidly terminated (or &quot;desensitized&quot;) by calcium influx through voltage-gated channels. This rapid desensitization is most likely mediated by direct binding of calcium to RGS3, as deletion of an EF-hand domain in RGS3 abolishes both the desensitization (observed physiologically) and a calcium-RGS3 interaction (observed in a gel-shift assay). A naturally occurring variant of RGS3 that lacks the EF hand neither binds calcium nor produces rapid desensitization, giving rise instead to a slower calcium-dependent desensitization that is attenuated by a calmodulin antagonist. Thus, activity-evoked calcium entry in sensory neurons may provide differential control of G protein signaling, depending on the isoform of RGS3 expressed in the cells. In complex neural circuits subjected to abundant synaptic inhibition by G proteins (as occurs in dorsal spinal cord), rapid termination of inhibition by electrical activity by EF hand-containing RGS3 may ensure the faithful transmission of information from the most active sensory inputs.
The principal nucleus of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BSTp) is sexually dimorphic and participates in several aspects of reproduction. A detailed analysis of its projections revealed that the BSTp provides major inputs to forebrain regions that are sexually dimorphic and contain high densities of neurons that express receptors for sex steroid hormones in a pattern that is remarkably similar to that of the medial amygdaloid nucleus. The BSTp sends its strongest outputs to the periventricular zone of the hypothalamus and innervates structures thought to play important roles in regulating hormone secretion from the anterior pituitary, but it also provides strong inputs to the medial preoptic and ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus. The BSTp also sends a strong return projection to the medial nucleus of the amygdala. The projections of the BSTp appear to be more robust in males with striking sex differences observed in most, but not all, major terminal fields. Moreover, various terminal fields appeared to differ in their developmental sensitivity to manipulation of circulating levels of sex steroids during the neonatal period. Thus, the organization of projections from the BSTp suggests that it plays a particularly important role in regulating neuroendocrine function and that neurons in this nucleus may relay olfactory information to the hypothalamus differently in male and female rats. Furthermore, the differential action of sex steroids on the density of afferents from the BSTp in various regions indicates that these hormones exert a target-specific influence on the development of BSTp projections.
Axons of the trigeminal ganglion convey sensory information from mechanoreceptors, thermoreceptors, and nociceptors in the face and nasal mucosa, then terminate on several groups of neurons including the principal sensory nucleus and the nuclei of the spinal trigeminal tract. To understand guidance mechanisms during the development of trigeminal sensory axons (TA) in the embryonic brain, we first investigated the growth pattern of TA in relation to organization in the hindbrain using flat whole-mount preparation from rat. We found that the primary TA from the trigeminal ganglion entered the brainstem and grew longitudinally within the hindbrain. Whereas descending axons ran just medial to the primary vestibular axons to innervate the spinal nucleus, ascending axons stayed near the entry point. In flat whole-mount culture, the TA extended both ascending and descending branches as they do in vivo. Rostral hindbrain was found to be a less permissive substrate for the TA compared to caudal hindbrain. In addition, the nonpermissive property of the ventral hindbrain substrate restricted the invasion of TA along the entire length of the hindbrain. Thus, cooperation of absolute and relative permissiveness of the substrate plays important roles in the guidance of TA to their targets.
The cholinergic C-bouton is a large nerve terminal found exclusively apposing motoneuron cell somata and proximal dendrites. The origin and function of the C-bouton is not known. An antiserum against the vesicular acetylcholine transporter was used to identify large cholinergic nerve terminals putatively of the C-type in close apposition to motoneuron cell somata. This type of nerve terminal was present in the rat spinal cord ventral horn, but only in some cranial motor nuclei. Fluoro-Gold tracing showed that subsets of spinal motoneuron cell somata were contacted by different numbers of putative C-boutons. Thus, motoneurons innervating an intrinsic foot muscle were contacted by about half the number of cholinergic terminals found on motoneurons of the predominantly fast-twitch gastrocnemius muscle. Slow-twitch soleus motoneurons showed an intermediate innervation. There was a strong correlation between the presence of putative C-boutons and muscarinic receptor 2 (m2)-like immunoreactivity (-LI) within a motor nucleus. By using confocal laser microscopy, the m2-LI appeared to be confined to the motoneuron cell membrane and strongly enriched beneath the C-type nerve terminal. Thus, our results suggested a differential distribution of large cholinergic C-boutons, depending on motoneuron type, and that the presence of this nerve terminal type is associated with m2-LI in the postsynaptic membrane.
Previous studies have suggested that heterotrimeric G(i) proteins, Src tyrosine kinase and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3 Kinase) are involved in signaling events induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) leading to pro-inflammatory cytokines gene expression. To investigate the involvement of these mediators in Gram-positive bacteria induced pro-inflammatory cytokine expression, LPS (10 ng/ml), heat killed group B Streptococci (GBS 1 microg/ml) and Staphylococcus aureus (SA 10 microg/ml) were used to induce TNFalpha production in the murine J774A.1 macrophage (M) cell line and human promonocytic THP-1 cell line. Pertussis toxin (PTx, 1 microg/ml), an inhibitor of G(i) protein; pyrazolopyrimidine-2 (PP2, 1 or 25 microM), a Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor; and LY294002 (100 nM), an inhibitor of PI3 Kinase were used to examine the involvement of G(i), Src tyrosine kinase and PI3 Kinase, respectively, in TNFalpha production. In J774A.1 cells, pretreatment with PTx and PP2 attenuated TNFalpha production induced by LPS (60+/-9% and 81+/-11% inhibition, n=3, p&lt;0.05, respectively), GBS (95+/-1% and 80+/-6% inhibition, n=3, p&lt;0.05, respectively) and SA (51+/-18% and 68+/-16% inhibition, n=4, p&lt;0.05, respectively). However, pretreatment with LY 294002 inhibited LPS induced TNFalpha production (82+/-13% inhibition, n=3, p&lt;0.05), but did not inhibit GBS or SA induced TNFalpha production. In THP-1 cells, pretreatment with PTx, PP2 and LY 294002 inhibited TNFalpha production induced by LPS (84+/-3%, 59+/-12% and 84+/-4% inhibition, n=3, p&lt;0.05, respectively) and SA (56+/-7%, 87+/-1% and 35+/-6% inhibition, n=3, p&lt;0.05, respectively). These data support our hypothesis that G(i)-coupled and Src tyrosine kinase-coupled signaling pathways are involved in both Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria induced pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. However, unlike LPS, involvement of PI3 Kinase in Gram-positive bacteria induced signaling pathways are species dependent.
The Dutch, Flemish, Italian, and Arctic mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene encode changes within the sequence of the amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) and cause presenile cerebral amyloid angiopathy, cerebral parenchymal amyloidosis, or both. These disorders are caused by accumulation of Abeta, with no evidence of increased Abeta production. Our results showed that these mutations in Abeta make it resistant to proteolytic degradation by neprilysin, the peptidase with the most important role in catabolism of Abeta in the brain. These mutations in Abeta could thus be pathogenic not only by facilitating fibrillogenesis but also by extending the half-life of Abeta in the brain.
Oxidative stress in mammalian cells is an inevitable consequence of their aerobic metabolism. Oxidants produce modifications to proteins leading to loss of function (or gain of undesirable function) and very often to an enhanced degradation of the oxidized proteins. For several years it has been known that the proteasome is involved in the degradation of oxidized proteins. This review summarizes our knowledge about the recognition of oxidized protein substrates by the proteasome in in vitro systems and its applicability to living cells. The majority of studies in the field agree that the degradation of mildly oxidized proteins is an important function of the proteasomal system. The major recognition motif of the substrates seems to be hydrophobic surface patches that are recognized by the 20S 'core' proteasome. Such hydrophobic surface patches are formed by partial unfolding and exposure of hydrophobic amino acid residues during oxidation. Oxidized proteins appear to be relatively poor substrates for ubiquitination, and the ubiquitination system does not seem to be involved in the recognition or targeting of oxidized proteins. Heavily oxidized proteins appear to first aggregate (new hydrophobic and ionic bonds) and then to form covalent cross-links that make them highly resistant to proteolysis. The inability to degrade extensively oxidized proteins may contribute to the accumulation of protein aggregates during diseases and the aging process.
A major component of the amyloid plaque core in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the 40-42-residue amyloid beta peptide (Abeta). Mutations linked to AD such as those in presenilins 1 (PS1) and 2 (PS2) invariably increase the longer Abeta42 species that forms neurotoxic oligomers. It is believed that PS1/2 constitute the catalytic subunit of the gamma-secretase responsible for the final step in Abeta biogenesis. Recent genetic studies have identified a number of additional genes encoding APH1a, APH1b, PEN2, and Nicastrin proteins, which are part of the gamma-secretase complex with PS1. Further, knockout studies using RNAi showed that these components are essential for gamma-secretase activity. However, the nature of gamma-secretase and how the aforementioned proteins regulate its activity are still incompletely understood. Here we present evidence that unlike PS1, overexpression of these proteins can increase the levels of Abeta, suggesting that these proteins are limiting for gamma-secretase activity. In addition, our studies also suggest that the presenilin partners regulate the relative levels of Abeta40 and Abeta42.
The human neuroblastoma apoptosis-related RNA-binding protein NAPOR is an ELAV-like RNA-binding protein with three characteristic RNA recognition motifs (RRMs). We report here the cloning and characterization of a zebrafish Napor that has a high sequence homology to human NAPOR protein. Whole-mount in situ hybridization analysis revealed that zebrafish napor is dynamically expressed in early development. In addition to its maternal expression, napor transcripts were detected in adaxial mesoderm cells and lateral neural plate cells at early somite stages. By 10-somite stage, napor expression was restricted to the central nervous system, having a specific expression domain of rhombomere 5 in the hindbrain. In 24 hpf embryo, napor was expressed in subsets of differentiating neural cells in the forebrain and hindbrain as well as somitic muscle cells. The number of napor-expressing neural cells was greatly increased in the mind bomb mutant that has neurogenic phenotype resulting from deficits in the Notch signaling pathway. Furthermore, overexpression of napor by RNA microinjection resulted in severe defects in nervous system and gastrulation, suggesting the need for tight control of napor gene regulation during embryo development.
To analyze the distribution of Drosophila calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (dCaMKII) in the adult brain, we generated monoclonal antibodies against the bacterially expressed 490-amino acid (a.a.) form of dCaMKII. One of those, named #18 antibody, was used for this study. Western blot analysis of the adult head extracts showed that the antibody specifically detects multiple bands between 55 and 60 kDa corresponding to the molecular weights of the splicing isoforms of dCaMKII. Epitope mapping revealed that it was in the region between 199 and 283 a.a. of dCaMKII. Preferential dCaMKII immunoreactivity in the embryonic nervous system, adult thoracic ganglion and gut, and larval neuro-muscular junction (NMJ) was consistent with previous observations by in situ hybridization and immunostaining with a polyclonal antibody at the NMJ, indicating that the antibody is applicable to immunohistochemistry. Although dCaMKII immunoreactive signal was low in the retina, it was found at regular intervals in the outer margin of the compound eye. These signals were most likely to be interommatidial bristle mechanosensory neurons. dCaMKII immunoreactivity in the brain was observed in almost all regions and relatively higher staining was found in the neuropilar region than in the cortex. Higher dCaMKII immunoreactivity in the mushroom body (MB) was found in the entire gamma lobe including the heel, and dorsal tips of the alpha and alpha' lobes, while cores of alpha and beta lobes were stained light. Finding abundant dCaMKII accumulation in the gamma lobe suggested that this lobe might especially require high levels of dCaMKII expression to function properly among MB lobes.
Chemosensory input is important for mating behavior in male hamsters. Chemosignals found in female hamster vaginal fluid activate regions of the brain that receive input from the vomeronasal/accessory olfactory system and are important for mating behavior. Mating or exposure to these chemosignals produces increased Fos protein expression in the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and medial preoptic area (MPOA). These brain regions contain cell bodies and/or fibers of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons, suggesting potential relationships between chemosensory systems and GnRH. GnRH is released naturally when male rodents (mice and hamsters) encounter female chemosignals, and intracerebrally injected GnRH restores mating behavior in sexually naive male hamsters after removal of the vomeronasal organs. We report here that the combination of pheromone exposure and intracerebrally-injected GnRH increases Fos expression in the MPOA above the increase seen in pheromone-exposed males, or in males given only the exogenous GnRH. In males with vomeronasal organs removed (VNX), there was an also an increment in Fos expression in the MPOA when these pheromone exposed males were injected with GnRH, provided they had previous sexual experience. Males with vomeronasal organs removed and without sexual experience showed increased Fos expression in the medial amygdala when pheromone exposure and GnRH injection were combined, but not in the medial preoptic area.
Previous studies have suggested a possible pain-modulatory role for histamine H(3) receptors, but the localization of these receptors and nature of this modulation is not clear. In order to explore the role of spinal histamine H(3) receptors in the inhibition of nociception, the effects of systemically (subcutaneous, s.c.) and intrathecally (i.t.) administered histamine H(3) receptor agonists were studied in rats and mice. Immepip (5 mg/kg, s.c.) produced robust antinociception in rats on a mechanical (tail pinch) test but did not alter nociceptive responses on a thermal (tail flick) test. In contrast, this treatment in mice (immepip, 5 and 30 mg/kg, s.c.) did not change either mechanically or thermally evoked nociceptive responses. When administered directly into the spinal subarachnoid space, immepip (15-50 microg, i.t.) and R-alpha-methylhistamine (50 microg, i.t.) had no effect in rats on the tail flick and hot plate tests, but produced a dose- and time-dependent inhibition (90-100%) of nociceptive responses on the tail pinch test. This attenuation was blocked by administration of thioperamide (10 mg/kg, s.c.), a histamine H(3) receptor antagonist. Intrathecally administered thioperamide also reversed antinociceptive responses induced by systemically administered immepip, which demonstrates a spinal site of action for the histamine H(3) receptor agonist. In addition, intrathecally administered immepip (25 microg) produced maximal antinociception on the tail pinch test in wild type, but not in histamine H(3) receptor knockout (H(3)KO) mice. These findings demonstrate an antinociceptive role for spinal histamine H(3) receptors. Further studies are needed to confirm the existence of modality-specific (i.e. mechanical vs. thermal) inhibition of nociception by these receptors, and to assess the efficacy of spinally delivered histamine H(3) receptor agonists for the treatment for pain.
A subfamily of regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins consisting of RGS6, -7, -9, and -11 is characterized by the presence of a unique Ggamma-like domain through which they form obligatory dimers with the G protein subunit Gbeta5 in vivo. In Caenorhabditis elegans, orthologs of Gbeta5.RGS dimers are implicated in regulating both Galphai and Galphaq signaling, and in cell-based assays these dimers regulate Galphai/o- and Galphaq/11-mediated pathways. However, initial studies with purified Gbeta5.RGS6 or Gbeta5.RGS7 showed that they only serve as GTPase activating proteins for Galphao. Pull-down assays and co-immunoprecipitation with these dimers failed to detect their binding to either Galphao or Galphaq, indicating that the interaction might require additional factors present in vivo. Here, we asked if the RGS7.Gbeta5 complex binds to Galphaq using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) in transiently transfected mammalian cells. RGS7, Gbeta5, and Galpha subunits were tagged with yellow variants of green fluorescent protein. First we confirmed the functional activity of the fusion proteins by co-immunoprecipitation and also their effect on signaling. Second, we again demonstrate the interaction between RGS7 and Gbeta5 using FRET. Finally, using both FRET spectroscopy on cell suspensions and microscopy of individual cells, we showed FRET between the yellow fluorescence protein-tagged RGS7.Gbeta5 complex and cyan fluorescence protein-tagged Galphaq, indicating a direct interaction between these molecules.
Assessing actual abuse of prescribed medications requires postmarketing surveillance. In this article we discuss general systems of postmarketing surveillance that exist as of the end of 2002 in the United States and two medication-specific surveillance systems that were devised and tested. The two specific surveillance systems are compared with limitations highlighted. Postmarketing surveillance is in its infancy and requires more research on ways to improve its validity without inducing illicit experimentation. Information on comparator medications is highly recommended both to validate the system and to place the results in context.

Novel benzoylalanine-derived ketoamides were prepared and evaluated for calpain I inhibition. Derivatives carrying vinylbenzyl amino residues in the P(2)-P(3) region inhibited calpain in nanomolar concentrations and thus represent a novel class of nonpeptidic calpain inhibitors. Selected examples exhibited an improved pharmacokinetic profile including improved water-solubility and metabolic stability. In particular, these calpain inhibitors showed oral bioavailability in rats as demonstrated by N-(1-benzyl-2-carbamoyl-2-oxoethyl)-2-[E-2-(4-diethylaminomethylphenyl)ethen-1-yl]benzamide (5d). The closely related derivative N-(1-carbamoyl-1-oxohex-1-yl)-2-[E-2-(4-dimethylaminomethylphenyl)-ethen-1-yl]benzamide (5b) was evaluated for neuroprotective efficacy after experimental traumatic brain injury in a fluid percussion model in rats. When administered after injury, 5b reduced the number of damaged neurons by 41%, and this result would be in line with the suggested neuroprotective efficacy of calpain inhibition.
Novel benzodiazepine-containing gamma-secretase inhibitors for potential use in Alzheimer's disease have been designed that incorporate a substituted hydrocinnamide C-3 side chain. A syn combination of alpha-alkyl or aryl and beta-hydroxy or hydroxymethyl substituents was shown to give highly potent compounds. In particular, (2S,3R)-3-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-2-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-hydroxy-N-((3S)-2-oxo-5-phenyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-benzo[e][1,4]diazepin-3-yl)butyramide (34) demonstrated excellent in vitro potency (IC(50) = 0.06 nM). 34 could also be selectively methylated to give [(3)H]-28, which is of use in radioligand binding assays.
Synapses recycle their spent vesicles in order to keep up with on-going neurotransmitter release. To investigate vesicle recycling in the small synapses of hippocampal neurons, we have used an optical recording method that permits us to resolve single-vesicle events. Here we show that an exocytic event can terminate with three modes of vesicle retrieval: a fast (400-860 ms) 'kiss-and-run' mode that has a selective fusion pore; a slow (8-21 s) 'compensatory' mode; and a 'stranded' mode of recycling, in which a vesicle is left on the cell surface until a nerve impulse triggers its retrieval. We have also observed that, in response to a nerve impulse, synapses with low release probability primarily use the kiss-and-run mode, whereas high release probability terminals predominantly use the compensatory mode of vesicle retrieval.
The contribution of the basal forebrain cholinergic system in mediating plasticity of cortical sensorimotor representations was examined in the context of normal learning. The effects of specific basal forebrain cholinergic lesions upon cortical reorganization associated with learning a skilled motor task were investigated, addressing, for the first time, the functional consequences of blocking cortical map plasticity. Results demonstrate that disrupting basal forebrain cholinergic function disrupts cortical map reorganization and impairs motor learning. Cholinergic lesions do not impair associative fear learning or overall sensorimotor function. These results support the hypothesis that the basal forebrain cholinergic system may be specifically implicated in forms of learning requiring plasticity of cortical representations.
The basal forebrain cholinergic system strongly influences both cortical plasticity and learning. Directly relating these two roles has proven difficult. New results indicate that nucleus basalis lesions prevent motor cortex map plasticity and impair skill learning. These results strengthen the hypothesis that nucleus basalis gates neural plasticity necessary for instrumental learning.
Dissecting the mechanisms underlying synapse formation and elimination is fundamental to understand how the nervous system is constructed and subsequently modified. Two studies by Tashiro et al. and by Hashimoto and Kano in this issue of Neuron provide new insights into the roles of neurotransmitter glutamate release in regulating the motility of hippocampal mossy fiber filopodia and synaptic competition among climbing fibers.
We have compared the length, strength, conduction velocity and divergence of horizontal connections onto layers 2/3 and 5 neurons in slices of rat primary somatosensory neocortex. Slices were cut along laminar borders to eliminate most vertical connections, and excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) were recorded from pyramidal cells in adjacent uncut tissue. When electric stimuli were delivered within the same layer as the recorded cell, EPSPs could be evoked up to 2000 microm away for both layers 2/3 and 5 pyramids. Estimates of horizontal axonal conduction velocities ( approximately 0.4 m/s) and the thresholds for activation also did not differ between layers. However, layers 2/3 cells rarely responded to stimuli delivered to isolated deeper layers, while layer 5 neurons were often excited by horizontal inputs from isolated layers 2/3 and 4.
Overexpression of APP and SOD induces beta-amyloid deposition and oxidative stress in Down syndrome (DS) patients. Both phenomena may impair glutamate transport and decreased glutamate uptake sites have been demonstrated in patient brains at autopsy. Since alterations of APP metabolism and oxidative damage are systemic, we investigated glutamate uptake in platelets and fibroblasts from DS patients to explore whether abnormalities in this process are inherent properties of DS cells and not secondary to neurodegeneration. Glutamate uptake was significantly decreased in platelets (P&lt;0.005 vs. control) and fibroblasts (P&lt;0.001 vs. control) from DS patients, particularly in those with free trisomy and with mitochondrial point mutations. Systemic impairment of glutamate uptake in DS is suggested, probably related to APP overexpression and mitochondrial dysfunction. Such mechanisms may contribute to neurodegeneration and dementia development in these patients.
The effects of prenatal ethanol exposure on the spatiotemporal expression of transforming growth factor-beta (TGFbeta) and its receptors in developing rat cerebral cortex in vivo were examined. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were fed ad libitum with a diet containing ethanol from gestational day (G) 6 through G21 or were pair fed an isocaloric nonalcoholic liquid diet. A quantitative immunoblotting study showed that expression of TGFbeta ligands was differentially affected by ethanol; ethanol decreased TGFbeta1 expression fetally and in the mature cortex and increased TGFbeta2 at most ages. A complementary immunohistochemical experiment generated similar results so far as the timing of ligand expression was concerned. In both control and ethanol-treated rats, TGFbeta1 was expressed by cells in the two neocortical proliferative zones and neurons in the cortical plate. TGFbeta2 was expressed principally by radial glia and astrocytes in developing rats. In the adult, both ligands were expressed by glia and neurons. Ethanol virtually eliminated the TGFbeta1 expression in the perinatal subventricular zone. The TGFbeta2-positive radial glial labeling was transient and was lost earlier in ethanol-treated neonates than in controls. Concomitantly, the appearance of TGFbeta2-positive glia occurred earlier in the ethanol-treated rats. The expression of only one receptor (TGFbetaIr) was affected by ethanol; it was increased during the pre- and early postnatal periods. TGFbetaIr was expressed by glia perinatally and by all cell types in weanlings. As with TGFbeta2, ethanol exposure promoted the loss of TGFbetaIr expression in radial glia and the precocious expression among astrocytes. TGFbetaIIr was expressed primarily by neurons. Thus, TGFbeta ligands and receptors are strategically placed both in time and space to regulate cell proliferation and migration. Ethanol, which affects both of these processes, has marked effects on the TGFbeta system and apparently promotes the early transformation of radial glia into astrocytes.
The thermogenic activity of interscapular brown adipose tissue (IBAT) in response to physiologic stimuli, such as cold exposure, is controlled by its sympathetic innervation. To determine which brain regions might be involved in the regulation of cold-evoked increases in sympathetic outflow to IBAT, the present study compared central nervous system (CNS) areas activated by cold exposure with brain regions anatomically linked to the sympathetic innervation of IBAT. Immunocytochemical localization of Fos was examined in the brains of rats exposed to 4 degrees C for 4 hours. In a separate group of rats, the neural circuit involved in IBAT control, including the location of sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord, was characterized with pseudorabies virus, a retrograde transynaptic tracer. Central noradrenergic and serotonergic groups related to the sympathetic outflow to IBAT also were identified. Localization of viral antigens at different survival times (66-96 hours) revealed infection in circumscribed CNS populations, but only a subset of the regions comprising this circuitry showed cold-evoked Fos expression. The raphe pallidus and the ventromedial parvicellular subdivision of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH), both infected at early survival times, were the main areas containing sympathetic premotor neurons activated by cold exposure. Major cold-sensitive areas projecting to spinal interneurons or to regions containing sympathetic premotor neurons, which became infected at intermediate intervals, included lateral hypothalamic, perifornical, and retrochiasmatic areas, anterior and posterior PVH, ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, and Barrington's nucleus. Areas infected later, most likely related to reception of cold-related signals, comprised the lateral preoptic area, parastrial nucleus, dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, lateral parabrachial nucleus, and nucleus of the solitary tract. These interconnected areas, identified by combining functional and retrograde anatomic approaches, likely constitute the central circuitry responsible for the increase in sympathetic outflow to IBAT during cold-evoked thermogenesis.





This study examined the validity of classifying substance abusers based on temperament and dependence severity, and expanded the scope of typology differences to proximal determinants of use (e.g., expectancies, motives). Patients were interviewed about substance use, depression, and family history of alcohol and drug abuse. Self-report instruments measuring temperament, expectancies, and motives were completed. Participants were 147 male veterans admitted to inpatient substance abuse treatment at a U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs medical center. Cluster analysis identified four types of users with two high substance problem severity and two low substance problem severity groups. Two, high problem severity, early onset groups differed only on the cluster variable of negative affectivity (NA), but showed differences on antisocial personality characteristics, hypochondriasis, and coping motives for alcohol. The two low problem severity groups were distinguished by age of onset and positive affectivity (PA). The late onset, low PA group had a higher incidence of depression, a greater tendency to use substances in solitary contexts, and lower enhancement motives for alcohol compared to the early onset, high PA cluster. The four-cluster solution yielded more distinctions on external criteria than the two-cluster solution. Such temperament variation within both high and low severity substance abusers may be important for treatment planning.

The aim of this study was to apply sensitivity-encoding (SENSE) echo-planar imaging (EPI) to diffusion tensor MR imaging of the cervical cord, an anatomic region where MR imaging is particularly challenging. This technique was implemented with a SENSE reduction factor of 2 and used for imaging a water phantom and five healthy volunteers. Off-resonance artifacts were notably reduced compared with those of full-FOV EPI sequences. This approach to diffusion tensor MR imaging of the cervical cord is promising for future, more extensive clinical applications.
Ethanol inhibition of large-conductance, Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK(Ca)) channels in aortic myocytes may contribute to the direct contraction of aortic smooth muscle produced by acute alcohol exposure. In this tissue, BK(Ca) channels consist of pore-forming (bslo) and modulatory (beta) subunits. Here, modulation of aortic myocyte BK(Ca) channels by acute alcohol was explored by expressing bslo subunits in Xenopus oocytes, in the absence and presence of beta(1)-subunits, and studying channel responses to clinically relevant concentrations of ethanol in excised membrane patches. Overall, average values of bslo channel activity (NP(o), with N = no. of channels present in the patch; P(o) = probability of a single channel being open) in response to ethanol (3-200 mM) mildly decrease when compared with pre-ethanol, isosmotic controls. However, channel responses show qualitative heterogeneity at all ethanol concentrations. In the majority of patches (42/71 patches, i.e., 59%), a reversible reduction in NP(o) is observed. In this subset, the maximal effect is obtained with 100 mM ethanol, at which NP(o) reaches 46.2 +/- 9% of control. The presence of beta(1)-subunits, which determines channel sensitivity to dihydrosoyaponin-I and 17beta-estradiol, fails to modify ethanol action on bslo channels. Ethanol inhibition of bslo channels results from a marked increase in the mean closed time. Although the voltage dependence of gating remains unaffected, the apparent effectiveness of Ca(2+) to gate the channel is decreased by ethanol. These changes occur without modifications of channel conduction. In conclusion, a new molecular mechanism that may contribute to ethanol-induced aortic smooth muscle contraction has been identified and characterized: a functional interaction between ethanol and the bslo subunit and/or its lipid microenvironment, which leads to a decrease in BK(Ca) channel activity.
The amount of melatonin present in enterochromaffin cells in the alimentary tract is much higher than that in the central nervous system, and melatonin acting at MT(2) receptors mediates neural stimulation of mucosal HCO(3)(-) secretion in duodenum in vivo. We have examined effects of melatonin and receptor ligands on intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) signaling in human and rat duodenal enterocytes. Clusters of interconnecting enterocytes (10-50 cells) were isolated by mild digestion (collagenase/dispase) of human duodenal biopsies or rat duodenal mucosa loaded with fura-2 AM and attached to the bottom of a temperature-controlled perfusion chamber. Clusters provided viable preparations and respond to stimuli as a syncytium. Melatonin and melatonin receptor agonists 2-iodo-N-butanoyl-5-methoxytryptamine and 2-iodomelatonin (1.0-100 nM) increased enterocyte [Ca(2+)](i), EC(50) of melatonin being 17.0 +/- 2.6 nM. The MT(2) receptor antagonists luzindole and N-pentanoyl-2-benzyltryptamine abolished the [Ca(2+)](i) responses. The muscarinic antagonist atropine (1.0 microM) was without effect on basal [Ca(2+)](i) and did not affect the response to melatonin. In the main type of response, [Ca(2+)](i) spiked rapidly and returned to basal values within 4-6 min. In another type, the initial rise in [Ca(2+)](i) was followed by rhythmic oscillations of high amplitude. Melatonin-induced enterocyte [Ca(2+)](i) signaling as well as mucosal cell-to-cell communication may be involved in stimulation of duodenal mucosal HCO(3)(-) secretion.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that the neurotransmitter acetylcholine regulates the function of pericyte-containing retinal microvessels. A vasoactive role for acetylcholine is suggested by the presence of muscarinic receptors on pericytes, which are abluminally positioned contractile cells that may regulate capillary perfusion. However, little is known about the response of retinal microvessels to this neurotransmitter. Here we assessed the effects of cholinergic agonists on microvessels freshly isolated from the adult rat retina. Ionic currents were monitored via perforated patch pipettes; intracellular Ca(2+) levels were quantified with the use of fura 2, and microvascular contractions were visualized with the aid of time-lapse photography. We found that activation of muscarinic receptors elevated pericyte calcium levels, increased depolarizing Ca(2+)-activated chloride currents and caused pericytes to contract in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Most contracting pericytes were near capillary bifurcations. Contraction of a pericyte caused the adjacent capillary lumen to constrict. Thus acetylcholine may serve as a vasoactive signal by regulating pericyte contractility and thereby capillary perfusion in the retina.
Increased dietary salt intake was used as a nonpharmacological tool to blunt hypotension-induced increases in plasma renin activity (PRA) in order to evaluate the contribution of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) to hypotension-induced thirst. Rats were maintained on 8% NaCl (high) or 1% NaCl (standard) diet for at least 2 wk, and then arterial hypotension was produced by administration of the arteriolar vasodilator diazoxide. Despite marked reductions in PRA, rats maintained on the high-salt diet drank similar amounts of water, displayed similar latencies to drink, and had similar degrees of hypotension compared with rats maintained on the standard diet. Furthermore, blockade of ANG II production by an intravenous infusion of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril attenuated the hypotension-induced water intake similarly in rats fed standard and high-salt diet. Additional experiments showed that increases in dietary salt did not alter thirst stimulated by the acetylcholine agonist carbachol administered into the lateral ventricle; however, increases in dietary salt did enhance thirst evoked by central ANG II. Collectively, the present findings suggest that hypotension-evoked thirst in rats fed a high-salt diet is dependent on the peripheral RAS despite marked reductions in PRA.


Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG) are a group of multisystemic disorders resulting from defects in the synthesis and processing of N-linked oligosaccharides. The most common form, CDG type Ia (CDG-Ia), results from a deficiency of the enzyme phosphomannomutase (PMM). PMM converts mannose 6-phosphate (man-6-P) to mannose-1-phosphate (man-1-P), which is required for the synthesis of GDP-mannose, a substrate for dolichol-linked oligosaccharide synthesis. The traditional assay for PMM, a coupled enzyme system based on the reduction of NADP(+) to NADPH using man-1-P as a substrate, has limitations in accuracy and reproducibility. Therefore, a more sensitive, direct test for PMM activity, based on the detection of the conversion of man-1-P to man-6-P by high-pH anion-exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection (HPAEC-PAD), was developed. Using this assay, the activity of PMM was markedly deficient in fibroblasts and lymphoblasts from 23 patients with CDG-Ia (range 0-15.3% of control, average 4.9+/-4.7%) and also decreased in seven obligate heterozygotes (range 33.0-72.0% of control, average 52.2+/-14.7%). Unlike the spectrophotometric method, there was no overlap in PMM activity among patients, obligate heterozygotes, or controls. Thus, the PMM assay based on HPAEC-PAD has increased utility in the clinical setting, and can be used, together with transferrin isoelectric focusing, to diagnose patients with CDG-Ia and to identify heterozygotes when clinically indicated.
The melanocortin (MC) system is involved in the regulation of energy balance and in the development of obesity. Here we briefly review why we became interested in investigating whether the MC system - more particularly, the increased activity of the MC system - is also involved in disorders of negative energy balance. We provide evidence that suppression of increased MC receptor activity by treatment with the inverse agonist agouti-related peptide (AgRP) (83-132) rescues rats exposed to an animal model known as activity-based anorexia. Furthermore, we found a polymorphism, Ala67Thr AgRP, that was observed more frequently in anorexia nervosa.
Neurons of the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH) appear to be sites of convergence of central and peripheral signals of energy stores, and profoundly modulate the activity of the melanocortin circuits, providing a strong rationale for pursuing these circuits as therapeutic targets for disorders of energy homeostasis. Recently, tremendous advances have been made in identifying genes and pathways important to regulating energy homeostasis, particularly the hormone leptin and its receptor. This hormone/receptor pair is expressed at high levels in the so-called satiety centers in the hypothalamus, and at lower levels elsewhere in the body. Recent studies in our lab and those of our collaborators have shown that leptin modulates different populations of hypothalamic cells in different ways, rapidly activating POMC neurons and inhibiting NPY/AgRP neurons. In this report, we outline an integrated model of leptin's action in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, derived from our electrophysiological studies of brain slice preparations taken from transgenic mice that have been bred to express a variety of fluorescent proteins in specific cell types. We also discuss the recently withdrawn obesity drug fenfluramine, which appears to act on POMC neurons via the serotonin 2C receptor. Nutrient-sensing serotonin neurons may project from the raphe nuclei in the brainstem to the hypothalamus; within the arcuate nucleus, serotonin signals are integrated with others such as leptin, ghrelin, and peptide YY(3-36) from the gut, to produce a coordinated response to nutrient state. Finally, we review the current inquiries into the ability of the hormone ghrelin to stimulate appetite by its action of NPY neurons and inhibition of POMC neurons.
It is now established that the hypothalamus is essential in coordinating endocrine, autonomic, and behavioral responses to changes in energy availability. However, the interaction of key peptides, neuropeptides, and neurotransmitters systems within the hypothalamus has yet to be delineated. Recently, we investigated the mechanisms through which central serotonergic (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) systems recruit leptin-responsive hypothalamic pathways, such as the melanocortin systems, to affect energy balance. Through a combination of functional neuroanatomy, feeding, and electrophysiology studies in rodents, we found that 5-HT drugs require functional melanocortin pathways to exert their effects on food intake. Specifically, we observed that anorectic 5-HT drugs activate pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (Arc). We provide evidence that the serotonin 2C receptor (5-HT(2C)R) is expressed on POMC neurons and contributes to this effect. Finally, we found that 5-HT drug-induced hypophagia is attenuated by pharmacological or genetic blockade of downstream melanocortin 3 and 4 receptors. We review candidate brain regions expressing melanocortin 3 and 4 receptors that play a role in energy balance. A model is presented in which activation of the melanocortin system is downstream of 5-HT and is necessary to produce the complete anorectic effect of 5-HT drugs. The data reviewed in this paper incorporate the central 5-HT system to the growing list of metabolic signals that converge on melanocortin neurons in the hypothalamus.
The melanocortin (MC)-4 receptor participates in regulating body weight homeostasis. We demonstrated early that acute blockage of the MC-4 receptor increases food intake and relieves anorexic conditions in rats. Our recent studies show that 4-week chronic blockage of the MC-4 receptor leads to robust increases in food intake and development of obesity, whereas stimulation of the receptor leads to anorexia. Interestingly, the food conversion ratio was clearly increased by MC-4 receptor blockage, whereas it was decreased in agonist-treated rats in a transient manner. Chronic infusion of an agonist caused a transient increase in oxygen consumption. Our studies also show that the MC-4 receptor plays a role in luteinizing hormone and prolactin surges in female rats. The MC-4 receptor has a role in mediating the effects of leptin on these surges. The phylogenetic relation of the MC-4 receptor to other GPCRs in the human genome was determined. The three-dimensional structure of the protein was studied by construction of a high-affinity zinc binding site between the helices, using two histidine residues facing each other. We also cloned the MC-4 receptor from evolutionary important species and showed by chromosomal mapping a conserved synteny between humans and zebrafish. The MC-4 receptor has been remarkably conserved in structure and pharmacology for more than 400 million years, implying that the receptor participated in vital physiological functions early in vertebrate evolution.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Recent observations link cyclooxygenase type-2 (COX-2) to the progression of the disease. Consistent with this notion, studies with the dopaminergic neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) show that inhibition and ablation of COX-2 markedly reduce the deleterious effects of this toxin on the nigrostriatal pathway. The similarity between this experimental model and PD strongly supports the possibility that COX-2 expression is also pathogenic in PD.
Chronic neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease, are characterized by a selective loss of specific subsets of neuronal populations over a period of years or even decades. While the underlying causes of the various neurodegenerative diseases are not clear, the death of neurons and the loss of neuronal contacts are key pathological features. Pinpointing molecular events that control neuronal cell death is critical for the development of new strategies to prevent and treat neurodegenerative disorders.
Experimental models of dopaminergic neurodegeneration play a critical role in our quest to elucidate the cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). Despite the recent development of &quot;genetic models&quot; that have followed upon the discovery of mutations causing rare forms of familial PD, toxic models remain at the forefront when it comes to exploring the pathogenesis of sporadic PD. Among these, the model produced by the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) has a competitive advantage over all other toxic models because once this neurotoxin causes intoxication, it induces in humans a syndrome virtually identical to PD. For the past two decades, the complex pharmacology of MPTP and the key steps in the MPTP neurotoxic process have been identified. These molecular events can be classified into three groups: First, those implicated in the initiation of toxicity, which include energy failure due to ATP depletion and oxidative stress mediated by superoxide and nitric oxide; second, those recruited subsequently in response to the initial neuronal perturbations, which include elements of the molecular pathways of apoptosis such as Bax; and, third, those amplifying the neurodegenerative insult, which include various proinflammatory factors such as prostaglandins. Herein, these different contributing factors are reviewed, as is the sequence in which it is believed these factors are acting within the cascade of events responsible for the death of dopaminergic neurons in the MPTP model and in PD. How to target these factors to devise effective neuroprotective therapies for PD is also discussed.
Accumulation and toxic conversion to protofibrils of alpha-synuclein has been associated with neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD), Lewy body disease, multiple system atrophy, neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation type 1, and Alzheimer's disease. In recent years, modeling these disorders in transgenic (tg) mice and flies has helped improve understanding of the pathogenesis of these diseases and has established the basis for the development of new experimental treatments. Overexpression of alpha-synuclein in tg mice in a region- and cell-specific manner results in degeneration of selective circuitries accompanied by motor deficits and inclusion formation similar to what is found in PD and related disorders. Furthermore, studies in singly and doubly tg mice have shown that toxic conversion and accumulation can be accelerated by alpha-synuclein mutations associated with familial parkinsonism, by amyloid beta peptide 1-42 (Abeta 1-42), and by oxidative stress. In contrast, molecular chaperones such as Hsp70 and close homologues such as alpha-synuclein have been shown to suppress toxicity. Similar studies are underway to evaluate the effects of other modifying genes that might play a role in alpha-synuclein ubiquitination. Among them considerable interest has been placed on the role of molecules associated with familial parkinsonism (Parkin, UCHL-1). Furthermore, studying the targeted overexpression of alpha-synuclein and other modifier genes in the nigrostriatal and limbic system by using regulatable promoters, lentiviral vectors, and siRNA will help improve understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in selective neuronal vulnerability, and it will aid the development of new treatments.
Experimental intoxication models are used to study the more common sporadic form of Parkinson's disease (PD). 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyrimidine (MPTP) animal models of PD provide a valuable and predictive tool to probe the molecular mechanisms of dopamine neuronal cell death in PD. MPTP is a powerful neurotoxin that induces neuronal degeneration in the substantia nigra pars compacta and produces PD-like symptoms in several mammalian species tested, a feat not yet accomplished in genetically engineered mice expressing human genetic mutations. The mechanisms of MPTP-induced neurotoxicity are not yet fully understood but involve activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors by glutamate, production of NO by nNOS and iNOS, oxidative injury to DNA, and activation of the DNA damage-sensing enzyme poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). Recent experiments indicate that translocation of a mitochondrial protein apoptosis inducing factor (AIF) from mitochondria to the nucleus depends on PARP activation and plays an important role in excitotoxicity-induced cell death. This article briefly reviews the experimental findings regarding excitotoxicity, PARP activation, and AIF translocation in MPTP toxicity and dopaminergic neuronal cell death.
The pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) remains obscure, but there is increasing evidence that impairment of mitochondrial function, oxidative damage, and inflammation are contributing factors. The present paper reviews the experimental and clinical evidence implicating these processes in PD. There is substantial evidence that there is a deficiency of complex I activity of the mitochondrial electron transport chain in PD. There is also evidence for increased numbers of activated microglia in both PD postmortem tissue as well as in animal models of PD. Impaired mitochondrial function and activated microglia may both contribute to oxidative damage in PD. A number of therapies targeting inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction are efficacious in the MPTP model of PD. Of these, coenzyme Q(10) appears to be particularly promising based on the results of a recent phase 2 clinical trial in which it significantly slowed the progression of PD.
Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of dopamine neurons and the accumulation of Lewy bodies and neurites. Recent advances indicate that PD is due in some individuals to genetic mutations in alpha-synuclein, parkin, and ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1). All three PD-linked gene products are related directly or indirectly to the functioning of the cellular ubiquitin proteasomal system (UPS), suggesting that UPS dysfunction may be important in PD pathogenesis. Indeed, emerging evidence indicates that derangements of the UPS may be one of the underlying mechanisms of PD pathogenesis. The function of parkin as an ubiquitin protein ligase positions it as an important player in both familial and idiopathic PD. We recently demonstrated that parkin mediates a nondegradative form of ubiquitination on synphilin-1 that could contribute to synphilin-1's aggregation in PD. Our results implicate parkin involvement in the formation of Lewy bodies associated with sporadic PD. This review discusses the role of the UPS, as well as the modus operandi of the three PD candidate felons (alpha-synuclein, parkin, and UCHL1) along with their conspirators in bringing about dopaminergic cell death in PD.
The development of midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons follows a number of stages marked by distinct events. After preparation of the region by signals that provide induction and patterning, at least two cascades of transcription factors contribute to the fully matured midbrain DA systems. One cascade involving the nuclear receptor Nurr1 is required to synthesize the neurotransmitter DA; the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) depends on it. The other cascade involves homeobox genes. Lmx1b and engrailed genes are expressed before the genesis of DA neurons and maintain their expression in these neurons. Lmx1b drives Ptx3, which is the latest transcription factor known to be induced. Its induction coincides with that of TH. Disruption of the function of Ptx3 affects the formation of the substantia nigra (SN) and alters the anatomical organization of the midbrain DA systems. While each cascade contributes to a specific aspect of DA neurons, both cascades are required for survival during development, indicating that the maintenance of DA neurons is delicately dependent on the appropriate activity of multiple transcriptional cascades.
Midbrain dopaminergic neurons are the main source of dopamine in the mammalian central nervous system and are associated with one of the most prominent human neurological disorders, Parkinson's disease. During development, they are induced in the ventral midbrain by an interaction between two diffusible factors, SHH and FGF8. The local identity of this part of the midbrain is probably determined by the combinatorial expression of three transcription factors, Otx2, Pax2, and Pax5. After the last cell division, the neurons start to express transcription factors that control further differentiation and the manifestation of cellular properties characteristic for adult dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra compacta and the ventral tegmentum. The first to appear is the LIM-homeodomain transcription factor, Lmx1b. It is essential for the survival of these neurons, and it regulates the expression of another transcription factor, Pitx3, an activator of tyrosine hydroxylase. Lmx1b is followed by the orphan steroid receptor Nurr1. It is essential for the expression of the dopaminergic phenotype. Several genes involved in dopamine synthesis, transport, release, and reuptake are regulated by Nurr1. This requirement is specific to the midbrain dopaminergic neurons, since other populations of the same neurotransmitter phenotype develop normally in absence of the gene. A day after Nurr1, two homeodomain transcription factors, engrailed-1 and -2, are expressed. In animals deficient in the two genes, the midbrain dopaminergic neurons are generated, but then fail to differentiate and disappear very rapidly. Interestingly, alpha-synuclein, a gene recently linked to familial forms of Parkinson's disease, is regulated by engrailed-1 and -2.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is characterized by parenchymal hematoma formation with surrounding inflammation. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurological diseases defined by inflammation and cell death. To investigate the expression profile and pathogenic aspects of MMPs in ICH, we examined MMP expression in vivo using a collagenase-induced rat model of ICH. ICH increased brain MMP-2, -3, -7, and -9 mRNA levels relative to sham-injected (control) animals in the vicinity of the hematoma, but MMP-12 (macrophage metalloelastase) was the most highly induced MMP (&gt;80-fold). Immunohistochemistry showed MMP-12 to be localized in activated monocytoid cells surrounding the hematoma. In vitro studies showed that thrombin, released during ICH, induced MMP-12 expression in monocytoid cells, which was reduced by minocycline application. Similarly, in vivo minocycline treatment significantly reduced MMP-12 levels in brain. Neuropathological studies disclosed marked glial activation and apoptosis after ICH that was reduced by minocycline treatment. Neurobehavioral outcomes also were improved with minocycline treatment compared with untreated ICH controls. Thus, select MMPs exhibit increased expression after ICH, whereas minocycline is neuroprotective after ICH by suppressing monocytoid cell activation and downregulating MMP-12 expression.
We will briefly review the present status of optical topography and then discuss the method of improving practicality, i.e., the signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio and the spatial resolution in observations of higher-order brain functions. The optimum wavelength pair improved the S/N ratio sixfold for deoxyhemoglobin, and new configurations of light irradiation and detection positions doubled the spatial resolution. We also report on developing application fields of optical topography. This modality will bridge the gap between natural sciences, neuroscience, and pedagogy, and show actual real-time brain activity.


Formation of the vasculature is an essential step in embryogenesis. It was observed decades ago that the vasculature and the intravascular blood compartment, which uses the former as a means of transportation, develop in a close spatial and temporal relationship. In this review, we discuss the role of the blood coagulation system as a tool to coordinate angiogenesis. Several mouse models lacking coagulation factors result in impaired thrombin generation and display a phenotype of disturbed cardiovascular development. Similar phenotypes are observed in mouse models of impaired thrombin binding to its cellular receptor, protease-activated receptor-1, or of disrupted signaling via G proteins. Most interestingly, the available data provide evidence that thrombin signaling in vascular development cannot be explained by a model based only on the classic extrinsic and intrinsic coagulation pathways. Because angiogenesis in adults follows the same signaling patterns as angiogenesis in embryos, it is important to learn about these pathways, hoping that they may serve as therapeutic targets in cardiovascular disease.

The purpose of this study was to conduct focus group interviews to obtain information for development of a needs assessment questionnaire. Four focus groups were conducted with 10 people with multiple sclerosis (MS) and five significant others. A facilitator from the learning services department at the hospital conducted the interviews guided by questions developed by the researcher. The focus group interviews were audiotaped and transcribed. The researcher analyzed the transcribed interviews. Content analysis was used to analyze the transcribed data creating categories from key words and phrases as they appeared. The findings were grouped by themes. The results highlighted the participants' experiences and needs regarding physical changes; sources of assistance; unmet needs; psychological, employment, leisure, and informational needs. A comparison of themes developed from the focus groups and in the literature captured categories for questionnaire development. One new theme, leisure, was not found in the literature and was incorporated based on the findings of this study. The final categories for questionnaire development were: physical, health, psychological, financial, employment/meaningful daytime activity and leisure, accessibility and information. A survey questionnaire was developed from the focus group data using the phraseology of the participants.
This review addresses the interconnections between emotional and attentional processing, with an emphasis on both behavioral and neuroscientific findings. Are emotional stimuli encoded automatically, and what does that mean? How are emotional stimuli selected for enhanced processing within a limited capacity system? Evidence suggests a two-stage process: First, emotional significance is evaluated preattentively by a sub-cortical circuit involving the amygdala; and second, stimuli deemed emotionally significant are given priority in the competition for access to selective attention. This process involves bottom-up inputs from the amygdala as well as top-down influences from frontal lobe regions involved in goal setting and maintaining representations in working memory. The review highlights limitations in the current literature, directions for fruitful future research, and the need to move beyond simple dichotomies such as 'cognition' versus 'emotion.'
Social cognitive neuroscience is a rapidly emerging field that utilizes cognitive neuroscientific techniques (e.g., lesion studies, neuroimaging) to address concepts traditionally in the social psychological realm (e.g., attitudes, stereotypes). The purpose of this article is to review published neuroscientific and neuropsychological research into social cognition. The author focuses on the role of the prefrontal cortex in social behavior and presents a framework that provides cohesion of this research. The article proposes that this framework will be useful in guiding future social cognitive neuroscientific research.
A fundamental tenet of behavior is that a reflex is automatic, unconscious, involuntary, and relatively invariant. However, we have discovered that a reflex can change dramatically as a function of classical conditioning, and this change can be demonstrated independently of the conditioned stimulus. We have termed this phenomenon conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM). Although the behavioral laws and neural substrates of nonassociative reflex changes have been identified, the behavioral laws and neural substrates of CRM are only now being revealed. For example, CRM is similar to classical conditioning in that (a) it is a function of both the strength of conditioning and (b) the strength of the unconditioned stimulus, (c) it can be extinguished, and (d) it can be generalized from one unconditioned stimulus to another. Preliminary analysis suggests that CRM may have some features in common with post-traumatic stress disorder and may provide insights into treatment of the disorder.
Rats track self-, conspecific, and artificial odors to locate food. The orbital frontal cortex has been implicated in olfactory behavior, but whether it plays a role in a species-typical behavior, such as odor-guided navigation, has not been studied. Rats were trained to track 1 of 3 different odors deposited on a string. After rats were reliably tracking a scented string, they received a series of 2- and 3-odor discrimination tests. Next, all the rats received bilateral aspiration lesions of the orbital frontal cortex and experienced the same sequence of tasks. Rats learned to track and discriminate between different odors reliably. These results suggest that other areas of the brain mediate odor-guided navigation following damage to the orbital frontal cortex.
