Inflammation of the colon changes motor function of more proximal regions of the gastrointestinal tract. Colitis alters the neurophysiology of enteric neurons within the region of inflammation, which may contribute to altered colonic motor and secretory function. This study seeks to test the hypothesis that colitis alters the neurophysiology of myenteric neurons in the non-inflamed ileum, and that altered neurophysiology coincides with altered small bowel motor function. Trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis was associated with hyperexcitability of AH neurons in the ileum myenteric plexus, demonstrated by depolarized neurons and increased numbers of action potentials, but without changes in the action potential duration or afterhyperpolarization typical of plasticity in these cells. There were no changes in synaptic transmission of either AH neurons or S neurons observed in the current study. The onset of AH neuron hyperexcitability occurred 24 h following administration of TNBS, and persisted to eight weeks, a time point following the resolution of colitis. Small bowel transit was reduced as early as 12 h after TNBS and resolved by 48 h after TNBS. While AH neurons play a central role in coordinating motor function of the ileum, changes in excitability of these neurons did not coincide with changes in small bowel transit.
Critical illness myopathy (CIM) is characterized by a preferential loss of the motor protein myosin, muscle wasting, and impaired muscle function in critically ill intensive care unit (ICU) patients. CIM is associated with severe morbidity and mortality and has a significant negative socioeconomic effect. Neuromuscular blocking agents, corticosteroids, sepsis, mechanical ventilation, and immobilization have been implicated as important risk factors, but the causal relationship between CIM and the risk factors has not been established. A porcine ICU model has been used to determine the immediate molecular and cellular cascades that may contribute to the pathogenesis prior to myosin loss and extensive muscle wasting. Expression profiles have been compared between pigs exposed to the ICU interventions, i.e., mechanically ventilated, sedated, and immobilized for 5 days, with pigs exposed to critical illness interventions, i.e., neuromuscular blocking agents, corticosteroids, and induced sepsis in addition to the ICU interventions for 5 days. Impaired autophagy as well as impaired chaperone expression and protein synthesis were observed in the skeletal muscle in response to critical illness interventions. A novel finding in this study is impaired core autophagy machinery in response to critical illness interventions, which when in concert with downregulated chaperone expression and protein synthesis may collectively affect the proteostasis in skeletal muscle and may exacerbate the disease progression in CIM.
The observation of goal-directed actions performed by another individual allows one to understand what that individual is doing and why he/she is doing it. Important information about others' behaviour is also carried out by the dynamics of the observed action. Action dynamics characterize the 'vitality form' of an action describing the cognitive and affective relation between the performing agent and the action recipient. Here, using the fMRI technique, we assessed the neural correlates of vitality form recognition presenting participants with videos showing two actors executing actions with different vitality forms: energetic and gentle. The participants viewed the actions in two tasks. In one task (what), they had to focus on the goal of the presented action; in the other task (how), they had to focus on the vitality form. For both tasks, activations were found in the action observation/execution circuit. Most interestingly, the contrast how vs what revealed activation in right dorso-central insula, highlighting the involvement, in the recognition of vitality form, of an anatomical region connecting somatosensory areas with the medial temporal region and, in particular, with the hippocampus. This somatosensory-insular-limbic circuit could underlie the observers' capacity to understand the vitality forms conveyed by the observed action.



Recent evidence suggests that the glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) neuronal projection to the nucleus accumbens core (NAcC) contributes to food intake control. To investigate the role of endogenous stimulation of GLP-1 receptors (GLP-1R) in NAcC, we examined the effects of the GLP-1R antagonist exendin-(9-39) (Ex9) on meal pattern and microstructure of ingestive behavior in rats. Intra-NAcC Ex9 treatment selectively increased meal size relative to vehicle in rats consuming 0.25 M sucrose solution or sweetened condensed milk. Microstructural analysis revealed effects of NAcC Ex9 on initial lick rate and the size and duration of licking bursts in rats consuming 0.1 or 0.25 M sucrose, suggesting that blockade of NAcC GLP-1R increases palatability. Because NAcC Ex9 did not affect licking for nonnutritive saccharin (0.1%), we suggest that the presence of nutrients in the gut may be required for endogenous stimulation of NAcC GLP-1R. Consistent with this, we also found that the meal size-suppressive effects of intragastric nutrient infusion were attenuated by NAcC delivery of Ex9 at a dose that had no effect when delivered alone. Analysis of licking patterns revealed that NAcC Ex9 did not reverse intragastric nutrient-induced suppression of burst number but rather blunted the effect of nutrient infusion on meal size primarily by increasing the size and duration of licking bursts. Together, our results suggest that NAcC Ex9 influences taste evaluation. We conclude that GLP-1 released in NAcC in response to gastrointestinal nutrients reduces the hedonic value of food.
Most ingested sodium is contained in food. The aim was to investigate whether sodium depletion, dehydration, or DOCA alters intakes of salted and unsalted foods by rats given choices of two foods: salted (0.2-0.5% Na) and unsalted food containing either similar or different other dietary components. Diuretic-induced (furosemide or acetazolamide, two treatments on successive days) sodium depletion always caused pronounced falls in intake of unsalted food within 24 h, continuing at least another 2 days (e.g., 20.9  1.6 pretreatment to 14.8  1.2, 10.6  1.5, and 14.3  1.3 g/day for 3 days of depletion). Intake and preference for salted food increased after 24-72 h (e.g., 6.5  1.2 pretreatment to 7.1  1.1, 16.4  2.3, and 17.0  1.5 g/day at 1, 2, and 3 days of depletion). Valsartan (10 mg/day) blocked the increased intake of salted food but not the reduced intake of unsalted food. DOCA (2 mg/day) caused equivalent increase and decrease in intakes of salted and unsalted food, respectively. Water-deprived rats reduced intake (e.g., 14.2  3.1 to 3.2  2.0 g/day) of and preference for salted food (e.g., 56  13% to 21  11%) after 2 days of dehydration but did not consistently reduce intake of unsalted food. Total food ingested/day fell in both sodium-depleted and dehydrated rats. Rats regulate intakes of different foods to balance sodium needs, osmoregulatory homeostasis, and energy requirements. Reduced appetite for unsalted food may be a homeostatic response to sodium depletion, which together with subsequent generation of appetite for salted food, drives animals to ingest sodium-containing food, thereby restoring sodium balance.

Deterioration in executive functions and daily life activities (DLA) are early signs of Alzheimer's disease (AD) that signal the need for caregiver attention. We have addressed this issue in the 3xTg-AD mice model for AD and studied nesting behaviour as a natural DLA of parental structures as well as at early- (6 month-old) and advanced-stages (12 month-old) of the disease in isolated animals. The results show genetic, gender and age-dependent impairment of nesting behaviour but also aware about the relevance of factors such as the temporal course of nest construction and the nesting material. Paper towel consistently showed the impairment of nesting behavior in 3xTg-AD mice since early stages of the disease and in both social conditions. Their nest construction was slow temporal pattern and of poor quality, especially in females and advanced stages of the disease where the deficits were shown from the first day. In all cases, cotton elicited an intense behaviour that lead to perfect nesting during the first 48 h. Genotype, gender and age differences were found in the onset of nesting behaviour, with a time delay in the 3xTg-AD mice, particularly in females. The reported impairment of nesting behaviour in 3xTg-AD provides another behavioral tool to assess the benefits of preventive and/or therapeutic strategies, as well as the potential action of risk factors of AD, in this animal model.
Members of the ABCA (ATP-binding cassette subfamily A) family are characterized by their ability to transport lipids across cellular membranes and regulate lipid homoeostasis in the brain and peripheral tissues. ABCA8 is a little-known member of this subfamily that was originally cloned from human brain libraries and has no known function. In an effort to elucidate the role of ABCA8in the brain we first undertook a comprehensive analysis of its expression in the human brain. ABCA8 was differentially expressed in multiple regions of adult human brains with significantly higher expression in oligodendrocyte-enriched white matter regions compared with grey matter cortical regions. We then assessed the impact of ABCA8 on sphingomyelin production in oligodendrocyte and showed that ABCA8 was able to significantly stimulate both sphingomyelin synthase 1 expression and sphingomyelin production. Furthermore, ABCA8 expression in the prefrontal cortex across the human life span correlated strongly with age-associated myelination, and the myelinating gene p25 was significantly up-regulated with ABCA8. The present study represents the first extensive expression and functional study of ABCA8in the human brain and the results strongly suggest that ABCA8 regulates lipid metabolism in oligodendrocytes and potentially plays a role in myelin formation and maintenance.
A novel biomimetic microsensor for measuring nitric oxide (NO) in the brain in vivo was developed. The sensor consists of hemin and functionalized multi-wall carbon nanotubes covalently attached to chitosan via the carbodiimide crosslinker EDC followed by chitosan electrodeposition on the surface of carbon fiber microelectrodes. Cyclic voltammetry supported direct electron transfer from the Fe(III)/Fe(II) couple of hemin to the carbon surface at -0.370 V and -0.305 V vs. Ag/AgCl for cathodic and anodic peaks, respectively. Square wave voltammetry revealed a NO reduction peak at -0.762 V vs. Ag/AgCl that increased linearly with NO concentration between 0.25 and 1 M. The average sensitivity of the microsensors was 1.72 nA/M and the limit of detection was 25 nM. Oxygen and hydrogen peroxide reduction peaks were observed at -0.269 V and -0.332 V vs. Ag/AgCl, respectively and no response was observed for other relevant interferents, namely ascorbate, nitrite and dopamine. The microsensor was successfully applied to the measurement of exogenously applied NO in the rat brain in vivo.
Mutations in the transactive response DNA binding protein-43 (TARDBP/TDP-43) gene, which regulates transcription and splicing, causes a familial form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Here, we characterize and report the first tardbp mutation in zebrafish, which introduces a premature stop codon (Y220X), eliminating expression of the Tardbp protein. Another TARDBP ortholog, tardbpl, in zebrafish is shown to encode a Tardbp-like protein which is truncated compared with Tardbp itself and lacks part of the C-terminal glycine-rich domain (GRD). Here, we show that tardbp mutation leads to the generation of a novel tardbpl splice form (tardbpl-FL) capable of making a full-length Tardbp protein (Tardbpl-FL), which compensates for the loss of Tardbp. This finding provides a novel in vivo model to study TDP-43-mediated splicing regulation. Additionally, we show that elimination of both zebrafish TARDBP orthologs results in a severe motor phenotype with shortened motor axons, locomotion defects and death at around 10 days post fertilization. The Tardbp/Tardbpl knockout model generated in this study provides an excellent in vivo system to study the role of the functional loss of Tardbp and its involvement in ALS pathogenesis.
Human standing requires control of multisegmental configuration. Does the postural system normally allow flexible adjustment of configuration, or does it minimize degrees of freedom at the ankle, knee, and hip joints? Gentle, external, unpredictable, sagittal, mechanical perturbations (randomized force, 1-10 N; duration, 0.2-2 s; and leg) were applied to either knee of 24 healthy participants who stood symmetrically for 200 s. The translation of knee perturbation force to ankle, knee, and hip joint rotations in the perturbed and unperturbed legs was studied. We assessed whether consequent joint rotations indicated a stiff configuration-conserving or viscous energy-absorbing relationship to the knee perturbation. Two distinctive response patterns were observed. Twenty-two participants showed limited knee flexion and high ankle stiffness, whereas two participants showed substantial knee flexion, low ankle stiffness, measurable internal rotation of the unperturbed hip (0.4  0.3 vs. 3.0  1, 5.7  17 vs. 0.5  0.3 N/, 1.1  0.4, respectively; mean  SD), and a viscous relationship between perturbation force and subsequent ankle flexion, knee flexion, and perturbed and unperturbed hip internal rotation. The size of knee-flexion response to knee perturbations was uncorrelated with the extent of unperturbed standing sway. Normal standing conceals a large interindividual range in leg control strategies, indicating adaptive potential to progress with development and skill acquisition and decline with age, disease, injury, and fear. Commonly, leg configuration was maintained stiffly. Less commonly, a bilateral, low-stiffness, energy-absorbing strategy utilizing the available degrees of freedom was shown. We propose that identification of individual coordination strategy has diagnostic and prognostic potential in relation to perceptual-posture-movement-fall interactions.
The aim of this work was to reveal a hypothetical improvement of cognitive abilities in animals acclimatized to altitude and performing under ground level conditions, when looking at submaximal performance, once seen that it was not possible when looking at maximal scores. We modified contrasted cognitive tasks (object recognition, operant conditioning, eight-arm radial maze, and classical conditioning of the eyeblink reflex), increasing their complexity in an attempt to find performance differences in acclimatized animals vs. untrained controls. In addition, we studied, through immunohistochemical quantification, the expression of choline acetyltransferase and acetyl cholinesterase, enzymes involved in the synthesis and degradation of acetylcholine, in the septal area, piriform and visual cortexes, and the hippocampal CA1 area of animals submitted to acute hypobaric hypoxia, or acclimatized to this simulated altitude, to find a relationship between the cholinergic system and a cognitive improvement due to altitude acclimatization. Results showed subtle improvements of the cognitive capabilities of acclimatized animals in all of the tasks when performed under ground-level conditions (although not before 24 h), in the three tasks used to test explicit memory (object recognition, operant conditioning in the Skinner box, and eight-arm radial maze) and (from the first conditioning session) in the classical conditioning task used to evaluate implicit memory. An imbalance of choline acetyltransferase/acetyl cholinesterase expression was found in acclimatized animals, mainly 24 h after the acclimatization period. In conclusion, altitude acclimatization improves cognitive capabilities, in a process parallel to an imbalance of the cholinergic system.
Otto Deiters, for whom the lateral vestibular nucleus and the supporting cells of the outer auditory hair cells were named, died in 1863 aged 29. He taught in the Bonn Anatomy Department, had an appointment in the University Clinic, and ran a small private practice. He published articles on the cell theory, the structure and development of muscle fibers, the inner ear, leukaemia, and scarlet fever. He was the second of five surviving children in an academic family whose private correspondence revealed him to be a young man with limited social skills and high ambitions to complete a deeply original study of the brainstem and spinal cord. However, first his father and then his younger brother died, leaving him and his older brother responsible for a suddenly impecunious family as he failed to gain academic promotion. Otto died of typhus two years after his younger brother's death, leaving his greatest scientific achievement to be published posthumously. He showed that most nerve cells have a single axon and several dendrites; he recognized the possibility that nerve cells might be functionally polarized and produced the first illustrations of synaptic inputs to dendrites from what he termed a second system of nerve fibers.
In hippocampal neurons, AMPA receptors (AMPARs) mediate fast excitatory postsynaptic responses at glutamatergic synapses, and are involved in various forms of synaptic plasticity. Dendritic local protein synthesis of selected AMPAR subunit mRNAs is considered an additional mechanism to independently and rapidly control the strength of individual synapses. We have used fluorescent in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry to analyze the localization of AMPAR subunit (GluA1-4) mRNAs and their relationship with the translation machinery in principal cells and interneurons of the adult rat hippocampus. The mRNAs encoding all four AMPAR subunits were detected in the somata and dendrites of CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cells and those of six classes of CA1 -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic interneurons. GluA1-4 subunit mRNAs were highly localized to the apical dendrites of pyramidal cells, whereas in interneurons they were present in multiple dendrites. In contrast, in the dentate gyrus, GluA1-4 subunit mRNAs were virtually restricted to the somata and were absent from the dendrites of granule cells. These different regional and cell type-specific labeling patterns also correlated with the localization of markers for components of the protein synthesis machinery. Our results support the local translation of GluA1-4 mRNAs in dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal cells and CA1 interneurons but not in granule cells of the dentate gyrus. Furthermore, the regional and cell type-specific differences we observed suggest that each cell type uses distinct ways of regulating the local translation of AMPAR subunits.
The sexually dimorphic medial preoptic nucleus (POM) in Japanese quail has for many years been the focus of intensive investigations into its role in reproductive behavior. The present study delineates a sequence of descending pathways that finally reach sacral levels of the spinal cord housing motor neurons innervating cloacal muscles involved in reproductive behavior. We first retrogradely labeled the motor neurons innervating the large cloacal sphincter muscle (mSC) that forms part of the foam gland complex (Seiwert and Adkins-Regan [1998] Brain Behav Evol 52:61-80) and then putative premotor nuclei in the brainstem, one of which was nucleus retroambigualis (RAm) in the caudal medulla. Anterograde tracing from RAm defined a bulbospinal pathway, terminations of which overlapped the distribution of mSC motor neurons and their extensive dorsally directed dendrites. Descending input to RAm arose from an extensive dorsomedial nucleus of the intercollicular complex (DM-ICo), electrical stimulation of which drove vocalizations. POM neurons were retrogradely labeled by injections of tracer into DM-ICo, but POM projections largely surrounded DM, rather than penetrated it. Thus, although a POM projection to ICo was shown, a POM projection to DM must be inferred. Nevertheless, the sequence of projections in the male quail from POM to cloacal motor neurons strongly resembles that in rats, cats, and monkeys for the control of reproductive behavior, as largely defined by Holstege et al. ([1997], Neuroscience 80:587-598).
Insect larvae clearly react to visual stimuli, but the ability of any visual neuron in a newly hatched insect to respond selectively to particular stimuli has not been directly tested. We characterised a pair of neurons in locust larvae that have been extensively studied in adults, where they are known to respond selectively to objects approaching on a collision course: the lobula giant motion detector (LGMD) and its postsynaptic partner, the descending contralateral motion detector (DCMD). Our physiological recordings of DCMD axon spikes reveal that at the time of hatching, the neurons already respond selectively to objects approaching the locust and they discriminate between stimulus approach speeds with differences in spike frequency. For a particular approaching stimulus, both the number and peak frequency of spikes increase with instar. In contrast, the number of spikes in responses to receding stimuli decreases with instar, so performance in discriminating approaching from receding stimuli improves as the locust goes through successive moults. In all instars, visual movement over one part of the visual field suppresses a response to movement over another part. Electron microscopy demonstrates that the anatomical substrate for the selective response to approaching stimuli is present in all larval instars: small neuronal processes carrying information from the eye make synapses both onto LGMD dendrites and with each other, providing pathways for lateral inhibition that shape selectivity for approaching objects.
CRYAB, a small heat shock protein, was previously shown to decrease neuroinflammation in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). We investigated whether the expression of cell adhesion molecules and chemokine receptors on peripheral and spinal cord T cells, that could possibly affect their migration to the central nervous system, was altered following EAE CRYAB treatment. Less LFA-1+ lymphocytes and lower levels of iTAC, MCP-5 and MIG were observed in spinal cords of CRYAB-injected EAE animals. In addition, fewer blood T cells expressed CCR6, CXCR4 and CCR7 and in vivo-derived CRYAB EAE CD4+ lymphocytes were less migratory towards a MIP-3alpha gradient in vitro.
Contusion-type cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) is one of the most common forms of SCI observed in patients. In particular, injuries targeting the C3-C5 region affect the pool of phrenic motor neurons (PhMNs) that innervates the diaphragm, resulting in significant and often chronic respiratory dysfunction. Using a previously described rat model of unilateral midcervical C4 contusion with the Infinite Horizon Impactor, we have characterized the early time course of PhMN degeneration and consequent respiratory deficits following injury, as this knowledge is important for designing relevant treatment strategies targeting protection and plasticity of PhMN circuitry. PhMN loss (48% of the ipsilateral pool) occurred almost entirely during the first 24h post-injury, resulting in persistent phrenic nerve axonal degeneration and denervation at the diaphragm neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Reduced diaphragm compound muscle action potential amplitudes following phrenic nerve stimulation were observed as early as the first day post-injury (30% of pre-injury maximum amplitude), with slow functional improvement over time that was associated with partial reinnervation at the diaphragm NMJ. Consistent with ipsilateral diaphragmatic compromise, the injury resulted in rapid, yet only transient, changes in overall ventilatory parameters measured via whole-body plethysmography, including increased respiratory rate, decreased tidal volume, and decreased peak inspiratory flow. Despite significant ipsilateral PhMN loss, the respiratory system has the capacity to quickly compensate for partially impaired hemidiaphragm function, suggesting that C4 hemicontusion in rats is a model of SCI that manifests subacute respiratory abnormalities. Collectively, these findings demonstrate significant and persistent diaphragm compromise in a clinically relevant model of midcervical contusion SCI; however, the therapeutic window for PhMN protection is restricted to early time points post-injury. On the contrary, preventing loss of innervation by PhMNs and/or inducing plasticity in spared PhMN axons at the diaphragm NMJ are relevant long-term targets.
Abstract Hyperthermia challenges the nervous system's ability to transmit action potentials faithfully. Neuromuscular diseases, particularly those involving demyelination have an impaired safety margin for action potential generation and propagation, and symptoms are commonly accentuated by increases in temperature. The aim of this study was to examine the mechanisms responsible for reduced excitability during hyperthermia. Additionally, we sought to determine if motor and sensory axons differ in their propensity for conduction block during hyperthermia. Recordings of axonal excitability were performed at normal temperatures and during focal hyperthermia for motor and sensory axons in six healthy subjects. There were clear changes in excitability during hyperthermia, with reduced superexcitability following an action potential, faster accommodation to long-lasting depolarization and reduced accommodation to hyperpolarization. A verified model of human motor and sensory axons was used to clarify the effects of hyperthermia. The hyperthermia-induced changes in excitability could be accounted for by increasing the modelled temperature by 6C (and adjusting the maximum conductances and activation kinetics according to their Q10 values; producing a 2 mV hyperpolarization of resting membrane potential), further hyperpolarizing the voltage dependence of Ih (motor, 11 mV; sensory, 7 mV) and adding a small depolarizing current at the internode (motor, 20 pA; sensory, 30 pA). The modelling suggested that slow K(+) channels play a significant role in reducing axonal excitability during hyperthermia. The further hyperpolarization of the activation of Ih would limit its ability to counter the hyperpolarization produced by activity, thereby allowing conduction block to occur during hyperthermia.

Since 2009 at Boston College, we have been offering a Research in Neuroscience course using cultured neurons in an in vitro model of stroke. The students work in groups to learn how to perform sterile animal cell culture and run several basic bioassays to assess cell viability. They are then tasked with analyzing the scientific literature in an attempt to identify and predict the intracellular pathways involved in neuronal death, and identify dietary antioxidant compounds that may provide protection based on their known effects in other cells. After each group constructs a hypothesis pertaining to the potential neuroprotection, we purchase one compound per group and the students test their hypotheses using a commonly performed viability assay. The groups generate quantitative data and perform basic statistics on that data to analyze it for statistical significance. Finally, the groups compile their data and other elements of their research experience into a poster for our departmental research celebration at the end of the spring semester.
The field of proteomics is undergoing rapid development in a number of different areas including improvements in mass spectrometric platforms, peptide identification algorithms and bioinformatics. In particular, new and/or improved approaches have established robust methods that not only allow for in-depth and accurate peptide and protein identification and modification, but also allow for sensitive measurement of relative or absolute quantitation. These methods are beginning to be applied to the area of neuroproteomics, but the central nervous system poses many specific challenges in terms of quantitative proteomics, given the large number of different neuronal cell types that are intermixed and that exhibit distinct patterns of gene and protein expression. This review highlights the recent advances that have been made in quantitative neuroproteomics, with a focus on work published over the last five years that applies emerging methods to normal brain function as well as to various neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia and drug addiction as well as of neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. While older methods such as two-dimensional polyacrylamide electrophoresis continued to be used, a variety of more in-depth MS-based approaches including both label (ICAT, iTRAQ, TMT, SILAC, SILAM), label-free (label-free, MRM, SWATH) and absolute quantification methods, are rapidly being applied to neurobiological investigations of normal and diseased brain tissue as well as of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). While the biological implications of many of these studies remain to be clearly established, that there is a clear need for standardization of experimental design and data analysis, and that the analysis of protein changes in specific neuronal cell types in the central nervous system remains a serious challenge, it appears that the quality and depth of the more recent quantitative proteomics studies is beginning to shed light on a number of aspects of neuroscience that relates to normal brain function as well as of the changes in protein expression and regulation that occurs in neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders.
Prolonged exposure to stress elicits profound effects on homeostasis that may lead to cryptogenic disorders such as chronic fatigue syndrome. To investigate the pathophysiology associated with the syndrome, we used a rat continuous stress (CS) model where the pituitary represents one of the most affected organs. Here we found that mRNA for VGF (non-acronymic), a member of the granin family, was induced specifically in the intermediate lobe (IL). This was matched by a concomitant increase at the peptide/protein level assessed by C-terminal antibody. Furthermore, the up-regulation of VGF was confirmed by immunohistochemistry in a subset of melanotrophs. VGF expression was altered in the IL of rats receivingthe dopamine D2 receptor agonist bromocriptine or the antagonist sulpiride. In vitro, dopamine dose-dependently decreased the mRNA levels in cultured melanotrophs. These findings suggest that VGF expression under CS is negatively regulated by dopaminergic neurons projecting from the hypothalamus.
Work over the past 2 decades has led to substantial changes in our understanding of dystonia pathophysiology. Three general abnormalities appear to underlie the pathophysiological substrate. The first is a loss of inhibition. This makes sense considering that it may be responsible for the excess of movement and for the overflow phenomena seen in dystonia. A second abnormality is sensory dysfunction which is related to the mild sensory complaints in patients with focal dystonias and may be responsible for some of the motor dysfunction. Third, evidence from animal models of dystonia as well as from patients with primary dystonia has revealed significant alterations of synaptic plasticity characterized by a disruption of homeostatic plasticity, with a prevailing facilitation of synaptic potentiation, together with the loss of synaptic inhibitory processes. We speculate that during motor learning this abnormal plasticity may lead to an abnormal sensorimotor integration, leading to consolidation of abnormal motor engrams. If so, then removing this abnormal plasticity might have little immediate effect on dystonic movements because bad motor memories have already been ''learned'' and are difficult to erase. These considerations might explain the delayed clinical effects of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in patients with generalized dystonia. Current lines of research will be discussed from a network perspective.  2013 Movement Disorder Society.




There is significant interest in understanding the contribution of intracellular signaling and synaptic substrates to memory flexibility, which involves new learning and suppression of obsolete memory. Here, we report that enhancement of Ca2+ -stimulated cAMP signaling by overexpressing type 1 adenylyl cyclase (AC1) facilitated long-term potentiation (LTP) but impaired long-term depression (LTD) at the hippocampal Shaffer collateral-CA1 synapses. However, following the induction of LTP, low-frequency stimulation caused comparable synaptic depotentiation in both wild type and AC1 transgenic (AC1 TG) mice. Although previous studies have suggested the function of LTD in spatial memory flexibility, AC1 TG mice showed not only better initial learning in the Morris water maze, but also faster acquisition and increased ratio of new memory formation to old memory retention during the reversal platform training. In the memory extinction test, which requires suppression of old memory without involving the acquisition of the new platform information, AC1 TG and wild type mice showed comparable performance. Our results demonstrate new functions of Ca2+ -stimulated AC1, and also suggest that certain aspects of hippocampus-dependent behavioral flexibility may not require intact LTD.
To determine the role of the interpositus nuclei of cerebellum in rule-based learning and optimization processes, we studied (1) successive transfers of an initially acquired response rule in a cross maze and (2) behavioral strategies in learning a simple response rule in a T maze in interpositus lesioned rats (neurotoxic or electrolytic lesions). Even though lesioned animals showed no impairment in learning the initial stimulus-response association, they had difficulties in transferring the acquired adapted response rule, and in optimizing their response strategy. These results add information on the role of interpositus nuclei in adaptation to environmental changes.
Both spinal and trigeminal somatosensory systems use the TRPM8 channel as a principal transducer for detecting cold stimuli. It is currently unclear whether this cold transducer may play a role in trigeminal neuropathic pain manifesting cold allodynia and hyperalgesia. In the present study, trigeminal neuropathy was induced by chronic constrictive nerve injury of the infraorbital nerve (ION-CCI). Behavioral responses to cold stimuli in orofacial regions were assessed by the newly developed orofacial operant test in the ION-CCI rats. We tested menthol and capsazepine, two compounds that can activate and inhibit TRPM8 respectively, on orofacial operant responses to cold stimuli in ION-CCI rats. Testing animals performed operant tasks by voluntarily contacting their orofacial regions to a cold stimulation module in order to access sweetened milk as a reward, and contact time and number of the operant behaviors were automatically recorded. Total contact time was significantly reduced at the cooling temperatures of 17C and 12C in ION-CCI group in comparison with sham group, indicating the presence of cold allodynia and hyperalgesia in ION-CCI rats. When menthol was administered to ION-CCI rats, total contact time was further reduced and total contact number increased at the cooling temperatures. In contrast, after administration of capsazepine to ION-CCI rats, total contact time was significantly increased at the cooling temperatures. The behavioral outcomes support the idea that TRPM8 plays a role in cold allodynia and hyperalgesia following chronic trigeminal nerve injury.




Perceptions, thoughts, emotions and actions emerge from interactions between neuronal assemblies distributed across the brain rather than from local computations in restricted brain areas. Indeed, the operation of every cognitive act requires the integration of distributed activity, as implemented through long-range neuronal communication via a network of structural connections. Functional interactions in the brain are very often studied in subjects at rest, since the resting state is a privileged condition in which brain activity is unbiased by any specific goal-directed task. Early resting state studies showed that electrophysiological oscillatory activity in specific frequency bands supports synchronization processes related to long-range neuronal communication. In turn, experimental evidence from neuroimaging studies revealed that the human brain is organized into multiple large-scale networks of regions showing correlated hemodynamic activity. Multimodal studies have begun to disclose relationships between functional connectivity, as revealed by hemodynamic signals, and underlying electrophysiological processes. Furthermore, functional connectivity studies directly based on electrophysiological signals have recently revealed fundamental information regarding long-range neuronal communication at behaviorally relevant time-scales. The integration of different lines of evidence from hemodynamic and electrophysiological studies suggests that rapid changes of synchronized oscillatory activity in distributed brain networks is relevant for the ongoing maintenance and modulation of the task representations that form the basis of our cognitive flexibility.
Characterization of the brain's vascular system is of major clinical importance in the assessment of patients with cerebrovascular disease. The aim of this study was to characterize brain hemodynamics using multiparametric methods and to obtain reference values from the healthy brain. A multimodal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study was performed in twenty healthy subjects, including dynamic susceptibility contrast imaging and blood oxygen level dependence (BOLD) during hypercapnia and carbogen challenges. Brain tissues were defined using unsupervised cluster analysis based on these three methods, and several hemodynamic parameters were calculated for gray matter (GM), white matter (WM), blood vessels and dura (BVD); the three main vascular territories within the GM; and arteries and veins defined within the BVD cluster. The carbogen challenge produced a BOLD signal twice as high as the hypercapnia challenge, in all brain tissues. The three brain tissues differed significantly from each other in their hemodynamic characteristics, supporting the graded vascularity of the tissues, with BVD&gt;GM&gt;WM. Within the GM cluster, a significant delay of 1.2 s of the bolus arrival time was detected within the posterior cerebral artery territory relative to the middle and anterior cerebral artery territories. No differences were detected between right and left middle cerebral artery territories for all hemodynamic parameters. Within the BVD cluster, a significant delay of 1.9 s of the bolus arrival time was detected within the veins relative to the arteries. This parameter enabled to differentiate between the various blood vessels, including arteries, veins and choroid plexus. This study provides reference values for several hemodynamic parameters, obtained from healthy brains, and may be clinically important in the assessment of patients with various vascular pathologies.
Peripheral nerves, essential connections between the brain, spinal cord and body, do not regenerate as well as generally reported. Identifying new strategies to facilitate regeneration is essential to reversing neurological deficits from nerve injuries or disease. This review will discuss several selected and novel molecular insights into peripheral nerve trunk repair and axon regrowth that have the potential to improve regenerative success. Of particular interest is the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-Akt pathway in peripheral neurons, inhibited by the constitutively expressed phosphatase tumor suppressor PTEN. Knockdown or inhibition of PTEN is associated with robust sprouting of adult sensory neurons in vitro and in vivo, additive to the accelerated outgrowth offered by the preconditioning effect. This sprouting response, if spatially and temporally constrained, may provide potent regrowth initiation, of interest in otherwise untreatable nerve damage.
Diabetes mellitus-induced metabolic disturbances underlie the action of many systems including some higher functions of the brain such as learning and memory. Plenty of evidence supports the effects of probiotics on the function of many systems including the nervous system. Here we report the effect of probiotics treatment on the behavioral and electrophysiological aspects of learning and memory disorders. Diabetic rats were made through intraperitoneal injection of streptozocin. The control and diabetic rats were fed with either normal regimen (control rats recieving normal regimen (CO) and diabetics rats receiving normal regimen (DC), respectively) or normal regimen plus probiotic supplementation for 2months (control rats receiving probiotic supplementation (CP) and diabetics rats recieving probiotic supplementation (DP), respectively). The animals were first introduced to spatial learning task in the Morris water maze. Then, in electrophysiological experiments, stimulating the Schaffer collaterals the basic and potentiated excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSPs) were recorded in the CA1 area of the hippocampus. Finally, the serum levels of glucose, insulin, superoxide dismutase and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) were measured. We found that probiotics administration considerably improved the impaired spatial memory in the diabetic animals. The probiotics supplementation in the diabetic rats recovered the declined basic synaptic transmission and further restored the hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). While the probiotics administration enhanced the activation of superoxide dismutase and increased the insulin level of serum it decreased both the glucose level of serum and the 8-OHdG factor. From the present results we concluded that probiotics efficiently reverse deteriorated brain functions in the levels of cognitive performances and their proposed synaptic mechanisms in diabetes mellitus. These considerations imply on the necessity of an optimal function of the microbiome-gut-brain axis in the behavioral as well as electrophysiological aspects of brain action.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)- and PPAR have shown neuroprotective effects in models of Parkinson's disease (PD). The role of the third, more ubiquitous isoform PPAR has not been fully explored. This study investigated the role of PPAR in PD using 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to model the dopaminergic neurodegeneration of PD. In vitro administration of the PPAR antagonist GSK0660 (1 M) increased the detrimental effect of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium iodide (MPP) on cell viability, which was reversed by co-treatment with agonist GW0742 (1 M). GW0742 alone did not affect MPP toxicity. PPAR was expressed in the nucleus of dopaminergic neurons and in astrocytes. Striatal PPAR levels were increased (over two-fold) immediately after MPTP treatment (30 mg/kg for 5 consecutive days) compared to saline-treated mice. PPAR heterozygous mice were not protected against MPTP toxicity. Intra-striatal infusion of GW0742 (84 g/day) reduced the MPTP-induced loss of dopaminergic neurons (5036195) when compared to vehicle-infused mice (3953460). These results indicate that agonism of PPAR provides protection against MPTP toxicity, in agreement with the effects of other PPAR agonists.
Recent studies have shown genetic deletion of the gene that synthesizes 5-HT in enteric neurons (tryptophan hydroxylase-2, Tph-2) leads to a reduction in intestinal transit. However, deletion of the Tph-2 gene also leads to major developmental changes in enteric ganglia, which could also explain changes in intestinal transit. We sought to investigate this further by acutely depleting serotonin from enteric neurons over a 24-h period, without the confounding influences induced by genetic manipulation. Guinea-pigs were injected with reserpine 24h prior to euthanasia. Video-imaging and spatio-temporal mapping was used to record peristalsis evoked by natural fecal pellets, or slow infusion of intraluminal fluid. Immunohistochemical staining for 5-HT was used to detect the presence of serotonin in the myenteric plexus. It was found that endogenous 5-HT was always detected in myenteric ganglia of control animals, but never in guinea-pigs treated with reserpine. Interestingly, peristalsis was still reliably evoked by either intraluminal fluid, or fecal pellets in reserpine-treated animals that also had their entire mucosa and submucosal plexus removed. In these 5-HT depleted animals, there was no change in the frequency of peristalsis or force generated during peristalsis. In control animals, or reserpine treated animals, high concentrations (up to 10 M) of ondansetron and SDZ-205-557, or granisetron and SDZ-205-557 had no effect on peristalsis. In summary, acute depletion of serotonin from enteric nerves does not prevent distension-evoked peristalsis, nor propulsion of luminal content. Also, we found no evidence that 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptor activation is required for peristalsis, or propulsion of contents to occur. Taken together, we suggest that the intrinsic mechanisms that generate peristalsis and entrain propagation along the isolated guinea-pig distal colon are independent of 5-HT in enteric neurons or the mucosa, and do not require the activation of 5-HT3 or 5-HT4 receptors.

Neurotrophic factors may play a role in exercise-induced neuroprotective effects, however it is not known if exercise mediates changes in glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) protein levels in the spinal cord. The aim of the current study was to determine if 2 weeks of exercise alters GDNF protein content in the lumbar spinal cord of young and old rats. GDNF protein was quantified via an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and Western blot. Immunohistochemical analysis localized GDNF in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive motor neurons and cell body areas were measured. Involuntary running in the young animals appeared to elicit the greatest increase in GDNF protein content (sixfold increase), followed by swimming (threefold increase) and voluntary running (twofold increase); however there was no significant difference between the modalities of exercise. Low-intensity running of the old animals significantly increased GDNF protein content in the spinal cord. Both young and old exercised animals showed a doubling in ChAT-positive motor neuron cell body areas. These results suggest that GDNF protein content in the spinal cord is modulated by exercise.
Exposure to the pesticide paraquat (PQ) increases the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD), and its effect may be modulated by genetic or other environmental factors. The neuropeptide PACAP (pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating polypeptide, Adcyap1) has been shown to enhance tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and VMAT2 expression, protect dopaminergic (DA) neurons against the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine, regulate neuronal mitochondria, and inhibit inflammation. Decreased expression of PACAP may thus interact with environmental factors such as PQ to increase the risk of PD. To mimic a low level environmental exposure to PQ, wild type (WT) and PACAP knockout (KO) mice were given a single [10 mg/kg] dose of PQ, a regimen that did not induce the loss of TH expression or DA neurons in WT mice. This treatment selectively reduced the number of TH-positive cell bodies in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) selectively in PACAP KO mice. Because inflammation is also a risk factor for PD, we performed a quantitative analysis of SNpc Iba microglia. As expected, PQ increased the number of larger microglial profiles, indicative of activation, in WT mice. Strikingly, microglial activation was already evident in PACAP KO mice in the basal state. PQ caused no further activation in these mice, although tumor necrosis factor- gene expression was enhanced. In the periphery, PQ had no effects on the abundance of proinflammatory Th1 or Th17 cells in WT mice, but increased the numbers of anti-inflammatory regulatory T cells (Tregs). PACAP KO mice, in contrast, had elevated numbers of Th17 cells after PQ, and the induction of Tregs was impaired. The results indicate that endogenous PACAP acts to maintain the integrity of DA neurons during exposure to PQ, an action that may be linked to its ability to regulate microglia and/or other immune cells.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has emerged as a key structure involved in the modulation of fear behavior over the past few decades. Anatomical, functional and electrophysiological studies have begun to shed light on the precise mechanisms by which different prefrontal regions regulate the expression and inhibition of fear behavior. These studies have established a canonical view of mPFC functions during fear behavior with dorsal regions selectively involved in the expression of fear behavior and ventral regions linked to the inhibition of fear behavior. Although numerous reports support this view, recent data have refined this model and suggested that dorsal prefrontal regions might also play an important role in the encoding of fear behavior itself. The recent development of sophisticated approaches such as large scale neuronal recordings, simultaneous multisite recordings of spiking activity and local field potentials (LFPs) along with optogenetic approaches will facilitate the testing of these new hypotheses in the near future. Here we provide an extensive review of the literature on the role of mPFC in fear behavior and propose further directions to dissect the contribution of specific prefrontal neuronal elements and circuits in the regulation of fear behavior.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced white matter injury in the neonatal rat brain is associated with inflammatory processes. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) can be induced by inflammatory stimuli, such as cytokines and pro-inflammatory molecules, suggesting that COX-2 may be considered as the target for anti-inflammation. The objective of the present study was to examine whether celecoxib, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, can reduce systemic LPS-induced brain inflammation and brain damage. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of LPS (2mg/kg) was performed in postnatal day 5 (P5) of Sprague-Dawley rat pups and celecoxib (20mg/kg) or vehicle was administered i.p. 5 min after LPS injection. The body weight and wire-hanging maneuver test was performed 24h after the LPS exposure, and brain injury was examined after these tests. Systemic LPS exposure resulted in an impairment of behavioral performance and acute brain injury, as indicated by apoptotic death of oligodendrocytes (OLs) and loss of OL immunoreactivity in the neonatal rat brain. Treatments with celecoxib significantly reduced systemic LPS-induced neurobehavioral disturbance and brain damage. Celecoxib administration significantly attenuated systemic LPS-induced increments in the number of activated microglia and astrocytes, concentrations of IL-1 and TNF, and protein levels of phosphorylated-p38 MAPK in the neonatal rat brain. The protection of celecoxib was also associated with a reduction of systemic LPS-induced COX-2+ cells which were double labeled with GFAP+ (astrocyte) cells. The overall results suggest that celecoxib was capable of attenuating the brain injury and neurobehavioral disturbance induced by systemic LPS exposure, and the protective effects are associated with its anti-inflammatory properties.
Promoting neural stem/progenitor cell (NSC/NPC) survival in the pro-apoptotic environment is critical to stem cell replacement for neurodegenerative disease therapy. Paeoniflorin (PF), one of the principal bioactive components in Paeoniae Radix, has been used widely in central nervous system (CNS) diseases treatment and serves as an antioxidant to protect neurons against oxidative stress. The present study investigated the protective effects of PF on NPC injury induced by hydrogen peroxide (HO). After challenge with 200 M HO for 2h, loss of cell viability and excessive apoptotic cell death were observed in cultured NPC, PF treatment conferred protective effects against the loss of cellular viability in a concentration-dependent manner. PF pretreatment also inhibited NPC apoptosis induced by HO by reversing the decreased level of Procaspase-3 and balancing Bcl-2 and Bax expression. Furthermore, PF-mediated NPC protection was associated with an increase in phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt-1) phosphorylation in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Selective inhibition of PI3K using LY294002 abolished PF-mediated phosphorylation of Akt-1 and NPC protection upon oxidative stress. These data suggest that PF-mediated NPC protection on HO injury is reliant on the activation of the PI3K/Akt-1 pathway, giving insight to an essential role of PF in NPC protection.
Identification of markers of enteric neurons has contributed substantially to our understanding of the development, normal physiology, and pathology of the gut. Previously identified markers of the enteric nervous system can be used to label all or most neuronal structures or for examining individual cells by labeling just the nucleus or cell body. Most of these markers are excellent but have some limitations. Transmembrane protein 100 (TMEM100) is a gene at locus 17q32 encoding a 134-amino acid protein with two hypothetical transmembrane domains. TMEM100 expression has not been reported in adult mammalian tissues but does appear in the ventral neural tube of embryonic mice and plays a role in signaling pathways associated with development of the enteric nervous system. We showed that TMEM100 messenger RNA is expressed in the gastrointestinal tract and demonstrated that TMEM100 is a membrane-associated protein. Furthermore TMEM100 immunoreactivity was restricted to enteric neurons and vascular tissue in the muscularis propria of all regions of the mouse and human gastrointestinal tract. TMEM100 immunoreactivity colocalized with labeling for the pan-neuronal marker protein gene product 9.5 (PGP9.5) but not with the glial marker S100 or Kit, a marker of interstitial cells of Cajal. The signaling molecule, bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) 4, was also expressed in enteric neurons of the human colon and co-localized with TMEM100. TMEM100 is also expressed in neuronal cell bodies and fibers in the mouse brain and dorsal root ganglia. We conclude that TMEM100 is a novel, membrane-associated marker for enteric nerves and is as effective as PGP9.5 for identifying neuronal structures in the gastrointestinal tract. The expression of TMEM100 in the enteric nervous system may reflect a role in the development and differentiation of cells through a transforming growth factor , BMP or related signaling pathway.
Cholinergically differentiated SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells were treated with a pathophysiologically relevant, low (300 nM), and a high (3 M) dose of amyloid beta 1-42 (Abeta) or 42-1 (revAbeta). At early (1 and 4h) and late (24h) time points, the pro- and anti-apoptotic factors--caspase-3 and p53, and B-cell lymphoma 2 protein (Bcl-2), respectively--were assessed together with lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release as measure of cell viability and ATP levels as marker of mitochondrial activity. The low peptide dose significantly increased Bcl-2 and, time-delayed, caspase-3 and ATP levels, but barely impacted on LDH release, while the high concentration remarkably depressed Bcl-2 levels, depleted ATP and led to increased LDH release. We also monitored acetylcholinesterase (AChE) enzymatic activity and splice variant levels (tailed and readthrough AChE; AChE-T and AChE-R), and assessed choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and high-affinity choline uptake (HACU). The low Abeta concentration drastically upregulated AChE-R and increased both ChAT and HACU, while the high dose caused cholinergic toxicity. We believe this study offers the first insight into the highly concentration-dependent effects of Abeta on cholinergic dynamics. In particular, it highlights the rescuing role of AChE-R as being, together with mitochondrial activity, involved in cholinergic adaptation to low doses of Abeta.
Despite the obvious importance of inter-girdle coordination for quadrupedal locomotion in terrestrial mammals, its organization remains poorly understood. Here, we evaluated cycle and phase durations, as well as footfall patterns of four intact adult cats trained to walk on a transverse split-belt treadmill that could independently control fore- and hindlimb speed. When the hindlimbs walked at faster speeds than the forelimbs, an equal rhythm was always maintained between the fore- and hindlimbs, even at the highest fore-hindlimb speed ratio of 1:3 (0.4:1.2 m/s). The locomotor pattern adjusted through changes in both hindlimb stance and swing phase durations, whereas only the forelimb stance phase was affected. In such conditions, when fore- and hindlimb values were compared to those obtained at matched speeds during tied-belt walking (i.e. predicted values based on treadmill speed), hindlimb cycle, stance and swing durations were consistently longer than predicted. On the other hand, forelimb cycle and stance durations were shorter than predicted but only at the highest split-belt speed ratios. Forelimb swing durations were as predicted based on front-belt speed. The sequence of footfall pattern when hindlimb speed was faster was identical to tied-belt walking. In stark contrast, when the forelimbs walked at slightly faster speeds than the hindlimbs, the rhythm between the fore- and hindlimbs broke down. In such conditions, the locomotor pattern was adjusted through changes in stance and swing phase durations in both the fore- and hindlimbs. When the rhythm between the fore- and hindlimbs broke down, hindlimb cycle and phase durations were similar to predicted values, whereas forelimb values were shorter than predicted. Moreover, several additional sequences of footfall patterns were observed. Therefore, the results clearly demonstrate the existence of a bidirectional, asymmetric, and flexible control of inter-girdle coordination during quadrupedal locomotion in the intact adult cat.
The physiological effects of melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4-R) on metabolism have been hypothesized to be mediated individually or collectively by neuronal groups innervating the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH). The present study was designed to identify MC4-R-expressing neurons that innervate the PVH using retrograde tract tracing techniques in the MC4-R-GFP reporter mice. Our initial mapping identified very limited projections from MC4-R-expressing neurons to the PVH. This included a defined population of MC4-R-positive neurons located in the ventral premmamillary nucleus (PMv). Anterograde tracing experiments confirmed projections from PMv neurons to the medial parvicellular subdivision of the PVH, in close proximity to oxytocin neurons and -endorphin-containing fibers. Given the known stimulatory effects of leptin and sexual odorants exposure on many PMv neurons, it was expected that MC4-R-expressing neurons in the PMv might be responsive to leptin and activated by odors exposure. Contrary to expectation, MC4-R-GFP neurons in the PMv do not respond to leptin as demonstrated by double labeling for GFP and leptin-induced phosphorylated STAT3. However, we found that Fos expression is induced in a large subset of MC4-R-GFP neurons in the PMv in response to opposite sex odors. Collectively, these results provide evidence for a previous unrecognized role of MC4-R expressed by neurons innervating the PVH that are also sensitive to reproductive cues.
The removal of bilateral olfactory bulbs (OBs) can result in serious behavioral, neurochemical, neuroendocrine, and neuroimmune alterations in depressed patients. However, there is little information on how olfactory bulbectomy (OBX) leads to depression. Habenular nuclei and their connections are important in the regulation of psychomotor and psychosocial behaviors through afferent impulses of the olfactory system. Therefore, we investigated whether OB lesions lead to habenular degeneration. We used a sample of 50 rats (25 female and 25 male) for this study. Of these rats, five male and five female rats were taken as the control group. The remaining 40 rats (20 male and 20 female rats) constituted the study group, and frontal burr holes were performed at the OB level on these rats. OB cauterization was applied to 10 male and 10 female rats (n=10, 10; study group 1), mechanical OBX was applied to five male and five female rats (n=5, 5; study group 2), and no procedure was performed on the remaining 10 rats (n=5, 5). The psychomotor movements; pregnancy rates; and sexual, feeding, maternal, social, and grooming behaviors for both study groups were observed daily for 3 months. Their OBs, olfactory cortices, and habenular complexes were examined using stereological methods. All of the animals in the study groups, especially in the cauterization group, demonstrated anorexia, nutritional disorders, weight loss, psychomotor retardation, sexual aversion, decreased grooming behavior, and reduced social interaction similar to depression symptoms. As compared to the control group, the pregnancy rates, number of offspring per mother rat, and birth weights in the study groups were lower, whereas the number of stillbirths was higher. Gross anatomical examinations revealed that the OBs of all of the animals in the study groups were atrophied. Histopathological examinations detected prominent neuronal loss due to apoptosis in the habenular structures in the study groups. We detected a relationship between a decreased healthy neuronal density of the habenula and depressive symptomatology in rats with OBX. We suggest that olfaction disorders might cause neuropsychiatric disorders by affecting neuronal degeneration in habenular nuclei.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of the hippocampus depends on the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), which can be regulated by Ca-dependent release of D-serine from astrocytes. The detailed mechanism underlying astrocytic d-serine release is still unknown. In hippocampal slices prepared from Sprague-Dawley rats, we found that clamping astrocytic [Ca] at 100-150 nM or puffing artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) into the extracellular space (weak mechanical stimulation) enhanced the synaptic activation of NMDARs. The enhancement was blocked by the NMDAR glycine site antagonist 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid, glycine saturation, and infusion of astrocytes with D-amino acid oxidase and the serine racemase inhibitor L-erythro-3-hydroxyaspartate, suggesting the involvement of astrocytic D-serine release. Intracellular 100-150 nM [Ca] or puffing ACSF stimulated astrocytes to generate D-serine-containing large vesicles (1-3 m), exocytotic fusion of which released D-serine. The formation of astrocytic large vesicles involved the intracellular fusion of small vesicles and/or other organelles. Spontaneous fusion of large vesicles occurred occasionally in astrocytes at rest, contributing to baseline D-serine levels, which increased the rising slope of NMDAR post-burst potentiation (PBP) without altering the PBP peak amplitude. Thus, under physiological conditions, astrocytic D-serine release by large vesicles facilitated weak theta-burst (TBS consisting of five bursts), but not strong TBS (TBS consisting of 10 bursts) stimulation-induced LTP.
Satellite glia cells (SGCs), within the dorsal root ganglia (DRG), surround the somata of most sensory neurons. SGCs have been shown to interact with sensory neurons and appear to be involved in the processing of afferent information. We found that in rat DRG various N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAr) subunits were expressed in SGCs in intact ganglia and in vitro. In culture, when SGCs were exposed to brief pulses of NMDA they evoked transient increases in cytoplasmic calcium that were inhibited by specific NMDA blockers (MK-801, AP5) while they were Mg insensitive indicating that SGCs express functional NMDAr. The percentage of NMDA responsive SGCs was similar in mixed- (SGCs plus neurons) and SGC-enriched cultures. The pattern of the magnitude changes of the NMDA-evoked response was similar in SGCs and DRG neurons when they were in close proximity, suggesting that the NMDA response of SGCs and DRG neurons is modulated by their interactions. Treating the cultures with nerve growth factor, and/or prostaglandin E did not alter the percentage of SGCs that responded to NMDA. Since glutamate appears to be released within the DRG, the detection of functional NMDAr in SGCs suggests that their NMDAr activity could contribute to the interactions between neurons and SGCs. In summary we demonstrated for the first time that SGCs express functional NMDAr.
Animal models are vital tools to study the genetic, molecular, cellular, and environmental parameters involved in several neuropsychiatric disorders. Over the years, these models have expanded our understanding of the pathogenesis of many neuropsychiatric disorders and neurodegenerative diseases. Although animal models have been widely used in psychiatry, and despite several years of extensive research with these models, their validity is still being investigated and presents a challenge to both investigators and clinicians as well. In this concise review, we will describe the most common animal models utilized in neuropsychiatry, including animal models of depression, anxiety, and psychosis. In addition, we will also discuss the validity and reliability of these models and current challenges in this domain. Furthermore, this work will discuss the role of gene-environment interaction as an additional contributing factor that modulates neuropsychological outcome and its implication on animal models. This overview will give a succinct summary of animal models in psychiatry which will be useful both to the seasoned researcher, as well as novices in the field.
Irisin is a recently identified myokine secreted from the muscle in response to exercise. In the rats and mice, immunohistochemical studies with an antiserum against irisin peptide fragment (42-112), revealed that irisin-immunoreactivity (irIRN) was detected in three types of cells; namely, skeletal muscle cells, cardiomyocytes, and Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. Tissue sections processed with irisin antiserum pre-absorbed with the irisin peptide (42-112) (1 g/ml) showed no immunoreactivity. Cerebellar Purkinje cells were also immunolabeled with an antiserum against fibronectin type II domain containing 5 (FNDC5), the precursor protein of irisin. Double-labeling of cerebellar sections with irisin antiserum and glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) antibody showed that nearly all irIRN Purkinje cells were GAD-positive. Injection of the fluorescence tracer Fluorogold into the vestibular nucleus of the rat medulla retrogradely labeled a population of Purkinje cells, some of which were also irIRN. Our results provide the first evidence of expression of irIRN in the rodent skeletal and cardiac muscle, and in the brain where it is present in GAD-positive Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. Our findings together with reports by others led us to hypothesize a novel neural pathway, which originates from cerebellum Purkinje cells, via several intermediary synapses in the medulla and spinal cord, and regulates adipocyte metabolism.
Spinal -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methy-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor plays an important role in acute pain induced by surgical tissue injuries. Our previous study has shown that the enhanced phosphorylation of AMPA receptor GluR1 subunits at Serine-831 sites by protein kinase C (PKC) in the spinal cord dorsal horn is involved in post-surgical pain hypersensitivity. However, which isoforms of PKC are responsible for the phosphorylation of AMPA receptor GluR1 subunits at Serine-831 sites remains to be established. In the present study, using an animal model of postoperative pain, we found that surgical tissue injuries enhanced the membrane translocation level of PKC, but not PKC, I, and II, and induced the trafficking of GluR1, but not GluR2 into neuronal plasma membrane. Intrathecal (i.t.) pretreatment of small interfering RNA targeting PKC to reduce the PKC expression in the spinal cord significantly attenuated the pain hypersensitivity and inhibited the phosphorylation of AMPA receptor GluR1 subunits at Serine-831 sites as well as GluR1 membrane trafficking. Our study indicates that the surgical incision-induced phosphorylation of AMPA receptor GluR1 subunits at Serine-831 sites and GluR1 trafficking are regulated by a PKC-dependent mechanism.
Auditory event-related potentials (ERP)s of the P1-N1-P2 complex are modulated when participants hear frequency-altered feedback (FAF) regarding their ongoing vocal productions. However, the relationship between feedback perturbation magnitudes and the resultant neural responses is at present unclear. In the present study, we exposed speakers to FAF of different magnitudes ranging from 0 to 400 cents. Vocal responses and P1-N1-P2-N2 ERPs were examined in an attempt to relate variation in the magnitude of the imposed feedback perturbation with variation in vocal and neural responses. Overall, vocal response magnitudes remained relatively consistent in response to smaller feedback perturbations (&lt;250 cents), while larger feedback perturbations (&gt;300 cents) resulted in decreased vocal response magnitudes. P1 amplitudes were found to increase in a non-specific manner in response to FAF. Conversely, N1 amplitudes displayed increased specificity: small feedback perturbations evoked one size of response, while larger feedback perturbations resulted in larger responses. The P2 component showed the most systematic amplitude modulation as feedback perturbation magnitude increased. A regression analysis highlighted the relationship between vocal response magnitude and P2 amplitude, with both vocal response magnitude and P2 amplitude increasing in response to perturbations between 50 and 250 cents, and then decreasing in response to larger perturbations. Although not generally observed in FAF studies, a robust N2 was also found; N2 amplitudes increased as stimulus magnitudes increased. The pattern of P1-N1-P2-N2 amplitude modulation in response to different magnitudes of FAF indicates that these components reflect processes involved in the detection and correction of unintended changes in auditory feedback during speech.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is known to be up-regulated in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) after peripheral nerve injury, and to contribute to neuropathic pain. Here, we found that thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia at day 7 post-injury were inhibited only when anti-BDNF antibody was intrathecally administrated at day 2 post-injury. Consistent with behavioral results, Western blot analysis showed that the expression levels of BDNF protein in the spinal dorsal horn were markedly induced during early stage post-injury. Moreover, the maximal increase in BDNF mRNA expression in the DRG was observed at day 1 post-injury, and significantly elevated levels were sustained for at least 14 days. Four of five BDNF mRNA transcripts were up-regulated after nerve injury, and the most inducible transcript was exon I. Using a chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay, we found that nerve injury promotes histone H3 and H4 acetylation, transcriptionally active modifications, at BDNF promoter I at day 1 post-injury, and the levels of histone acetylation remain elevated for at least 7 days. Taken together, our findings suggest that an initial increase in BDNF exon I expression controlled by epigenetic mechanisms might have a crucial role in the development of neuropathic pain.
Recent functional imaging studies that examined functional connectivity in the resting brain have demonstrated various intrinsic connectivity networks (ICNs). Certain patterns of over- and underactivity in various ICNs have been hypothesized to form the neural basis of psychiatric disorders. Furthermore, activity in the ICNs does not reflect ongoing mental activity but the maintenance of neural circuits in a ready state suggesting not only relationships between ICNs and disorders but also correlations between ICNs and personality. In the present study, we assess the relationship between trait anxiety, a well established endophenotype of anxiety disorders, and functional connectivities within the insular salience ICN in a sample of healthy female subjects. Based on a previous study that demonstrated the functional relevance of the insular salience ICN for state anxiety, we used the harm avoidance scale from the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) as a trait marker to demonstrate increased functional connectivity within the insular salience ICN. Specifically, the functional connectivity between the anterior insula and the anterior cingulate and between the anterior insula and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex were positively correlated with individual harm avoidance scores. The results fit into previous work, provide evidence for a potential biomarker of anxiety disorders and, most importantly, demonstrate a direct neural correlate of the personality trait harm avoidance in the absence of external stimulation.
Vestibular afferent neurons (VANs) transmit information from the vestibular end organs to the central nuclei. This information is encoded within the firing pattern of these cells and is heavily influenced by the K conductances expressed by vestibular neurons. In the present study, we describe the presence of a previously unidentified Na-activated K conductance (KNa) in these cells. We observed that the blocking of Na channels by tetrodotoxin (TTX) or the substitution of choline for Na in the extracellular solution during voltage clamp pulses resulted in the reduction of a sustained outward current that was dependent on the Na current. Furthermore, increases in the intracellular concentration of Na that were made by blocking the Na/K ATPase with ouabain increased the amplitude of the outward current, and reduction of the intracellular Cl concentration reduced the TTX-sensitive outward current. The substitution of Li for Na in the extracellular solution significantly reduced the amplitude of the outward current in voltage clamp pulses and decreased the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) of the action potentials in current clamp experiments. These electrophysiological results are consistent with the presence of mRNA transcripts for the KNa subunits Slick and Slack in the vestibular ganglia and in the sensory epithelium, which were detected using reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). These results are also consistent with the immunolabeling of Slick and Slack protein in isolated vestibular neurons, in the vestibular ganglion and in the vestibular sensory epithelium. These results indicate that KNa channels are expressed in VANs and in their terminals. Furthermore, these data indicate that these channels may contribute to the firing pattern of vestibular neurons.
Patients with schizophrenia exhibit deficits in motivation and affect, which suggests an impairment in the reward system. The psychotomimetic drug, phencyclidine (PCP), also induces schizophrenia-like negative symptoms, such as reduced motivation, blunted affect, and social withdrawal in both humans and animals. Previous studies have indicated that the dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) play a pivotal role in the development of reward-associated learning and motivation. However, how PCP affects the activity of VTA neurons during performance of a reward-related task and social interaction with others in unanesthetized animals remains unclear. Here, we recorded the unit activity of VTA neurons in freely moving rats before and after systemic administration of PCP in a classical conditioning paradigm, and during social interaction with an unfamiliar partner. In the classical conditioning task, two different tones were sequentially presented, one of which accompanied electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle as an unconditioned stimulus. After identifying the response properties of recorded neurons in the classical conditioning task and social interaction, animals received an intraperitoneal injection of PCP. Our study demonstrated that most VTA neurons responsive to reward-associated stimuli were also activated during social interaction. Such activation of neurons was considerably suppressed by systemic administration of PCP, thus, PCP may affect the firing activity of VTA neurons that are involved in motivation, learning, and social interaction. Disruption of the response of VTA neurons to reward stimuli and socially interactive situations may be involved in PCP-induced impairments similar to the negative symptoms of schizophrenia.
The mouse Dach1 gene, involved in the development of the neocortex and the hippocampus, is expressed by neural stem cells (NSCs) during early neurogenesis, and its expression also continues in a subpopulation of cells in the dorsal part of the lateral ventricles (LV) of the adult mouse brain. In this study we aimed to elucidate the role of Dach1-expressing cells in adult neurogenesis/gliogenesis under physiological as well as post-ischemic conditions, employing transgenic mice in which the expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) is controlled by the D6 promotor of the mouse Dach1 gene. A neurosphere-forming assay of GFP cells isolated from the dorsal part of the LV was carried out with subsequent differentiation in vitro. To elucidate the neurogenic/gliogenic potential of GFP cells in the dorsal part of the LV, in situ immunohistochemical/electrophysiological analyses of GFP cells in adult sham-operated brains (controls) and those after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) were performed. The GFP cells isolated from the dorsal part of the LV of controls formed neurospheres and differentiated solely into a glial phenotype, while those isolated after MCAo also gave rise to cells with the properties of neuronal precursors. In situ analyses revealed that GFP cells express the phenotype of adult NSCs or neuroblasts in controls as well as following ischemia. Following MCAo we found a significantly increased number of GFP cells expressing doublecortin as well as a number of GFP cells migrating through the rostral migratory stream into the olfactory bulb, where they probably differentiated into calretinin interneurons. Collectively, our results suggest the involvement of the mouse Dach1 gene in adult neurogenesis; cells expressing this gene exhibit the properties of adult NSCs or neuroblasts and respond to MCAo by enhanced neurogenesis.
The function of the sigma-1 receptor (S1R) has been implicated in modulating the activity of various ion channels. In the CNS S1R is enriched in cholinergic postsynaptic densities in spinal cord motoneurons (MNs). Mutations in S1R have been found in familial cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In this study we show that a knockout of S1R in the SOD1*G93A mouse model of ALS significantly reduces longevity (end stage). Electrophysiological experiments demonstrate that MN of mice lacking S1R exhibit increased excitability. Taken together the data suggest the S1R acts as a brake on excitability, an effect that might enhance longevity in an ALS mouse model.
Maternal obesity carries significant health risks for offspring that manifest later in life, including metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease and affective disorders. Programming of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis during development mediates both metabolic homeostasis and the response to psychosocial stress in offspring. A diet high in fat alters maternal systemic corticosterone levels, but effects in offspring on limbic brain areas regulating the HPA axis and anxiety behavior are poorly understood. In addition to their role in the response to psychosocial stress, corticosteroid receptors form part of the glucocorticoid signaling pathway comprising downstream inflammatory processes. Increased systemic inflammation is a hallmark of high-fat diet exposure, though altered expression of these genes in limbic brain areas has not been examined. We studied the influence of high-fat diet exposure during pre-weaning development in rats on gene expression in the amygdala and hippocampus by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), anxiety behavior in the Open field, elevated plus maze and light-dark transition tasks, and corticosterone levels in response to stress by radioimmunoassay. As adults, offspring exposed to perinatal high-fat diet show increased expression of corticosterone receptors in the amygdala and altered pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory expression in the hippocampus and amygdala in genes known to be regulated by the glucocorticoid receptor. These changes were associated with increased anxiety behavior, decreased basal corticosterone levels and a slower return to baseline levels following a stress challenge. The data indicate that the dietary environment during development programs glucocorticoid signaling pathways in limbic areas relevant for the regulation of HPA function and anxiety behavior.
Precise mechanisms are required to coordinate the locomotor activity of fore- and hind-limbs in quadrupeds and similar mechanisms persist to coordinate movement of arms and legs in humans. Propriospinal neurons (PSNs) are major components of the networks that coordinate these mechanisms. The b subunit of cholera toxin (CTb) was injected unilaterally into either L1 or L3 segments in order to label ascending and descending propriospinal pathways. Labelled cells were examined with light or confocal microscopy. Cells projecting to lumbar segments were evenly distributed, bilaterally throughout all cervical segments. However many more cells were labelled from L1 injections than L3 injections. Roughly 15% of cells in both sides of the C2 segment was found to be immunoreactive for calretinin and a small number (4%) was immunoreactive for calbindin. Axons projecting from L1 to cervical segments formed predominant ipsilateral projections to the cervical intermediate grey matter and ventral horn. Very large numbers of terminals were concentrated within the ventrolateral motor (VLM) nuclei of C7-8 segments but there was sparse innervation of the contralateral nucleus. The vast majority (85%) of these axon terminals in the ipsilateral VML was immunoreactive for the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) and the remaining 15% was immunoreactive for the vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT); many of these contained GABA and/or glycine. Inhibitory and excitatory terminals were also found in the contralateral VLM. Most of the terminals in the VLM made contacts with motoneurons. The major finding of this study is the existence of a substantial excitatory propriospinal pathway that projects specifically to the VLM. Motoneurons in the VLM supply muscles of the axilla therefore this pathway is likely to have a profound influence on the activity of the shoulder joint. This pathway may synchronise lumbar and cervical pattern generators and hence the coordination of locomotor activity in the fore- and hind limbs.
Investigations of local field potentials of the subthalamic nucleus of patients with Parkinson's disease have provided evidence for pathologically exaggerated oscillatory beta-band activity (13-30 Hz) which is amenable to physiological modulation by, e.g., voluntary movement. Previous functional magnetic resonance imaging studies in healthy controls have provided evidence for an increase of subthalamic nucleus blood-oxygenation-level-dependant signal in incremental force generation tasks. However, the modulation of neuronal activity by force generation and its relationship to peripheral feedback remain to be elucidated. We hypothesised that beta-band activity in the subthalamic nucleus is modulated by incremental force generation. Subthalamic nucleus local field potentials were recorded intraoperatively in 13 patients with Parkinson's disease (37 recording sites) during rest and five incremental isometric force generation conditions of the arm with applied loads of 0-400 g (in 100-g increments). Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) revealed a modulation of local field potential (LFP) power in the upper beta-band (in 24-30 Hz; F(.)=4.693, p=0.036) and the gamma-band (in 70-76 Hz; F()=4.116, p=0.036). Granger-causality was computed with the squared partial directed coherence and showed no significant modulation during incremental isometric force generation. Our findings indicate that the upper beta- and gamma-band power of subthalamic nucleus local field potentials are modulated by the physiological task of force generation in patients with Parkinson's disease. This modulation seems to be not an effect of a modulation of peripheral feedback.
The current study evaluated amyloid- oligomers (Ao) in cerebrospinal fluid as a clinical biomarker for Alzheimer's disease (AD). We developed a highly sensitive Ao ELISA using the same N-terminal monoclonal antibody (82E1) for capture and detection. CSF samples from patients with AD, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and healthy controls were examined. The assay was specific for oligomerized A with a lower limit of quantification of 200 fg/ml, and the assay signal showed a tight correlation with synthetic Ao levels. Three clinical materials of well characterized AD patients (n=199) and cognitively healthy controls (n=148) from different clinical centers were included, together with a clinical material of patients with MCI (n=165). Ao levels were elevated in the all three AD-control comparisons although with a large overlap and a separation from controls that was far from complete. Patients with MCI who later converted to AD had increased Ao levels on a group level but several samples had undetectable levels. These results indicate that presence of high or measurable Ao levels in CSF is clearly associated with AD, but the overlap is too large for the test to have any diagnostic potential on its own.
Recent EEG studies have shown that implicit learning involving specific cortical circuits results in an enduring local trace manifested as local changes in spectral power. Here we used a well characterized visual sequence learning task and high density-(hd-)EEG recording to determine whether also declarative learning leaves a post-task, local change in the resting state oscillatory activity in the areas involved in the learning process. Thus, we recorded hd-EEG in normal subjects before, during and after the acquisition of the order of a fixed spatial target sequence (VSEQ) and during the presentation of targets in random order (VRAN). We first determined the temporal evolution of spectral changes during VSEQ and compared it to VRAN. We found significant differences in the alpha and theta bands in three main scalp regions, a right occipito-parietal (ROP), an anterior-frontal (AFr), and a right frontal (RFr) area. The changes in frontal theta power during VSEQ were positively correlated with the learning rate. Further, post-learning EEG recordings during resting state revealed a significant increase in alpha power in ROP relative to a pre-learning baseline. We conclude that declarative learning is associated with alpha and theta changes in frontal and posterior regions that occur during the task, and with an increase of alpha power in the occipito-parietal region after the task. These post-task changes may represent a trace of learning and a hallmark of use-dependent plasticity.
Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) plays an essential role in degradation of extracellular dopamine in prefrontal regions of the brain. Although a polymorphism in this gene, COMT Val(158)Met, affects human behavior in response to stress little is known about its effect on dopaminergic activity associated with the human stress response, which may be of interest for stress-related psychiatric disorders such as psychosis. We aimed to investigate the effect of variations in COMT genotype on in vivo measures of stress-induced prefrontal cortex (PFC) dopaminergic processing and subjective stress responses. A combined sample of healthy controls and healthy first-degree relatives of psychosis patients (n=26) were subjected to an [(18)F]fallypride Positron Emission Tomography scan. Psychosocial stress during the scan was induced using the Montreal Imaging Stress Task and subjective stress was assessed every 12 minutes. Parametric t-maps, generated using the linear extension of the simplified reference region model, revealed an effect of COMT genotype on the spatial extent of [(18)F]fallypride displacement. Detected effects of exposure to psychosocial stress were unilateral and remained restricted to the left superior and right inferior frontal gyrus, with Met-hetero- and homozygotes showing less [(18)F]fallypride displacement than Val-homozygotes. Additionally, Met-hetero- and homozygotes experienced larger subjective stress responses than Val-homozygotes. The direction of the effects remained the same when the data was analyzed separately for controls and first-degree relatives. The human stress response may be mediated in part by COMT-dependent dopaminergic PFC activity, providing speculation for the neurobiology underlying COMT-dependent differences in human behaviour following stress. Implications of these results for stress-related psychopathology and models of dopaminergic functioning are discussed.
Recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors are versatile tools for gene transfer to the central nervous system (CNS) and proof-of-concept studies in adult rodents have shown that the use of cell type-specific promoters is sufficient to target AAV-mediated transgene expression to glia. However, neurological disorders caused by glial pathology usually have an early onset. Therefore, modelling and treatment of these conditions require expanding the concept of targeted glial transgene expression by promoter selectivity for gene delivery to the immature CNS. Here, we have investigated the AAV-mediated green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression driven by the myelin basic protein (MBP) or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) promoters in the developing mouse brain. Generally, the extent of transgene expression after infusion at immature stages was widespread and higher than in adults. The GFAP promoter-driven GFP expression was found to be highly specific for astrocytes following vector infusion to the brain of neonates and adults. In contrast, the selectivity of the MBP promoter for oligodendrocytes was poor following neonatal AAV delivery, but excellent after vector injection at postnatal day 10. To extend these findings obtained in nave mice to a disease model, we performed P10 infusions of AAV-MBP-GFP in aspartoacylase (ASPA)-deficient mouse mutants presenting with early onset oligodendrocyte pathology. Spread of GFP expression and selectivity for oligodendrocytes in ASPA-mutants was comparable with our observations in normal animals. Our data suggest that direct AAV infusion to the developing postnatal brain, utilising cellular promoters, results in targeted and long-term transgene expression in glia. This approach will be relevant for disease modelling and gene therapy for the treatment of glial pathology.




During an acute outbreak of Norovirus in the local area, a 77-year-old woman was admitted with a short history of diarrhoea and vomiting. A working diagnosis of viral gastroenteritis complicated by acute renal failure, secondary to dehydration, was made. Despite judicious fluid resuscitation and regular antiemetics, the patient's symptoms persisted with only mild improvement in her renal function. An abdominal radiograph revealed evidence of significant small bowel obstruction and subsequent CT of the abdomen and pelvis identified a 1.5 cm intraluminal density at a transition point raising the suspicion of gallstone ileus. An urgent laparotomy with stone removal was carried out without complications. The patient recovered well postoperatively and was discharged home after 3 days.

First established as a diagnosis by Nikolaus Friedreich in 1863, Friedreich's ataxia (FA) is an autosomal recessive progressive neurodegenerative disorder cause by a trinucleotide repeat expansion. FA begins with the functional absence of the FXN gene product frataxin, a protein whose exact function still remains unknown. This absence results in impaired intracellular antioxidant defenses, dysregulation of iron-sulfur cluster proteins, depression of aerobic electron transport chain respiration, massive mitochondrial dysfunction, and ultimately cell death in the brain, spinal cord and heart. Herein, we review the molecular and cellular pathogenesis leading to widespread organ system dysfunction, as well as current therapeutic research aimed at preventing the debilitating effects of frataxin loss and preventing the signs and symptoms associated of FA. We also discuss the ongoing treatment strategies employed by our laboratory to prevent mitochondrial damage using synergistic effects of 17-estradiol and methylene blue, previously shown by our group and others to have protective effects in human FA fibroblasts. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Hormone Therapy.
Estrogens, particularly 17-estradiol (E2), are powerful neuroprotective agents in animal models of cerebral ischemia. Loss of endogenous E2 in women at menopause or after surgical oopherectomy leads to an increase risk of stroke, neurodegenerative disease, and cognitive decline. However, several clinical trials found detrimental effects of E2 therapy after menopause, including increased stroke risk and dementia. Recent animal and human studies now support the &quot;critical period&quot; hypothesis for E2 neuroprotection whereby E2 therapy must begin soon after the loss of endogenous E2 production to have a beneficial effect. Although a wide array of mechanisms has been proposed for estradiol (E2)-dependent neuroprotection in cerebral ischemia and neurodegenerative disease, most of these mechanisms involve interactions of E2 with one of its cognate receptors, estrogen receptor alpha (ER), estrogen receptor beta (ER), or the G protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER). However, these receptors are not uniformly distributed throughout the brain, across different cell types, and within cellular compartments. Such differences likely play a role in the ability of E2 and ER selective ligands to protect the brain from ischemia. This review examines the changes in ER expression and location that may underlie the loss of E2 neuroprotection seen with aging and long-term estrogen deprivation (LTED). Recent results suggest that the loss of ER that accompanies aging and LTED plays an important role in the loss of E2-dependent neuroprotection. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Hormone Therapy.
Phytoestrogens are plant-derived compounds found mainly in soy with known estrogenic properties and a potential for benefits to human health. Increased intake in phytoestrogens stemmed from the search for safe alternatives to hormone replacement therapies. Based on epidemiologic evidence comparing Western and Asian populations and clinical studies, phytoestrogens show promise to improve health and brain function. This review is focused on the effects of phytoestrogens on cognition by examining clinical and animal studies, with special attention placed on (1) a window of therapeutic opportunity which may explain the discrepancy among studies, and (2) whether a sex/gender difference exists in response to phytoestrogen intake and what the possible underlying mechanisms may be.
Both progesterone and estradiol have well-described neuroprotective effects against numerous insults in a variety of cell culture models, animal models and in humans. However, the efficacy of these hormones may depend on a variety of factors, including the type of hormone used (ex. progesterone versus medroxyprogesterone acetate), the duration of the postmenopausal period prior to initiating the hormone intervention, and potentially, the age of the subject. The latter two factors relate to the proposed existence of a &quot;window of therapeutic opportunity&quot; for steroid hormones in the brain. While such a window of opportunity has been described for estrogen, there is a paucity of information to address whether such a window of opportunity exists for progesterone and its related progestins. Here, we review known cellular mechanisms likely to underlie the protective effects of progesterone and furthermore, describe key differences in the neurobiology of progesterone and the synthetic progestin, medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA). Based on the latter, we offer a model that defines some of the key cellular and molecular players that predict the neuroprotective efficacy of progesterone. Accordingly, we suggest how changes in the expression or function of these cellular and molecular targets of progesterone with age or prolonged duration of hormone withdrawal (such as following surgical or natural menopause) may impact the efficacy of progesterone. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Hormone Therapy.
The neuroprotection research in the last 2 decades has witnessed a growing interest in the functions of estrogens as neuroprotectants against neurodegenerative diseases including stroke. The neuroprotective action of estrogens has been well demonstrated in both in vitro and in vivo models of ischemic stroke. However, the major conducted clinical trials so far have raised concern for the protective effect of estrogen replacement therapy in postmenopausal women. The discrepancy could be partly due to the mistranslation between the experimental stroke research and clinical trials. While predominant experimental studies tested the protective action of estrogens on ischemic stroke using acute treatment paradigm, the clinical trials have mainly focused on the effect of estrogen replacement therapy on the primary and secondary stroke prevention which has not been adequately addressed in the experimental stroke study. Although the major conducted clinical trials have indicated that estrogen replacement therapy has an adverse effect and raise concern for long term estrogen replacement therapy for stroke prevention, these are not appropriate for assessing the potential effects of acute estrogen treatment on stroke protection. The well established action of estrogen in the neurovascular unit and its potential interaction with recombinant tissue Plasminogen Activator (rtPA) makes it a candidate for the combined therapy with rtPA for the acute treatment of ischemic stroke. On the other hand, the &quot;critical period&quot; and newly emerged &quot;biomarkers window&quot; hypotheses have indicated that many clinical relevant factors have been underestimated in the experimental ischemic stroke research. The development and application of ischemic stroke models that replicate the clinical condition is essential for further evaluation of acute estrogen treatment on ischemic stroke which might provide critical information for future clinical trials. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Hormone Therapy.
To accelerate the discovery of novel small molecule central nervous system (CNS) positron emission tomography (PET) ligands, we aimed to define a property space that would facilitate ligand design and prioritization, thereby providing a higher probability of success for novel PET ligand development. Toward this end, we built a database consisting of 62 PET ligands that have successfully reached the clinic and 15 radioligands that failed in late-stage development as negative controls. A systematic analysis of these ligands identified a set of preferred parameters for physicochemical properties, brain permeability, and nonspecific binding (NSB). These preferred parameters have subsequently been applied to several programs and have led to the successful development of novel PET ligands with reduced resources and timelines. This strategy is illustrated here by the discovery of the novel phosphodiesterase 2A (PDE2A) PET ligand 4-(3-[(18)F]fluoroazetidin-1-yl)-7-methyl-5-{1-methyl-5-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1H-pyrazol-4-yl}imidazo[5,1-f][1,2,4]triazine, [(18)F]PF-05270430 (5).
The tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNF-R)-associated factor (TRAF) family of intracellular proteins were originally identified as signaling adaptors that bind directly to the cytoplasmic regions of receptors of the TNF-R superfamily. The past decade has witnessed rapid expansion of receptor families identified to employ TRAFs for signaling. These include Toll-like receptors (TLRs), NOD-like receptors (NLRs), RIG-I-like receptors (RLRs), T cell receptor, IL-1 receptor family, IL-17 receptors, IFN receptors and TGF receptors. In addition to their role as adaptor proteins, most TRAFs also act as E3 ubiquitin ligases to activate downstream signaling events. TRAF-dependent signaling pathways typically lead to the activation of nuclear factor-Bs (NF-Bs), mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), or interferon-regulatory factors (IRFs). Compelling evidence obtained from germ-line and cell-specific TRAF-deficient mice demonstrates that each TRAF plays indispensable and non-redundant physiological roles, regulating innate and adaptive immunity, embryonic development, tissue homeostasis, stress response, and bone metabolism. Notably, mounting evidence implicates TRAFs in the pathogenesis of human diseases such as cancers and autoimmune diseases, which has sparked new appreciation and interest in TRAF research. This review presents an overview of the current knowledge of TRAFs, with an emphasis on recent findings concerning TRAF molecules in signaling and in human diseases.




In Sprague-Dawley rats, brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis occurs in an episodic ultradian manner (BAT on-periods) as part of the basic rest-activity cycle (BRAC). Eating occurs approximately 15min after the onset of BAT on-periods. Zucker obese (fa/fa) rats eat larger less frequent meals than control rats. In chronically instrumented conscious unrestrained Zucker obese rats we examined ultradian fluctuations in BAT, body and brain temperatures, and the relation between BAT temperature and eating. The interval between BAT temperature peaks for the 12hour dark phase was 1213 (meanSE) min for Zucker obese rats and 913min for control lean rats (p&lt;0.01). Corresponding values for the light phase were 1486 and 1184min (p&lt;0.01). Mean BAT and body temperatures were lower in Zucker obese rats, in comparison with lean controls, during both BAT on-periods and BAT off-periods. Mean brain temperatures were lower during BAT off-periods. Amplitudes of the BRAC-related increases in all 3 temperatures were greater in the Zucker obese rats. Meal onset in Zucker obese rats commenced 151min after the onset of a BAT on-period, not significantly different for the delay observed in lean control rats (181min, p&gt;0.05). Thus periods between eating are increased in the Zucker obese rats, but the action of leptin, absent in these animals, is not crucial for the timing of eating in relation to increases in BAT and body temperature. Lack of the normal excitatory action of leptin on brain-regulated BAT sympathetic discharge could also contribute to lower BAT thermogenesis in Zucker obese rats.
Humans exposed to shiftwork conditions have been reported to have increased susceptibility to various health problems including various forms of dementia, cancer, heart disease, and metabolic disorders related to obesity. The present experiments assessed the effects of circadian disruption on learning and memory function and various food related processes including diet consumption rates, food metabolism, and changes in body weight. These experiments utilized a novel variant of the conditioned place preference task (CPP) that is normally used to assess Pavlovian associative learning and memory processes produced via repeated context-reward pairings. For the present experiments, the standard CPP paradigm was modified in that both contexts were paired with food, but the dietary constituents of the food were different. In particular, we were interested in whether rats could differentiate between two types of carbohydrates, simple (dextrose) and complex (starch). Consumption rates for each type of carbohydrate were measured throughout training. A test of context preference without the food present was also conducted. At the end of behavioral testing, a fasting glucose test and a glucose challenge test were administered. Chronic photoperiod shifting resulted in impaired context learning and memory processes thought to be mediated by a neural circuit centered on the hippocampus. The results also showed that preferences for the different carbohydrate diets were altered in rats experiencing photoperiod shifting in that they maintained an initial preference for the simple carbohydrate throughout training. Lastly, photoperiod shifting resulted in changes in fasting blood glucose levels and elicited weight gain. These results show that chronic photoperiod shifting, which likely resulted in circadian dysfunction, impairs multiple functions of the brain and/or body in the same individual.
The relation of gamma-band synchrony to holistic perception in which concerns the effects of sensory processing, high level perceptual gestalt formation, motor planning and response is still controversial. To provide a more direct link to emergent perceptual states we have used holistic EEG/ERP paradigms where the moment of perceptual &quot;discovery&quot; of a global pattern was variable. Using a rapid visual presentation of short-lived Mooney objects we found an increase of gamma-band activity locked to perceptual events. Additional experiments using dynamic Mooney stimuli showed that gamma activity increases well before the report of an emergent holistic percept. To confirm these findings in a data driven manner we have further used a support vector machine classification approach to distinguish between perceptual vs. non perceptual states, based on time-frequency features. Sensitivity, specificity and accuracy were all above 95%. Modulations in the 30-75 Hz range were larger for perception states. Interestingly, phase synchrony was larger for perception states for high frequency bands. By focusing on global gestalt mechanisms instead of local processing we conclude that gamma-band activity and synchrony provide a signature of holistic perceptual states of variable onset, which are separable from sensory and motor processing.
The development of neural cuff-electrodes requires several in vivo studies and revisions of the electrode design before the electrode is completely adapted to its target nerve. It is therefore favorable to simulate many of the steps involved in this process to reduce costs and animal testing. As the restoration of motor function is one of the most interesting applications of cuff-electrodes, the position and trajectories of myelinated fibers in the simulated nerve are important. In this paper, we investigate a method for building a precise neuroanatomical model of myelinated fibers in a peripheral nerve based on images obtained using high-resolution light microscopy. This anatomical model describes the first aim of our &quot;Virtual workbench&quot; project to establish a method for creating realistic neural simulation models based on image datasets. The imaging, processing, segmentation and technical limitations are described, and the steps involved in the transition into a simulation model are presented. The results showed that the position and trajectories of the myelinated axons were traced and virtualized using our technique, and small nerves could be reliably modeled based on of light microscopy images using low-cost OpenSource software and standard hardware. The anatomical model will be released to the scientific community.
In recent years, a lot of studies have been published dealing with the anatomy of the nervous system in different spiralian species. The only nemertean species investigated in this context probably shows derived characters and thus the conditions found there are not useful in inferring the relationship between nemerteans and other spiralian taxa. Ingroup relationships within Nemertea are still unclear, but there is some agreement that the palaeonemerteans form a basal, paraphyletic grade. Thus, palaeonemertean species are likely the most informative when comparing with other invertebrate groups. We therefore analyzed the nervous system of several palaeonemertean species by combining histology and immunostaining. 3D reconstructions based on the aligned slices were performed to get an overall impression of the central nervous system, and immunohistochemistry was chosen to reveal fine structures and to be able to compare the data with recently published results. The insights presented here permit a first attempt to reconstruct the primary organization of the nemertean nervous system. This comparative analysis allows substantiating homology hypotheses for nerves of the peripheral nervous system. This study also provides evidence that the nemertean brain primarily consists of two lobes connected by a strong ventral commissure and one to several dorsal commissures. During nemertean evolution, the brain underwent continuous compartmentalization into a pair of dorsal and ventral lobes interconnected by commissures and lateral tracts. Given that this conclusion can be corroborated by cladistic analyses, nemerteans should share a common ancestor with spiralians that primarily have a simple brain consisting of paired medullary, frontally commissurized and reinforced cords. Such an organization resembles the situation found in presumably basally branching annelids or mollusks.
Studies aiming to predict the impact on marine life of ocean acidification and of altered salinity have shown altered development in various species including sea urchins. We have analyzed how external Na, Ca, pH and bicarbonate control the first mitotic divisions of sea urchin embryos. Intracellular free Ca (Cai) and pH (pHi) and the activities of the MAP kinase ERK and of MPF regulate mitosis in various types of cells including oocytes and early embryos. We found that intracellular acidification of fertilized eggs by Na-acetate induces a huge activation of ERK at time of mitosis. This also stops the cell cycle and leads to cell death, which can be bypassed by treatment with the MEK inhibitor U0126. Similar intracellular acidification induced in external medium containing low sodium or 5-(N-Methyl-N-isobutyl) amiloride, an inhibitor of the Na(+)/H(+) exchanger, also stops the cell cycle and leads to cell death. In that case, an increase in Cai and in the phosphorylation of tyr-cdc2 occurs during mitosis, modifications that depend on external Ca. Our results indicate that the levels of pHi and Cai determine accurate levels of Ptyr-Cdc2 and P-ERK capable of ensuring progression through the first mitotic cycles. These intracellular parameters rely on external Ca, Na and bicarbonate, alterations of which during climate changes could act synergistically to perturb the early marine life.
We investigated the representation of four typical guinea pig vocalizations in the auditory cortex (AI) in anesthetized guinea pigs with the aim to compare cortical data to the data already published for identical calls in subcortical structures - the inferior colliculus (IC) and medial geniculate body (MGB). Like the subcortical neurons also cortical neurons typically responded to many calls with a time-locked response to one or more temporal elements of the calls. The neuronal response patterns in the AI correlated well with the sound temporal envelope of chirp (an isolated short phrase), but correlated less well in the case of chutter and whistle (longer calls) or purr (a call with a fast repetition rate of phrases). Neuronal rate vs. characteristic frequency profiles provided only a coarse representation of the calls' frequency spectra. A comparison between the activity in the AI and those of subcortical structures showed a different transformation of the neuronal response patterns from the IC to the AI for individual calls: i) while the temporal representation of chirp remained unchanged, the representations of whistle and chutter were transformed at the thalamic level and the response to purr at the cortical level; ii) for the wideband calls (whistle, chirp) the rate representation of the call spectra was preserved in the AI and MGB at the level present in the IC, while in the case of low-frequency calls (chutter, purr), the representation was less precise in the AI and MGB than in the IC; iii) the difference in the response strength to natural and time-reversed whistle was found to be smaller in the AI than in the IC or MGB.
Women typically remember more female than male faces, whereas men do not show a reliable own-gender bias. However, little is known about the neural correlates of this own-gender bias in face recognition memory. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we investigated whether face gender modulated brain activity in fusiform and inferior occipital gyri during incidental encoding of faces. Fifteen women and 14 men underwent fMRI while passively viewing female and male faces, followed by a surprise face recognition task. Women recognized more female than male faces and showed higher activity to female than male faces in individually defined regions of fusiform and inferior occipital gyri. In contrast, men's recognition memory and blood-oxygen-level-dependent response were not modulated by face gender. Importantly, higher activity in the left fusiform gyrus (FFG) to one gender was related to better memory performance for that gender. These findings suggest that the FFG is involved in the gender bias in memory for faces, which may be linked to differential experience with female and male faces.

Actin-based remodelling underlies spine structural changes occurring during synaptic plasticity, the process that constantly reshapes the circuitry of the adult brain in response to external stimuli, leading to learning and memory formation. A positive correlation exists between spine shape and synaptic strength and, consistently, abnormalities in spine number and morphology have been described in a number of neurological disorders. In the present study, we demonstrate that the actin-regulating protein, Eps8, is recruited to the spine head during chemically induced long-term potentiation in culture and that inhibition of its actin-capping activity impairs spine enlargement and plasticity. Accordingly, mice lacking Eps8 display immature spines, which are unable to undergo potentiation, and are impaired in cognitive functions. Additionally, we found that reduction in the levels of Eps8 occurs in brains of patients affected by autism compared to controls. Our data reveal the key role of Eps8 actin-capping activity in spine morphogenesis and plasticity and indicate that reductions in actin-capping proteins may characterize forms of intellectual disabilities associated with spine defects.
Since the introduction of the HPV vaccine, questions have been asked about its efficacy in preventing cancer linked with HPV. Concerns about the HPV vaccine safety profile have also been raised. This paper highlights the rapidly growing body of evidence (including clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance) illustrating both the safety of the HPV vaccine, through a detailed investigation of reported adverse events, and its efficacy in reducing both HPV infections rates and the resulting drop in cervical lesions, which have been demonstrated to be good predictors of cervical cancer risk.
Atonal homolog1 (Atoh1) encodes a basic helix-loop-helix protein that is the first transcription factor to be expressed in differentiating hair cells. Previous work suggests that expression of Atoh1 in prosensory precursors is necessary for the differentiation and survival of hair cells, but it is not clear whether Atoh1 is required exclusively for these processes, or whether it regulates other functions later during hair cell maturation. We used EGFP-tagged Atoh1 knock-in mice to demonstrate for the first time that Atoh1 protein is expressed in hair cell precursors several days before the appearance of differentiated markers, but not in the broad pattern expected of a proneural gene. We conditionally deleted Atoh1 at different points in hair cell development and observe a rapid onset of hair cell defects, suggesting that the Atoh1 protein is unstable in differentiating hair cells and is necessary through an extended phase of their differentiation. Conditional deletion of Atoh1 reveals multiple functions in hair cell survival, maturation of stereociliary bundles, and auditory function. We show the presence of distinct critical periods for Atoh1 in each of these functions, suggesting that Atoh1 may be directly regulating many aspects of hair cell function. Finally, we show that the supporting cell death that accompanies loss of Atoh1 in hair cells is likely caused by the abortive trans-differentiation of supporting cells into hair cells. Together our data suggest that Atoh1 regulates multiple aspects of hair cell development and function.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) of brain development in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) has revealed structural abnormalities, but studies have been limited by the use of cross-sectional designs. Longitudinal scans can provide key insights into trajectories of neurodevelopment within individuals with this common developmental disorder. Here we evaluate serial DTI and T1-weighted volumetric MRI in a human sample of 17 participants with FASD and 27 controls aged 5-15 years who underwent 2-3 scans each, 2-4 years apart (92 scans total). Increases of fractional anisotropy and decreases of mean diffusivity (MD) were observed between scans for both groups, in keeping with changes expected of typical development, but mixed-models analysis revealed significant age-by-group interactions for three major white matter tracts: superior longitudinal fasciculus and superior and inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus. These findings indicate altered developmental progression in these frontal-association tracts, with the FASD group notably showing greater reduction of MD between scans. MD is shown to correlate with reading and receptive vocabulary in the FASD group, with steeper decreases of MD in the superior fronto-occipital fasciculus and superior longitudinal fasciculus between scans correlating with greater improvement in language scores. Volumetric analysis revealed reduced total brain, white, cortical gray, and deep gray matter volumes and fewer significant age-related volume increases in the FASD group, although age-by-group interactions were not significant. Longitudinal DTI indicates delayed white matter development during childhood and adolescence in FASD, which may underlie persistent or worsening behavioral and cognitive deficits during this critical period.
Damage to the medial temporal lobe impairs the encoding of new memories and the retrieval of memories acquired immediately before the damage in human. In this study, we demonstrated that artificial visuoauditory memory traces can be established in the rat auditory cortex and that their encoding and retrieval depend on the entorhinal cortex of the medial temporal lobe in the rat. We trained rats to associate a visual stimulus with electrical stimulation of the auditory cortex using a classical conditioning protocol. After conditioning, we examined the associative memory traces electrophysiologically (i.e., visual stimulus-evoked responses of auditory cortical neurons) and behaviorally (i.e., visual stimulus-induced freezing and visual stimulus-guided reward retrieval). The establishment of a visuoauditory memory trace in the auditory cortex, which was detectable by electrophysiological recordings, was achieved over 20-30 conditioning trials and was blocked by unilateral, temporary inactivation of the entorhinal cortex. Retrieval of a previously established visuoauditory memory was also affected by unilateral entorhinal cortex inactivation. These findings suggest that the entorhinal cortex is necessary for the encoding and involved in the retrieval of artificial visuoauditory memory in the auditory cortex, at least during the early stages of memory consolidation.
Repeated exposure to nicotine and other psychostimulant drugs produces persistent increases in their psychomotor and physiological effects (sensitization), a phenomenon related to the drugs' reinforcing properties and abuse potential. Here we examined the role of peripheral actions of nicotine in nicotine-induced sensitization of centrally mediated physiological parameters (brain, muscle, and skin temperatures), cortical and VTA EEG, neck EMG activity, and locomotion in freely moving rats. Repeated injections of intravenous nicotine (30 g/kg) induced sensitization of the drug's effects on all these measures. In contrast, repeated injections of the peripherally acting analog of nicotine, nicotine pyrrolidine methiodide (nicotine(PM), 30 g/kg, i.v.) resulted in habituation (tolerance) of the same physiological, neuronal, and behavioral measures. However, after repeated nicotine exposure, acute nicotine(PM) injections induced nicotine-like physiological responses: powerful cortical and VTA EEG desynchronization, EMG activation, a large brain temperature increase, but weaker hyperlocomotion. Additionally, both the acute locomotor response to nicotine and nicotine-induced locomotor sensitization were attenuated by blockade of peripheral nicotinic receptors by hexamethonium (3 mg/kg, i.v.). These data suggest that the peripheral actions of nicotine, which precede its direct central actions, serve as a conditioned interoceptive cue capable of eliciting nicotine-like physiological and neural responses after repeated nicotine exposure. Thus, by providing a neural signal to the CNS that is repeatedly paired with the direct central effects of nicotine, the drug's peripheral actions play a critical role in the development of nicotine-induced physiological, neural, and behavioral sensitization.
We examined whether older adults differ from younger adults in how they learn from rewarding and aversive outcomes. Human participants were asked to either learn to choose actions that lead to monetary reward or learn to avoid actions that lead to monetary losses. To examine age differences in the neurophysiological mechanisms of learning, we applied a combination of computational modeling and fMRI. Behavioral results showed age-related impairments in learning from reward but not in learning from monetary losses. Consistent with these results, we observed age-related reductions in BOLD activity during learning from reward in the ventromedial PFC. Furthermore, the model-based fMRI analysis revealed a reduced responsivity of the ventral striatum to reward prediction errors during learning in older than younger adults. This age-related reduction in striatal sensitivity to reward prediction errors may result from a decline in phasic dopaminergic learning signals in the elderly.


This study aimed to characterize the linguistic interference that occurs during speech-in-speech comprehension by combining offline and online measures, which included an intelligibility task (at a -5 dB Signal-to-Noise Ratio) and 2 lexical decision tasks (at a -5 dB and 0 dB SNR) that were performed with French spoken target words. In these 3 experiments we always compared the masking effects of speech backgrounds (i.e., 4-talker babble) that were produced in the same language as the target language (i.e., French) or in unknown foreign languages (i.e., Irish and Italian) to the masking effects of corresponding non-speech backgrounds (i.e., speech-derived fluctuating noise). The fluctuating noise contained similar spectro-temporal information as babble but lacked linguistic information. At -5 dB SNR, both tasks revealed significantly divergent results between the unknown languages (i.e., Irish and Italian) with Italian and French hindering French target word identification to a similar extent, whereas Irish led to significantly better performances on these tasks. By comparing the performances obtained with speech and fluctuating noise backgrounds, we were able to evaluate the effect of each language. The intelligibility task showed a significant difference between babble and fluctuating noise for French, Irish and Italian, suggesting acoustic and linguistic effects for each language. However, the lexical decision task, which reduces the effect of post-lexical interference, appeared to be more accurate, as it only revealed a linguistic effect for French. Thus, although French and Italian had equivalent masking effects on French word identification, the nature of their interference was different. This finding suggests that the differences observed between the masking effects of Italian and Irish can be explained at an acoustic level but not at a linguistic level.
CD73 (ecto-5'-nucleotidase) is a cell surface enzyme that regulates purinergic signalling by desphosphorylating extracellular AMP to adenosine. 5'-nucleotidases are known to be expressed in brain, but the expression of CD73 and its putative physiological functions at this location remain elusive. Here we found, using immunohistochemistry of wild-type and CD73 deficient mice, that CD73 is prominently expressed in the basal ganglia core comprised of striatum (caudate nucleus and putamen) and globus pallidus. Furthermore, meninges and the olfactory tubercle were found to specifically express CD73. Analysis of wild type (wt) and CD73 deficient mice revealed that CD73 confers the majority of 5'-nucleotidase activity in several areas of the brain. In a battery of behavioural tests and in IntelliCage studies, the CD73 deficient mice demonstrated significantly enhanced exploratory locomotor activity, which probably reflects the prominent expression of CD73 in striatum and globus pallidus that are known to control locomotion. Furthermore, the CD73 deficient mice displayed altered social behaviour. Overall, our data provide a novel mechanistic insight into adenosinergic signalling in brain, which is implicated in the regulation of normal and pathological behaviour.
Inherited retinal degenerative diseases are a clinically promising focus of adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated gene therapy. These diseases arise from pathogenic mutations in mRNA transcripts expressed in the eye's photoreceptor cells or retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), leading to cell death and structural deterioration. Because current gene delivery methods require an injurious subretinal injection to reach the photoreceptors or RPE and transduce just a fraction of the retina, they are suitable only for the treatment of rare degenerative diseases in which retinal structures remain intact. To address the need for broadly applicable gene delivery approaches, we implemented in vivo-directed evolution to engineer AAV variants that deliver the gene cargo to the outer retina after injection into the eye's easily accessible vitreous humor. This approach has general implications for situations in which dense tissue penetration poses a barrier for gene delivery. A resulting AAV variant mediated widespread delivery to the outer retina and rescued the disease phenotypes of X-linked retinoschisis and Leber's congenital amaurosis in corresponding mouse models. Furthermore, it enabled transduction of primate photoreceptors from the vitreous, expanding its therapeutic promise.



A wide body of evidence suggests that 5-HT7 receptors are implicated in a variety of central nervous system functions, including control of learning and memory processes. According to recent preclinical data, the selective blockade of these receptors may be a potential target for cognitive improvement in schizophrenia. The first aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of the selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist, SB-269970, and the antipsychotic drug with a high affinity for 5-HT7 receptors, amisulpride, on ketamine-induced deficits in attentional set-shifting and novel object recognition tasks in rats. Because the role of 5-HT7 receptor blockade in ameliorating positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia remains equivocal, the second aim of these experiments was to examine the effectiveness of SB-269970 and amisulpride in reversing ketamine-induced deficits in prepulse inhibition of the startle reflex and in social interaction test in rats. The study revealed that acute administration of SB-269970 (1 mg/kg) or amisulpride (3 mg/kg) ameliorated ketamine-induced cognitive inflexibility and novel object recognition deficit in rats. Both compounds were also effective in attenuating ketamine-evoked disruption of social interactions. In contrast, neither SB-269970 nor amisulpride affected ketamine-disrupted prepulse inhibition or 50 kHz USVs accompanying social behaviour. In conclusion, antagonism of 5-HT7 receptors may represent a useful pharmacological approach in the treatment of cognitive deficits and some negative symptoms of schizophrenia.
Many diffusion parameters and indices (e.g., fractional anisotropy [FA] and mean diffusivity [MD]) have been derived from diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data. These parameters have been extensively applied as imaging markers for localizing white matter (WM) changes under various conditions (e.g., development, degeneration and disease). However, the vast majority of the existing parameters is derived from intra-voxel analyses and represents the diffusion properties solely within the voxel unit. Other types of parameters that characterize inter-voxel relationships have been largely overlooked. In the present study, we propose a novel inter-voxel metric referred to as the local diffusion homogeneity (LDH). This metric quantifies the local coherence of water molecule diffusion in a model-free manner. It can serve as an additional marker for evaluating the WM microstructural properties of the brain. To assess the distinguishing features between LDH and FA/MD, the metrics were systematically compared across space and subjects. As an example, both the LDH and FA/MD metrics were applied to measure age-related WM changes. The results indicate that LDH reveals unique inter-subject variability in specific WM regions (e.g., cerebral peduncle, internal capsule and splenium). Furthermore, there are regions in which measurements of age-related WM alterations with the LDH and FA/MD metrics yield discrepant results. These findings suggest that LDH and FA/MD have different sensitivities to specific WM microstructural properties. Taken together, the present study shows that LDH is complementary to the conventional diffusion-MRI markers and may provide additional insights into inter-subject WM variability. Further studies, however, are needed to uncover the neuronal mechanisms underlying the LDH.
Partial injury to the central nervous system (CNS) is exacerbated by additional loss of neurons and glia via toxic events known as secondary degeneration. Using partial transection of the rat optic nerve (ON) as a model, we have previously shown that myelin decompaction persists during secondary degeneration. Failure to repair myelin abnormalities during secondary degeneration may be attributed to insufficient OPC proliferation and/or differentiation to compensate for loss of oligodendrocyte lineage cells (oligodendroglia). Following partial ON transection, we found that sub-populations of oligodendroglia and other olig2+ glia were differentially influenced by injury. A high proportion of NG2+/olig2-, NG2+/olig2+ and CC1-/olig2+ cells proliferated (Ki67+) at 3 days, prior to the onset of death (TUNEL+) at 7 days, suggesting injury-related cues triggered proliferation rather than early loss of oligodendroglia. Despite this, a high proportion (20%) of the NG2+/olig2+ OPCs were TUNEL+ at 3 months, and numbers remained chronically lower, indicating that proliferation of these cells was insufficient to maintain population numbers. There was significant death of NG2+/olig2- and NG2-/olig2+ cells at 7 days, however population densities remained stable, suggesting proliferation was sufficient to sustain cell numbers. Relatively few TUNEL+/CC1+ cells were detected at 7 days, and no change in density indicated that mature CC1+ oligodendrocytes were resistant to secondary degeneration in vivo. Mature CC1+/olig2- oligodendrocyte density increased at 3 days, reflecting early oligogenesis, while the appearance of shortened myelin internodes at 3 months suggested remyelination. Taken together, chronic OPC decreases may contribute to the persistent myelin abnormalities and functional loss seen in ON during secondary degeneration.


Emotional changes are common in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Intrinsic connectivity imaging studies suggest that default mode network degradation in AD is accompanied by the release of an emotion-relevant salience network. We investigated whether emotional contagion, an evolutionarily conserved affect-sharing mechanism, is higher in MCI and AD secondary to biological alterations in neural networks that support emotion. We measured emotional contagion in 237 participants (111 healthy controls, 62 patients with MCI, and 64 patients with AD) with the Interpersonal Reactivity Index Personal Distress subscale. Depressive symptoms were evaluated with the Geriatric Depression Scale. Participants underwent structural MRI, and voxel-based morphometry was used to relate whole-brain maps to emotional contagion. Analyses of covariance found significantly higher emotional contagion at each stage of disease progression [controls &lt; MCI (P &lt; 0.01) and MCI &lt; AD (P &lt; 0.001)]. Depressive symptoms were also higher in patients compared with controls [controls &lt; MCI (P &lt; 0.01) and controls &lt; AD (P &lt; 0.0001)]. Higher emotional contagion (but not depressive symptoms) was associated with smaller volume in right inferior, middle, and superior temporal gyri (PFWE &lt; 0.05); right temporal pole, anterior hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus; and left middle temporal gyrus (all P &lt; 0.001, uncorrected). These findings suggest that in MCI and AD, neurodegeneration of temporal lobe structures important for affective signal detection and emotion inhibition are associated with up-regulation of emotion-generating mechanisms. Emotional contagion, a quantifiable index of empathic reactivity that is present in other species, may be a useful tool with which to study emotional alterations in animal models of AD.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are highly heritable, and six genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of ASDs have been published to date. In this study, we have integrated the findings from these GWASs with other genetic data to identify enriched genetic networks that are associated with ASDs. We conducted bioinformatics and systematic literature analyses of 200 top-ranked ASD candidate genes from five published GWASs. The sixth GWAS was used for replication and validation of our findings. Further corroborating evidence was obtained through rare genetic variant studies, that is, exome sequencing and copy number variation (CNV) studies, and/or other genetic evidence, including candidate gene association, microRNA and gene expression, gene function and genetic animal studies. We found three signaling networks regulating steroidogenesis, neurite outgrowth and (glutamatergic) synaptic function to be enriched in the data. Most genes from the five GWASs were also implicated--independent of gene size--in ASDs by at least one other line of genomic evidence. Importantly, A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) functionally integrate signaling cascades within and between these networks. The three identified protein networks provide an important contribution to increasing our understanding of the molecular basis of ASDs. In addition, our results point towards the AKAPs as promising targets for developing novel ASD treatments.
Apical-basal polarity is the basic organizing principle of epithelial cells, and endows epithelial cells to function as defensive barriers and as mediators of vectorial transport of nutrients in and out of organisms. Apical-basal polarity is controlled by a number of conserved polarity factors that regulate cytoskeletal organizations, asymmetric distributions of cellular components, and directional transports across cells. Polarity factors often occupy specific membrane regions in response to the adhesion forces generated by cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix interactions. Both internal polarity factors and the external extracellular matrices play fundamental roles in epithelial cell polarity establishment and maintenance. This review focuses on recent developments of the Par3/Par6/aPKC complex and its interacting proteins in epithelial cell polarity.
Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH) is a syndrome of ventriculomegaly, gait impairment, cognitive decline and incontinence that occurs in an elderly population prone to many types of comorbidities. Identification of the comorbidities is thus an important part of the clinical management of INPH patients. In 2011, a task force was appointed by the International Society for Hydrocephalus and Cerebrospinal Fluid Disorders (ISHCSF) with the objective to compile an evidence-based expert analysis of what we know and what we need to know regarding comorbidities in INPH. This article is the final report of the task force. The expert panel conducted a comprehensive review of the literature. After weighing the evidence, the various proposals were discussed and the final document was approved by all the task force members and represents a consensus of expert opinions. Recommendations regarding the following topics are given: I. Musculoskeletal conditions; II. Urinary problems; III. Vascular disease including risk factors, Binswanger disease, and white matter hyperintensities; IV. Mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer disease including biopsies; V. Other dementias (frontotemporal dementia, Lewy body, Parkinson); VI. Psychiatric and behavioral disorders; VII. Brain imaging; VIII. How to investigate and quantify. The task force concluded that comorbidity can be an important predictor of prognosis and post-operative outcome in INPH. Reported differences in outcomes among various INPH cohorts may be partly explained by variation in the rate and types of comorbidities at different hydrocephalus centers. Identification of comorbidities should thus be a central part of the clinical management of INPH where a detailed history, physical examination, and targeted investigations are the basis for diagnosis and grading. Future INPH research should focus on the contribution of comorbidity to overall morbidity, mortality and long-term outcomes.
The presynaptic active zone mediates synaptic vesicle exocytosis, and modulation of its molecular composition is important for many types of synaptic plasticity. Here, we identify synaptic scaffold protein liprin-2 as a key organizer in this process. We show that liprin-2 levels were regulated by synaptic activity and the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Furthermore, liprin-2 organized presynaptic ultrastructure and controlled synaptic output by regulating synaptic vesicle pool size. The presence of liprin-2 at presynaptic sites did not depend on other active zone scaffolding proteins but was critical for recruitment of several components of the release machinery, including RIM1 and CASK. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching showed that depletion of liprin-2 resulted in reduced turnover of RIM1 and CASK at presynaptic terminals, suggesting that liprin-2 promotes dynamic scaffolding for molecular complexes that facilitate synaptic vesicle release. Therefore, liprin-2 plays an important role in maintaining active zone dynamics to modulate synaptic efficacy in response to changes in network activity.

Amorphous mesoporous silica nanoparticles ('protocells') that support surface lipid bilayers recently characterized in vitro as carrier constructs for small drug and DNA delivery are reported here as highly biocompatible both in vitro and in vivo, involving the brain and spinal cord following spinal delivery into the lumbosacral subarachnoid space (intrathecal; i.t.). Specifically, positively charged, 1, 2-Dioleoyl-3-Trimethylammonium-Propane (DOTAP)-cholesterol (DOTAP:Chol) liposome-formulated protocells revealed stable in vitro cargo release kinetics and cellular interleukin-10 (IL-10) transgene transfection. Recent approaches using synthetic non-viral vector platforms to deliver the pain-suppressive therapeutic transgene, IL-10, to the spinal subarachnoid space have yielded promising results in animal models of peripheral neuropathy, a condition involving aberrant neuronal communication within sensory pathways in the nervous system. Non-viral drug and gene delivery protocell platforms offer potential flexibility because cargo release-rates can be pH-dependent. We report here that i.t. delivery of protocells, with modified chemistry supporting a surface coating of DOTAP:Chol liposomes and containing the IL-10 transgene, results in functional suppression of pain-related behavior in rats for extended periods. This study is the first demonstration that protocell vectors offer amenable and enduring in vivo biological characteristics that can be applied to spinal gene delivery.
Inflammation in injured tissue has both repair functions and cytotoxic consequences. However, the issue of whether brain inflammation has a repair function has received little attention. Previously, we demonstrated monocyte infiltration and death of neurons and resident microglia in LPS-injected brains (Glia. 2007. 55:1577; Glia. 2008. 56:1039). Here, we found that astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, myelin, and endothelial cells disappeared in the damage core within 1-3 d and then re-appeared at 7-14 d, providing evidence of repair of the brain microenvironment. Since round Iba-1+/CD45+ monocytes infiltrated before the repair, we examined whether these cells were involved in the repair process. Analysis of mRNA expression profiles showed significant upregulation of repair/resolution-related genes, whereas proinflammatory-related genes were barely detectable at 3 d, a time when monocytes filled injury sites. Moreover, Iba-1+/CD45+ cells highly expressed phagocytic activity markers (e.g., the mannose receptors, CD68 and LAMP2), but not proinflammatory mediators (e.g., iNOS and IL1). In addition, the distribution of round Iba-1+/CD45+ cells was spatially and temporally correlated with astrocyte recovery. We further found that monocytes in culture attracted astrocytes by releasing soluble factor(s). Together, these results suggest that brain inflammation mediated by monocytes functions to repair the microenvironment of the injured brain.



Mate choice is a critical behavioral decision process with profound impact on evolution. However, the mechanistic basis of mate choice is poorly understood. In this study we focused on assortative mate choice, which is known to contribute to the reproductive isolation of the two European subspecies of house mouse, Mus musculus musculus and Mus musculus domesticus. To understand the decision process, we developed both full mating and limited-contact paradigms and tested musculus females' preference for musculus versus domesticus males, mimicking the natural musculus/domesticus contact zone. As hypothesized, when allowed to mate we found that sexually receptive musculus females exhibited a robust preference to mate with musculus males. In contrast, when non-receptive, females did not exhibit a preference and rather alternated between males in response to male mount attempts. Moreover in a no-choice condition, females mated readily with males from both subspecies. Finally, when no physical contact was allowed, and therefore male's behavior could not influence female's behavior, female's preference for its own subspecies was maintained independently of the estrous state. Together, our results suggest that the assortative preference is relative and based on a comparison of the options available rather than on an absolute preference. The results of the limited-contact experiments highlight the interplay between female's internal state and the nature of the interaction with prospective mates in the full mating conditions. With these experiments we believe we established an assortative mate preference assay that is appropriate for the investigation of its underlying substrates.
ChIP-seq is increasingly being used for genome-wide profiling of histone modification marks. It is of particular importance to compare ChIP-seq data of two different conditions, such as disease vs. control, and identify regions that show differences in ChIP enrichment. We have developed a powerful and easy to use program, called diffReps, to detect those differential sites from ChIP-seq data, with or without biological replicates. In addition, we have developed two useful tools for ChIP-seq analysis in the diffReps package: one for the annotation of the differential sites and the other for finding chromatin modification &quot;hotspots&quot;. diffReps is developed in PERL programming language and runs on all platforms as a command line script. We tested diffReps on two different datasets. One is the comparison of H3K4me3 between two human cell lines from the ENCODE project. The other is the comparison of H3K9me3 in a discrete region of mouse brain between cocaine- and saline-treated conditions. The results indicated that diffReps is a highly sensitive program in detecting differential sites from ChIP-seq data.
Class 3 semaphorins are well-known axonal guidance cues during the embryonic development of mammalian nervous system. However, their activity on postnatally differentiated neurons in neurogenic regions of adult brains has not been characterized. We found that silencing of semaphorin receptors neuropilins (NRP) 1 or 2 in neural progenitors at the adult mouse dentate gyrus resulted in newly differentiated neurons with shorter dendrites and simpler branching in vivo. Tyrosine phosphorylation (Tyr 397) and serine phosphorylation (Ser 732) of FAK were essential for these effects. Semaphorin 3A and 3F mediate serine phosphorylation of FAK through the activation of Cdk5. Silencing of either Cdk5 or FAK in newborn neurons phenocopied the defects in dendritic development seen upon silencing of NRP1 or NRP2. Furthermore, in vivo overexpression of Cdk5 or FAK rescued the dendritic phenotypes seen in NRP1 and NRP2 deficient neurons. These results point to a novel role for class 3 semaphorins in promoting dendritic growth and branching during adult hippocampal neurogenesis through the activation of Cdk5-FAK signaling pathway.

Although the contribution of Broca's area to motor cognition is generally accepted, its exact role remains controversial. A previous functional imaging study has suggested that Broca's area implements hierarchically organised motor behaviours and, in particular, that its anterior (Brodmann area 45, BA45) and posterior (BA44) parts process, respectively, higher and lower-level hierarchical elements. This function of Broca's area could generalize to other cognitive functions, including language. However, because of the correlative nature of functional imaging data, the causal relationship between Broca's region activation and its behavioural significance cannot be ascertained. To circumvent this limitation, we used on-line repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation to disrupt neuronal processing in left BA45, left BA44 or left dorsal premotor cortex, three areas that have been shown to exhibit a phasic activation when participants performed hierarchically organised motor behaviours. The experiment was conducted in healthy volunteers performing the same two key-press sequences as those used in a previous imaging study, and which differed in terms of hierarchical organisation. The performance of the lower-order hierarchical task (Experiment #1) was unaffected by magnetic stimulation. In contrast, in the higher-order hierarchical task (Experiment #2, &quot;superordinate&quot; task), we found that a virtual lesion of the anterior part of Broca's area (left BA45) delayed the processing of the cue initiating the sequence in an effector-independent way. Interestingly, in this task, the initiation cue only informed the subjects about the rules to be applied to produce the appropriate response but did not allow them to anticipate the entire motor sequence. A second important finding was a RT decrease following left PMd virtual lesions in the superordinate task, a result compatible with the view that PMd plays a critical role in impulse control. The present study therefore demonstrates the role of left BA45 in planning the higher-order hierarchical levels of motor sequences.
The photothrombotic stroke model aims to induce an ischemic damage within a given cortical area by means of photo-activation of a previously injected light-sensitive dye. Following illumination, the dye is activated and produces singlet oxygen that damages components of endothelial cell membranes, with subsequent platelet aggregation and thrombi formation, which eventually determines the interruption of local blood flow. This approach, initially proposed by Rosenblum and El-Sabban in 1977, was later improved by Watson in 1985 in rat brain and set the basis of the current model. Also, the increased availability of transgenic mouse lines further contributed to raise the interest on the photothrombosis model. Briefly, a photosensitive dye (Rose Bengal) is injected intraperitoneally and enters the blood stream. When illuminated by a cold light source, the dye becomes activated and induces endothelial damage with platelet activation and thrombosis, resulting in local blood flow interruption. The light source can be applied on the intact skull with no need of craniotomy, which allows targeting of any cortical area of interest in a reproducible and non-invasive way. The mouse is then sutured and allowed to wake up. The evaluation of ischemic damage can be quickly accomplished by triphenyl-tetrazolium chloride or cresyl violet staining. This technique produces infarction of small size and well-delimited boundaries, which is highly advantageous for precise cell characterization or functional studies. Furthermore, it is particularly suitable for studying cellular and molecular responses underlying brain plasticity in transgenic mice.
Exposure to stress activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis that stimulates glucocorticoid (GC) release from the adrenal. These hormones exert numerous effects in the body and brain and bind to a.o. glucocorticoid receptors (GR) expressed in the limbic system, including the hippocampus and amygdala. Hyperactivity of the HPA axis and disturbed stress feedback are common features in major depression. GR protein is present in the human hypothalamus and hippocampus, but little is known-neither in healthy subjects nor in depressed patients-about GR expression in the amygdala, a brain structure involved in fear and anxiety. Since chronic stress in rodents affects GR expression in the amygdala, altered GR protein level in depressed versus healthy controls can be expected. To test this, we investigated GR- protein expression in the post-mortem human amygdala and assessed changes in ten major or bipolar depressed patients and eight non-depressed controls. Abundant GR immunoreactivity was observed in the human amygdala, both in neurons and astrocytes, with a similar pattern in its different anatomical subnuclei. In major depression, GR protein level as well as the percentage of GR-containing astrocytes was significantly higher than in bipolar depressed patients or in control subjects. Taken together, the prominent expression of GR protein in the human amygdala indicates that this region can form an important target for corticosteroids and stress, while the increased GR expression in major, but not bipolar, depression suggests possible involvement in the etiology of major depression.

Malformations of cortical development can arise when projection neurons generated in the germinal zones fail to migrate properly into the cortical plate. This process is critically dependent on the Reelin glycoprotein, which when absent leads to an inversion of cortical layers and blurring of borders. Reelin has other functions including supporting neuron migration and maintaining their trajectories; however, the precise role on glial fiber-dependent or -independent migration of neurons remains controversial. In this study, we wish to test the hypothesis that migrating cortical neurons at different levels of the cortical wall have differential responses to Reelin. We exposed neurons migrating across the cortical wall to exogenous Reelin and monitored their migratory behavior using time-lapse imaging. Our results show that, in the germinal zones, exogenous Reelin retarded neuron migration and altered their trajectories. This behavior is in contrast to the response of neurons located in the intermediate zone (IZ), possibly because Reelin receptors are not expressed in this zone. In the reeler cortex, Reelin receptors are expressed in the IZ and exposure to exogenous Reelin was able to rescue the migratory defect. These studies demonstrate that migrating neurons have nonequivalent responses to Reelin depending on their location within the cortical wall.
p38 is a mitogen-activated protein kinase and mediates cell growth, cell differentiation, and synaptic plasticity. The aim of this study is to determine the extent to which p38 plays a role in maintaining mitochondrial respiration in male and female mice under a normal condition. To achieve this aim, we have generated transgenic mice that lack p38 in cerebellar Purkinje neurons by crossing Pcp2 (Purkinje cell protein 2)-Cre mice with p38(loxP/loxP) mice. Mitochondria from cerebellum were then isolated from the transgenic and wild-type mice to measure mitochondrial respiration using XF24 respirometer. The mRNA and protein expression of cytochrome c oxidase (COX) in cerebellum were also measured using RT-PCR and immunoblot methods. Separately, HT22 cells were used to determine the involvement of 17-estradiol (E2) and COX in mitochondrial respiration. The genetic knockout of p38 in Purkinje neurons suppressed the mitochondrial respiration only in male mice and increased COX expression only in female mice. The inhibition of COX by sodium azide (SA) sharply suppressed mitochondrial respiration of HT22 cells in a manner that was protected by E2. These data suggest that p38 is required for the mitochondrial respiration of male mice. When p38 is below a normal level, females may maintain mitochondrial respiration through COX up-regulation.



Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (iprgcs) are depolarized by light by two mechanisms: directly, through activation of their photopigment melanopsin; and indirectly through synaptic circuits driven by rods and cones. To learn more about the rod and cone circuits driving ipRGCs, we made multielectrode array (MEA) and patch-clamp recordings in wildtype and genetically modified mice. Rod-driven ON inputs to ipRGCs proved to be as sensitive as any reaching the conventional ganglion cells. These signals presumably pass in part through the primary rod pathway, involving rod bipolar cells and AII amacrine cells coupled to ON cone bipolar cells through gap junctions. Consistent with this interpretation, the sensitive rod ON input to ipRGCs was eliminated by pharmacological or genetic disruption of gap junctions, as previously reported for conventional ganglion cells. A presumptive cone input was also detectable as a brisk, synaptically mediated ON response that persisted after disruption of rod ON pathways. This was roughly three log units less sensitive than the rod input. Spectral analysis revealed that both types of cones, the M- and S-cones, contribute to this response and that both cone types drive ON responses. This contrasts with the blue-OFF, yellow-ON chromatic opponency reported in primate ipRGCs. The cone-mediated response was surprisingly persistent during steady illumination, echoing the tonic nature of both the rod input to ipRGCs and their intrinsic, melanopsin-based phototransduction. These synaptic inputs greatly expand the dynamic range and spectral bandpass of the non-image-forming visual functions for which ipRGCs provide the principal retinal input.



Mitochondrial function and energy metabolism are affected in brains of human cocaine abusers. Cocaine is known to induce mitochondrial dysfunction in cardiac and hepatic tissues, but its effects on brain bioenergetics are less documented. Furthermore, the combination of cocaine and opioids (speedball) was also shown to induce mitochondrial dysfunction. In this work, we compared the effects of cocaine and/or morphine on the bioenergetics of isolated brain and liver mitochondria, to understand their specific effects in each tissue. Upon energization with complex I substrates, cocaine decreased state-3 respiration in brain (but not in liver) mitochondria and decreased uncoupled respiration and mitochondrial potential in both tissues, through a direct effect on complex I. Morphine presented only slight effects on brain and liver mitochondria, and the combination cocaine+morphine had similar effects to cocaine alone, except for a greater decrease in state-3 respiration. Brain and liver mitochondrial respirations were differentially affected, and liver mitochondria were more prone to proton leak caused by the drugs or their combination. This was possibly related with a different dependence on complex I in mitochondrial populations from these tissues. In summary, cocaine and cocaine+morphine induce mitochondrial complex I dysfunction in isolated brain and liver mitochondria, with specific effects in each tissue.
We direct our attention to those visual stimuli that are relevant to our behavioral goals. Some of the visual stimuli that surround us are represented more strongly, because they have a higher luminance contrast. However, selective attention also boosts the representation of visual stimuli. It is not yet well understood how attention and contrast interact. Some previous theories proposed that attentional effects are strongest at low contrast, others that they are strongest at high contrast and yet others that the effects of selective attention are largely independent of contrast. In the present study, we investigated the interaction between selective attention and luminance contrast with a contour-grouping task that provides a sensitive measure of the spread of object-based attention, with delays of several hundreds of milliseconds. We find that the spread of object-based attention is largely independent of contrast, and that subjects experience little difficulty in grouping low-contrast contour elements in the presence of other contour elements with a much higher contrast. The results imply that object-based attention and contrast have largely independent effects on visual processing.
Dominant congenital spinal muscular atrophy (DCSMA) is a disorder of developing anterior horn cells and shows lower-limb predominance and clinical overlap with hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), a lower-limb-predominant disorder of corticospinal motor neurons. We have identified four mutations in bicaudal D homolog 2 (Drosophila) (BICD2) in six kindreds affected by DCSMA, DCSMA with upper motor neuron features, or HSP. BICD2 encodes BICD2, a key adaptor protein that interacts with the dynein-dynactin motor complex, which facilitates trafficking of cellular cargos that are critical to motor neuron development and maintenance. We demonstrate that mutations resulting in amino acid substitutions in two binding regions of BICD2 increase its binding affinity for the cytoplasmic dynein-dynactin complex, which might result in the perturbation of BICD2-dynein-dynactin-mediated trafficking, and impair neurite outgrowth. These findings provide insight into the mechanism underlying both the static and the slowly progressive clinical features and the motor neuron pathology that characterize BICD2-associated diseases, and underscore the importance of the dynein-dynactin transport pathway in the development and survival of both lower and upper motor neurons.

The navigation of axons to their final destination can involve a sequence of steps that require different sets of guidance receptors. In this issue, Colak et al. show that regulated intra-axonal protein synthesis coupled to nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) controls a switch in Robo3.2 expression that is critical for navigation.
Fifteen years ago, the generation of new neurons in adulthood was documented in the human hippocampus, but lingering questions have remained about the extent of this process. In this issue of Cell, Spalding et al. provide elegant evidence for continued neurogenesis into adulthood at rates that suggest it may play a significant role in human behavior.
The bones and connective tissues of the murine jaws and skull are partly derived from cephalic neural crest cells (CNCCs). Here, we report that mice deficient of protogenin (Prtg) protein, an immunoglobulin domain-containing receptor expressed in the developing nervous system, have impairments of the palatine and skull. Data from lineage tracing experiments, expression patterns of neural crest cell (NCC) marker genes and detection of apoptotic cells indicate that the malformation of bones in Prtg-deficient mice is due to increased apoptosis of rostral CNCCs (R-CNCCs). Using a yeast two-hybrid screening, we found that Prtg interacts with Radil, a protein previously shown to affect the migration and survival of NCCs in zebrafish with unknown mechanism. Overexpression of Prtg induces translocation of Radil from cytoplasm to cell membrane in cultured AD293 cells. In addition, overexpression of Prtg and Radil activates 51-integrins to high-affinity conformational forms, which is further enhanced by the addition of Prtg ligand ERdj3 into cultured cells. Blockage of Radil by RNA interference abolishes the effect of ERdj3 and Prtg on the 51-integrin, suggesting that Radil acts downstream of Prtg. Prtg-deficient R-CNCCs display fewer activated 51-integrins in embryos, and these cells show reduced migratory ability in in vitro transwell assay. These results suggest that the inside-out activation of the 51-integrin mediated by ERdj3/Prtg/Radil signaling is crucial for proper functions of R-CNCCs, and the deficiency of this pathway causes premature apoptosis of a subset of R-CNCCs and malformation of craniofacial structures.
Somatic cellular reprogramming is a fast-paced and evolving field that is changing the way scientists approach neurological diseases. For the first time in the history of neuroscience, it is feasible to study the behavior of live neurons from patients with neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, and neuropsychiatric diseases, such as autism and schizophrenia. In this Perspective, we will discuss reprogramming technology in the context of its potential use for modeling and treating neurological and psychiatric diseases and will highlight areas of caution and opportunities for improvement.
Conducting drug discovery efforts in patient- and disease-specific cells can maximize their likelihood of success. In this issue of Cell Stem Cell, Yang et al. (2013) demonstrate the power of lineage-specific cell-based drug screens by identifying a compound that promotes survival of stem-cell-derived ALS mutant motor neurons.
The inconsistent implementation of evidence-based practice has become a significant concern in the traumatic stress field. The European Society for Traumatic Stress Studies (ESTSS) has played a major role in highlighting this issue and has contributed to a number of European initiatives to improve dissemination and implementation. Key initiatives include the introduction of the ESTSS General Certificate in Psychotrauma Psychotraumatology and the European Network for Traumatic Stress (TENTS); these are discussed in this paper.



Many real-life decisions in complex and changing environments are guided by the decision maker's beliefs, such as her perceived control over decision outcomes (i.e., agency), leading to phenomena like the &quot;illusion of control&quot;. However, the neural mechanisms underlying the &quot;agency&quot; effect on belief-based decisions are not well understood. Using functional imaging and a card guessing game, we revealed that the agency manipulation (i.e., either asking the subjects (SG) or the computer (CG) to guess the location of the winning card) not only affected the size of subjects' bets, but also their &quot;world model&quot; regarding the outcome dependency. Functional imaging results revealed that the decision-related activation in the lateral and medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) was significantly modulated by agency and previous outcome. Specifically, these PFC regions showed stronger activation when subjects made decisions after losses than after wins under the CG condition, but the pattern was reversed under the SG condition. Furthermore, subjects with high external attribution of negative events were more affected by agency at the behavioral and neural levels. These results suggest that the prefrontal decision-making system can be modulated by abstract beliefs, and are thus vulnerable to factors such as false agency and attribution.
Neurotrophin-regulated gene expression is believed to play a key role in long-term changes in synaptic structure and the formation of dendritic spines. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been shown to induce increases in dendritic spine formation, and this process is thought to function in part by stimulating CREB-dependent transcriptional changes. To identify CREB-regulated genes linked to BDNF-induced synaptogenesis, we profiled transcriptional occupancy of CREB in hippocampal neurons. Interestingly, de novo motif analysis of hippocampal ChIP-Seq data identified a non-canonical CRE motif (TGGCG) that was enriched at CREB target regions and conferred CREB-responsiveness. Because cytoskeletal remodeling is an essential element of the formation of dendritic spines, within our screens we focused our attention on genes previously identified as inhibitors of RhoA GTPase. Bioinformatic analyses identified dozens of candidate CREB target genes known to regulate synaptic architecture and function. We showed that two of these, the RhoA inhibitors Par6C (Pard6A) and Rnd3 (RhoE), are BDNF-induced CREB-regulated genes. Interestingly, CREB occupied a cluster of non-canonical CRE motifs in the Rnd3 promoter region. Lastly, we show that BDNF-stimulated synaptogenesis requires the expression of Par6C and Rnd3, and that overexpression of either protein is sufficient to increase synaptogenesis. Thus, we propose that BDNF can regulate formation of functional synapses by increasing the expression of the RhoA inhibitors, Par6C and Rnd3. This study shows that genome-wide analyses of CREB target genes can facilitate the discovery of new regulators of synaptogenesis.


Therapeutic options currently available for neonatal seizures are still unsatisfactory both in terms of efficacy and of risk for long-term neurotoxicity, even if there is growing recognition of their potential to worsen neurodevelopmental outcome. A recent paper by Slaughter and colleagues entitled &quot;Pharmacological treatment of neonatal seizures: a systematic review&quot; has been published with the aim to provide a treatment algorithm, but, due to the relative paucity of clinical studies, it relies mainly on traditional antiepileptic drugs and does not distinguish between different neonatal populations, especially preterm and hypothermic neonates, who might require a dedicated approach in order to improve seizure control and reduce side effects.
System consolidation, as opposed to cellular consolidation, is defined as the relatively slow process of reorganizing the brain circuits that maintain long-term memory. This concept is founded in part on observations made in mammals that recently formed memories become progressively independent of brain regions initially involved in their acquisition and retrieval and dependent on other brain regions for their long-term storage. Here we present evidence that olfactory appetitive and aversive memories in Drosophila evolve using a system-like consolidation process. We show that all three classes of mushroom body neurons (MBNs) are involved in the retrieval of short- and intermediate-term memory. With the passage of time, memory retrieval becomes independent of '/' and  MBNs, and long-term memory becomes completely dependent on / MBNs. This shift in neuronal dependency for behavioral performance is paralleled by shifts in the activity of the relevant neurons during the retrieval of short-term versus long-term memories. Moreover, transient neuron inactivation experiments using flies trained to have both early and remote memories showed that the '/' MBNs have a time-limited role in memory processing. These results argue that system consolidation is not a unique feature of the mammalian brain and memory systems, but rather a general and conserved feature of how different temporal memories are encoded from relatively simple to complex brains.
Most fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the nervous system is mediated by glutamate acting through ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs). iGluRs (AMPA, kainate, and NMDA receptor subtypes) are tetrameric assemblies, formed as a dimer of dimers. Still, the mechanism underlying tetramerization--the necessary step for the formation of functional receptors that can be inserted into the plasma membrane--is unknown. All eukaryotic compared to prokaryotic iGluR subunits have an additional transmembrane segment, the M4 segment, which positions the physiologically critical C-terminal domain on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. AMPA receptor (AMPAR) subunits lacking M4 do not express on the plasma membrane. Here, we show that these constructs are retained in the endoplasmic reticulum, the major cellular compartment mediating protein oligomerization. Using approaches to assay the native oligomeric state of AMPAR subunits, we find that subunits lacking M4 or containing single amino acid substitutions along an &quot;interacting&quot; face of the M4 helix that block surface expression no longer tetramerize in either homomeric or heteromeric assemblies. In contrast, subunit dimerization appears to be largely intact. These experiments define the M4 segment as a unique functional unit in AMPARs that is required for the critical dimer-to-tetramer transition.
Neural mechanisms in the temporal lobe are essential for recognition memory. Evidence from human functional imaging and neuropsychology, and monkey neurophysiology and neuropsychology also suggests a role for prefrontal cortex in recognition memory. To examine the interaction of these cortical regions in support of recognition memory we tested rhesus monkeys with prefrontal-inferotemporal (PFC-IT) cortical disconnection on two recognition memory tasks, a &quot;constant negative&quot; task, and delayed nonmatching-to-sample (DNMS). In the constant negative task monkeys were presented with sets of 100 discrimination problems. In each problem one unrewarded object was presented once every day, and became familiar over the course of several days testing. The other, rewarded object was always novel. In this task monkeys learned to avoid the familiar constant negatives and choose the novel objects, so performance on this task is guided by a sense of familiarity for the constant negatives. Following PFC-IT disconnection monkeys were severely impaired at reacquiring the rule (to avoid familiar items) but were subsequently unimpaired at acquiring new constant negative problems, thus displaying intact familiarity recognition. The same monkeys were impaired in the acquisition of the DNMS task, as well as memory for lists of objects. This dissociation between two tests of recognition memory is best explained in terms of our general hypothesis that PFC-IT interactions support the representation of temporally complex events, which is necessary in DNMS but not in constant negative. These findings, furthermore, indicate that stimulus familiarity can be represented in temporal cortex without input from prefrontal cortex.
Left-right coordination is essential for locomotor movements and is partly mediated by spinal commissural systems. Such coordination is also essential for reaching and manipulation in primates, but the role of spinal commissural systems here has not been studied. We investigated commissural connectivity to motoneurons innervating forelimb muscles using intracellular recordings in acutely anesthetized macaque monkeys. In 57 of 81 motoneurons, synaptic responses (52 of 57 excitatory) were evoked after contralateral intraspinal microstimulation in the gray matter (cISMS; 300 A maximum current intensity). Some responses (15 of 57) occurred at latencies compatible with a monosynaptic linkage, including in motoneurons projecting to intrinsic hand muscles (9 cells). Three pieces of evidence suggest that these effects reflected the action of commissural interneurons. In two cells, preceding cISMS with stimulation of the contralateral medial brainstem descending pathways facilitated the motoneuron responses, suggesting that cISMS acted on cell bodies whose excitability was increased by descending inputs. Pairing cISMS with stimulation of the contralateral corticospinal tract yielded no evidence of response occlusion in 16 cells tested, suggesting that the effects were not merely axon reflexes generated by stimulation of corticospinal axon branches, which cross the midline. Finally, stimulation of contralateral peripheral nerves evoked responses in 28 of 52 motoneurons (7 of 9 projecting to the hand). Our results demonstrate the existence of commissural neurons with access to spinal motoneurons in primate cervical spinal cord that receive inputs from the periphery as well as descending pathways. Most importantly, commissural neurons also innervate motoneurons of intrinsic hand muscles.
Neurons in the medial superior olive (MSO) enable sound localization by their remarkable sensitivity to submillisecond interaural time differences (ITDs). Each MSO neuron has its own &quot;best ITD&quot; to which it responds optimally. A difference in physical path length of the excitatory inputs from both ears cannot fully account for the ITD tuning of MSO neurons. As a result, it is still debated how these inputs interact and whether the segregation of inputs to opposite dendrites, well-timed synaptic inhibition, or asymmetries in synaptic potentials or cellular morphology further optimize coincidence detection or ITD tuning. Using in vivo whole-cell and juxtacellular recordings, we show here that ITD tuning of MSO neurons is determined by the timing of their excitatory inputs. The inputs from both ears sum linearly, whereas spike probability depends nonlinearly on the size of synaptic inputs. This simple coincidence detection scheme thus makes accurate sound localization possible.
Neural networks are more than the sum of their parts, but the properties of those parts are nonetheless important. For instance, neuronal properties affect the degree to which neurons receiving common input will spike synchronously, and whether that synchrony will propagate through the network. Stimulus-evoked synchrony can help or hinder network coding depending on the type of code. In this Perspective, we describe how spike initiation dynamics influence neuronal input-output properties, how those properties affect synchronization, and how synchronization affects network coding. We propose that synchronous and asynchronous spiking can be used to multiplex temporal (synchrony) and rate coding and discuss how pyramidal neurons would be well suited for that task.
Tuberous sclerosis is a developmental genetic disorder caused by mutations in TSC1, which results in epilepsy, autism, and intellectual disability. The cause of these neurological deficits remains unresolved. Imaging studies suggest that the thalamus may be affected in tuberous sclerosis patients, but this has not been experimentally interrogated. We hypothesized that thalamic deletion of Tsc1 at distinct stages of mouse brain development would produce differential phenotypes. We show that mosaic Tsc1 deletion within thalamic precursors at embryonic day (E) 12.5 disrupts thalamic circuitry and alters neuronal physiology. Tsc1 deletion at this early stage is unique in causing both seizures and compulsive grooming in adult mice. In contrast, only a subset of these phenotypes occurs when thalamic Tsc1 is deleted at a later embryonic stage. Our findings demonstrate that abnormalities in a discrete population of neurons can cause global brain dysfunction and that phenotype severity depends on developmental timing and degree of genetic mosaicism.

We examined the contribution of the nigrostriatal DA system to instrumental learning and behavior using optogenetics in awake, behaving mice. Using Cre-inducible channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) in mice expressing Cre recombinase driven by the tyrosine hydroxylase promoter (Th-Cre), we tested whether selective stimulation of DA neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNC), in the absence of any natural rewards, was sufficient to promote instrumental learning in naive mice. Mice expressing ChR2 in SNC DA neurons readily learned to press a lever to receive laser stimulation, but unlike natural food rewards the lever pressing did not decline with satiation. When the number of presses required to receive a stimulation was altered, mice adjusted their rate of pressing accordingly, suggesting that the rate of stimulation was a controlled variable. Moreover, extinction, i.e. the cessation of action-contingent stimulation, and the complete reversal of the relationship between action and outcome by the imposition of an omission contingency, rapidly abolished lever pressing. Together these results suggest that selective activation of SNC DA neurons can be sufficient for acquisition and maintenance of a new instrumental action.

Many animal vocal signals are given in a wide range of contexts which can sometimes have little in common. Yet, to respond adaptively, listeners must find ways to identify the cause of a signal, or at least rule out alternatives. Here, we investigate the nature of this process in putty-nosed monkeys, a forest primate. In this species, adult males have a very restricted repertoire of vocalizations which are given in response to a wide variety of events occurring under conditions of limited visibility. We carried out a series of field playback experiments on females (N=6) in a habituated group in Gashaka Gumti National Park, Nigeria, in which male alarm/loud calls were presented either alone, or following acoustic information that simulated the occurrence of natural disturbances. We demonstrate that listeners appear to integrate contextual information in order to distinguish among possible causes of calls. We conclude that, in many cases, pragmatic aspects of communication play a crucial role in call interpretation and place a premium on listeners' abilities to integrate information from different sources.
Previous studies suggest that amygdala, insula and prefrontal cortex (PFC) disintegrity play a crucial role in the failure to adequately regulate emotions in Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD). However, prior results are confounded by the high rate of comorbidity with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), which itself has been associated with changes in frontolimbic circuitry. We thus scrutinized the link between PFC, amygdala, insula, and the ability to regulate emotions, contrasting 17 women with BPD without comorbid PTSD to 27 non-clinical control women and in addition to those with BPD and PTSD (n=14). BPD women without PTSD, but not those with comorbid PTSD, had increased cortical thickness in the dorsolateral PFC (DLPFC) in comparison to control women. Furthermore, cortical thickness in the DLPFC of BPD women without PTSD positively correlated with emotion regulation scores and furthermore was positively associated with amygdala volume, as well as cortical thickness of the insula. Our findings highlight the importance of disentangling the impact of BPD and PTSD on the brain and suggest possible compensatory mechanisms for the impaired emotion regulation in BPD women without PTSD.
Autism spectrum disorders share three core symptoms: impaired sociability, repetitive behaviors and communication deficits. Incidence is rising, and current treatments are inadequate. Seizures are a common comorbidity, and since the 1920's a high-fat, low-carbohydrate ketogenic diet has been used to treat epilepsy. Evidence suggests the ketogenic diet and analogous metabolic approaches may benefit diverse neurological disorders. Here we show that a ketogenic diet improves autistic behaviors in the BTBR mouse. Juvenile BTBR mice were fed standard or ketogenic diet for three weeks and tested for sociability, self-directed repetitive behavior, and communication. In separate experiments, spontaneous intrahippocampal EEGs and tests of seizure susceptibility (6 Hz corneal stimulation, flurothyl, SKF83822, pentylenetetrazole) were compared between BTBR and control (C57Bl/6) mice. Ketogenic diet-fed BTBR mice showed increased sociability in a three-chamber test, decreased self-directed repetitive behavior, and improved social communication of a food preference. Although seizures are a common comorbidity with autism, BTBR mice fed a standard diet exhibit neither spontaneous seizures nor abnormal EEG, and have increased seizure susceptibility in just one of four tests. Thus, behavioral improvements are dissociable from any antiseizure effect. Our results suggest that a ketogenic diet improves multiple autistic behaviors in the BTBR mouse model. Therefore, ketogenic diets or analogous metabolic strategies may offer novel opportunities to improve core behavioral symptoms of autism spectrum disorders.

Brain oxytocin is known to play a role in the control of food intake, and recent studies suggest that stimulation of central oxytocin receptors selectively suppresses carbohydrate intake. The specific oxytocin projection sites and receptor populations involved in this response are as yet unidentified. We hypothesized that oxytocin receptors in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) may play a role in limiting sucrose intake, because the VTA is known to influence palatable food intake. We first performed a dose response study in which we observed that intra-VTA oxytocin injection significantly suppressed intake of a 10% sucrose solution during a 30-min test session by 13.35-20.5% relative to vehicle treatment. Doses of intra-VTA oxytocin that suppressed sucrose intake had no effect on water intake. Next we examined the effects of two oxytocin receptor antagonists, (d(CH2)5(1),Tyr(Me)(2),Orn(8))-Oxytocin (OVT) and L-368,899. Each of these antagonists significantly increased 10% sucrose intake by 17-20.5% relative to vehicle when delivered directly into the VTA, at doses subthreshold for effect if injected into the cerebral ventricles. Finally, we observed that the effect of intra-VTA oxytocin to suppress 10% sucrose intake was significantly attenuated by pretreatment with L-368,899, supporting the suggestion that the VTA oxytocin treatment suppresses intake through action at oxytocin receptors. These findings support the suggestion that endogenous oxytocin action within the VTA suppresses sucrose intake. We conclude that oxytocin receptors in the VTA play a physiologic role in the control of sucrose ingestion.

Understanding the neural processes that govern the attribution of a predictive value to environmental stimuli is a major issue in behavioural neuroscience. The main strategy to explore this question has been the use of Pavlovian fear conditioning paradigms. While a majority of studies have focussed on the specific role of the hippocampus and amygdala in contextual versus cued fear, very few studies examined the potential role of subcortical limbic areas. Among those, the anterior thalamic nuclei (ATN) connect to both the hippocampus and the amygdala and also to the cingulate region which is known to support fear-related activity. Here, we show that rats sustaining ATN lesions exhibit a specific impairment following context but not tone conditioning. ATN lesions slowed down acquisition without preventing normal freezing behaviour when rats were reexposed to the conditioning context 24h later. However, ATN rats exhibited poor retrieval of contextual but not cued fear when assessed 3weeks after conditioning. In addition, extinction was faster in ATN rats and spontaneous recovery of contextual fear was impaired by the lesions. These deficits indicate that contextual fear memories established in the absence of the ATN are not robust. Collectively, these findings support an involvement of the ATN in the circuits underlying contextual fear memory.
Cochlear root neurons (CRNs) are the first brainstem neurons which initiate and participate in the full expression of the acoustic startle reflex. Although it has been suggested that a cholinergic pathway from the ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body (VNTB) conveys auditory prepulses to the CRNs, the neuronal origin of the VNTB-CRNs projection and the role it may play in the cochlear root nucleus remain uncertain. To determine the VNTB neuronal type which projects to CRNs, we performed tract-tracing experiments combined with mechanical lesions, and morphometric analyses. Our results indicate that a subpopulation of non-olivocochlear neurons projects directly and bilaterally to CRNs via the trapezoid body. We also performed a gene expression analysis of muscarinic and nicotinic receptors which indicates that CRNs contain a cholinergic receptor profile sufficient to mediate the modulation of CRN responses. Consequently, we investigated the effects of auditory prepulses on the neuronal activity of CRNs using extracellular recordings in vivo. Our results show that CRN responses are strongly inhibited by auditory prepulses. Unlike other neurons of the cochlear nucleus, the CRNs exhibited inhibition that depended on parameters of the auditory prepulse such as intensity and interstimulus interval, showing their strongest inhibition at short interstimulus intervals. In sum, our study supports the idea that CRNs are involved in the auditory prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex, and confirms the existence of multiple cholinergic pathways that modulate the primary acoustic startle circuit.
We report that the mitochondrial chaperone TRAP1, which is induced in most tumor types, is required for neoplastic growth and confers transforming potential to noncancerous cells. TRAP1 binds to and inhibits succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), the complex II of the respiratory chain. The respiratory downregulation elicited by TRAP1 interaction with SDH promotes tumorigenesis by priming the succinate-dependent stabilization of the proneoplastic transcription factor HIF1 independently of hypoxic conditions. These findings provide a mechanistic clue to explain the switch to aerobic glycolysis of tumors and identify TRAP1 as a promising antineoplastic target.
While the role of mitochondrial Ca homeostasis in cell pathophysiology is widely accepted, the possibility that cAMP regulates mitochondrial functions has only recently received experimental support. The site of cAMP production, its targets, and its functions in the organelles remain uncertain. Using a variety of genetic/pharmacological tools, we here demonstrate that the mitochondrial inner membrane is impermeable to cytosolic cAMP, while an autonomous cAMP signaling toolkit is expressed in the matrix. We demonstrate that rises in matrix Ca powerfully stimulate cAMP increases within mitochondria and that matrix cAMP levels regulate their ATP synthesizing efficiency. In cardiomyocyte cultures, mitochondrial cAMP can be increased by treatments that augment the frequency and amplitude of Ca oscillations within the cytosol and organelles, revealing that mitochondria can integrate an oscillatory Ca signal to increase cAMP in their matrix. The present data reveal the existence, within mitochondria, of a hitherto unknown crosstalk between Ca and cAMP.
The pathogenesis of Myotonic Dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is linked to unstable CTG repeats in the DMPK gene which induce the mis-splicing to fetal/neonatal isoforms of many transcripts, including those involved in cellular Ca2+ homeostasis. Here we monitored the splicing of three genes encoding for Ca2+ transporters and channels (RyR1, SERCA1 and CACN1S) during maturation of primary DM1 muscle cells in parallel with the functionality of the Excitation-Contraction (EC) coupling machinery. At 15 days of differentiation, fetal isoforms of SERCA1 and CACN1S mRNA were significantly higher in DM1 myotubes compared to controls. Parallel functional studies showed that the cytosolic Ca2+ response to depolarization in DM1 myotubes did not increase during the progression of differentiation, in contrast to control myotubes. While we observed no differences in the size of intracellular Ca2+ stores, DM1 myotubes showed significantly reduced RyR1 protein levels, uncoupling between the segregated ER/SR Ca2+ store and the voltage-induced Ca2+ release machinery, parallel with induction of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress markers. In conclusion, our data suggest that perturbed Ca2+ homeostasis, via activation of ER stress, contributes to muscle degeneration in DM1 muscle cells likely representing a premature senescence phenotype.


Leucine rich repeat transmembrane protein 3 (LRRTM3) is member of a synaptic protein family. LRRTM3 is a nested gene within -T catenin (CTNNA3) and resides at the linkage peak for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) risk and plasma amyloid  (A) levels. In-vitro knock-down of LRRTM3 was previously shown to decrease secreted A, although the mechanism of this is unclear. In SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing APP and transiently transfected with LRRTM3 alone or with BACE1, we showed that LRRTM3 co-localizes with both APP and BACE1 in early endosomes, where BACE1 processing of APP occurs. Additionally, LRRTM3 co-localizes with APP in primary neuronal cultures from Tg2576 mice transduced with LRRTM3-expressing adeno-associated virus. Moreover, LRRTM3 co-immunoprecipitates with both endogenous APP and overexpressed BACE1, in HEK293T cells transfected with LRRTM3. SH-SY5Y cells with knock-down of LRRTM3 had lower BACE1 and higher CTNNA3 mRNA levels, but no change in APP. Brain mRNA levels of LRRTM3 showed significant correlations with BACE1, CTNNA3 and APP in 400 humans, but not in LRRTM3 knock-out mice. Finally, we assessed 69 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within and flanking LRRTM3 in 1,567 LOADs and 2,082 controls and identified 8 SNPs within a linkage disequilibrium block encompassing 5'UTR-Intron 1 of LRRTM3 that formed multilocus genotypes (MLG) with suggestive global association with LOAD risk (p=0.06), and significant individual MLGs. These 8 SNPs were genotyped in an independent series (1,258 LOADs and 718 controls) and had significant global and individual MLG associations in the combined dataset (p=0.02-0.05). Collectively, these results suggest that protein interactions between LRRTM3, APP and BACE1, as well as complex associations between mRNA levels of LRRTM3, CTNNA3, APP and BACE1 in humans might influence APP metabolism and ultimately risk of AD.
One of the fundamental questions in system neuroscience is how the brain encodes external stimuli in the early sensory cortex. It has been found in experiments that even some simple sensory stimuli can activate large populations of neurons. It is believed that information can be encoded in the spatiotemporal profile of these collective neuronal responses. Here, we use a large-scale computational model of the primary visual cortex (V1) to study the population responses in V1 as observed in experiments in which monkeys performed visual detection tasks. We show that our model can capture very well spatiotemporal activities measured by voltage-sensitive-dye-based optical imaging in V1 of the awake state. In our model, the properties of horizontal long-range connections with NMDA conductance play an important role in the correlated population responses and have strong implications for spatiotemporal coding of neuronal populations. Our computational modeling approach allows us to reveal intrinsic cortical dynamics, separating them from those statistical effects arising from averaging procedures in experiment. For example, in experiments, it was shown that there was a spatially antagonistic center-surround structure in optimal weights in signal detection theory, which was believed to underlie the efficiency of population coding. However, our study shows that this feature is an artifact of data processing.
Arrestins bind ligand-activated, phosphorylated G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and terminate the activation of G proteins. Additionally, nonvisual arrestin/GPCR complex can initiate G protein-independent intracellular signals through their ability to act as scaffolds that bring other signaling molecules to the internalized GPCR. Like nonvisual arrestins, vertebrate visual arrestin (ARR1) terminates G protein signaling from light-activated, phosphorylated GPCR, rhodopsin. Unlike nonvisual arrestins, its role as a transducer of signaling from internalized rhodopsin has not been reported in the vertebrate retina. Formation of signaling complexes with arrestins often requires recruitment of the endocytic adaptor protein, AP-2. We have previously shown that Lys296  Glu (K296E), which is a naturally occurring rhodopsin mutation in certain humans diagnosed with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa, causes toxicity through forming a stable complex with ARR1. Here we investigated whether recruitment of AP-2 by the K296E/ARR1 complex plays a role in generating the cell death signal in a transgenic mouse model of retinal degeneration. We measured the binding affinity of ARR1 for AP-2 and found that, although the affinity is much lower than that of the other arrestins, the unusually high concentration of ARR1 in rods would favor this interaction. We further demonstrate that p44, a splice variant of ARR1 that binds light-activated, phosphorylated rhodopsin but lacks the AP-2 binding motif, prevents retinal degeneration and rescues visual function in K296E mice. These results reveal a unique role of ARR1 in a G protein-independent signaling cascade in the vertebrate retina.
During the past decade, a large body of research has shown that memory traces can become labile upon retrieval and must be restabilized. Critically, interrupting this reconsolidation process can abolish a previously stable memory. Although a large number of studies have demonstrated this reconsolidation associated amnesia in nonhuman animals, the evidence for its occurrence in humans is far less compelling, especially with regard to declarative memory. In fact, reactivating a declarative memory often makes it more robust and less susceptible to subsequent disruptions. Here we show that existing declarative memories can be selectively impaired by using a noninvasive retrieval-relearning technique. In six experiments, we show that this reconsolidation-associated amnesia can be achieved 48 h after formation of the original memory, but only if relearning occurred soon after retrieval. Furthermore, the amnesic effect persists for at least 24 h, cannot be attributed solely to source confusion and is attainable only when relearning targets specific existing memories for impairment. These results demonstrate that human declarative memory can be selectively rewritten during reconsolidation.
Is it possible to prevent atrophy of key brain regions related to cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease (AD)? One approach is to modify nongenetic risk factors, for instance by lowering elevated plasma homocysteine using B vitamins. In an initial, randomized controlled study on elderly subjects with increased dementia risk (mild cognitive impairment according to 2004 Petersen criteria), we showed that high-dose B-vitamin treatment (folic acid 0.8 mg, vitamin B6 20 mg, vitamin B12 0.5 mg) slowed shrinkage of the whole brain volume over 2 y. Here, we go further by demonstrating that B-vitamin treatment reduces, by as much as seven fold, the cerebral atrophy in those gray matter (GM) regions specifically vulnerable to the AD process, including the medial temporal lobe. In the placebo group, higher homocysteine levels at baseline are associated with faster GM atrophy, but this deleterious effect is largely prevented by B-vitamin treatment. We additionally show that the beneficial effect of B vitamins is confined to participants with high homocysteine (above the median, 11 mol/L) and that, in these participants, a causal Bayesian network analysis indicates the following chain of events: B vitamins lower homocysteine, which directly leads to a decrease in GM atrophy, thereby slowing cognitive decline. Our results show that B-vitamin supplementation can slow the atrophy of specific brain regions that are a key component of the AD process and that are associated with cognitive decline. Further B-vitamin supplementation trials focusing on elderly subjets with high homocysteine levels are warranted to see if progression to dementia can be prevented.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a synucleinopathy-induced chronic progressive neurodegenerative disorder, worldwide affecting about 5 million humans. As of yet, actual therapies are symptomatic, and neuroprotective strategies are an unmet need. Due to their capability to transdifferentiate, to immune modulate and to increase neuroplasticity by producing neurotrophic factors, adult stem cells (ASC) might fill this gap. Preclinical research in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and/or 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) lesioned animals established persistent improvements of motor behavior after ASC-treatment. Histological/histochemical measurements in these animals evidenced an intracerebral applied ASC-induced increase of Tyrosine Hydroxylase-positive (TH+) cells with increased striatal dopamine levels, suggesting cell rescue. Likewise, clinical experience with subventricular applied ASCs in PD patients, although limited, is encouraging, evidencing neurorescue especially during the early phase of the disease. In multiple system atrophy (MSA) or progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) patients, though, only marginal reduced progression of natural progression could be established after subventricular or intravasal ASC implantations.


Achieving high-level skills is generally considered to require intense training, which is thought to optimally engage neuronal plasticity mechanisms. Recent work, however, suggests that intensive training may not be necessary for skill learning. Skills can be effectively acquired by a complementary approach in which the learning occurs in response to mere exposure to repetitive sensory stimulation. Such training-independent sensory learning induces lasting changes in perception and goal-directed behaviour in humans, without any explicit task training. We suggest that the effectiveness of this form of learning in different sensory domains stems from the fact that the stimulation protocols used are optimized to alter synaptic transmission and efficacy. While this approach directly links behavioural research in humans with studies on cellular plasticity, other approaches show that learning can occur even in the absence of an actual stimulus. These include learning through imagery or feedback-induced cortical activation, resulting in learning without task training. All these approaches challenge our understanding of the mechanisms that mediate learning. Apparently, humans can learn under conditions thought to be impossible a few years ago. Although the underlying mechanisms are far from being understood, training-independent sensory learning opens novel possibilities for applications aimed at augmenting human cognition.
Binocular vision requires us to match up the different views of the world seen by each eye. Computational models of primary visual cortex describe how the brain begins this process. Recurrent connections help suppress the response to false matches.

A key computation underlying perceptual decisions is the temporal integration of &quot;evidence&quot; in favor of different states of the world. Studies from psychology and neuroscience have shown that observers integrate multiple samples of noisy perceptual evidence over time toward a decision. An influential model posits perfect evidence integration (i.e., without forgetting), enabling optimal decisions based on stationary evidence. However, in real-life environments, the perceptual evidence typically changes continuously. We used a computational model to show that, under such conditions, performance can be improved by means of leaky (forgetful) integration, if the integration timescale is adapted toward the predominant signal duration. We then tested whether human observers employ such an adaptive integration process. Observers had to detect visual luminance &quot;signals&quot; of variable strength, duration, and onset latency, embedded within longer streams of noise. Different sessions entailed predominantly short or long signals. The rate of performance improvement as a function of signal duration indicated that observers indeed changed their integration timescale with the predominant signal duration, in accordance with the adaptive integration account. Our findings establish that leaky integration of perceptual evidence is flexible and that cognitive control mechanisms can exploit this flexibility for optimizing the decision process.
Noninvasive brain stimulation has shown considerable promise for enhancing cognitive functions by the long-term manipulation of neuroplasticity. However, the observation of such improvements has been focused at the behavioral level, and enhancements largely restricted to the performance of basic tasks. Here, we investigate whether transcranial random noise stimulation (TRNS) can improve learning and subsequent performance on complex arithmetic tasks. TRNS of the bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), a key area in arithmetic, was uniquely coupled with near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) to measure online hemodynamic responses within the prefrontal cortex. Five consecutive days of TRNS-accompanied cognitive training enhanced the speed of both calculation- and memory-recall-based arithmetic learning. These behavioral improvements were associated with defined hemodynamic responses consistent with more efficient neurovascular coupling within the left DLPFC. Testing 6 months after training revealed long-lasting behavioral and physiological modifications in the stimulated group relative to sham controls for trained and nontrained calculation material. These results demonstrate that, depending on the learning regime, TRNS can induce long-term enhancement of cognitive and brain functions. Such findings have significant implications for basic and translational neuroscience, highlighting TRNS as a viable approach to enhancing learning and high-level cognition by the long-term modulation of neuroplasticity.
Despite a century of intensive investigation, the underlying cause of multiple sclerosis has eluded us. It is clear that there exists a prominent progressive degenerative phenotype together with an important autoimmune inflammatory component, and careful histopathological examination always shows, to a greater or lesser degree, concomitant degeneration/demyelination and adaptive T cell-dependent immune responses. Given this picture, it is difficult, if not impossible, to definitively say whether degeneration or autoimmunity is the initiator of the disease. In this review, I put forward the evidence for and against both models and speculate that, in contrast to the accepted view, it is equally likely that multiple sclerosis may be a degenerative disease that secondarily elicits an autoimmune response, and suggest how this might influence therapeutic approaches.

Translating new findings in the laboratory into therapies for patients is a slow and expensive process. The development of therapies for neurodegenerative diseases is further complicated by the difficulty in determining whether the drug truly retards the slow degenerative process or provides only symptomatic benefit. In this issue, Aviles-Olmos et al. describe a first in Parkinson's disease (PD) patient study using a drug previously approved for diabetes treatment. In addition to suggesting that the drug may indeed be disease modifying in PD, their innovative approach suggests there may be more rapid and inexpensive avenues for testing novel therapies in PD.
The neurobiology of birdsong, as a model for human speech, is a pronounced area of research in behavioral neuroscience. Whereas electrophysiology and molecular approaches allow the investigation of either different stimuli on few neurons, or one stimulus in large parts of the brain, blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) allows combining both advantages, i.e. compare the neural activation induced by different stimuli in the entire brain at once. fMRI in songbirds is challenging because of the small size of their brains and because their bones and especially their skull comprise numerous air cavities, inducing important susceptibility artifacts. Gradient-echo (GE) BOLD fMRI has been successfully applied to songbirds (1-5) (for a review, see (6)). These studies focused on the primary and secondary auditory brain areas, which are regions free of susceptibility artifacts. However, because processes of interest may occur beyond these regions, whole brain BOLD fMRI is required using an MRI sequence less susceptible to these artifacts. This can be achieved by using spin-echo (SE) BOLD fMRI (7,8) . In this article, we describe how to use this technique in zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata), which are small songbirds with a bodyweight of 15-25 g extensively studied in behavioral neurosciences of birdsong. The main topic of fMRI studies on songbirds is song perception and song learning. The auditory nature of the stimuli combined with the weak BOLD sensitivity of SE (compared to GE) based fMRI sequences makes the implementation of this technique very challenging.
Stress has long been associated with the development of neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders. The effects of stress vary depending upon the age during which the stress is incurred, the duration and severity of the stressor, and can further be influenced by levels of circulating gonadal hormones. To date, the majority of research investigating the link between stress and pathology development has focused on stress hormone secretion, receptor activity, and their impact on neuronal development and functioning in developing and adult male and female rodents. In recent years, work has begun to focus on additional neuromodulatory systems that may be significantly impacted by stress that may explain changes in developmental and sex-based susceptibility to stress. New research targets include molecules that play a role in neuronal development and plasticity. Specifically, stress-induced alterations in growth factors such as neurotrophins, in particular brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), have been identified as a strong candidate modulating stress-associated pathology. Furthermore, changing expression of BDNF and its receptors over development and in response to circulating gonadal hormones extend the attractiveness of this candidate signaling pathway for understanding differences in susceptibility to stress. This review focuses on what is known with regard to the effects of stress on neurotrophin expression in rodents, and the varied effects of stress on BDNF levels as a function of developmental status and sex.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a neurotrophin abundantly expressed in several areas of the central nervous system (CNS) and is known to induce a lasting potentiation of synaptic efficacy, to enhance specific learning and memory processes. BDNF is one of the key molecules modulating brain plasticity and it affects cognitive deficit associated with aging and neurodegenerative disease. Several studies have shown an altered BDNF production and secretion in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases but also in mood disorders like depression, eating disorders and schizophrenia. Plasma BDNF is also a biomarker of impaired memory and general cognitive function in aging women. Gonadal steroids are involved in the regulation of several CNS processes, specifically mood, affective and cognitive functions during fertile life and reproductive aging. These observations lead many scientists to investigate a putative co-regulation between BDNF and gonadal and/or adrenal steroids and their relationship with gender difference in the incidence of mental diseases. This overview aims to summarize the current knowledge on the correlation between BDNF expression/function and both gonadal (progesterone, estrogens, and testosterone) and adrenal hormones (mainly cortisol and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)) with relevance in clinical application.
Throughout life, new neurons arise from the ventricular zone of the adult songbird brain and are recruited to the song control nucleus higher vocal center (HVC), from which they extend projections to its target, nucleus robustus of the arcopallium (RA). This process of ongoing parenchymal neuronal addition and circuit integration is both triggered and modulated by seasonal surges in systemic testosterone. Brain aromatase converts circulating testosterone to estradiol, so that HVC is concurrently exposed to both androgenic and estrogenic stimulation. These two signals cooperate to trigger HVC endothelial cell division and angiogenesis, by inducing the regionally-restricted expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), its matrix-releasing protease MMP9, and its endothelial receptor VEGFR2. The expanded HVC microvascular network then secretes the neurotrophic factor BDNF, which in turn supports the recruitment of newly generated neurons. This process is striking for its spatial restriction and hence functional specificity. While androgen receptors are broadly expressed by the nuclei of the vocal control system, estrogen receptor (ER) expression is largely restricted to HVC and its adjacent mediocaudal neopallium. The geographic overlap of these receptor phenotypes in HVC provides the basis for a regionally-defined set of paracrine interactions between the vascular bed and neuronal progenitor pool that both characterize and distinguish this nucleus. These interactions culminate in the focal attraction of new neurons to the adult HVC, the integration of those neurons into the extant vocal control circuits, and ultimately the acquisition and elaboration of song.
The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and the steroid hormone estrogen exhibit potent effects on hippocampal neurons during development and in adulthood. BDNF and estrogen have also been implicated in the etiology of diverse types of neurological disorders or psychiatric illnesses, or have been discussed as potentially important in treatment. Although both are typically studied independently, it has been suggested that BDNF mediates several of the effects of estrogen in the hippocampus, and that these interactions play a role in the normal brain as well as disease. Here we focus on the mossy fiber (MF) pathway of the hippocampus, a critical pathway in normal hippocampal function, and a prime example of a location where numerous studies support an interaction between BDNF and estrogen in the rodent brain. We first review the temporal and spatially regulated expression of BDNF and estrogen in the MFs, as well as their receptors. Then we consider the results of studies that suggest that 17-estradiol alters hippocampal function by its influence on BDNF expression in the MF pathway. We also address the hypothesis that estrogen influences the hippocampus by mechanisms related not only to the mature form of BDNF, acting at trkB receptors, but also by regulating the precursor, proBDNF, acting at p75NTR. We suggest that the interactions between BDNF and 17-estradiol in the MFs are potentially important in the normal function of the hippocampus, and have implications for sex differences in functions that depend on the MFs and in diseases where MF plasticity has been suggested to play an important role, Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy and addiction.
Gonadal androgens are critical for the development and maintenance of sexually dimorphic regions of the male nervous system, which is critical for male-specific behavior and physiological functioning. In rodents, the motoneurons of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) provide a useful example of a neural system dependent on androgen. Unless rescued by perinatal androgens, the SNB motoneurons will undergo apoptotic cell death. In adulthood, SNB motoneurons remain dependent on androgen, as castration leads to somal atrophy and dendritic retraction. In a second vertebrate model, the zebra finch, androgens are critical for the development of several brain nuclei involved in song production in males. Androgen deprivation during a critical period during postnatal development disrupts song acquisition and dimorphic size-associated nuclei. Mechanisms by which androgens exert masculinizing effects in each model system remain elusive. Recent studies suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may play a role in androgen-dependent masculinization and maintenance of both SNB motoneurons and song nuclei of birds. This review aims to summarize studies demonstrating that BDNF signaling via its tyrosine receptor kinase (TrkB) receptor may work cooperatively with androgens to maintain somal and dendritic morphology of SNB motoneurons. We further describe studies that suggest the cellular origin of BDNF is of particular importance in androgen-dependent regulation of SNB motoneurons. We review evidence that androgens and BDNF may synergistically influence song development and plasticity in bird species. Finally, we provide hypothetical models of mechanisms that may underlie androgen- and BDNF-dependent signaling pathways.
The effects of the steroid hormone 17-estradiol and the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on neuronal physiology have been well investigated. Numerous studies have demonstrated that each signal can exert powerful influences on the structure and function of synapses, and specifically on dendritic spines, both within short and long time frames. Moreover, it has been suggested that BDNF is required for the long-term, or genomic, actions of 17-estradiol on dendritic spines, via its ability to regulate the expression of neurotrophins. Here we focus on the acute, or rapid effects, of 17-estradiol and BDNF, and their ability to activate specific signalling cascades, resulting in alterations in dendritic spine morphology. We first review recent literature describing the mechanisms by which 17-estradiol activates these pathways, and the resulting alterations in dendritic spine number. We then describe the molecular mechanisms underlying acute modulation of dendritic spine morphology by BDNF. Finally, we consider how this new evidence may suggest that the temporal interactions of 17-estradiol and BDNF can occur more rapidly than previously reported. Building on these new data, we propose a novel model for the interactions of this steroid and neurotrophin, whereby rapid, non-genomic 17-estradiol and acute BDNF signal in a co-operative manner, resulting in dendritic spine formation and subsequent stabilization in support of synapse and circuit plasticity. This extended hypothesis suggests an additional mechanism by which these two signals may modulate dendritic spines in a time-specific manner.
Accumulating experimental evidence suggests that groups of neurons in the CNS might react to pathological insults by activating developmental-like programs for survival, regeneration and re-establishment of lost connections. For instance, in cell and animal models it was shown that after trauma mature central neurons become dependent on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) trophic support for survival. This event is preceded by a shift of postsynaptic GABAA receptor-mediated responses from hyperpolarization to developmental-like depolarization. These profound functional changes in GABAA receptor-mediated transmission and the requirement of injured neurons for BDNF trophic support are interdependent. Thyroid hormones (THs) play a crucial role in the development of the nervous system, having significant effects on dendritic branching, synaptogenesis and axonal growth to name a few. In the adult nervous system TH thyroxin has been shown to have a neuroprotective effect and to promote regeneration in experimental trauma models. Interestingly, after trauma there is a qualitative change in the regulatory effect of thyroxin on BDNF expression as well as on GABAergic transmission. In this review we provide an overview of the post-traumatic changes in these signaling systems and discuss the potential significance of their interactions for the development of novel therapeutic strategies.
The neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), is recognized as a key component in the regulation of CNS ontogeny, homeostasis and adult neuroplasticity. The importance of BDNF in CNS development and function is well documented by numerous reports from animal studies linking abnormal BDNF signaling to metabolic disturbances and anxiety or depressive-like behavior. Despite the diverse roles for BDNF in nearly all aspects of CNS physiology, the regulation of BDNF expression, as well as our understanding of the signaling mechanisms associated with this neurotrophin, remains incomplete. However, links between sex hormones such as estradiol and testosterone, as well as endogenous and synthetic glucocorticoids (GCs), have emerged as important mediators of BDNF expression and function. Examples of such regulation include brain region-specific induction of Bdnf mRNA in response to estradiol. Additional studies have also documented regulation of the expression of the high-affinity BDNF receptor Tropomyosin-Related Kinase B by estradiol, thus implicating sex steroids not only in the regulation of BDNF expression, but also in mechanisms of signaling associated with it. In addition to gonadal steroids, further evidence also suggests functional interaction between BDNF and GCs, such as in the regulation of corticotrophin-releasing hormone and other important neuropeptides. In this review, we provide an overview of the roles played by selected sex or stress hormones in the regulation of BDNF expression and signaling in the CNS.
Thyroid hormones (TH) are essential for normal brain development. Even modest degrees of TH disruption experienced in utero can result in neuropsychological deficits in children despite normal thyroid status at birth. Neurotrophins have been implicated in a host of brain cellular functions, and in particular, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has a well documented role in development and function of the nervous system. A number of laboratories have reported the effects of TH administration or severe deprivation on neurotrophin expression in brain. This review provides an overview and update of recent developments in the thyroid field as they relate to the nervous system. Secondly, we describe an animal model of low level TH insufficiency that is more relevant for studying the neurological consequences associated with the modest TH perturbations of subclinical hypothyroidism, or that would be anticipated from exposure to environmental contaminants with a mode-of-action that involves the thyroid. Finally, we review the available in vivo literature on TH-mediated alterations in neurotrophins, particularly BDNF, and discuss their possible contribution to brain impairments associated with TH insufficiency. The observations of altered BDNF protein and gene expression have varied as a function of hypothyroid model, age, and brain region assessed. Only a handful of studies have investigated the relationship of neurotrophins and TH using models of TH deprivation that are not severe, and dose-response information is sparse. Differences in the models used, species, doses, regions assessed, age at assessment, and method employed make it difficult to reach a consensus. Based on the available literature, the case for a direct role for BDNF in thyroid-mediated effects in the brain is not compelling. We conclude that delineation of the potential role of neurotrophins in TH-mediated neuronal development may be more fruitful by examining additional neurotrophins (e.g., nerve growth factor), moderate degrees of TH insufficiency, and younger ages. We further suggest that investigation of BDNF invoked by synaptic activation (i.e., plasticity, enrichment, trauma) may serve to elucidate a role of thyroid hormone in BDNF-regulated synaptic function.

17-Estradiol and progesterone exert a number of physiological effects throughout the brain due to interactions with several types of receptors belonging to the traditional family of intracellular hormonal receptors as well as to membrane-bound receptors. In particular, both hormones elicit rapid modifications of neuronal excitability that have been postulated to underlie their effects on synaptic plasticity and learning and memory. Likewise, both hormones have been shown to be neuroprotective under certain conditions, possibly due to the activation of pro-survival pathways and the inhibition of pro-apoptotic cascades. Because of the similarities in their cellular effects, there have been a number of questions raised by numerous observations that progesterone inhibits the effects of estrogen. In this manuscript, we first review the interactions between 17-estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P4) in synaptic plasticity, and conclude that, while E2 exerts a clear and important role in long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission in hippocampal neurons, the role of P4 is much less clear, and could be accounted by the direct or indirect regulation of GABAA receptors. We then discuss the neuroprotective roles of both hormones, in particular against excitotoxicity. In this case, the neuroprotective effects of these hormones are very similar to those of the neurotrophic factor BDNF. Interestingly, P4 antagonizes the effects of E2, possibly through the regulation of estrogen receptors or of proteins associated with the receptors or interactions with signaling pathways activated by E2. Overall, this review emphasizes the existence of common molecules and pathways that participate in the regulation of both synaptic plasticity and neurodegeneration.
Interaction between steroid sex hormones and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a common feature of vertebrate brain organization. The avian song control system provides an excellent model for studying such interactions in neural circuits that regulate song, a learned sensorimotor behavior that is often sexually dimorphic and restricted to reproductive contexts. Testosterone (T) and its steroid metabolites interact with BDNF during development of the song system and in adult plasticity, including the addition of newborn neurons to the pallial nucleus HVC and seasonal changes in structure and function of these circuits. T and BDNF interact locally within HVC to influence cell proliferation and survival. This interaction may also occur transsynpatically; T increases the synthesis of BDNF in HVC, and BDNF protein is then released on to postsynaptic cells in the robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA) where it has trophic effects. The interaction between sex steroids and BDNF is an example of molecular exploitation, with the evolutionarily ancient steroid-receptor complex having been captured by the more recently evolved BDNF. The functional linkage of sex steroids to BDNF may be of adaptive value in regulating the trophic effects of the neurotrophin in sexually dimorphic and reproductively relevant contexts.
Estrogen's acute, facilitatory effects on glutamatergic transmission and long-term potentiation (LTP) provide a potential explanation for the steroid's considerable influence on behavior. Recent work has identified mechanisms underlying these synaptic actions. Brief infusion of 17-estradiol (E2) into adult male rat hippocampal slices triggers actin polymerization within dendritic spines via a signaling cascade beginning with the GTPase RhoA and ending with inactivation of the filament-severing protein cofilin. Blocking this sequence, or actin polymerization itself, eliminates E2's effects on synaptic physiology. Notably, the theta burst stimulation used to induce LTP activates the same signaling pathway as E2 plus events that stabilize the reorganization of the sub-synaptic cytoskeleton. These observations suggest that E2 elicits a partial form of LTP, resulting in an increase of fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and a reduction in the threshold for lasting synaptic changes. While E2's effects on the cytoskeleton could be direct, results described here indicate that the hormone activates synaptic tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) receptors for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a releasable neurotrophin that stimulates the RhoA to cofilin pathway. It is therefore possible that E2 acts via transactivation of neighboring receptors to modify the composition and structure of excitatory contacts. Finally, there is the question of whether a loss of acute synaptic actions contributes to the memory problems associated with estrogen depletion. Initial tests found that ovariectomy in middle-aged rats disrupts RhoA signaling, actin polymerization, and LTP consolidation. Acute applications of E2 reversed these defects, a result consistent with the idea that disturbances to actin management are one cause of behavioral effects that emerge with reductions in steroid levels.
Neurotrophic factors and steroid hormones interact to regulate a variety of neuronal processes such as neurite outgrowth, differentiation, and neuroprotection. The coexpression of steroid hormone and neurotrophin receptor mRNAs and proteins, as well as their reciprocal regulation provides the necessary substrates for such interactions to occur. This review will focus on androgen brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) interactions in the spinal cord, describing androgen regulation of BDNF in neuromuscular systems following castration, androgen manipulation, and injury. Androgens interact with BDNF during development to regulate normally-occurring motoneuron death, and in adulthood, androgen-BDNF interactions are involved in the maintenance of several features of neuromuscular systems. Androgens regulate BDNF and trkB expression in spinal motoneurons. Androgens also regulate BDNF levels in the target musculature, and androgenic action at the muscle regulates BDNF levels in motoneurons. These interactions have important implications for the maintenance of motoneuron morphology. Finally, androgens interact with BDNF after injury, influencing soma size, dendritic morphology, and axon regeneration. Together, these findings provide further insight into the development and maintenance of neuromuscular systems and have implications for the neurotherapeutic/neuroprotective roles of androgens and trophic factors in the treatment of motoneuron disease and recovery from injury.
Schizophrenia is a severe psychiatric disorder with a complex and variable set of symptoms. Both genetic and environmental mechanisms are involved in the development of the illness and lead to structural and neurochemical abnormalities in the brain. An intriguing facet of schizophrenia is sex differences, which have been described for nearly all features of the illness, including the peak age of onset, symptoms and treatment response. The ovarian hormone, estrogen, may be protective against schizophrenia and evidence is accumulating that estrogen may exert this effect via an interaction with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Both estrogen and BDNF have trophic effects on the developing brain and promote synaptic plasticity and maintain neurons well into adulthood. Major neurotransmitter systems including dopaminergic, serotonergic and glutamatergic pathways are modulated and supported by estrogen and BDNF. Despite their commonalities, estrogen and BDNF have mostly been examined independently but increasing evidence suggests an interaction between the two in brain regions pertinent to schizophrenia. This review will focus on the role of estrogen and BDNF in clinical and animal studies of schizophrenia. We include animal models of neurotransmitter dysfunction and genetic manipulation to show how estrogen may provide a protective effect in schizophrenia, including through mediating BDNF expression and activity. This posited estrogen-BDNF interaction could play a key role in modulating sex-dependent results reported in animal work as well as sex differences in clinical aspects of schizophrenia.
We investigated the effect of delayed, prolonged systemic inflammation on stroke outcomes and progesterone (P4) neuroprotection in middle-aged rats. After transient middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (MCAO) surgery, rats received P4 (8 or 16 mg/kg) or vehicle injections at 2h, 6h and every 24h until day 7 post-occlusion. At 24h post-injury systemic inflammation was induced by giving three doses of lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 50 g/kg, at 4h intervals) to model post-stroke infections. We measured serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), pro-inflammatory cytokines, and behavioral parameters at multiple times. Serum BDNF levels decreased more in the vehicle+LPS group compared to vehicle-alone at 3 and 7 days post-injury (P&lt;0.05). Vehicle-alone showed a significant increase in interleukin-1, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor alpha levels at different times following stroke and these levels were further elevated in the vehicle+LPS group. P4 at both doses produced a significant (P&lt;0.05) decline in cytokine levels compared to vehicle and vehicle+LPS. P4 restored BDNF levels at 3 and 7 days post-stroke (P&lt;0.05). Behavioral assessment (rotarod, grip strength, sensory neglect and locomotor activity tests) at 3, 5 and 7 days post-stroke revealed that the vehicle group had significant (P&lt;0.05) deficits in all tests compared to intact controls, and performance was worse in the vehicle+LPS group. P4 at both doses produced significant functional improvement on all tests. Systemic inflammation did not show an additive effect on infarct volume but P4 at both doses showed significant infarct reduction. We suggest that post-stroke infection exacerbates stroke outcomes and P4 exerts neuroprotective/modulatory effects through its systemic anti-inflammatory and BDNF regulatory actions.
Several lines of evidence have converged to indicate that memory formation involves plasticity of dendritic spines in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the hippocampus. Memory varies with estrogen levels throughout the lifespan of the female. Generally, increased levels of estrogen are related to greater dendritic spine density on pyramidal cells in the PFC and the hippocampus and to improved memory function. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a growth factor which increases dendritic spines and enhances memory function. Estrogens increase BDNF levels in the PFC and the hippocampus. In the present review we provide evidence that estradiol and BDNF may work in concert to enhance cognition. In adult females, fluctuations in recognition memory following ovariectomy and estradiol replacement, during the estrous cycle, in pregnancy and with aging are accompanied by similar changes in circulating estradiol, BDNF levels and spine density alterations in the PFC and the hippocampus. In addition, both estradiol and BDNF induce spine plasticity via rapid membrane effects and slower transcriptional regulation via the CREB pathway. Moreover, estradiol increases BDNF levels through action on nuclear receptors. While the exact mechanism(s) for the influence of estrogens and BDNF on memory remain unclear, this combination may provide the basis for new and more effective strategies for treating age-related and neurodegenerative memory loss.
During development of the nervous system, the formation of connections (synapses) between neurons is dependent upon electrical activity in those neurons, and neurotrophic factors produced by target cells play a pivotal role in such activity-dependent sculpting of the neural networks. A similar interplay between neurotransmitter and neurotrophic factor signaling pathways mediates adaptive responses of neural networks to environmental demands in adult mammals, with the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) being particularly prominent regulators of synaptic plasticity throughout the central nervous system. Optimal brain health throughout the lifespan is promoted by intermittent challenges such as exercise, cognitive stimulation and dietary energy restriction, that subject neurons to activity-related metabolic stress. At the molecular level, such challenges to neurons result in the production of proteins involved in neurogenesis, learning and memory and neuronal survival; examples include proteins that regulate mitochondrial biogenesis, protein quality control, and resistance of cells to oxidative, metabolic and proteotoxic stress. BDNF signaling mediates up-regulation of several such proteins including the protein chaperone GRP-78, antioxidant enzymes, the cell survival protein Bcl-2, and the DNA repair enzyme APE1. Insufficient exposure to such challenges, genetic factors may conspire to impair BDNF production and/or signaling resulting in the vulnerability of the brain to injury and neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases. Further, BDNF signaling is negatively regulated by glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoids impair synaptic plasticity in the brain by negatively regulating spine density, neurogenesis and long-term potentiation, effects that are potentially linked to glucocorticoid regulation of BDNF. Findings suggest that BDNF signaling in specific brain regions mediates some of the beneficial effects of exercise and energy restriction on peripheral energy metabolism and the cardiovascular system. Collectively, the findings described in this article suggest the possibility of developing prescriptions for optimal brain health based on activity-dependent BDNF signaling.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has multiple roles in the central nervous system (CNS), including maintaining cell survival and regulation of synaptic function. In CNS neurons, BDNF triggers activation of phospholipase C (PLC), mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK), and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathways, influencing neuronal cells beneficially through these intracellular signaling cascades. There is evidence to suggest that decreased BDNF expression or function is related to the pathophysiology of brain diseases including psychiatric disorders. Additionally, glucocorticoids, which are critical stress hormones, also influence neuronal function in the CNS, and are putatively involved in the onset of depression when levels are abnormally high. In animal models of depression, changes in glucocorticoid levels, expression of glucocorticoid receptor (GR), and alterations in BDNF signaling are observed. Interestingly, several studies using in vivo and in vitro systems suggest that glucocorticoids interact with BDNF to ultimately affect CNS function. In the present review, we provide an overview of recent evidence concerning the interaction between BDNF and glucocorticoids.
While the effects of progesterone in the CNS, like those of estrogen, have generally been considered within the context of reproductive function, growing evidence supports its importance in regulating non-reproductive functions including cognition and affect. In addition, progesterone has well-described protective effects against numerous insults in a variety of cell models, animal models and in humans. While ongoing research in several laboratories continues to shed light on the mechanism(s) by which progesterone and its related progestins exert their effects in the CNS, our understanding is still incomplete. Among the key mediators of progesterone's beneficial effects is the family of growth factors called neurotrophins. Here, we review the mechanisms by which progesterone regulates one important member of the neurotrophin family, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and provides support for its pivotal role in the protective program elicited by progesterone in the brain.
One hypothesis to account for the onset and severity of neurological disorders is the loss of trophic support. Indeed, changes in the levels and activities of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) occur in numerous neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric diseases. A deficit promotes vulnerability whereas a gain of function facilitates recovery by enhancing survival, synapse formation and synaptic plasticity. Implementation of 'BDNF therapies', however, faces numerous methodological and pharmacokinetic issues. Identifying BDNF mimetics that activate the BDNF receptor or downstream targets of BDNF signaling represent an alternative approach. One mechanism that shows great promise is to study the interplay of BDNF and glucocorticoid hormones, a major class of natural steroid secreted during stress reactions and in synchrony with circadian rhythms. While small amounts of glucocorticoids support normal brain function, excess stimulation by these steroid hormones precipitates stress-related affective disorders. To date, however, because of the paucity of knowledge of underlying cellular mechanisms, deleterious effects of glucocorticoids are not prevented following extreme stress. In the present review, we will discuss the complementary roles shared by BDNF and glucocorticoids in synaptic plasticity, and delineate possible signaling mechanisms mediating these effects.
Glucocorticoids serve as key stress response hormones that facilitate stress coping. However, sustained glucocorticoid exposure is associated with adverse consequences on the brain, in particular within the hippocampus. Chronic glucocorticoid exposure evokes neuronal cell damage and dendritic atrophy, reduces hippocampal neurogenesis and impairs synaptic plasticity. Glucocorticoids also alter expression and signaling of the neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Since BDNF is known to promote neuroplasticity, enhance cell survival, increase hippocampal neurogenesis and cellular excitability, it has been hypothesized that specific adverse effects of glucocorticoids may be mediated by attenuating BDNF expression and signaling. The purpose of this review is to summarize the current state of literature examining the influence of glucocorticoids on BDNF, and to address whether specific effects of glucocorticoids arise through perturbation of BDNF signaling. We integrate evidence of glucocorticoid regulation of BDNF at multiple levels, spanning from the well-documented glucocorticoid-induced changes in BDNF mRNA to studies examining alterations in BDNF receptor-mediated signaling. Further, we delineate potential lines of future investigation to address hitherto unexplored aspects of the influence of glucocorticoids on BDNF. Finally, we discuss the current understanding of the contribution of BDNF to the modulation of structural and functional plasticity by glucocorticoids, in particular in the context of the hippocampus. Understanding the mechanistic crosstalk between glucocorticoids and BDNF holds promise for the identification of potential therapeutic targets for disorders associated with the dysfunction of stress hormone pathways.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a secreted protein that has been linked to numerous aspects of plasticity in the central nervous system (CNS). Stress-induced remodeling of the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and amygdala is coincident with changes in the levels of BDNF, which has been shown to act as a trophic factor facilitating the survival of existing and newly born neurons. Initially, hippocampal atrophy after chronic stress was associated with reduced BDNF, leading to the hypothesis that stress-related learning deficits resulted from suppressed hippocampal neurogenesis. However, recent evidence suggests that BDNF also plays a rapid and essential role in regulating synaptic plasticity, providing another mechanism through which BDNF can modulate learning and memory after a stressful event. Numerous reports have shown BDNF levels are highly dynamic in response to stress, and not only vary across brain regions but also fluctuate rapidly, both immediately after a stressor and over the course of a chronic stress paradigm. Yet, BDNF alone is not sufficient to effect many of the changes observed after stress. Glucocorticoids and other molecules have been shown to act in conjunction with BDNF to facilitate both the morphological and molecular changes that occur, particularly changes in spine density and gene expression. This review briefly summarizes the evidence supporting BDNF's role as a trophic factor modulating neuronal survival, and will primarily focus on the interactions between BDNF and other systems within the brain to facilitate synaptic plasticity. This growing body of evidence suggests a more nuanced role for BDNF in stress-related learning and memory, where it acts primarily as a facilitator of plasticity and is dependent upon the coactivation of glucocorticoids and other factors as the determinants of the final cellular response.
Recent studies suggest that the dysfunction of neural plasticity is associated with mood disorders. Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1), which is a transcriptional activator of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), activates the cellular response to hypoxia. HIF-1 is ubiquitously expressed in all cells, including peripheral leukocytes. However, little is known about the role of HIF-1 in mood disorder. In the present study, we investigated the mRNA expression levels of HIF-1 ( and ) and its target genes (VEGF, GLUT1, PGK1, PFKFB3, and LDHA) in the peripheral white blood cells of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BPD). We found increased expression of HIF- 1 and HIF-1 mRNA, as well as the target genes, VEGF, and PFKFB3 in both MDD and BPD patients in a depressive state compared to healthy control subjects. Furthermore, the mRNA expression levels of GLUT1, PGK1, and LDHA were increased in MDD patients in a depressive state compared to healthy control subjects. We also found increased expression of HIF-1 and LDHA mRNA in MDD patients in a remissive state, whereas the mRNA expression levels of other genes in a remissive state were comparable to those in healthy control subjects. There was no significant difference in mRNA expression levels of the genes examined among patients receiving any type of antidepressant or mood stabilizer. Our data suggest that altered expression of HIF-1 and its target genes mRNA in peripheral blood cells are associated-mainly in a state-dependent manner-with mood disorders (especially with MDD). In addition, altered expression of HIF-1 and its target genes may be associated with the pathophysiology of depression.
DOPA decarboxylase (DDC) is involved in the synthesis of dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin. It has been suggested that genes involved in the dopamine, norepinephrine, and cholinergic systems play an essential role in the efficiency of human attention networks. Attention refers to the cognitive process of obtaining and maintaining the alert state, orienting to sensory events, and regulating the conflicts of thoughts and behavior. The present study tested seven single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within the DDC gene for association with attention, which was assessed by the Attention Network Test to detect three networks of attention, including alerting, orienting, and executive attention, in a healthy Han Chinese sample (N=451). Association analysis for individual SNPs indicated that four of the seven SNPs (rs3887825, rs7786398, rs10499695, and rs6969081) were significantly associated with alerting attention. Haplotype-based association analysis revealed that alerting was associated with the haplotype G-A-T for SNPs rs7786398-rs10499695-rs6969081. These associations remained significant after correcting for multiple testing by max(T) permutation. No association was found for orienting and executive attention. This study provides the first evidence for the involvement of the DDC gene in alerting attention. A better understanding of the genetic basis of distinct attention networks would allow us to develop more effective diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of deficient or underdeveloped alerting attention as well as its related prevalent neuropsychiatric disorders.
A putative pathway by which the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism (rs6265) leads to aberrant phenotypes is its influence on plasma BDNF. Research into the impact of rs6265 on plasma BDNF has given rise to conflicting results. Moreover, most such studies have compared Met-carriers with Val-homozygous subjects. We therefore genotyped subjects from a population-based cohort (the Utrecht Health Project, N=2743) and assessed whether plasma BDNF differs between rs6265 homozygous groups. We maximized the number of Met-homozygous subjects in whom we measured plasma BDNF, resulting in plasma BDNF being available for 19 Met-homozygous and 42 matched Val-homozygous subjects. Mean concentrations (S.D.) were 1963.1 (750.1) and 2133.2 pg/ml (1164.3) for the Val/Val and Met/Met groups, respectively. Using ANOVA, no differences in plasma BDNF between the two groups were detected. In conclusion, these results add to a growing body of evidence indicating that allelic variation at rs6265 does not have medium to large effects on plasma BDNF concentrations.
Bipolar disorder is associated with increases in mortality rates due to metabolic complications when compared to the general population. The &quot;selfish brain&quot; theory postulates that the CNS modulates energy metabolism in the periphery in order to prioritize its own demand and offers an heurist value framework to understand how and why metabolic abnormalities develop in the course of BD. Mood episodes, especially those of manic polarity are neurotoxic, because of the acute release of the neurotransmitters dopamine and glutamate, oxidative species, inflammatory cytokines and the deprivation of neuroprotective factors, such as neurotrophins. The cell loss and malfunctioning require from the brain an extra effort to repair itself, which will demand energetic supplies. Application of &quot;selfish brain&quot; theory in BD can potentially offer new insights about how to prevent and treat metabolic complications in BD.


A new, simple, inexpensive, and rapid 96-well plate UV spectrophotometric method was developed and validated for the quantification of compound 48/80 (C48/80) associated with particles. C48/80 was quantified at 570 nm after reaction with acetaldehyde and sodium nitroprusside in an alkaline solution (pH 9.6). The method was validated according to the recommendations of the ICH Guidelines for specificity, linearity, range, accuracy, precision, and detection and quantification limits (DL and QL). All the validation parameters were assessed in three different solvents, i.e., deionized water, blank matrix of chitosan nanoparticles, and blank matrix of chitosan/alginate nanoparticles. The method was found to be linear in the concentration range of 5 to 160 g/ml (R(2)&gt;0.9994). Intraday and interday precision was adequate, with relative standard deviation lower than those given by the Horwitz equation. The mean recoveries of C48/80 from spiked samples ranged between 98.1% and 105.9% for calibration curves done with the blank matrices and between 89.3% and 103.3% for calibration curves done with water, respectively. The DL were lower than 1.01 g/ml and the QL were lower than 3.30 g/ml. The results showed that the developed method is sensitive, linear, precise, and accurate for its intended use, with the additional advantages of being cost-effective and time-effective, allowing the use of small-volume samples, and the simultaneous analysis of a large number of samples. The proposed method was already successfully applied to evaluate the loading efficacy of C48/80 chitosan-based nanoparticles and can be easily applied during the development of other C48/80-based formulations.
An effective paradigm for transplanting large numbers of neural stem cells after central nervous system (CNS) injury has yet to be established. Biomaterial scaffolds have shown promise in cell transplantation and in regenerative medicine, but improved scaffolds are needed. In this study we designed and optimized multifunctional and biocompatible chitosan-based films and microspheres for the delivery of neural stem cells and growth factors for CNS injuries. The chitosan microspheres were fabricated by coaxial airflow techniques, with the sphere size controlled by varying the syringe needle gauge and the airflow rate. When applying a coaxial airflow at 30 standard cubic feet per hour, 300m diameter spheres were reproducibly generated that were physically stable yet susceptible to enzymatic degradation. Heparin was covalently crosslinked to the chitosan scaffolds using genipin, which bound fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) with high affinity while retaining its biological activity. At 1gml(-1) approximately 80% of the FGF-2 bound to the scaffold. A neural stem cell line, GFP+RG3.6 derived from embryonic rat cortex, was used to evaluate cytocompatibility, attachment and survival on the crosslinked chitosan-heparin complex surfaces. The MTT assay and microscopic analysis revealed that the scaffold containing tethered FGF-2 was superior in sustaining survival and growth of neural stem cells compared to standard culture conditions. Altogether, our results demonstrate that this multifunctional scaffold possesses good cytocompatibility and can be used as a growth factor delivery vehicle while supporting neural stem cell attachment and survival.

Almost all patients who developed autoimmune thyroid disease associated with encephalopathy were diagnosed to have Hashimoto's thyroiditis, but a few patients with Graves' disease who developed encephalopathy have been reported. A 36-year-old female with a 10-year history of Graves' disease had experienced three episodes of tonic-clonic seizure. At admission, the patient's status was confused, and she also developed tactile and visual hallucinations. The cranial MRI confirmed white-matter lesion and showed subcortical high signal lesions on T2-weighted images. In EEG record, diffuse slow activity was noticed in both sides. T3 and TSH were decreased, T4 remained normal and thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPO) was evaluated to be more than 2,000 (T4=8.4, T3=12/9, TSH=0/14, TPO &gt;2,000). The diagnosis of autoimmune thyroid disease is probable in all patients with signs of encephalopathy with unknown origin, while they have a previous history of thyroid disease.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the aggregation of ubiquitinated proteins in affected motor neurons. Recent studies have identified several new molecular constituents of ALS-linked cellular aggregates, including FUS, TDP-43, OPTN, UBQLN2 and the translational product of intronic repeats in the gene C9ORF72. Mutations in the genes encoding these proteins are found in a subgroup of ALS patients and segregate with disease in familial cases, indicating a causal relationship with disease pathogenesis. Furthermore, these proteins are often detected in aggregates of non-mutation carriers and those observed in other neurodegenerative disorders, supporting a widespread role in neuronal degeneration. The molecular characteristics and distribution of different types of protein aggregates in ALS can be linked to specific genetic alterations and shows a remarkable overlap hinting at a convergence of underlying cellular processes and pathological effects. Thus far, self-aggregating properties of prion-like domains, altered RNA granule formation and dysfunction of the protein quality control system have been suggested to contribute to protein aggregation in ALS. The precise pathological effects of protein aggregation remain largely unknown, but experimental evidence hints at both gain- and loss-of-function mechanisms. Here, we discuss recent advances in our understanding of the molecular make-up, formation, and mechanism-of-action of protein aggregates in ALS. Further insight into protein aggregation will not only deepen our understanding of ALS pathogenesis but also may provide novel avenues for therapeutic intervention.



In the present study the contribution of estradiol in sex-dependent differences of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-induced seizures was investigated in rats. The rats were divided into four groups: 1) sham, 2) ovariectomized (OVX), 3) ovariectomized-estradiol (OVX-Est) and 4) male. The OVX-Est group received estradiol valerate (2 mg/kg; i.m/4 weeks) while, male, sham and OVX groups received vehicle. The animals were injected by PTZ (90 mg/kg). The latencies to minimal clonic seizures (MCS) and generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS), were recorded. Serum 17-estradiol and testosterone levels were also determined using an Elisa kit. GTCS latency in OVX rats was higher than in sham-operated animals (P &lt; 0.05). MCS and GTCS latency in the male group was significantly higher than in the sham, OVX and OVX-Est groups (P &lt; 0.001 and P &lt; 0.01). There was no significant difference in MCS or GTCS latencies among OVX-Est, sham and OVX groups. Serum 17-estradiol level in the OVX group was significantly lower than in the sham (P &lt; 0.01) and in the OVX-Est group it was higher than in the sham, OVX and male groups (P &lt; 0.01 and P &lt; 0.001). Serum testosterone level in the male group was significantly higher than in all the other three groups (P &lt; 0.001). It seems that testosterone probably has a more efficient role than estradiol in the gender dependent difference in seizure caused by PTZ in rats.


This study examined types of internal and external motivations for seeking treatment and the predictive utility of different types of motivation among 180 women with an alcohol use disorder (AUD) participating in a two-armed trial testing different individual and couple therapies for AUDs. Reasons for seeking treatment were coded for type of internal or external motivation. Most women (97%) cited internal reasons for seeking help, including: concern about progression of AUD (61.1%), health (43.3%), mental health (38.9%), and family (38.3%). Occupational concerns, an internal motivator cited by 6% of women, were associated with better drinking outcomes; interpersonal-family concerns were associated with poorer outcomes. Some motivators for seeking treatment may not be related to sustained changes in drinking, suggesting that understanding motivators for treatment may be inadequate to maintain change. Reasons for help-seeking may need to be addressed in treatment to produce long-lasting change.
The decision between cellular survival and death is governed by a balance between proapoptotic versus antiapoptotic signaling cascades. Growth factors are key actors, playing two main roles both at developmental and adult stages: a supporting antiapoptotic role through diverse actions converging in the mitochondria, and a promoter role of cell maturation and plasticity through dendritogenesis and synaptogenesis, especially relevant for the adult hippocampal neurogenesis, a case of development during adulthood. Here, both parallel roles mutually feed forward each other (the success in avoiding apoptosis lets the cell to grow and differentiate, which in turn lets the cell to reach new targets and form new synapses accessing new sources of growth factors to support cell survival) in a circular cause and consequence, or a &quot;the chicken or the egg&quot; dilemma. While identifying the first case of this dilemma makes no sense, one possible outcome might have biological relevance: the decision between survival and death in the adult hippocampal neurogenesis is mainly concentrated at a specific time window, and recent data suggest some divergences between the survival and the maturational promoter effect of growth factors. This review summarizes these evidences suggesting how growth factors might contribute to the live-or-die decision of adult-born immature granule neurons through influencing the maturation of the young neuron by means of its connectivity into a mature functional circuit.
The recent discovery of a simple method for making induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) from human somatic cells was a major scientific advancement that opened the way for many promising new developments in the study of developmental and degenerative diseases. iPSC have already been used to model many different types of neurological diseases, including autism, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Because of their pluripotent property, iPSC offer the possibility of modeling human development in vitro. Their differentiation seems to follow the developmental timeline and obeys environmental cues. Clinically relevant phenotypes of neurodegenerative pathologies have also been observed using iPSC derived human neuronal cultures. Options for treatment are still some way off. Although some early research in mouse models has been encouraging, major obstacles remain for neural stem cell (NSC) transplantation therapy. However, iPSC now offer the prospect of an unlimited amount of human neurons or astrocytes for drug testing. The aim of this review is to summarize the recent progress in modeling neural development and neurological diseases using iPSC and to describe their applications for aging research and personalized medicine.
Through their well described actions in the hypothalamus, appetitive peptides such as insulin, orexin and leptin are recognized as important regulators of food intake, body weight and body composition. Beyond these metabolic activities, these peptides also are critically involved in a wide variety of activities ranging from modulation of immune and neuroendocrine function to addictive behaviors and reproduction. The neurological activities of insulin, orexin and leptin also include facilitation of hippocampal synaptic plasticity and enhancement of cognitive performance. While patients with metabolic disorders such as obesity and diabetes have greater risk of developing cognitive deficits, dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD), the underlying mechanisms that are responsible for, or contribute to, age-related cognitive decline are poorly understood. In view of the importance of these peptides in metabolic disorders, it is not surprising that there is a greater focus on their potential role in cognitive deficits associated with aging. The goal of this review is to describe the evidence from clinical and pre-clinical studies implicating insulin, orexin and leptin in the etiology and progression of age-related cognitive decline. Collectively, these studies support the hypothesis that leptin and insulin resistance, concepts normally associated with the hypothalamus, are also applicable to the hippocampus.
Men who have sex with men (MSM) are at high risk for contracting and transmitting HIV. They are increasingly encouraged to get tested, but understanding of the interplay between HIV testing and risk behavior is limited. One hundred fifty newly HIV-diagnosed (within past 3 months) MSM were recruited from a community clinic in New York City. Participants completed an interview assessing sexual behavior and substance use during the 3 months pre-diagnosis, current depressive symptoms, and prior HIV testing. HIV-related health characteristics at diagnosis were abstracted from medical records. Analyses examined factors associated with unprotected anal intercourse (UAI) in the 3 months pre-diagnosis, and with a negative HIV test in the 12 months pre-diagnosis. The sample was young (mean age=32.5, SD=8.8), ethnically diverse (62% racial/ethnic minority), low-income (71%$30,000/year), and educated (48% college/advanced degree). Most (95%) had a prior negative HIV test, 55% within the last 12 months. Significant risk behavior was reported, with 79% reporting UAI. UAI was associated with recent testing and use of substances during sexual behavior. Recent testing was associated with being employed/a student, having had UAI, and higher CD4 count. Implications for future research addressing perceived HIV risk, HIV testing utilization, and risk behavior are discussed.




The nucleus accumbens (nAc) is the primary target for the mesolimbic dopamine system and a key brain region for the reinforcing effects displayed by drugs of abuse, including ethanol. During the transition from recreational to compulsive consumption of reinforcing drugs, however, the dorsal striatum seems to be recruited. Understanding how synaptic activity is altered in a sub-region specific manner in the striatum during the course of long-term drug consumption thus could be essential for understanding the long-lasting changes produced by addictive substances, including ethanol. Here we evaluated synaptic activity in the dorsolateral striatum (DLS) and ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens, nAc) of single-housed Wistar rats consuming water, or water and ethanol, for up to 10 months. Even though ethanol intake was moderate, it was sufficient to decrease input/output function in response to stimulation intensity in the DLS, while recorded population spike (PS) amplitudes in the nAc were unaffected. Striatal disinhibition induced by the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline had a slower onset in rats that had consumed ethanol for 2 months, and was significantly depressed in slices from rats that had consumed ethanol for 4 months. Bicuculline-induced disinhibition in the nAc, on the other hand, was not significantly altered by long-term ethanol intake. Changes in PS amplitude induced by taurine or the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine were not significantly altered by ethanol in any brain region. Even though input/output function was not significantly affected by age, there was a significant decline in antagonist-induced disinhibition in brain slices from aged rats. The data presented here suggest that even modest consumption of ethanol is sufficient to alter neurotransmission in the striatum, while synaptic activity appears to be relatively well-preserved in the nAc during the course of long-term ethanol consumption.
The adolescent brain has been suggested to be particularly sensitive to ethanol-induced neuroadaptations, which in turn could increase the risk of youths for alcohol abuse and dependence. Sensitization to the locomotor stimulant effects of ethanol has often been used as an animal model of ethanol-induced neuroadaptations. Previously, we showed that young mice were more sensitive than adults to the locomotor sensitization induced by high ethanol doses. However, this effect could be due to age-related differences in chronic tolerance to the sedative effects of ethanol. The aim of the present study is to assess chronic tolerance to the sedative effects of ethanol in weaning 21-day-old (P21), adolescent 35-day-old (P35) and adult 63-day-old (P63) female Swiss mice. After a daily injection of saline or 4 g/kg ethanol during 6 consecutive days, all P21, P35 and P63 mice were injected with 4 g/kg ethanol and submitted to the loss of righting reflex procedure. Our results confirm that the sensitivity to the acute sedative effects of ethanol gradually increases with age. Although this schedule of ethanol injections induces significant age-related differences in ethanol sensitization, it did not reveal significant differences between P21, P35 and P63 mice in the development of a chronic ethanol tolerance to its sedative effects. The present results show that age-related differences in the development of ethanol sensitization cannot be explained by differences in chronic ethanol tolerance to its sedative effects. More broadly, they do not support the idea that ethanol-induced sensitization is a by-product of chronic ethanol tolerance.



Susceptibility to PTSD is determined by both genes and environment. Similarly, gene-expression levels in peripheral blood are influenced by both genes and environment, and expression levels of many genes show good correspondence between peripheral blood and brain. Therefore, our objectives were to test the following hypotheses: (1) pre-trauma expression levels of a gene subset (particularly immune-system genes) in peripheral blood would differ between trauma-exposed Marines who later developed PTSD and those who did not; (2) a predictive biomarker panel of the eventual emergence of PTSD among high-risk individuals could be developed based on gene expression in readily assessable peripheral blood cells; and (3) a predictive panel based on expression of individual exons would surpass the accuracy of a model based on expression of full-length gene transcripts. Gene-expression levels were assayed in peripheral blood samples from 50 U.S. Marines (25 eventual PTSD cases and 25 non-PTSD comparison subjects) prior to their deployment overseas to war-zones in Iraq or Afghanistan. The panel of biomarkers dysregulated in peripheral blood cells of eventual PTSD cases prior to deployment was significantly enriched for immune genes, achieved 70% prediction accuracy in an independent sample based on the expression of 23 full-length transcripts, and attained 80% accuracy in an independent sample based on the expression of one exon from each of five genes. If the observed profiles of pre-deployment mRNA-expression in eventual PTSD cases can be further refined and replicated, they could suggest avenues for early intervention and prevention among individuals at high risk for trauma exposure.
Amyloid- protein (A) varies in length at its carboxyl terminus. The longer A species, A43 and A42, are highly amyloidogenic and deposit more frequently than A40 in the brain of Alzheimer disease (AD) patients. However, the characterization of A43 deposition in the brain and the relationship between A43 and A42 or A40 remain unclear. We provide evidence that A43 deposition appears earlier than A42 and A40 deposition in the brain of mutant amyloid precursor protein transgenic (APPtg) mice, suggesting that A43 is the earliest-depositing species. In addition, we found increased A43 levels and A43/A42 ratios in the serum of AD patients, suggesting their use as diagnostic blood biomarkers for AD. We further show that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) converts A43 to A41. Notably, this A43-to-A41 converting activity requires two active domains of ACE. Inhibition of ACE activity significantly enhanced A43 deposition in APPtg mouse brain. Our results suggest that A43 is the earliest-depositing species in brain parenchyma and that A43 may trigger later A42 and A40 deposition or may be converted to A42 and A40 plaques. Activities of both ACE domains may be important for reducing A43 levels in serum and reducing brain A43 deposition.
The insulin-like peptide, relaxin-3 was first identified just a decade ago via a genomic database search and is now recognized to be a key neuropeptide with several roles including the regulation of arousal, stress responses and neuroendocrine homeostasis. It also has significant potential as a drug to treat stress and obesity. Its actions are mediated via its cognate G protein-coupled receptor, RXFP3, which is found in abundant numbers in the brain. However, much remains to be determined with respect to the mechanism of neurological action of this peptide. Consequently, the chemical synthesis of the rat and mouse (which share identical primary structures) two-chain, three disulfide peptide was undertaken and the resulting peptide subjected to detailed in vitro and in vivo assay. Use of efficient solid-phase synthesis methods provided the two regioselectively S-protected A- and B-chains which were readily combined via sequential disulfide bond formation. The synthetic rat/mouse relaxin-3 was obtained in high purity and good overall yield. It demonstrated potent orexigenic activity in rats in that central intracerebroventricular infusion led to significantly increased food intake and water drinking.



The strong population bias in hand preference in favor of right-handedness seems to be a typical human trait. An elegant evolutionary hypothesis explaining this trait is the so-called fighting hypothesis that postulates that left-handedness is under frequency-dependent selection. The fighting hypothesis assumes that left-handers, being in the minority because of health issues, are still maintained in the population since they would have a greater chance of winning in fights than right-handers due to a surprise effect. This review critically evaluates the assumptions and evidence for this hypothesis and concludes that some evidence, although consistent with the fighting hypothesis, does not directly support it and may also be interpreted differently. Other supportive data are ambiguous or open for both statistical and theoretical criticism. We conclude that, presently, evidence for the fighting hypothesis is not particularly strong, but that there is little evidence to reject it either. The hypothesis thus remains an intuitively plausible explanation for the persistent left-hand preference in the population. We suggest alternative explanations and several ways forward for obtaining more crucial data for testing this frequently cited hypothesis.
Many historical and contemporary theorists have proposed that population-level behavioral and brain asymmetries are unique to humans and evolved as a consequence of human-specific adaptations such as language, tool manufacture and use, and bipedalism. Recent studies in nonhuman animals, notably primates, have begun to challenge this view. Here, I summarize comparative data on neuroanatomical asymmetries in the planum temporale (PT) and inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) of humans and chimpanzees, regions considered the morphological equivalents to Broca's and Wernicke's areas. I also review evidence of population-level handedness in captive and wild chimpanzees. When similar methods and landmarks are used to define the PT and IFG, humans and chimpanzees show similar patterns of asymmetry in both cortical regions, though humans show more pronounced directional biases. Similarly, there is good evidence that chimpanzees show population-level handedness, though, again, the expression of handedness is less robust compared to humans. These results stand in contrast to reported claims of significant differences in the distribution of handedness in humans and chimpanzees, and I discuss some possible explanations for the discrepancies in the neuroanatomical and behavioral data.
We examined hand preference in the intentional gestural communication of wild chimpanzees in the Budongo forest, Uganda. Individuals showed some tendency to be lateralized, although less than has been reported for begging and pointing gestures in captivity; on average, their absolute bias was around 0.25 (where 1.0 represents complete right- or left-hand use and 0.0 represents no bias). Lateralization was incomplete even in individuals with major manual disabilities. Where individuals had a stronger preference, this was more often toward the right hand; moreover, as age increased, the direction (but not the extent) of hand preference shifted toward the right. While the gestural repertoire as a whole was largely employed ambilateraly, object-manipulation gestures showed a strong right-hand bias.

Surfactants have long been known to have microbicidal action and have been extensively used as antiseptics and disinfectants for a variety of general hygiene and clinical purposes. Among surfactants, quaternary ammonium compounds (QAC) are known to be the most useful antiseptics and disinfectants. However, our previous toxicological studies showed that QAC are also the most toxic surfactants for mammalian cells. An understanding of the mechanisms that underlie QAC toxicity is a crucial first step in their rational use and in the design and development of more effective and safer molecules. We show that QAC-induced toxicity is mediated primarily through mitochondrial dysfunction in mammalian columnar epithelial cell cultures in vitro. Toxic effects begin at sublethal concentrations and are characterized by mitochondrial fragmentation accompanied by decreased cellular energy charge. At very low concentrations, several QAC act on mitochondrial bioenergetics through a common mechanism of action, primarily by inhibiting mitochondrial respiration initiated at complex I and, to a lesser extent, by slowing down coupled ADP phosphorylation. The result is a reduction of cellular energy charge which, when reduced below 50% of its original value, induces apoptosis. The lethal effects are shown to be primarily a result of this process. At higher doses (closer to the critical micellar concentration), QAC induce the complete breakdown of cellular energy charge and necrotic cell death.
The behavior of others in people's social environment (i.e., descriptive norms), as well as their opinions regarding appropriate actions (i.e., injunctive norms) strongly influence people's decisions and actions. The goal of this study was to extend prior laboratory research on the influence of social norms on food choices, by conducting a field-experiment in an on-campus food court. One of three different messages was posted on a given day: a healthy descriptive norm, healthy injunctive norm, or an unhealthy descriptive norm. Effects of these social norms messages on food choice were compared against each other and a no-message control condition. In total, 687 students reported their food choice through a questionnaire provided to them. Food choices were analyzed for participants who reported being exposed to one of the social norms signs and those in the control condition (N=220). Findings showed that the healthy descriptive norm resulted in more healthy food choices, compared to an unhealthy descriptive norm, as well as the control condition. The difference between the injunctive healthy norm and the control condition was not significant, though those in the injunctive norm condition did make more healthy decisions, than those in the unhealthy descriptive norm condition. Implications with regard to theory and practice are discussed.
During the reambulation procedure after 35-day head-down tilt bed rest (HDTBR) for 9 men, we recorded for the first time heart rate (HR; with electrocardiogram) and arterial pressure profiles (fingertip plethysmography) for 5 min in HDTBR and horizontal (SUP) positions, followed by 12 min in standing position, during which 4 subjects fainted (intolerant, INT) and were laid horizontal again (Recovery). We computed: mean arterial pressure (P; pressure profiles integral mean), stroke volume (SV; obtained with Modelflow method), and cardiac output (Q; SV  HR). All cardiovascular data remained stable in HDTBR and SUP for both groups (EXP). Taking the upright posture, EXP showed a decrease in SV and an increase in HR, becoming significantly different from SUP within 1 min. Further evolution of these parameters kept Q stable in both groups until the second minute of standing. Afterward, in INT, P precipitated without further HR increases: SV stopped being corrected and Q reached 2.9  0.4 Lmin(-1) at the last 15 s of standing. Sudden drop in P allowed identification of a low-pressure threshold in INT (70.7  12.9 mm Hg), after which syncope occurred within 80 s. During Recovery, baroreflex curves showed a flat phase (P increase, HR stable), followed by a steep phase (P increased, HR decreased, starting when P was 84.5  12.5 mm Hg and Q was 9.6  1.5 Lmin(-1)). INT, in contrast with tolerant subjects, did not sustain standing because HR was unable to correct for the P drop. These results indicate a major role for impaired arterial baroreflexes in the onset of orthostatic intolerance.

The fictional Italian author Morelli is throughout the novel &quot;Hopscotch&quot; (1963) Julio Cortzar's alter ego. This character proposes an unoriginal literary hypothesis in chapter 62. There is an allusion to a particular Swedish that 'is working on a chemical theory of thought.' The Swedish neuroscientist under analysis is Holger Hydn (1917-2000), by then professor and chairman of the Department of Histology at the University of Gteborg. Hydn, who was the first to work in neurobiological micromethods, is mentioned by Morelli due to his participation in a symposium held at the end of January 1961, in San Francisco. His pioneering work will never be completely forgotten, because Hydn's neuroscientific legacy lives and will live in Cortzar's &quot;Hopscotch&quot;.
We assessed the functional impairment in Charcot-Marie-Tooth resulting from 17p11.2-p12 duplication (CMT1A) patients using the Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), which is a quality of life questionnaire. Twenty-five patients of both genders aged 10 years with a positive molecular diagnosis of CMT1A were selected. Age- and gender-matched Control Group (without family history of neuropathy), and the sociodemographic and professional conditions similar to the patients' group were selected to compare the SF-36 results between them. The results showed that the majority quality of life impairments in CMT1A patients occurred in the social and emotional domains. Functional capacity also tended to be significantly affected; other indicators of physical impairment were preserved. In conclusion, social and emotional aspects are mostly neglected in the assistance provided to CMT1A Brazilian patients, and they should be better understood in order to offer global health assistance with adequate quality of life as a result.




OBJECTIVES : To examine changes in child car restraint practices in low socioeconomic areas following the introduction of mandatory child car restraint legislation in New South Wales (NSW), Australia. METHODS : Data from two cross-sectional studies of child car restraint use at pre-schools, early childhood centres and primary schools before and after the introduction of legislating mandatory age-appropriate car restraint use for children up to the age of seven years was used in this analysis. All included observations were from local government areas with socioeconomic status in the lowest 30% of urban Sydney. Children aged 2-5 years were observed in their vehicles as they arrived at observation sites (107 pre-legislation, 360 post-legislation). Multilevel logistic regression was used to examine changes in observed age-appropriate and correct use of car restraints. RESULTS : Age-appropriate car restraint use was higher post-legislation than pre-legislation. After controlling for child's age, parental income, language spoken at home and adjusting for clustering, the odds of children being appropriately restrained post-legislation were 2.3 times higher than in the pre-legislation sample, and the odds of them being correctly restrained were 1.6 times greater. CONCLUSIONS : Results indicate an improvement in car restraint practices among children aged 2-5 in low socioeconomic areas after introduction of child restraint laws. Implications : Despite improvements observed with enhanced legislation, further efforts are required to increase optimal child car restraint use.

Cardiovascular dysfunction usually occurs after high thoracic and cervical spinal cord injury (SCI). The disruption of supraspinal vasomotor pathways (SVPs) results in the loss of bulbospinal regulation of sympathetic preganglionic neurons, leading to hypotension and compensatory tachycardia at rest. Episodic autonomic dysreflexia can develop upon sensory stimulation below the level of injury. In rodents, the precise spatial distribution of SVPs in the spinal cord originating from the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) has not been fully defined. To facilitate future studies of axon regeneration to regain cardiovascular control, we injected biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) bilaterally into the RVLM to anterogradely trace SVPs in Fischer 344 (F344) rats. Three weeks later, BDA-labeled descending projections were predominantly localized within the dorsolateral funiculus throughout the cervical and thoracic spinal segments as expected. Additionally, BDA-labeled fibers were also observed in ventral white matter. After a T4 dorsal hemisection to interrupt the dorsolateral funiculus, BDA labeled terminals originating from the ventral white matter as well as serotonergic projections were still detected in regions of autonomic nuclei below the injury. Based on these results, we examined cardiovascular responses after different lesions at spinal level T4, including lateral or dorsal hemisection, dorsolateral or complete transection. Hemodynamic dysfunction and autonomic dysreflexia were only elicited in rats with complete T4 transections when all SVPs were disrupted. Hence, F344 rats with complete T4 transections provide a reliable model for investigating means to improve cardiovascular functional recovery after SCI.
The positive outcome that hypothermia contributes to brain and cardiac protection following ischemia has stimulated research in the development of pharmacological approaches to induce a hypothermic/hypometabolic state. Here we review three papers to highlight the role of the adenosine 1 receptor (A1AR) as a potential mediator and physiological regulator of a hypothermic state in both hibernating and non-hibernating mammals. We would like to emphasize the importance of comparative studies between hibernating and non-hibernating species that could lead to important discoveries on the mechanisms inducing hibernation and how they might be translated to induce a clinically useful hypothermic state.
(56)Fe irradiation affects hippocampus-dependent cognition. The underlying mechanisms may involve alterations in neurogenesis, expression of the plasticity-related immediate early gene Arc, and inflammation. Chemokine receptor-2 (CCR2), which mediates the recruitment of infiltrating and resident microglia to sites of CNS inflammation, is upregulated by (56)Fe irradiation. CCR2 KO and wild-type mice were used to compare effects of (56)Fe radiation (600MeV, 0.25Gy) on hippocampal function using contextual fear conditioning involving tone shock pairing during training (+/+) and exposure to the same environment without tone shock pairings (-/-). In the -/- condition, irradiation enhanced habituation in WT mice, but not CCR2 KO mice, suggesting that a lack of CCR2 was associated with reduced cognitive performance. In the +/+ condition, irradiation reduced freezing but there was no genotype differences. There were no significant correlations between the number of Arc-positive cells in the dentate gyrus and freezing in either genotype. While measures of neurogenesis and gliogenesis appeared to be modulated by CCR2, there were no effects of genotype on the total numbers of newly born activated microglia before or after irradiation, indicating that other mechanisms are involved in the genotype-dependent radiation response.
The tail suspension test (TST) as an antidepressant and depression-related behavior screen, has many advantages over the forced swim test (FST) in terms of procedural simplicity and consistent SSRI response. However, the FST has traditionally offered more specific neuromodulatory information by differentiating between serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine sensitive behavior categories. Head movement is a newly characterized behavior endpoint in the FST and TST with a selective 5-HT sensitivity. In this investigation, we show that the baseline and drug response profile of head movement previously found in the 129S6 strain of mice (Lockridge et al., 2010) is reproducible in the C57 strain. Head movement is inversely correlated to FST swimming and elevated in the TST by SSRI administration. The use of a weighted bin sample analysis method differentiates TST behaviors into fluoxetine-responsive head movement and desipramine-responsive struggling. The use of 5-HT subtype receptor agonists, after depleting endogenous 5-HT with pCPA, shows the head movement suppressing effect of 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C postsynaptic receptor activation. 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B agonists were ineffective. We propose that a head movement focused analysis can add sensitive and reliable 5-HT detection capability to mouse TST testing with minimal effort but significant reward.
The role of VEGF in the nervous system is extensive; apart from its angiogenic effect, VEGF has been described as a neuroprotective, neurotrophic and neurogenic molecule. Similar effects have been described for enriched environment (EE). Moreover, both VEGF and EE have been related to improved spatial memory. Our aim was to investigate the neurovascular and cognitive effects of intracerebrally-administered VEGF and enriched environment during the critical period of the rat visual cortex development. Results showed that VEGF infusion as well as enriched environment induced neurovascular and cognitive effects in developing rats. VEGF administration produced an enhancement during the learning process of enriched animals and acted as an angiogenic factor both in primary visual cortex (V1) and dentate gyrus (DG) in order to counteract minipump implantation-induced damage. This fact revealed that DG vascularization is critical for normal learning. In contrast to this enriched environment acted on the neuronal density of the DG and V1 cortex, and results showed learning enhancement only in non-operated rats. In conclusion, VEGF administration only has effects if damage is observed due to injury. Once control values were reached, no further effects appeared, showing a ceiling effect. Our results strongly support that in addition to neurogenesis, vascularization plays a pivotal role for learning and memory.
In non-demented older persons, smell dysfunction, measured premortem, has been associated with postmortem brain degeneration similar to that of Alzheimer's disease. We hypothesized that distinct measures of gray and white matter integrity evaluated through magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques could detect degenerative changes associated with age-related olfactory dysfunction. High-resolution T1-weighted images and diffusion-tensor images (DTI) of 30 clinically healthy subjects aged 51-77 were acquired with a 3-Tesla MRI scanner. Odor identification performance was assessed by means of the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT). UPSIT scores correlated with right amygdalar volume and bilateral perirhinal and entorhinal cortices gray matter volume. Olfactory performance also correlated with postcentral gyrus cortical thickness and with fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity levels in the splenium of the corpus callosum and the superior longitudinal fasciculi. Our results suggest that age-related olfactory loss is accompanied by diffuse degenerative changes that might correspond to the preclinical stages of neurodegenerative processes.
The space radiation environment contains high-energy charged particles such as (56)Fe, which could pose a significant hazard to hippocampal function in astronauts during and after the mission(s). The mechanisms underlying impairments in cognition are not clear but might involve alterations in the percentage of neurons in the dentate gyrus expressing the plasticity-related immediate early gene Arc. Previously, we showed effects of cranial (56)Fe irradiation on hippocampus-dependent contextual freezing and on the percentage of Arc-positive cells in the enclosed, but not free, blade. Because it is unclear whether whole body (56)Fe irradiation causes similar effects on these markers of hippocampal function, in the present study we quantified the effects of whole body (56)Fe irradiation (600MeV, 0.5 or 1Gy) on hippocampus-dependent and hippocampus-independent cognitive performance and determined whether these effects were associated with changes in Arc expression in the enclosed and free blades of the dentate gyrus. Whole body (56)Fe irradiation impacted contextual but not cued fear freezing and the percentage of Arc-positive cells in the enclosed and free blades. In mice tested for contextual freezing, there was a correlation between Arc-positive cells in the enclosed and free blades. In addition, in mice irradiated with 0.5Gy, contextual freezing in the absence of aversive stimuli correlated with the percentage of Arc-positive cells in the enclosed blade. In mice tested for cued freezing, there was no correlation between Arc-positive cells in the enclosed and free blades. In contrast, cued freezing in the presence or absence of aversive stimuli correlated with Arc-positive cells in the free blade. In addition, in mice irradiated with 1Gy cued freezing in the absence of aversive stimuli correlated with the percentage of Arc-positive neurons in the free blade. These data indicate that while whole body (56)Fe radiation affects contextual freezing and Arc-positive cells in the dentate gyrus, the enclosed blade might be more important for contextual freezing while the free blade might be more important for cued freezing.
The capacity to understand goals and intentions emerges early and universally in humans and is a basic precondition for the interpretation and prediction of others' actions, be it other humans, animals, or even robots. It is unclear, however, how this goal attribution system is acquired, in particular with regard to the role of prior experience with the actor and visual characteristics that are necessary. In four preferential looking time experiments we examined how familiarity, appearance, and movement of different agents influence the capability of marmosets to perceive the behavior of these agents as goal directed. To this end we compared the monkeys' reactions to the same goal-directed actions performed by four different agents: a human actor, a conspecific, a monkey-like small robot, and a black box. The results showed that monkeys attributed goals to the human actor, the conspecific, and the robot, but not the box. Thus, the monkeys extended their capacity for goal attribution not only to familiar agents, but also to agents not previously encountered, provided that they had some conspecific-like features. Our results suggest that in non-human primates, the system for goal attribution does not require previous experience with a specific agent or agent-category, as long as it exhibits certain visual characteristics like face, body or legs. Furthermore, the results suggest that the capacity to attribute goals emerged very early during evolution and, at least in marmoset monkeys, does not necessarily require pre-learned associations in order to fulfill its function when dealing with unfamiliar agents.
Quantum probability (QP) theory can be seen as a type of vector symbolic architecture (VSA): mental states are vectors storing structured information and manipulated using algebraic operations. Furthermore, the operations needed by QP match those in other VSAs. This allows existing biologically realistic neural models to be adapted to provide a mechanistic explanation of the cognitive phenomena described in the target article by Pothos &amp; Busemeyer (P&amp;B).
Predictive processing models of cognition are promising an elegant way to unite action, perception, and learning. However, in the current formulations, they are species-unspecific and have very little particularly human about them. I propose to examine how, in this framework, humans can be able to massively interact and to build shared worlds that are both material and symbolic.
A behavioral drive directed solely at minimizing prediction error would cause an agent to seek out states of unchanging, and thus easily predictable, sensory inputs (such as a dark room). The default to an evolutionarily encoded prior to avoid such untenable behaviors is unsatisfying. We suggest an alternate information theoretic interpretation to address this dilemma.
Clark examines the notion of the &quot;predictive brain&quot; as a unifying model for cognitive neuroscience, from the level of basic neural processes to sensorimotor control. Although we are in general agreement with this notion, we feel that there are many details that still need to be fleshed out from the standpoint of perception and action.
Clark offers a powerful description of the brain as a prediction machine, which offers progress on two distinct levels. First, on an abstract conceptual level, it provides a unifying framework for perception, action, and cognition (including subdivisions such as attention, expectation, and imagination). Second, hierarchical prediction offers progress on a concrete descriptive level for testing and constraining conceptual elements and mechanisms of predictive coding models (estimation of predictions, prediction errors, and internal models).
Clark makes a convincing case for the merits of conceptualizing brains as hierarchical prediction machines. This perspective has the potential to provide an elegant and powerful general theory of brain function, but it will ultimately stand or fall with evidence from basic neuroscience research. Here, we characterize the status quo of that evidence and highlight important avenues for future investigations.
The predictive processing framework lacks many of the architectural and implementational details needed to fully investigate or evaluate the ideas it presents. One way to begin to fill in these details is by turning to standard control-theoretic descriptions of these types of systems (e.g., Kalman filters), and by building complex, unified computational models in biologically realistic neural simulations.
A cornerstone of the target article is that, in a predictive coding framework, attention can be modelled by weighting prediction error with a measure of precision. We argue that this is not a complete explanation, especially in the light of ERP (event-related potentials) data showing large evoked responses for frequently presented target stimuli, which thus are predicted.
The sensory cortex has been interpreted as coding information rather than stimulus properties since Sokolov in 1960 showed increased response to an unexpected stimulus decrement. The motor cortex is also organized around expectation, coding the goal of an act rather than a set of muscle movements. Expectation drives not only immediate responses but also the very structure of the cortex, as demonstrated by development of receptive fields that mirror the structure of the visual world.
Disgust extinction is an important mechanism relevant for the treatment of psychiatric disorders. However, only a few studies have investigated disgust extinction. Moreover, because disgust sensitivity (DS) is considered as a relevant factor for learning processes, this study also investigated the potential relationship between DS and disgust extinction learning. The aim of this study was to explore the neuronal correlates of disgust extinction, as well as changes in skin conductance responses (SCRs) and evaluative conditioning. Twenty subjects were exposed to a differential extinction paradigm, in which a previous conditioned, and now unreinforced, stimulus (conditioned stimulus, CS+) was compared to a second stimulus (CS-), which was previously not associated with the unconditioned stimulus (UCS). Extinction learning was measured on three different response levels (BOLD responses, SCRs, and evaluative conditioning). Regarding evaluative conditioning, the CS+ was rated as more unpleasant than the CS-. Interestingly, significantly increased amygdala responses and SCRs toward to the CS- were observed. Finally, a (negative) trend was found between DS scores and BOLD responses of the prefrontal cortex. The present findings showed a dissociation of different response levels. The increased CS- responses could be explained by the assumption that the increased amygdala activity may reflect a safety learning signal during the first extinction trials and the subjective focus may therefore shift from the CS+ to the CS-. The correlation finding supports previous studies postulating that DS hampers extinction processes. The present results point toward dissociations between the response levels in context of extinction processes.
In everyday life, decisions are often made under stress and while being occupied with multiple tasks. It has recently been shown that acute stress impairs decision making under risk. Performing a parallel executive task also caused riskier decision making. To investigate the effects of a combination of these two factors on decision making, we conducted a large (N = 126) experimental study with a 2  2 design (stress vs. no stress and parallel task vs. no parallel task). Stress was induced using the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) and controls underwent the placebo TSST. Salivary samples were collected to assess cortisol and alpha amylase concentrations as markers of the two stress response systems. Decision making was measured using the Game of Dice Task (GDT). A 2-back task served as parallel executive task. Our results revealed a significant interaction between stress and the parallel executive task. In line with our earlier findings, acute stress and a parallel executive task individually tended to impair decision making under risk, manifested by more high risky than low risky choices. Interestingly, stressed participants in the parallel-task condition (GDT plus 2-back) showed similar decision-making behavior as nonstressed single-task participants. Regression analyses revealed executive functions to moderate stress effects on decisions under risk. Reasons for these paradoxical findings are discussed with respect to stress-evoked cognitive alterations that may benefit decision making under risk, if an executive task is performed simultaneously.
After reactivation, apparently stable memories may reenter an unstable state in which they are modifiable, requiring another phase of stabilization, called reconsolidation. Recent evidence shows that during reconsolidation, reactivated memories may be updated by the incorporation of new information. In the present study, we examined whether the updating of episodic memories depends on the strength of new encoding after reactivation. To this end, healthy participants learned negative and neutral pictures, reactivated them 1 week later, and learned new pictures either once or three times immediately after reactivation. A recognition test was performed another week later. Our results show that the impact of new learning after reactivation depended critically on the strength of new encoding: Whereas learning new pictures only once after reactivation had no effect on subsequent memory, learning new pictures three times after reactivation reduced subsequent memory accuracy, mainly due to intrusions from the newly learned pictures. Our findings indicate that the strength of new encoding after reactivation plays a critical role for the updating of episodic memories and may have important implications for therapeutic interventions that aim to alter unwanted memories after reactivation.
To examine the effect of discriminative fear conditioning on the shape of the generalization gradient, two groups of participants first learned to discriminate between two color stimuli, one paired with an electrical shock (conditional stimulus, CS+) and the other explicitly unpaired (CS-). The CS+ was held constant as an intermediate (ambiguous) value along the blue-green color dimension while the CS- varied between groups as opposite endpoints along the blue-green color dimension. Postdiscrimination testing, using spectral wavelengths above and below the CS+, revealed opposing asymmetric gradients of conditioned skin conductance responses across training groups that skewed in a direction opposite the CS-. Moreover, perceptual ratings for the color of the CS+ were affected by discriminative conditioning, with the color value of the blue or green CS- inducing a shift in the frequency for ratings of the ambiguous CS+ as either &quot;green&quot; or &quot;blue,&quot; respectively. These results extend findings on gradient shifts in the animal literature and suggest that postdiscrimination testing provides a more comprehensive estimate of the effects of discriminative fear conditioning than testing responses solely to the conditioned stimuli.
Although a body of evidence shows the crucial role of hippocampal nitrergic and cholinergic systems in the modulation of anxiety, little is known about their functional relationship with regard to anxiety. The present study investigated the relationship between intra-CA1 administration of a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist (mecamylamine) and a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor [N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME)] or its precursor (L-arginine) in anxiety-related behaviors. Mice received bilateral intra-CA1 injections of either L-NAME or L-arginine in the presence of mecamylamine and were subsequently tested in the elevated plus maze. A dose of 0.5 g/0.5 l mecamylamine bilaterally administered into CA1 did not change the percentage of open arm time (%OAT) or the percentage of open arm entries (%OAE) in the elevated plus maze task and thus was considered as a subeffective dose. Intra-CA1 administration of either L-arginine (1 and 1.5 g/0.5 l, bilaterally) or L-NAME (at 60 ng/0.5 l, bilaterally) decreased %OAT, which represents an anxiogenic-like effect. Coadministration of the subeffective dose of mecamylamine together with the lower doses of L-NAME (10 and 30 ng/0.5 l, bilaterally) or L-arginine (0.5 g/0.5 l, bilaterally) led to a decrease in %OAT and %OAE. Thus, both L-NAME and L-arginine showed anxiogenic-like effects, but the effects of mecamylamine were too small to support a functional relationship between the hippocampal cholinergic and nitrergic systems.
Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACIs) strengthen memory following fear conditioning and cocaine-induced conditioned place preference. Here, we examined the effects of two nonspecific HDACIs, valproic acid (VPA) and sodium butyrate (NaB), on appetitive learning measured by conditioned stimulus (CS)-induced reinstatement of operant responding. Rats were trained to lever press for food reinforcement and then injected with VPA (50-200 mg/kg, i.p.), NaB (250-1000 mg/kg, i.p.), or saline vehicle (1.0 ml/kg), 2 h before receiving pairings of noncontingent presentation of food pellets preceded by a tone+light cue CS. Rats next underwent extinction of operant responding followed by response-contingent re-exposure to the CS. Rats receiving VPA (100 mg/kg) or NaB (1000 mg/kg) before conditioning displayed significantly higher cue-induced reinstatement than did saline controls. Rats that received either vehicle or VPA (100 mg/kg) before a conditioning session with a randomized relation between presentation of food pellets and the CS failed to show subsequent cue-induced reinstatement with no difference between the two groups. These findings indicate that, under certain contexts, HDACIs strengthen memory formation by specifically increasing the associative strength of the CS, not through an increasing motivation to seek reinforcement.
The 'vascular depression' hypothesis has recently attracted significant research attention, although the causal relationship between vascular-related injuries and depression has not been established. Here, we show that one episode of cerebral ischemia was sufficient to greatly increase the sensitivity of rats to potentially depressogenic events, evaluated at below-threshold intensities in the open space swim test. The induced 'ischemic depression' was lasting and sensitive to an acute administration of brain-derived neurotrophic factor or bryostatin-1, a relatively selective activator of protein kinase C, during the induction phase. Chronic treatment with bryostatin-1 (5 weeks) after the induction of depressive behavior reversed the depressive immobility and produced a lasting therapeutic effect, which remained effective 3 weeks after discontinuation of the treatment. Similar treatment with alaproclate, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, in contrast, produced temporary relief from the depressive symptoms, with the therapeutic effect disappearing soon after the end of the treatment. The results strongly suggest that cerebral ischemia has a direct role in shaping the sensitivity of an individual to depressogenic events and that bryostatin-1-like agents may be developed as therapeutics for treating ischemic depression in humans.
We describe the creation of a set of point-light movies depicting 43 communicative gestures and 43 noncommunicative, pantomimed actions. These actions were recorded using a motion capture system that is worn on the body and provides accurate capture of the positions and movements of individual fingers. The movies created thus include point-lights on the fingers, allowing for representation of actions and gestures that would not be possible with a conventional, line-of-sight-based motion capture system. These videos would be suitable for use in cognitive and cognitive neuroscientific studies of biological motion and gesture perception. Each video is described, along with an H statistic indicating the consistency of the descriptive labels that 20 observers gave to the actions. We also produced a scrambled version of each movie, in which the starting position of each point was randomized but its local motion vector was preserved. These scrambled movies would be suitable for use as control stimuli in experimental studies. As supplementary materials, we provide QuickTime movie files of each action, along with text files specifying the three-dimensional coordinates of each point-light in each frame of each movie.
The combining of individual concepts to form an emergent concept is a fundamental aspect of language, yet much less is known about it than about processing isolated words or sentences. To facilitate research on conceptual combination, we provide meaningfulness ratings for a large set of (2,160) noun-noun pairs. Half of these pairs (1,080) are reversed versions of the other half (e.g., SKI JACKET and JACKET SKI), to facilitate the comparison of successful and unsuccessful conceptual combination independently of constituent lexical items. The computer code used for obtaining these ratings through a Web interface is provided. To further enhance the usefulness of this resource, ancillary measures obtained from other sources are also provided for each pair. These measures include associate production norms, contextual relatedness in terms of latent semantic analysis distance, total number of letters, phrase-level usage frequency, and word-level usage frequency summed across the words in each pair. Results of correlation and regression analyses are also provided for a quantitative description of the stimulus set. A subset of these stimuli was used to identify neural correlates of successful conceptual combination Graves, Binder, Desai, Conant, &amp; Seidenberg, (NeuroImage 53:638-646, 2010). The stimuli can be used in other research and also provide benchmark data for evaluating the effectiveness of computational algorithms for predicting meaningfulness of noun-noun pairs.
For the past half century, behavior therapy has served as the theoretical basis for successful inquiries into the nature and treatment of many emotional disorders. Although there are core principles shared by all behavior therapies, two primary approaches, traditional cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) and acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), have emerged as the most viable treatment approaches, even though they achieve their success through different methods and are predicated in different assumptions, principles, questions, and scientific strategies. In this special series, theorists and therapists with allegiances to one of these two approaches articulate the philosophical and theoretical underpinnings of their approach, summarize the evidence to date, point out current gaps or inconsistencies, and map out future directions with predictions informed by theory. The series concludes with a capstone paper that seeks to find common ground within the family of behavior therapies while also positing ways for behavior therapy to remain relevant in a world that increasingly emphasizes neuroscience and biobehavioral approaches to understand and reduce human suffering.
Imprinted genes, those genes subject to parent-of-origin-specific epigenetic marking resulting in monoallelic parent-specific expression, are sensitive to subtle changes in expression dosage. This has been illustrated in a number of experimental models and the fact that both decreased (or complete loss) and increased imprinted gene expression can lead to human diseases. In the present paper, we discuss the consequence of increased dosage of imprinted genes for brain function, focusing on the PWS (Prader-Willi syndrome) locus on human chromosome 15q11-q13 and how predicted increases in dosage of maternally expressed imprinted genes from this interval are associated with a higher risk of developing psychotic illness. The evidence for this comes from individuals with PWS itself and also non-syndromic cases of psychosis in carriers of a maternally derived copy number variant spanning this locus. Of the known imprinted genes in this region, the prime candidate is maternally expressed UBE3A, which encodes E6-AP (E6-associated protein) ubiquitin ligase and has an influence on a number of important neurotransmitter systems. Furthermore, these findings point to the fact that brain function is exquisitely sensitive to both decreases and increases in the expression of imprinted genes.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a hereditary neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the huntingtin (HTT) gene. Brain-type creatine kinase (CKB) is an enzyme involved in energy homeostasis via the phosphocreatine-creatine kinase system. Although downregulation of CKB was previously reported in brains of HD mouse models and patients, such regulation and its functional consequence in HD are not fully understood. In the present study, we demonstrated that levels of CKB found in both the soma and processes were markedly reduced in primary neurons and brains of HD mice. We show for the first time that mutant HTT (mHTT) suppressed the activity of the promoter of the CKB gene, which contributes to the lowered CKB expression in HD. Exogenous expression of wild-type CKB, but not a dominant negative CKB mutant, rescued the ATP depletion, aggregate formation, impaired proteasome activity, and shortened neurites induced by mHTT. These findings suggest that negative regulation of CKB by mHTT is a key event in the pathogenesis of HD and contributes to the neuronal dysfunction associated with HD. In addition, besides dietary supplementation with the CKB substrate, strategies aimed at increasing CKB expression might lead to the development of therapeutic treatments for HD.
Alemtuzumab is a humanized anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody. Treatment in humans results in a rapid, profound, and prolonged B- and T-cell lymphopenia. Subsequently, lymphocyte reconstitution by homeostatic mechanisms alters the composition, phenotype, and function of T-cell subsets, thus allowing the immune system to be 'reset'. One phase II and two phase III randomized, multicenter, single-blinded (outcomes assessor) clinical trials of alemtuzumab in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis have now been completed. Against an active comparator and the current first-line therapy for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (interferon-beta), alemtuzumab showed a significant reduction in annualized relapse rate as well as a significant reduction in the accumulation of disability. These outcomes are sustained over at least 5 years following treatment. The most common adverse effects are mild infusion reactions, an increased incidence of mild-to-moderate severity infections and secondary autoimmunity. The latter is observed in a third of treated patients, commonly thyroid disease but other target cells have been described including cytopenias. Marketing authorization applications have been submitted for the use of alemtuzumab in multiple sclerosis to the Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency, with licensing expected in 2013. Here, we discuss the outlook for alemtuzumab in multiple sclerosis in light of the currently available therapies, outcomes of and lessons learnt from clinical trials, and the overall position of monoclonal antibodies in modern treatment strategies.

The emerging field of optogenetics allows for optical activation or inhibition of excitable cells. In 2005, optogenetic proteins were expressed in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans for the first time. Since then, C. elegans has served as a powerful platform upon which to conduct optogenetic investigations of synaptic function, circuit dynamics and the neuronal basis of behaviour. The C. elegans nervous system, consisting of 302 neurons, whose connectivity and morphology has been mapped completely, drives a rich repertoire of behaviours that are quantifiable by video microscopy. This model organism's compact nervous system, quantifiable behaviour, genetic tractability and optical accessibility make it especially amenable to optogenetic interrogation. Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2), halorhodopsin (NpHR/Halo) and other common optogenetic proteins have all been expressed in C. elegans. Moreover, recent advances leveraging molecular genetics and patterned light illumination have now made it possible to target photoactivation and inhibition to single cells and to do so in worms as they behave freely. Here, we describe techniques and methods for optogenetic manipulation in C. elegans. We review recent work using optogenetics and C. elegans for neuroscience investigations at the level of synapses, circuits and behaviour.



A combination of mechanical compression caused by a protruding disc and leakage of nucleus pulposus (NP) from the disc core is presumed to contribute to intervertebral disc hernia-related pain. Experimental models of disc hernia including both components have resulted in changes in neuronal activity at the level of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal cord, but changes within the brain have been less well studied. However, acute application of NP to a DRG without mechanical compression rapidly increases neuronal activity in the thalamus, a major brain relay nucleus processing information from sensory pathways including ascending nociceptive tracts. The combination of mechanical compression and NP might therefore result in further increases in central neuronal activity. Using an experimental disc herniation rat model including both mechanical compression and NP the present study aimed to investigate changes in neuronal activity in the contralateral thalamic ventral posterior lateral nucleus in vivo. Measurements were obtained while electrically stimulating the ipsilateral sciatic nerve at A fiber intensities. The L4 DRG was subjected to light mechanical compression and NP exposure, and acute changes in evoked thalamic responses were recorded for up to 40min. In order to compare effects in nave animals with effects following a longer period of NP exposure, animals that were either disc-punctured or sham-operated 24h previously were also included. In all animals, light mechanical compression of the DRG depressed the number of evoked neuronal responses. Prior NP exposure resulted in less potent changes following mechanical compression (80% of baseline) than that observed in nave animals (50%). During the subsequent NP application, the number of evoked responses compared to baseline increased in pre-exposed animals (to 87%) as well as in nave animals (72%) in which the removal of the mechanical compression resulted in a further increase (106%). The contribution of acute DRG compression and disc material leakage to changes in transmission in central neuronal networks is likely to be complex and to involve both short-term and long-term effects. Since a light mechanical compression may reduce transmission in nociceptive pathways, it is possible that the presence or absence of NP is crucial for pain development in the acute phase of disc herniation.
During the Second World War scientists and engineers were involved as never before in all technical phases of the war effort. It included intelligence, logistics and large scale automated computation. Much of this required team work which led to the adoption of interdisciplinary perspectives and found expression after the war in new fields of enquiry such as cybernetics, biophysics and artificial intelligence. While Europe was recovering from its devastation, the United States entered an unprecedented age of prosperity beginning in the 1940s and 50s. The political and budgetary environment was favorable for scientific research and it was felt in Europe as well as the U.S.A. I discuss some of these conditions and the figures associated with the work that became the foundation for advances throughout the second half of the 20th century and conclude with a few observations on quantitative neuroscience and the problem of representation.
This paper explores the origins and content of neurocybernetics and its links to artificial intelligence, computer science and knowledge engineering. Starting with three remarkable pieces of work, we center attention on a number of events that initiated and developed basic topics that are still nowadays a matter of research and inquire, from goal directed activity theories to circular causality and to reverberations and learning. Within this context, we pay tribute to the memory of Prof. Ricciardi documenting the importance of his contributions in the mathematics of brain, neural nets and neurophysiological models, computational simulations and techniques.

This study is one of a series of recent publications that attempt to sort out the impact of mode of birth on maternal and newborn outcome. The focus on elective cesarean section compared to planned vaginal birth beginning in spontaneous labor is an improved methodology over the earlier comparisons that failed to be able to separate planned from unplanned cesarean section or vaginal birth. The retrospective case control methodology based on birth record data that is employed in this research is similar to others, though with more respectable numbers. Most suffer from the problem of ascertainment difficulties, failure to stratify by parity, and of course, the unavailability of randomization, which some consider the ideal methodology.
Accumulating preclinical and clinical evidence suggests the possibility of neurotoxicity from neonatal exposure to general anaesthetics. Here, we review the weight of the evidence from both human and animal studies and discuss the putative mechanisms of injury and options for protective strategies. Our review identified 55 rodent studies, seven primate studies, and nine clinical studies of interest. While the preclinical data consistently demonstrate robust apoptosis in the nervous system after anaesthetic exposure, only a few studies have performed cognitive follow-up. Nonetheless, the emerging evidence that the primate brain is vulnerable to anaesthetic-induced apoptosis is of concern. The impact of surgery on anaesthetic-induced brain injury has not been adequately addressed yet. The clinical data, comprising largely retrospective cohort database analyses, are inconclusive, in part due to confounding variables inherent in these observational epidemiological approaches. This places even greater emphasis on prospective approaches to this problem, such as the ongoing GAS trial and PANDA study.

Angiolipomas are rare benign mesenchymal tumours, most commonly found in the subcutaneous tissue of the extremities. These neoplasms are rarely located in the central nervous system (CNS), with spinal localization being the most common in this group. Intracranial location is extremely infrequent, and only ten cases have been described in the sellar region. We report on two more patients with skull-base (intracranial) angiolipomas, the former presented with a long history of headache and the latter complained diplopia. Both patients were postoperatively verified as angiolipoma. Neuroimaging studies and peroperative features are presented and the role of microsurgery is discussed. On the basis of these tumours' characteristics, the management strategy of choice usually does not consist on surgical total removal, often a partial excision could be satisfying to improve the patient symptomatology. Nowadays, Gamma Knife surgery is standing out as an effective, additional and/or alternative, treatment modality.



Inflammatory perivascular cuffs are comprised of leucocytes that accumulate in the perivascular space around post-capillary venules before their infiltration into the parenchyma of the central nervous system. Inflammatory perivascular cuffs are commonly found in the central nervous system of patients with multiple sclerosis and in the animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Leucocytes that accumulate in the perivascular space secrete matrix metalloproteinases that aid their transmigration into the neural parenchyma. We described previously that the upstream inducer of matrix metalloproteinase expression, extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer (CD147), was elevated in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, and that its inhibition reduced leucocyte entry into the central nervous system. Here we investigated whether the expression of extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer varies with the temporal evolution of lesions in murine experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, whether it was uniformly upregulated across multiple sclerosis specimens, and whether it was a feature of inflammatory perivascular cuffs in multiple sclerosis lesions. In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, elevation of extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer was correlated with the appearance and persistence of clinical signs of disease. In both murine and human samples, extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer was detected on endothelium in healthy and disease states but was dramatically increased in and around inflammatory perivascular cuffs on leucocytes, associated with matrix metalloproteinase expression, and on resident cells including microglia. Leucocyte populations that express extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer in multiple sclerosis lesions included CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes and monocyte/macrophages. The extra-endothelial expression of extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer was a marker of the activity of lesions in multiple sclerosis, being present on leucocyte-containing perivascular cuffs but not in inactive lesions. By using a function-blocking antibody, we implicate extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer in the adhesion of leucocytes to endothelial cells and determined that its activity was more crucial on leucocytes than on endothelium in leucocyte-endothelial cell engagement in vitro. Extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer activity regulated the level of alpha 4 integrin on leucocytes through a mechanism associated with nuclear factor B signalling. Blocking extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer attenuated the transmigration of monocytes and B lymphocytes across a model of the blood-brain barrier in culture. In summary, we describe the prominence of extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer in central nervous system inflammatory perivascular cuffs, emphasize its dual role in matrix metalloproteinase induction and leucocyte adhesion, and highlight the elevation of extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer as an orchestrator of the infiltration of leucocytes into the central nervous system parenchyma.
After stroke, penumbral salvage determines clinical recovery. However, the rescued penumbra may be affected by selective neuronal loss, as documented both histopathologically in animals and using the validated in vivo positron emission tomography marker (11)C-flumazenil in humans. However, whether the non-infarcted penumbra is capable of neuronal activation, and how selective neuronal loss may interfere, is unknown. Here we prospectively mapped the topographical relationships between functional magnetic resonance imaging responses and non-infarcted penumbra, and tested the hypothesis that the former do take place in the latter, but only in its subsets spared selective neuronal loss. Seven patients (mean age 74 years; three thrombolysed) with first-ever acute anterior circulation stroke, presence of penumbra on computed tomography perfusion performed within 6 h of onset, and substantial deficit on admission but good outcome at 1-3 months (National Institute of Health Stroke Score range 6-13 and 0-1, respectively, P = 0.001), were studied. At follow-up, patients underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging to map the infarct, functional magnetic resonance imaging (three tasks selected to probe the right or left hemisphere), and (11)C-flumazenil positron emission tomography generating binding potential maps. Patients with significant carotid or middle-cerebral artery disease or impaired vasoreactivity were excluded. Following image coregistration, the non-infarcted penumbra comprised all acutely ischaemic voxels (identified on acute computed tomography perfusion using previously validated thresholds) not part of the final infarct. To test our hypotheses, the overlap between functional magnetic resonance imaging activation clusters and non-infarcted penumbra was mapped, and binding potential values then computed both within and outside this overlap. In addition, the overlap between functional magnetic resonance imaging activation clusters and areas of significantly reduced binding potential (determined using Statistical Parametric Mapping against 16 age-matched control subjects) was assessed in each patient. An overlap between non-infarcted penumbra and functional magnetic resonance imaging clusters was present in seven of seven patients, substantial in four. Binding potential was significantly reduced in the whole non-infarcted penumbra (P &lt; 0.01) but not within the functional magnetic resonance imaging overlap. Clusters with significantly reduced binding potential showed virtually no overlap with functional magnetic resonance imaging activation compared with 12 age-matched controls (P = 0.04).The results from this proof of principle study suggest that 1-3 months after stroke the non-infarcted penumbra is capable of neuronal activation, consistent with its established role in recovery of neurological functions. However, although the non-infarcted penumbra as a whole was affected by selective neuronal loss, activations tended to occur within portions spared selective neuronal loss, suggesting the latter impedes neuronal activation. Although its clinical correlates are still elusive, selective neuronal loss may represent a novel therapeutic target in the aftermath of ischaemic stroke.
Damage to the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) can lead to Optic Ataxia (OA), in which patients misreach to peripheral targets. Recent research suggested that the PPC might be involved not only in simple reaching tasks toward peripheral targets, but also in changing the hand movement trajectory in real time if the target moves. The present study investigated whether patients with a lesion arising from operation for prefrontal, premotor or parietal tumours are selectively impaired in three experimental pointing conditions: (i) pointing to peripheral targets, (ii) pointing to fixatable targets, and (iii) pointing to moved targets (on-line movement corrections). The study confirmed the selective importance of the parietal cortex in all three tasks. Surprisingly, given clinical claims about OA, the degree of peripheral reaching errors correlated strongly in parietal patients with that to fixatable targets. However, there was no relation between peripheral reaching errors and the 'shift cost' of making on-line correction to moved targets, and classical double dissociations between the two skills were observed. The findings suggest that deficits in pointing to peripheral and to moved targets reflect two at least partly independent processes.
This study investigated the brain areas involved in episodic memory retrieval of pictures depending on the characteristics of the contextual environment during encoding (i.e. presence or absence of an odor). In the first stage, subjects were presented with a series of 32 pictures. Half of the pictures were presented while the subjects smelled an odor (vanillin). No particular odor was associated with the presentation of the other half of the pictures. Two weeks later, a retrieval task was performed in which the same pictures were presented during an fMRI session but without any odor association involved. The results show that both conditions activate a common episodic memory network including the hippocampal formation. Compared with the &quot;encoding without odor&quot; condition, the &quot;encoding with odor&quot; condition shows greater activations in temporal, parietal and frontal cortices, notably within the area of the orbitofrontal cortex which constitutes a main site of the secondary olfactory cortex. No activated areas were observed in the inverse contrast. These results highlight the complexity of the networks involved in episodic memory according to the context during encoding.
Early life stress (ELS) is a common risk factor for psychopathology, but there are few functional neuroimaging studies investigating its effects. In this preliminary study, we investigated the correlates of ELS exposure on the default network (DN) through measurements of task-associated DN deactivation. Data were analyzed from 19 subjects without psychiatric illness (10 with ELS). Subjects performed the working memory (WM) N-back task (including a 2-back WM and 0-back control condition) while undergoing functional MRI. We compared brain responses in the two groups across 5 bilateral DN regions using an a priori region of interest (ROI) analysis. The ELS group demonstrated significantly greater DN deactivation, observed in the right posterior cingulate cortex PCC, bilateral medial prefrontal cortex, left middle/superior frontal gyrus and right middle temporal region. These preliminary results indicate subjects with ELS demonstrate greater DN deactivations to WM challenges compared to non-ELS controls, potentially reflecting a biomarker of long-term effects of ELS exposure.
Scientists have known for decades that persons who volunteer for behavioral research may be different from those who decline participation and that characteristics differentiating volunteers from non-volunteers may vary depending on the nature of the research. There is evidence that volunteer self-selection can impact representativeness of samples in studies involving physically or psychologically stressful procedures, such as electric shocks, sensory isolation, or drug effects. However, the degree to which self-selection influences sample characteristics in &quot;stressful&quot; studies involving positron emission tomography (PET) has not been evaluated. Since estimation of population parameters, robustness of findings, and validity of inferred relationships can all be impacted by volunteer bias, it is important to determine if self-selection may act as an unrecognized confound in such studies. In the present investigation, we obtained baseline data on 114 (56M, 58F) subjects who participated in a study involving completion of several self-report questionnaires and behavioral performance tasks. Participants were later given the opportunity to enroll in an [11C]raclopride PET study involving intravenous amphetamine (AMPH) administration. Demographic characteristics, personality traits, and task performance of subjects who consented to the latter study were compared with those who declined participation. Findings showed that the principal personality trait that distinguished the two groups was sensation-seeking; volunteers scored significantly higher on this dimension than non-volunteers. Males were more likely to volunteer than females. However, results of mediation analysis suggested that the relationship between gender and volunteer status was mediated by greater sensation-seeking traits in the males. Implications of these findings are discussed.
Deficits in lentiform nucleus volume and morphometry are implicated in a number of genetically influenced disorders, including Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, and ADHD. Here we performed genome-wide searches to discover common genetic variants associated with differences in lentiform nucleus volume in human populations. We assessed structural MRI scans of the brain in two large genotyped samples: the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI; N=706) and the Queensland Twin Imaging Study (QTIM; N=639). Statistics of association from each cohort were combined meta-analytically using a fixed-effects model to boost power and to reduce the prevalence of false positive findings. We identified a number of associations in and around the flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO) gene cluster. The most highly associated SNP, rs1795240, was located in the FMO3 gene; after meta-analysis, it showed genome-wide significant evidence of association with lentiform nucleus volume (P MA =4.7910(-8)). This commonly-carried genetic variant accounted for 2.68% and 0.84% of the trait variability in the ADNI and QTIM samples, respectively, even though the QTIM sample was on average 50years younger. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed significant contributions of this gene to the cytochrome P450 pathway, which is involved in metabolizing numerous therapeutic drugs for pain, seizures, mania, depression, anxiety, and psychosis. The genetic variants we identified provide replicated, genome-wide significant evidence for the FMO gene cluster's involvement in lentiform nucleus volume differences in human populations.


Subcortical structures are a key component of bilingual language processing. For instance, there is now evidence that the head of the left caudate is involved in controlling languages in bilingual individuals. On the other hand, the left putamen is hypothesized to be involved in articulatory processes but little is known on its engagement in bilingual language processing. Here, our hypothesis was that the left putamen of multilinguals is engaged when producing words in the less proficient language. We investigated this issue with event-related functional Magnetic Resonance (er-fMRI) in a group of multilinguals (n = 14) and in monolinguals (n = 14) during a picture-naming task. Further, we hypothesized increased grey matter density in the left putamen as an effect of experience since multilinguals constantly face a major articulatory load (i.e., speaking multiple languages) during life. To test these hypotheses we measured structural differences between multilinguals and monolinguals using voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Our results indicate that multilinguals have increased activation in the left putamen for a non-native language, but only if they are not highly proficient in that language. In addition, we found increased grey matter density in the left putamen of multilinguals compared to monolinguals. These findings highlight that the multilingual brain handles a complex articulatory repertoire (i.e., dealing with multiple languages) by inducing structural plasticity in the left putamen.
The last decade has seen a surge of interest in the study of social brain functions. Research in this field, called social neuroscience, has been mostly carried out on human subjects by using a functional neuroimaging technique. This is largely because of the fact that humans have sophisticated social abilities and are capable of performing various demanding tasks in a scanner. However, given the limited spatiotemporal resolution inherent in the methodology, a systems neuroscience approach using macaque monkeys may provide a useful platform that promotes the understanding of social brain functions at the cellular level, thereby complementing neuroimaging techniques. Recently, it has been demonstrated to be technically feasible to train macaque monkeys to perform socially oriented behavioral tasks and directly examine cellular activity in their brains. In this paper, we review the literature on this new branch of social neuroscience. Emerging evidence now suggests that diverse aspects of social cognition, such as social valuation, gaze following, joint attention, monitoring of other's behavior, and social comparison are implemented by distributed neuronal networks, including the orbital, lateral, and medial sectors of the prefrontal cortex, premotor cortex, posterior parietal cortex, amygdala, and superior temporal sulcus. Continuing efforts in this research direction could uncover the neural basis whereby primates have become such successful social beings in the animal kingdom.
Electrocorticogram (ECoG) is an electrophysiological brain activity recording technique that has been widely revisited in recent years, not only for clinical monitoring, but also for prosthetic applications. However, the extent and limitations of the technique are poorly understood. Higher areas of human and macaque ventral visual cortices are known to have functional domain structures that are selective to certain categories, and population vectors that have been derived from visually evoked single-unit activity (SUA) recording in this region have been shown to form category clusters. How can visually evoked potentials recorded with ECoG from the same region be exploited to extract category information? To answer this question, the development of a simultaneous ECoG and SUA recording device by the modification of a previously reported flexible mesh ECoG probe with a microelectromechanical system has been promising (Toda et al., 2011). Indeed, Toda et al. conducted simultaneous recordings and reported that mesh ECoG signals exhibited comparable or better signal variabilities compared to conventional methods in the rat visual cortex. With this approach, we conducted intensive simultaneous ECoG and SUA recordings from the macaque anterior inferior temporal (IT) cortex. We compared how basic visual category and fine information is decoded from different recording modalities. Our preliminary results indicated that ECoG signals from the IT cortex may be a useful source for reading out certain levels of category information from visual input.
Using a neuron-specific retrograde gene-transfer vector based on the lentivirus, we established immunotoxin (IT)-mediated tract targeting in the primate brain; this technique allows ablation of a neuronal population constituting a certain pathway. Here, we introduce a recent study on selective removal of the cortico-subthalamic &quot;hyperdirect&quot; pathway. Together with the direct and indirect pathways, the hyperdirect pathway plays a crucial role in motor information processing in the basal ganglia. This pathway links the motor-related areas of the frontal lobe directly to the subthalamic nucleus (STN) without relay at the striatum. After electrical stimulation of the motor-related areas, such as the supplementary motor area (SMA), triphasic responses consisting of an early excitation, an inhibition, and a late excitation are usually detected in the internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi). Several lines of evidence suggest that the early excitation may be derived from the hyperdirect pathway. We injected the lentiviral vector expressing human interleukin-2 receptor -subunit into the monkey STN. IT was then injected into the SMA. We recorded GPi neuron responses to SMA stimulation. We found that the early excitation was reduced neither with the inhibition nor with the late excitation. The spontaneous firing rate and pattern of GPi neurons remained unchanged. This indicated that IT-mediated tract targeting successfully and selectively eliminated the hyperdirect pathway from the basal ganglia circuitry without affecting the spontaneous activity of STN neurons. This electrophysiological finding was confirmed using anatomical data obtained from retrograde and anterograde neural tracings. The present results show that the cortically driven early excitation in GPi neurons is mediated by the hyperdirect pathway. The IT-mediated tract targeting technique will provide us with novel strategies for elucidating various neural network functions.
In Western societies, the incidence of diet-related diseases is progressively increasing due to greater availability of hypercaloric food and a sedentary lifestyle. Obesity, diabetes, atherosclerosis, and neurodegeneration are major diet-related pathologies that share a common pathogenic denominator of low-grade inflammation. Functional foods and nutraceuticals may represent a novel therapeutic approach to prevent or attenuate diet-related disease in view of their ability to exert anti-inflammatory responses. In particular, activation of intestinal T regulatory cells and homeostatic regulation of the gut microbiota have the potential to reduce low-grade inflammation in diet-related diseases. In this review, clinical applications of polyphenol-rich functional foods and nutraceuticals in postprandial inflammation, obesity, and ageing will be discussed. We have placed special emphasis on polyphenols since they are broadly distributed in plants.
Abstract available from the publisher.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are multipotent cells that are able to differentiate into mesodermal lineages (osteogenic, adipogenic, chondrogenic), but also towards non-mesodermal derivatives (e.g. neural cells). Recent in vitro studies revealed that, in the absence of any kind of differentiation stimuli, undifferentiated MSCs express neural differentiation markers, but the literature data do not all concur. Considering their promising therapeutic potential for neurodegenerative diseases, it is very important to expand our knowledge about this particular biological property of MSCs. In this study, we confirmed the spontaneous expression of neural markers (neuronal, glial and progenitor markers) by undifferentiated human MSCs (hMSCs) and in particular, we demonstrated that the neuronal markers III-tubulin and NeuN are expressed by a very high percentage of hMSCs, regardless of the number of culture passages and the culture conditions. Moreover, the neuronal markers III-tubulin and NeuN are still expressed by hMSCs after in vitro osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation. On the other hand, chondrogenically differentiated hMSCs are negative for these markers. Our findings suggest that the expression of neuronal markers could be common to a wide range of cellular types and not exclusive for neuronal lineages. Therefore, the expression of neuronal markers alone is not sufficient to demonstrate the differentiation of MSCs towards the neuronal phenotype. Functional properties analysis is also required.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are members of the nuclear receptor superfamily and function as transcription factors that regulate gene expression in numerous biological processes. Although the PPAR/ subtype is highly expressed in the brain, its physiological roles in neuronal function remain to be elucidated. In this study, we examined the presence of PPAR/ in the master circadian clock of the Syrian hamster and investigated its putative functional role in this structure. In mammals, the central circadian clock, located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), is entrained by the light-dark (LD) cycle via photic6 signals conveyed by a direct pathway whose terminals release glutamate. Using immunocytochemical and qRT-PCR analysis, we demonstrated that the rhythmic expression of PPAR / within the SCN of hamsters raised under an LD cycle was detectable only at the transcriptional level when the hamsters were maintained under constant darkness (DD). The increase in the number of immunoreactive PPAR/ cells observed under DD after light stimulation during the early subjective night (CT14), but not during the subjective day (CT06), demonstrated that the expression of PPAR/ can be up-regulated according to the photosensitive phase of the circadian clock. All of the PPAR/-positive cells in the SCN also expressed the glutamate receptor NMDAR1. Moreover, we demonstrated that at the photosensitive point (CT14), the administration of L-16504, a specific agonist of PPAR/, amplified the phase delay of the locomotor response induced by a light pulse. Taken together, these data suggest that PPAR/ activation modulates glutamate release that mediates entrainment of the circadian clock by light.
The yeast SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier) orthologue SMT3 was initially discovered in a genetic suppressors screen for the centromeric protein Mif2 (Meluh and Koshland in Mol Bio Cell 6:793-807, 1). Later, it turned out that the homologous mammalian proteins SUMO1 to SUMO4 are reversible protein modifiers that can form isopeptide bonds with lysine residues of respective target proteins (Mahajan et al. in Cell 88:97-107, 2). This was the discovery of a post-translational modification called sumoylation, which enzymatically resembles ubiquitination. However, very soon it became clear that SUMO attachments served a far more diverse role than ubiquitination. Meanwhile, numerous cellular processes are known to be subject to the impact of SUMO modification, including transcription, protein targeting, protein solubility, apoptosis or activity of various enzymes. In many instances, SUMO proteins create new protein interaction surfaces or block existing interaction domains (Geiss-Friedlander and Melchior in Nat Rev in Mol Cell Biol 8:947-956, 3). For the past few years, sumoylation attracted increasing attention as a versatile regulator of toxic protein properties in neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, we summarize the growing knowledge about the involvement of sumoylation in neurodegeneration, and discuss the underlying molecular principles affected by this multifaceted and intriguing post-translational modification.



Impulsivity is a complex trait associated with a range of maladaptive behaviors, including many forms of psychopathology. Previous research has implicated multiple neural circuits and neurotransmitter systems in impulsive behavior, but the relationship between impulsivity and organization of whole-brain networks has not yet been explored. Using graph theory analyses, we characterized the relationship between impulsivity and the functional segregation (&quot;modularity&quot;) of the whole-brain network architecture derived from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. These analyses revealed remarkable differences in network organization across the impulsivity spectrum. Specifically, in highly impulsive individuals, regulatory structures including medial and lateral regions of the prefrontal cortex were isolated from subcortical structures associated with appetitive drive, whereas these brain areas clustered together within the same module in less impulsive individuals. Further exploration of the modular organization of whole-brain networks revealed novel shifts in the functional connectivity between visual, sensorimotor, cortical, and subcortical structures across the impulsivity spectrum. The current findings highlight the utility of graph theory analyses of resting-state fMRI data in furthering our understanding of the neurobiological architecture of complex behaviors.
Converging anatomical and functional evidence suggests that the cerebellum processes both motor and nonmotor information originating from the primary motor cortex and prefrontal cortex, respectively. However, it has not been established whether the cerebellum only processes prefrontal information where rules specify actions or whether the cerebellum processes any form of prefrontal information no matter how abstract. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we distinguish between two competing hypotheses: (1) activity within prefrontal-projecting cerebellar lobules (Crus I and II) will only be evoked by rules that specify action (i.e. first-order rules; arbitrary S-R mappings) and (2) activity will be evoked in these lobules by both first-order rules and second-order rules that govern the application of lower order rules. The results showed that prefrontal-projecting cerebellar lobules Crus I and II were commonly activated by processing both first- and second-order rules. We demonstrate for the first time that cerebellar circuits engage both first- and second-order rules and in doing so show that the cerebellum can contribute to cognitive control independent of motor control.
Glia-guided migration (glia-guided locomotion) during radial migration is a characteristic yet unique mode of migration. In this process, the directionality of migration is predetermined by glial processes and not by growth cones. Prior to the initiation of glia-guided migration, migrating neurons transform from multipolar to bipolar, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this multipolar-bipolar transition and the commencement of glia-guided migration are not fully understood. Here, we demonstrate that the multipolar-bipolar transition is not solely a cell autonomous event; instead, the interaction of growth cones with glial processes plays an essential role. Time-lapse imaging with lattice assays reveals the importance of vigorously active growth cones in searching for appropriate glial scaffolds, completing the transition, and initiating glia-guided migration. These growth cone activities are regulated by Abl kinase and Cdk5 via WAVE2-Abi2 through the phosphorylation of tyrosine 150 and serine 137 of WAVE2. Neurons that do not display such growth cone activities are mispositioned in a more superficial location in the neocortex, suggesting the significance of growth cones for the final location of the neurons. This process occurs in spite of the &quot;inside-out&quot; principle in which later-born neurons are situated more superficially.
Movements of the upper limb are controlled mostly through the contralateral hemisphere. Although overall activity changes in the ipsilateral motor cortex have been reported, their functional significance remains unclear. Using human functional imaging, we analyzed neural finger representations by studying differences in fine-grained activation patterns for single isometric finger presses. We demonstrate that cortical motor areas encode ipsilateral movements in 2 fundamentally different ways. During unimanual ipsilateral finger presses, primary sensory and motor cortices show, underneath global suppression, finger-specific activity patterns that are nearly identical to those elicited by contralateral mirror-symmetric action. This component vanishes when both motor cortices are functionally engaged during bimanual actions. We suggest that the ipsilateral representation present during unimanual presses arises because otherwise functionally idle circuits are driven by input from the opposite hemisphere. A second type of representation becomes evident in caudal premotor and anterior parietal cortices during bimanual actions. In these regions, ipsilateral actions are represented as nonlinear modulation of activity patterns related to contralateral actions, an encoding scheme that may provide the neural substrate for coordinating bimanual movements. We conclude that ipsilateral cortical representations change their informational content and functional role, depending on the behavioral context.
The burst of laughter that is evoked by tickling is a primitive form of vocalization. It evolves during an early phase of postnatal life and appears to be independent of higher cortical circuits. Clinicopathological observations have led to suspicions that the hypothalamus is directly involved in the production of laughter. In this functional magnetic resonance imaging investigation, healthy participants were 1) tickled on the sole of the right foot with permission to laugh, 2) tickled but asked to stifle laughter, and 3) requested to laugh voluntarily. Tickling that was accompanied by involuntary laughter activated regions in the lateral hypothalamus, parietal operculum, amygdala, and right cerebellum to a consistently greater degree than did the 2 other conditions. Activation of the periaqueductal gray matter was observed during voluntary and involuntary laughter but not when laughter was inhibited. The present findings indicate that hypothalamic activity plays a crucial role in evoking ticklish laughter in healthy individuals. The hypothalamus promotes innate behavioral reactions to stimuli and sends projections to the periaqueductal gray matter, which is itself an important integrative center for the control of vocalization. A comparison of our findings with published data relating to humorous laughter revealed the involvement of a common set of subcortical centers.
Processing motor errors is essential for online control of goal-directed movements and motor learning. Evidence from psychophysical and imaging studies supports the long-standing view that error processing is central to cerebellar function. The dominant view is that error-related signals are encoded in the complex spike discharge of Purkinje cells. However, the findings are inconsistent on whether complex spike activity correlates with motor errors. Recently, we examined if simple spike firing carries error signals in monkeys trained to manually track a randomly moving target. The task requires continuous processing of motor errors characterized by the relative movements between the hand-driven cursor and the target center. Linear regression models show that error parameters are robustly represented in the simple spike activity of most Purkinje cells. At the single cell level, the error signals are encoded independently and integrated with kinematic signals. In a large majority of Purkinje cells, correlation strengths between the simple spike discharge and an error parameter have bimodal profiles with respect to time, exhibiting a local maxima corresponding to firing leading the behavior and another one corresponding to firing lagging behavior. The bimodal temporal profiles suggest that individual error parameters are dually encoded as both an internal prediction used for feedback-independent, compensatory movements and the actual sensory feedback used to monitor performance. Approximately 75% of the dual representations have opposing modulations of the simple spike activity, one increasing firing and the other depressing firing, as reflected by the reversed signs of the regression coefficients corresponding to the local maxima of the R (2) profile. These dual representations of individual parameters with opposing modulation of the simple spike firing are consistent with the signals needed to generate sensory prediction errors used to update an internal model.
Recent studies have established the existence of an innate immune system in the central nervous system (CNS) and implicated a critical role for this system in both normal and pathological processes. Astrocytes and microglia, normal components of the CNS, are the primary cell types that comprise the innate immune system of the CNS. Basic to their role during normal and adverse conditions is the production of neuroimmune factors such as cytokines and chemokines, which are signaling molecules that initiate or coordinate downstream cellular actions. During adverse conditions, cytokines and chemokines function in defensive and repair. However, if expression of these factors becomes dysregulated, abnormal CNS function can result. Both neurons and glial cells of the CNS express receptors for cytokines and chemokines, but the biological consequence of receptor activation has yet to be fully resolved. Our studies show that neuroadaptive changes are produced in primary cultures of rat cerebellar cells chronically treated with the cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) and in the cerebellum of transgenic mice that chronically express elevated levels of IL-6 in the CNS. In the cerebellum in culture and in vivo, the neuroadaptive changes included alterations in the level of expression of proteins involved in gene expression, signal transduction, and synaptic transmission. Associated with these changes were alterations in neuronal function. A comparison of results from the cultured cerebellar cells and cerebellum of the transgenic mice indicated that the effects of IL-6 can vary across neuronal types. However, alterations in mechanisms involved in Ca(2+) homeostasis were observed in all cell types studied. These results indicate that modifications in cerebellar function are likely to occur in disorders associated with elevated levels of IL-6 in the cerebellum.
Cytosolic phospholipase A2 alpha (cPLA2) responds to micromolar intracellular Ca(2+) and produces arachidonic acid, which regulates cellular homeostasis, neurotoxicity, and inflammation. Endocannabinoids are the derivates of arachidonic acid and widely distributed in the cerebellum. However, the role of cPLA2/arachidonic acid pathway in cerebellar synaptic transmission and plasticity is unknown. We utilized cPLA2 knockout mice and slice whole-cell patch clamp to study the action of cPLA2/arachidonic acid signaling on the depolarization-induced suppression of excitation (DSE) and long-term potentiation at parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses. Our data showed that DSE was significantly inhibited but rescued by arachidonic acid in cPLA2 knockout mice. The degradation enzyme of 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), monoacylglycerol lipase, blocked DSE, while another catabolism enzyme for N-arachidonoylethanolamine, fatty acid amide hydrolase, did not, suggesting that 2-AG is responsible for DSE in Purkinje cells. Co-application of paxilline reversed the blockade of DSE by internal K(+), indicating that large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium channel is sufficient to inhibit cPLA2/arachidonic acid-mediated DSE. On the other hand, we found that 1Hz parallel fiber stimuli-triggered long-term potentiation (LTP) was deficient in cPLA2 knockout mice. LTP was also inhibited when AACOCF3, an inhibitor of cPLA2, was given. Arachidonic acid was necessary for the LTP induction. Therefore, these data showed that cPLA2/arachidonic acid/2-AG signaling pathway mediates DSE and LTP at parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapse.
The p75 neurotrophin receptor is highly expressed in the developing nervous system and is required for neuronal survival, growth, and synaptic transmission. In young mice, p75 is present in both granular cells and Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. Although p75 has been implicated in modulation of neuronal excitability in several neuronal types, whether and how it affects the excitability of cerebellar Purkinje neurons remained unclear. Using extracellular recordings of spontaneous firing of Purkinje neurons in cerebellar slices prepared from wild type and p75 knockout mice, we measured intrinsic firing properties in the presence of fast synaptic blockers of more than 200 Purkinje cells, each for a period of 5min, for each genotype. We detected a significant increase in the mean firing frequency in p75(-/-) neurons comparing to the wild type littermates. Upon separating tonically firing from phasically firing cells, i.e., cells with firing pauses of longer than 300ms, we observed that the change mainly arose from phasic firing cells and can be explained by an increase in the firing/silence ratio and a decrease in the number of long pauses during the 5-min recording period. We conclude that p75 plays an important role in regulating the firing-to-silence transition during the phasic firing period of the spontaneous firing of Purkinje cells. Thus, p75 exerts a modulatory function on Purkinje cell firing patterns, through which it may act as a key player in motor coordination and other cerebellum-regulated activities since Purkinje cells represent the sole neuronal output of the cerebellar cortex.
Recent research suggests that fetal exposure to increased maternal body mass index (BMI) during pregnancy may be associated with psychopathology later in life. When this link first emerges, and if it is due to intrauterine exposures or confounding variables is not known. We therefore assessed associations between maternal pre-pregnancy BMI and: (1) temperament at 1 year of age, and (2) Child Behavior Checklist internalizing and externalizing scales at age 2 in the 2900 mothers and infants enrolled in the Western Australian Pregnancy Study. Pre-pregnancy BMI was positively associated with externalizing scores ( = 0.131, 95 % CI 0.013-0.249) at age 2, even after adjustment for confounders, but not with internalizing scores or an increased risk of difficult temperament. These data suggest that fetal exposure to increased maternal BMI is associated with elevated levels of behavior problems as early as age 2, and that this may be linked to the intrauterine environment.












In prematurely born children, various visual and ophthalmologic sequelae occur because of both retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) and preterm birth per se. Several long-term follow-up studies have described the outcome of ROP. Visual impairment and blindness are well-known consequences, but the prevalence varies globally because of differing neonatal and ophthalmologic care. Improving treatment options and criteria for the treatment of ROP are continuously changing the ophthalmologic outcome. The anatomic outcome has improved with treatment, but good anatomic outcome in treated severe ROP does not always reflect the functional outcome. There is no consensus regarding long-term follow-up of prematurely born children.
Screening for retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) and the optimum treatment of sight-threatening disease requires detailed understanding of the infants at risk and timely identification. Despite a plethora of guidelines, not all populations and situations are adequately covered, so that what should be preventable visual disability still occurs. This article considers the design of screening guidelines and the possibility of a global guideline, although in certain parts of the world manpower for ROP screening is not available. Algorithms linked to the increase in weight of preterm infants over time may refine the number of babies needing to undergo treatment.
The aim of this study was to assess the effects of a novel antidepressant, vortioxetine 10mg, on driving, cognitive, and psychomotor performance in 24 healthy subjects in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, three-way crossover design. Mirtazapine 30mg was included as an active comparator. Drugs were administered in the evening of 15 consecutive days. Performance was measured in the morning of days 2 and 16, using standardized tests measuring on-the-road driving, memory, tracking, divided attention, and vigilance. The statistical analysis on the primary measure of driving, i.e., SD of lateral position showed noninferiority of vortioxetine on days 2 and 16, and inferiority for mirtazapine on day 2. Vortioxetine did not cause cognitive or psychomotor impairment. Mirtazapine, however, impaired cognitive and psychomotor performance on day 2. Most of these effects disappeared after multiple doses of mirtazapine. To conclude, vortioxetine did not impair driving, cognitive, or psychomotor performance after single or multiple doses.
Publication bias undermines the integrity of the evidence base by inflating apparent drug efficacy and minimizing drug harms, thus skewing the risk-benefit ratio. This paper reviews the topic of publication bias with a focus on drugs prescribed for psychiatric conditions, especially depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and autism. Publication bias is pervasive; although psychiatry/psychology may be the most seriously afflicted field, it occurs throughout medicine and science. Responsibility lies with various parties (authors as well as journals, academia as well as industry), so the motives appear to extend beyond the financial interests of drug companies. The desire for success, in combination with cognitive biases, can also influence academic authors and journals. Amid the flood of new medical information coming out each day, the attention of the news media and academic community is more likely to be captured by studies whose results are positive or newsworthy. In the peer review system, a fundamental flaw arises from the fact that authors usually write manuscripts after they know the results. This allows hindsight and other biases to come into play, so data can be &quot;tortured until they confess&quot; (a detailed example is given). If a &quot;publishable&quot; result cannot be achieved, non-publication remains an option. To address publication bias, various measures have been undertaken, including registries of clinical trials. Drug regulatory agencies can provide valuable unpublished data. It is suggested that journals borrow from the FDA review model. Because the significance of study results biases reviewers, results should be excluded from review until after a preliminary judgment of study scientific quality has been rendered, based on the original study protocol. Protocol publication can further enhance the credibility of the published literature.
Treatment with second generation antipsychotics (SGAs), notably olanzapine and clozapine, causes severe obesity side effects. Antagonism of histamine H1 receptors has been identified as a main cause of SGA-induced obesity, but the molecular mechanisms associated with this antagonism in different stages of SGA-induced weight gain remain unclear. This review aims to explore the potential role of hypothalamic histamine H1 receptors in different stages of SGA-induced weight gain/obesity and the molecular pathways related to SGA-induced antagonism of these receptors. Initial data have demonstrated the importance of hypothalamic H1 receptors in both short- and long-term SGA-induced obesity. Blocking hypothalamic H1 receptors by SGAs activates AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a well-known feeding regulator. During short-term treatment, hypothalamic H1 receptor antagonism by SGAs may activate the AMPK-carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 signaling to rapidly increase caloric intake and result in weight gain. During long-term SGA treatment, hypothalamic H1 receptor antagonism can reduce thermogenesis, possibly by inhibiting the sympathetic outflows to the brainstem rostral raphe pallidus and rostral ventrolateral medulla, therefore decreasing brown adipose tissue thermogenesis. Additionally, blocking of hypothalamic H1 receptors by SGAs may also contribute to fat accumulation by decreasing lipolysis but increasing lipogenesis in white adipose tissue. In summary, antagonism of hypothalamic H1 receptors by SGAs may time-dependently affect the hypothalamus-brainstem circuits to cause weight gain by stimulating appetite and fat accumulation but reducing energy expenditure. The H1 receptor and its downstream signaling molecules could be valuable targets for the design of new compounds for treating SGA-induced weight gain/obesity.
With the increase of human lifespan and refinement of diagnostic techniques dementia, and Alzheimer's disease (AD) in particular, have become a multi-decade process with a complex pathogenesis. The prognosis of AD patients, especially in late stages, may be strongly influenced by factors that go far beyond the well-recognized cascades (tau deposition, amyloid plaques). In this context, AD and Frailty, a multidimensional process of the elderly, inevitably overlap. Not surprisingly, the routine biomarkers collectable in the cerebrospinal fluid, while highly relevant in allowing specific diagnoses, becoming limiting when used to define severity and rate of progression of cognitive impairment. In reviewing merits and pitfalls of routine cerebrospinal fluid profile for AD, this manuscript will examine the state-of-the-art related to a parallel field, the extrapyramidal disorders. For synucleinopathies, we will discuss the possibility to detect factors directly involved in earliest disease pathology (alpha-synuclein, tau-proteins) together with indexes of disease progression (i.e. dopamine-metabolite ratio and loss of blood-brain barrier integrity). This approach might guarantee the capability of monitoring putative disease-modifying strategies. However, we will show the likelihood that nonconventional approaches already proposed for Frail subjects (such as exercise-mediated neuro-protection) might prove to be a useful aid for an ageing brain already impaired by AD alterations. A crucial test for these hypotheses would be to apply this sort of interventional, and not merely pharmacological, therapy to homogeneous patient cohorts.
While many studies have investigated electroencephalographic (EEG) features of dementia, few have analysed the relationship between EEG and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers in cognitive impairment. Seizures are frequently observed at the end stage of Alzheimer disease, and experimental animal studies support the view that epileptiform activity may contribute to the cognitive decline. In this paper, after reviewing literature findings concerning the role of EEG in dementia, we show the preliminary results of our study aimed to correlate the presence of epileptiform EEG patterns with cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers in order to better define the prognosis of dementia. Our study shows a clear relationship between phospho-tau protein levels and epileptiform EEG pattern. This finding seems to suggest in humans the observation made in animal models that not only -amyloid protein, but also tau and phospho-tau proteins, are involved in the aberrant regulation of neural transmission possibly contributing to EEG deterioration, cognitive decline and worse prognosis. On the basis of the relationship between phospho-tau protein, cognitive decline and epileptogenicity we suspect that high liquoral phospho-tau levels and epileptiform EEG pattern may provide an early identification of patients with dementia and/or represent an aggressive phenotype of dementia. We propose that qualitative EEG analysis integrated with cerebrospinal biomarkers may be extensively used to better define dementia.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is strictly connected with aging and frailty. Although dementia contributes to frailty, it is not well established whether AD patients could be per se defined &quot;frail&quot;. At the same time, it is not known whether among AD patients, which are a heterogeneous group of patients, it is possible to identify a subgroup of frail individuals. In this work we sought indices useful to identify &quot;the frail AD&quot;. To do this we evaluated disease progression rate and response to pharmacological treatment (Mini Mental State Examination evaluation), cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers (amyloid-.42, total-tau and phospho-tau) levels, inflammatory indices (serum c-reactive protein, fibrinogen, D-Dimers) in a group of patients with a diagnosis of probable AD. Our results describe the clinical profile of patients which could be considered as non-responders and rapidly progressive AD. In the absence of other indices we conclude that patients with these features could well be considered &quot;frail&quot; among AD.
Different courses of Alzheimer disease are observed in clinical practice. The rapidly progressive form could be associated with the presence of a major microcirculatory involvement and hemodynamic insufficiency. This short review aims to provide an overview of the current knowledge of cerebrovascular contribution to Alzheimer disease presentation and progression, hypothesizing the possible vascular markers of rapidly progressive form.
The old anesthetic ketamine has demonstrated interactions with the inflammatory response. This review intends to qualify the nature and the mechanism underlying this interaction. For this purpose, preclinical data will be presented starting with the initial works, and then, the probable mechanisms will be discussed. A summary of the most relevant clinical data will be presented. In conclusion, ketamine appears as a unique &quot;homeostatic regulator&quot; of the acute inflammatory reaction and the stress-induced immune disturbances. This is of some interest at a moment when the short- and long-term deleterious consequences of inadequate inflammatory reactions are increasingly reported. Large-scale studies showing improved patient's outcome are, however, required before to definitively assert the clinical reality of this positive effect.
We discuss the importance of cognitive abnormalities in unipolar depression, drawing the distinction between &quot;hot&quot; (emotion-laden) and &quot;cold&quot; (emotion-independent) cognition. &quot;Cold&quot; cognitive impairments are present reliably in unipolar depression, underscored by their presence in the diagnostic criteria for major depressive episodes. There is good evidence that some &quot;cold&quot; cognitive abnormalities do not disappear completely upon remission, and that they predict poor response to antidepressant drug treatment. However, in many studies the degree of impairment is moderately related to symptoms. We suggest that &quot;cold&quot; cognitive deficits in unipolar depression may in part be explicable in terms of alterations in &quot;hot&quot; processing, particularly on tasks that utilize feedback, on which depressed patients have been reported to exhibit a &quot;catastrophic response to perceived failure.&quot; Other abnormalities in &quot;hot&quot; cognition are commonly observed on tasks utilizing emotionally valenced stimuli, with numerous studies reporting mood-congruent processing biases in depression across a range of cognitive domains. Additionally, an emerging literature indicates reliable reward and punishment processing abnormalities in depression, which are especially relevant for hard-to-treat symptoms such as anhedonia. Both emotional and reward biases are strongly influenced by manipulations of the neurochemical systems targeted by antidepressant drugs. Such a pattern of &quot;hot&quot; and &quot;cold&quot; cognitive abnormalities is consistent with our cognitive neuropsychological model of depression, which proposes central roles for cognitive abnormalities in the generation, maintenance, and treatment of depressive symptoms. Future work should examine in greater detail the role that &quot;hot&quot; and &quot;cold&quot; cognitive processes play in mediating symptomatic improvement following pharmacological, psychological, and novel brain circuit-level interventions.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an urgent public health challenge that is rapidly approaching epidemic proportions. New therapies that defer or prevent the onset, delay the decline, or improve the symptoms are urgently needed. All phase 3 drug development programs for disease-modifying agents have failed thus far. New approaches to drug development are needed. Translational neuroscience focuses on the linkages between basic neuroscience and the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic products that will improve the lives of patients or prevent the occurrence of brain disorders. Translational neuroscience includes new preclinical models that may better predict human efficacy and safety, improved clinical trial designs and outcomes that will accelerate drug development, and the use of biomarkers to more rapidly provide information regarding the effects of drugs on the underlying disease biology. Early translational research is complemented by later stage translational approaches regarding how best to use evidence to impact clinical practice and to assess the influence of new treatments on the public health. Funding of translational research is evolving with an increased emphasis on academic and NIH involvement in drug development. Translational neuroscience provides a framework for advancing development of new therapies for AD patients.
Botvinick, Cognitive, Affective, &amp; Behavioral Neuroscience 7:356-366 (2007) recently suggested that competing theories of the monitoring function of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) for cognitive control might converge on the detection of aversive signals in general, implying that response conflicts, a known trigger of ACC activation, are aversive, too. Recent evidence showing conflict priming (i.e., faster responses to negative targets after conflict primes) directly supports this notion but remains inconclusive with regard to possible confounds with processing fluency. To this end, two experiments were conducted to offer more compelling evidence for the negative valence of conflicts. Participants were primed by (conflict and nonconflict) Stroop stimuli and subsequently had to judge the valence of neutral German words (Experiment 1a) or Chinese pictographs (Experiment 1b). Results showed that conflict, as compared with nonconflict, primes led to more negative judgments of subsequently presented neutral target stimuli. The findings will be discussed in the light of existing theories of action control highlighting the role of aversive signals for sequential processing adjustments.
Ownership is a powerful construct. Indeed, in a series of recent studies, perceived ownership has been shown to increase attentional capacity, facilitate a memorial advantage, and elicit positive attitudes. Here, we sought to determine whether self-relevance would bias reward evaluation systems within the brain. To accomplish this, we had participants complete a simple gambling task during which they could &quot;win&quot; or &quot;lose&quot; prizes for themselves or for someone else, while electroencephalographic data were recorded. Our results indicated that the amplitude of the feedback error-related negativity, a component of the event-related brain potential sensitive to reward evaluation, was diminished when participants were not gambling for themselves. Furthermore, our data suggest that the ownership cues that indicated who would win or lose a given gamble either were processed as a potential for an increase in utility (i.e., gain: self-gambles) or were processed in a nonutilitarian manner (other-gambles). Importantly, our results suggest that the medial-frontal reward system is sensitive to perceived ownership, to the extent that it may not process changes in utility when they are not directly relevant to self.
Cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) can reduce tinnitus distress but is not available for most patients. Therapist guided, internet-based CBT (ICBT) increase availability and has been shown to be effective. However, the initial positive results need to be replicated in larger samples, and treatment dropout has not been thoroughly studied. Moreover, it has not been evaluated if a low-intensity version of ICBT without therapist contact could be an alternative for patients who do not need or are able to manage the full ICBT-program. This study evaluated two parallel interventions delivered in regular care: ICBT for tinnitus distress (n=293) and a low-intensity version of ICBT (n=81) for patients with lower levels of tinnitus distress. We also explored predictors of dropout from ICBT and if dropout influences outcome. Tinnitus Reaction Questionnaire (Wilson, Henry, Bowen, &amp; Haralambous, 1991) was used as the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes were measures of depression, anxiety, sleep, and sound sensitivity. Significant reductions following ICBT were found on all measures after treatment and also at a three-month follow-up. Patients receiving low-intensity ICBT showed a significant reduction in distress, even when they had low levels of distress initially. Treatment dropout was preceded by an increase in days spent at each treatment step but not by an increased distress. Early dropout was related to worse outcome. ICBT can be used in a regular clinical setting to reduce tinnitus distress. Early dropouts may need additional management. For help-seeking patients with lower distress, a low-intensity version of ICBT can be used.
Theta oscillations are related to cognitive functions and reflect functional integration of frontal and medial temporal structures into coherent neurocognitive networks. This study assessed event-related theta oscillations in medication-free, euthymic patients with bipolar disorder upon auditory oddball paradigm. Twenty-two DSM-IV euthymic bipolar I (n=19) and II (n=3) patients and twenty-two healthy subjects were included. Patients were euthymic for at least 6months, and psychotropic-free for at least 2weeks. EEG was recorded at 30 electrode sites. Auditory oddball paradigm and sensory stimuli were used. Event-related Oscillations were analyzed using adaptive filtering in two different theta frequency bands (4-6Hz, 6-8Hz). In healthy subjects, slow theta (4-6Hz) responses were significantly higher than those of euthymic patients upon target, non-target and sensory stimuli (p&lt;0.05). Fast theta (6-8Hz) responses of healthy subjects were significantly higher than those of euthymic patients upon target-only stimuli (p&lt;0.05). Reduced theta oscillations during auditory processing provide strong quantitative evidence of activation deficits in related networks in bipolar disorder. Fast theta responses are related to cognitive functions, whereas slow theta responses are related to sensory processes more than cognitive processes.
&quot;Emergence&quot; is an idea that has received much attention in consciousness literature, but it is difficult to find characterizations of that concept which are both specific and useful. I will precisely define and characterize a type of epistemic (&quot;weak&quot;) emergence and show that it is a property of some neural circuits throughout the CNS, on micro-, meso- and macroscopic levels. I will argue that possession of this property can result in profoundly altered neural dynamics on multiple levels in cortex and other systems. I will first describe emergent neural entities (ENEs) abstractly. I will then show how ENEs function specifically and concretely, and demonstrate some implications of this type of emergence for the CNS.
Download statistics of citations offer a complementary insight into a journal's health and progress, and are a more immediate indicator of influential articles than citations. This Editorial reports some download statistics for the journal and also draws attention to the most downloaded articles that have appeared in the last two years.
Recent neuroscience evidence suggests that some higher-order tasks might benefit from a reduction in sensory filtering associated with low levels of cognitive control. Guided by neuroimaging findings, we hypothesized that cathodal (inhibitory) transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) will facilitate performance in a flexible use generation task. Participants saw pictures of artifacts and generated aloud either the objects common use or an uncommon use for it, while receiving cathodal tDCS (1.5 mA) either over left or right PFC, or sham stimulation. A forward digit span task served as a negative control for potential general effects of stimulation. Analysis of voice-onset reaction times and number of responses generated showed significant facilitative effects of left PFC stimulation for the uncommon, but not the common use generation task and no effects of stimulation on the control task. The results support the hypothesis that certain tasks may benefit from a state of diminished cognitive control.
The majority of people who attempt to quit smoking without some assistance relapse within the first couple of weeks, indicating the increased vulnerability during the early withdrawal period. The habenula, which projects via the fasciculus retroflexus to the interpeduncular nucleus, plays an important role in the withdrawal syndrome. Particularly the 2, 5, and 4 subunits of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor have critical roles in mediating the somatic manifestations of withdrawal. Furthermore, withdrawal from nicotine induces a hypodopaminergic state, but there is a relative increase in the sensitivity to phasic dopamine release that is caused by nicotine. Therefore, acute nicotine re-exposure causes a phasic DA response that more potently reinforces relapse to smoking during the withdrawal period.
Diffusion kurtosis imaging (DKI) is a new method of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that provides non-Gaussian information that is not available in conventional diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). DKI requires data acquisition at multiple b-values for parameter estimation; this process is usually time-consuming. Therefore, fewer b-values are preferable to expedite acquisition. In this study, we carefully evaluated various acquisition schemas using different numbers and combinations of b-values. Acquisition schemas that sampled b-values that were distributed to two ends were optimized. Compared to conventional schemas using equally spaced b-values (ESB), optimized schemas require fewer b-values to minimize fitting errors in parameter estimation and may thus significantly reduce scanning time. Following a ranked list of optimized schemas resulted from the evaluation, we recommend the 3b schema based on its estimation accuracy and time efficiency, which needs data from only 3 b-values at 0, around 800 and around 2600 s/mm2, respectively. Analyses using voxel-based analysis (VBA) and region-of-interest (ROI) analysis with human DKI datasets support the use of the optimized 3b (0, 1000, 2500 s/mm2) DKI schema in practical clinical applications.
Appreciating human movement can be a powerful aesthetic experience. We have used apparent biological motion to investigate the aesthetic effects of three levels of movement representation: body postures, movement transitions and choreographic structure. Symmetrical (ABCDCBA) and asymmetrical (ABCDBCA) sequences of apparent movement were created from static postures, and were presented in an artificial grammar learning paradigm. Additionally, &quot;good&quot; continuation of apparent movements was manipulated by changing the number of movement path reversals within a sequence. In an initial exposure phase, one group of participants saw only symmetrical sequences, while another group saw only asymmetrical sequences. In a subsequent test phase, both groups rated all sequences on an aesthetic evaluation scale. We found that posture, movement, and choreographic structure all influenced aesthetic ratings. Separate ratings for the static body postures presented individually showed that both groups preferred a posture that maximized spatial symmetry. Ratings for the experimental sequences showed that both groups gave higher ratings to symmetrical sequences with &quot;good&quot; continuation and lower ratings to sequences with many path reversals. Further, participants who had been initially familiarized with asymmetrical sequences showed increased liking for asymmetrical sequences, suggesting a structural mere exposure effect. Aesthetic preferences thus depend on body postures, apparent movement continuation and choreographic structure. We propose a hierarchical model of aesthetic perception of human movement with distinct processing levels for body postures, movements and choreographic structure.
The present study investigated how multisensory integration in peripersonal space is modulated by limb posture (i.e. whether the limbs are crossed or uncrossed) and limb congruency (i.e. whether the observed body part matches the actual position of one's limb). This was done separately for the upper limbs (Experiment 1) and the lower limbs (Experiment 2). The crossmodal congruency task was used to measure peripersonal space integration for the hands and the feet. It was found that the peripersonal space representation for the hands but not for the feet is dynamically updated based on both limb posture and limb congruency. Together these findings show how dynamic cues from vision, proprioception, and touch are integrated in peripersonal limb space and highlight fundamental differences in the way in which peripersonal space is represented for the upper and lower extremity.
The Stroop effect is composed of interference and facilitation effects. The facilitation is less stable and thus many times is referred to as a &quot;fragile effect&quot;. Here we suggest the facilitation effect is highly vulnerable to individual differences in control over the task conflict (between relevant color naming and irrelevant word reading in the Stroop task). We replicated previous findings of a significant correlation between stop-signal reaction time (SSRT) and Stroop interference, and also found a significant correlation between SSRT and the Stroop facilitation effect-participants with low inhibitory control (i.e., long SSRT) had no facilitation effect or even a reversed one. These results shed new light on the &quot;fragile&quot; facilitation effect and highlight the necessity of awareness of task conflict, especially in the Stroop task.

The nature of the angiogenic balance in neuroblastoma is complex, and a spectrum of angiogenesis stimulators and inhibitors have been detected in neuroblastoma tumours. The complex relationships between angiogenic cascade and anti-angiogenic agents in the tumour vascular phase have indicated that anti-angiogenesis can be considered as a strategy for the adjuvant therapy of neuroblastoma. The major goal is to establish if inhibition of angiogenesis is a realistic therapeutic strategy for inhibiting tumour cell dissemination and the formation of metastasis in neuroblastoma.
Vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) is a term used to capture the entire spectrum of cognitive impairment from mild to more severe forms and includes all forms of stroke (e.g., ischemic and hemorrhagic forms) associated and underlying cognitive impairment related with subclinical vascular brain injury. Vascular contributions to cognitive impairment are common, especially as one ages. Therefore, both stroke and Alzheimer's disease may be important causes of cognitive impairment in later life, and the concomitant occurrence of these disorders may synergize to increase the risk of poor cognition in later life. In this review we discuss the definition and clinical presentation, mechanisms, cardiovascular risk factors and possible prevention and treatment of VCI. VCI is a potentially treatable and preventable cause of cognitive impairment in later life, and familiarity with this condition will help the practitioner provide better care to patients.
Stroke is the 4th leading cause of death in the US and a leading cause of disability among adults. Stroke is broadly classified into ischemic and hemorrhagic subtypes. Although the pathogenesis may differ between ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke subtypes, a unifying feature is that hypertension is a major risk factor for most ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes. Prevention of first and recurrent stroke is substantially dependent on blood pressure control. There is controversy about blood pressure management in acute stroke. In this review we discuss controversies about and guidelines for management of blood pressure in acute stroke. We subdivide our discussion to address important questions about acute blood pressure management in ischemic stroke, intraparenchymal hemorrhage, and subarachnoid hemorrhage. In addition, we address BP control recommendations when tissue plasminogen activator administration is being contemplated for treatment of acute ischemic stroke.

Age-related diseases pose as an enormous problem on aging populations of the world. Despite the fact that many advances have been made on understanding of the neurodegeneration, there is still no cure available for the age-related brain disorders. Sirtuins are NAD-dependent protein deacetylases that were shown to have beneficial effects against age-related diseases. SIRT1 and SIRT2 have been studied mostly in terms of neurodegenerative diseases and seem to have opposite effects. According to the recent findings, activators of SIRT1 and inhibitors of SIRT2 would benefit the brain from neurodegeneration. Despite the enormous amount of research that has been conducted so far, there is still no cure or treatment for almost all of the neurodegenerative disorders. In addition, the mechanisms underlying brain aging and also the link between aging and neurodegeneration are not understood. This review focuses on the role of sirtuins as possible drug targets for neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's Diseases.
The main goal of this work was to assess in vitro the potential of Polo-like kinase gene (PLK-1) as a molecular target within the tumor microenvironment, namely in both cancer cells of tumors of different histological origin and endothelial cells from angiogenic blood vessels, upon silencing with anti-PLK-1 siRNA. In addition, the effect of Plk-1 downregulation on the cancer cells chemosensitization to paclitaxel was further assessed. Downregulation of Plk-1 reduced cancer cells viability from 40 to 85% and up to 59% in endothelial cells. Regarding the latter, it compromised their ability to form new tube-like structures, decreasing the formation of network projections up to 46%. This suggested for the first time, PLK-1 as a valuable angiogenic molecular target. In combination with paclitaxel, anti-PLK-1 siRNA chemosensitized non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and prostate carcinoma cell lines, leading up to a 2-fold increase in the drug cytotoxic effect. Moreover, the sequential incubation of anti-PLK-1 siRNA and paclitaxel led to a decrease in the IC50 of the latter up to 2.7- and 4.1-fold, in A-549 and PC-3 cells, respectively. The combination of anti-PLK-1 siRNA with paclitaxel led to cell cycle arrest, increasing the number of cells at the G2/M and S phases to 1.5 and 1.3-fold in PC-3 cells, and to 1.6 and 1.4-fold in A-549 cells, respectively. Overall, it has been demonstrated that PLK-1 silencing with siRNA can impact multiple cellular players of tumor aggressiveness, thus enabling the opportunity to interfere with different hallmarks of cancer, in tumors with diverse histological origin.
Neurodegenerative diseases are a heterogeneous group of sporadic or familial disorders of the nervous system that mostly lead to a progressive loss of neural cells. A major challenge in studying the molecular pathomechanisms underlying these disorders is the limited experimental access to disease-affected human nervous system tissue. In addition, considering that the molecular disease initiation occurs years or decades before the symptomatic onset of a medical condition, these tissues mostly reflect only the final phase of the disease. To overcome these limitations, various model systems have been established based on gain and loss-of-function studies in transformed cell lines or transgenic animal models. Although these approaches provide valuable insights into disease mechanisms and development they often lack physiological protein expression levels and a humanized context of molecular interaction partners. The generation of human induced pluripotent stem (hiPS) cells from somatic cells provides access to virtually unlimited numbers of patient-specific cells for modeling neurological disorders in vitro. In this review, we focus on the current progress made in hiPS cell-based modeling of neurodegenerative diseases and discuss recent advances in the quality assessment of hiPS cell lines.
Integral membrane proteins (IMPs) are crucial components of all cells but are difficult to study in vitro because they are generally unstable when removed from their native membranes using detergents. Despite the major biomedical relevance of IMPs, less than 1% of Protein Data Bank (PDB) entries are IMP structures, reflecting the technical gap between studies of soluble proteins compared to IMPs. Stability can be engineered into IMPs by inserting stabilizing mutations, thereby generating proteins that can be successfully applied to biochemical and structural studies when solubilized in detergent micelles. The identification of stabilizing mutations is not trivial, and this review will focus on the methods that have been used to identify stabilized membrane proteins, including alanine scanning and screening, directed evolution and computational design.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a formidable obstacle preventing drug delivery to the brain, particularly for large protein therapeutics. The utilization of endogenous brain endothelial transport pathways, however, represents a promising approach to cross the cellular barrier through receptor-mediated transcytosis. Therapeutics designed to take advantage of this approach require at least two functionalities, one that facilitates transport and the other to provide therapeutic benefit, and bispecific antibodies are ideally suited for this task.

Optogenetic tools have revolutionized the field of neuroscience, and brought the study of neural circuits to a higher level. Optogenetics has significantly improved our understanding not only of the neuronal connections and function of the healthy brain, but also of the neuronal changes that lead to psychiatric disorders. In this review, we summarize recent optogenetic studies that explored different brain circuits involved in natural behaviors, such as sleep and arousal, reward, fear, and social and aggressive behavior. In addition, we describe how alterations in these circuits may lead to psychiatric disorders such as addiction, anxiety, depression, or schizophrenia.
Human attitudes and preferences are susceptible to social influence. Recent social neuroscience studies, using theories and experimental paradigms from social psychology, have begun to elucidate the neural mechanisms underlying how others influence our attitudes through processes such as social conformity, cognitive inconsistency and persuasion. The currently available evidence highlights the role of the posterior medial frontal cortex (pMFC) in social conformity and cognitive inconsistency, which represents the discrepancy between one's own and another person's opinion, or, more broadly, between currently inconsistent and ideally consistent states. Research on persuasion has revealed that people's susceptibility to persuasive messages is related to activation in a nearby but more anterior part of the medial frontal cortex. Future progress in this field will depend upon the ability of researchers to dissociate underlying motivations for attitude change in different paradigms, and to utilize neuroimaging methods to advance social psychological theories of social influence.
A recent approach in social neuroscience has been the application of formal computational models for a particular social-cognitive process to neuroimaging data. Here we review preliminary findings from this nascent subfield, focusing on observational learning and strategic interactions. We present evidence consistent with the existence of three distinct learning systems that may contribute to social cognition: an observational-reward-learning system involved in updating expectations of future reward based on observing rewards obtained by others, an action-observational learning system involved in learning about the action tendencies of others, and a third system engaged when it is necessary to learn about the hidden mental-states or traits of another. These three systems appear to map onto distinct neuroanatomical substrates, and depend on unique computational signals.
Aggression and fear are often thought to be distinct behavioral states, yet they share several common output responses. In the mouse, both can be initiated by specialized odor cues. How these cues signal through the olfactory system to promote behavior is largely unknown. Recent experiments have started to uncover the relevant signaling ligands, chemosensory receptors, and responsive sensory neurons that together enable the precise manipulation of behaviorally relevant neural circuits. Moreover, the use of molecular genetics and new experimental strategies has begun to reveal how the central nervous system processes olfactory information to initiate aggression and fear. A sensory-initiated comparative study of these two fundamental threat reactions promises to offer new mechanistic insight.
Research over the last several decades has shown that the health of the body is intimately tied to the strength of our social connections, but why? This article reviews evidence from affective and social neuroscience suggesting that, because of the importance of social ties for mammalian survival, threats to social connection are processed by some of the same neural regions that process basic threats to survival and consequently trigger physiological threat responses that have negative health implications. Likewise, social support is processed by some of the same neural regions that process safety or protection from basic threats and inhibit these same health-relevant physiological threat responses.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) is an ancient signaling molecule that has a conserved role in modulating mood and behavior. Integral to its pleiotropic actions is the existence of multiple receptors, expressed in distinct but often overlapping patterns within the brain and the periphery. The existence of 14 mammalian receptor subtypes, many of which possess similar pharmacological profiles, has made assigning functional roles for these receptors challenging. This challenge has been further compounded by the revelation that a single receptor can have several different functions depending upon where and when it is expressed and activated, that is, in brain versus periphery, or at different developmental time points. This review highlights the contribution of genetic techniques to dissect the specific function of distinct serotonin receptor populations across the life course, with an emphasis on the contribution of different serotonin 1A receptor populations to mood and behavior. Similar approaches hold the promise to elucidate the functional roles of other receptors, as well as the interaction of serotonin with other neuroendocrine modulators of mood and behavior.
Affective neuroscience aims to understand how affect (pleasure or displeasure) is created by brains. Progress is aided by recognizing that affect has both objective and subjective features. Those dual aspects reflect that affective reactions are generated by neural mechanisms, selected in evolution based on their real (objective) consequences for genetic fitness. We review evidence for neural representation of pleasure in the brain (gained largely from neuroimaging studies), and evidence for the causal generation of pleasure (gained largely from brain manipulation studies). We suggest that representation and causation may actually reflect somewhat separable neuropsychological functions. Representation reaches an apex in limbic regions of prefrontal cortex, especially orbitofrontal cortex, influencing decisions and affective regulation. Causation of core pleasure or 'liking' reactions is much more subcortically weighted, and sometimes surprisingly localized. Pleasure 'liking' is especially generated by restricted hedonic hotspot circuits in nucleus accumbens (NAc) and ventral pallidum. Another example of localized valence generation, beyond hedonic hotspots, is an affective keyboard mechanism in NAc for releasing intense motivations such as either positively valenced desire and/or negatively valenced dread.
Understanding how a human brain creates a human mind ultimately depends on mapping psychological categories and concepts to physical measurements of neural response. Although it has long been assumed that emotional, social, and cognitive phenomena are realized in the operations of separate brain regions or brain networks, we demonstrate that it is possible to understand the body of neuroimaging evidence using a framework that relies on domain general, distributed structure-function mappings. We review current research in affective and social neuroscience and argue that the emerging science of large-scale intrinsic brain networks provides a coherent framework for a domain-general functional architecture of the human brain.
Williams syndrome (WS) offers an exciting model for social neuroscience because its genetic basis is well-defined, and the unique phenotype reflects dimensions of prosocial behaviors. WS is associated with a strong drive to approach strangers, a gregarious personality, heightened social engagement yet difficult peer interactions, high nonsocial anxiety, unusual bias toward positive affect, and diminished sensitivity to fear. New neurobiological evidence points toward alterations in structure, function, and connectivity of the social brain (amygdala, fusiform face area, orbital-frontal regions). Recent genetic studies implicate gene networks in the WS region with the dysregulation of prosocial neuropeptides. The study of WS has implications for understanding human social development, and may provide insight for translating genetic and neuroendocrine evidence into treatments for disorders of social behavior.

Amylin (islet amyloid polypeptide) and amyloid beta protein (A), identified as proteinaceous deposits within the pancreas of diabetics and the brain of Alzheimer's patients respectively, share many biophysical, physiological and neurotoxic properties. Although no specific  receptor&quot; has been identified, emerging evidence suggests that the amylin receptor serves a putative target receptor for the actions of A in the brain. The amylin receptor consists of a calcitonin receptor dimerized with receptor activity-modifying proteins and is widely distributed within central nervous system. A can directly activate this G protein-coupled receptor and trigger multiple intracellular signal transduction messengers and pathways that include calcium, cAMP, ERK1/2 and Fos. Growing evidence suggests that amylin and amylin receptors are involved in many aspects of neurodegenerative pathophysiology. Developing therapeutic strategies aimed at modulating amylin receptor function may prove useful for treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.


The role of miRNAs in neuroectoderm specification is largely unknown. We screened miRNA profiles that are differentially changed when human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) were differentiated to neuroectodermal precursors (NEP), but not to epidermal (EPI) cells and found that two miRNA families, miR-200 and miR-96, were uniquely downregulated in the NEP cells. We confirmed zinc-finger E-box-binding homeobox (ZEB) transcription factors as a target of the miR-200 family members and identified paired box 6 (PAX6) transcription factor as the new target of miR-96 family members via gain- and loss-of-function analyses. Given the essential roles of ZEBs and PAX6 in neural induction, we propose a model by which miR-200 and miR-96 families coordinate to regulate neural induction.
Patients with type 2 diabetes often show slowing of information processing. Disruptions in the brain white matter network, possibly secondary to vascular damage, may underlie these cognitive disturbances. The current study reconstructed the white matter network of 55 nondemented individuals with type 2 diabetes (mean age, 71  4 years) and 50 age-, sex-, and education-matched controls using diffusion magnetic resonance imaging-based fiber tractography. Graph theoretical analysis was then applied to quantify the efficiency of these networks. Patients with type 2 diabetes showed alterations in local and global network properties compared with controls (P &lt; 0.05). These structural network abnormalities were related to slowing of information processing speed in patients. This relation was partly independent of cerebrovascular lesion load. This study shows that the approach of characterizing the brain as a network using diffusion magnetic resonance imaging and graph theory can provide new insights into how abnormalities in the white matter affect cognitive function in patients with diabetes.

Linking psychoanalytic studies with neuroscience has proven increasingly productive for identifying and understanding personality functioning. This article focuses on pathological narcissism and narcissistic personality disorder (NPD), with the aim of exploring two clinically relevant aspects of narcissistic functioning also recognized in psychoanalysis: fear and decision-making. Evidence from neuroscientific studies of related conditions, such as psychopathy, suggests links between affective and cognitive functioning that can influence the sense of self-agency and narcissistic self-regulation. Attention can play a crucial role in moderating fear and self-regulatory deficits, and the interaction between experience and emotion can be central for decision-making. In this review we will explore fear as a motivating factor in narcissistic personality functioning, and the impact fear may have on decision-making in people with pathological narcissism and NPD. Understanding the processes and neurological underpinnings of fear and decision-making can potentially influence both the diagnosis and treatment of NPD.
Psychopathy is a developmental disorder marked by emotional deficits and an increased risk for antisocial behavior. It is not equivalent to the diagnosis Antisocial Personality Disorder, which concentrates only on the increased risk for antisocial behavior and not a specific cause-ie, the reduced empathy and guilt that constitutes the emotional deficit. The current review considers data from adults with psychopathy with respect to the main cognitive accounts of the disorder that stress either a primary attention deficit or a primary emotion deficit. In addition, the current review considers data regarding the neurobiology of this disorder. Dysfunction within the amygdala's role in reinforcement learning and the role of ventromedial frontal cortex in the representation of reinforcement value is stressed. Data is also presented indicating potential difficulties within parts of temporal and posterior cingulate cortex. Suggestions are made with respect to why these deficits lead to the development of the disorder.

The mean firing rate of visual cortical neurons is reduced after prolonged visual stimulation, but the underlying process by which this occurs as well as the biological significance of this phenomenon remains unknown. Computational neuroscience studies indicate that high-frequency bursts in stimulus-driven responses can be transmitted across synapses more reliably than isolated spikes, and thus may carry accurate stimulus-related information. Our research examined whether or not adaptation affects the burst firing property of visual cortical neurons by examining changes in the burst firing changes of V1 neurons during adaptation to the preferred visual stimulus. The results show that adaptation to prolonged visual stimulation significantly decreased burst frequency (bursts/s) and burst length (spikes/burst), but increased burst duration and the interspike interval within bursts. These results suggest that the adaptation of V1 neurons to visual stimulation may result in a decrease of feedforward response gain but an increase of functional activities from lateral and/or feedback connections, which could lead to a reduction in the effectiveness of adapted neurons in transmitting information to its driven neurons.


Atomoxetine (ATX) is a non-stimulant drug approved for the treatment of children and adolescents with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). We aimed to study the excretion profile of ATX and its principal metabolites 4-hydroxyatomoxetine (4-OH-ATX) and N-desmethylatomoxetine (desmethyl-ATX) in oral fluid and plasma of ADHD paediatric subjects, after administration of different dosage regimens. Oral fluid and plasma samples were obtained from one child and five adolescents treated with different ATX doses (18-60mg/day). ATX and its metabolites were measured in oral fluid and plasma by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). Apparent pharmacokinetic parameters of ATX in oral fluid and plasma were estimated for each subject. All analytes under investigation were detected in plasma samples with concentrations from 0.6 to 1065.7ng/ml for ATX, 0.7 to 17.1ng/ml for 4-OH-ATX and 0.7 to 126.2ng/ml for desmethyl-ATX. Only ATX and 4-OH-ATX were detected in oral fluid samples with concentrations from 0.5 to 36.0ng/ml and 0.5 to 4.7ng/ml, respectively. ATX concentrations in oral fluid were between one and two orders of magnitude lower than those in plasma. 4-OH-ATX was found in oral fluid at a peak concentration approximately one-fourth those in plasma with a mean tmax of 2.3 in plasma and 3.0h in oral fluid. The correlations between ATX and 4-OH-ATX concentrations in the two biological fluids indicate that oral fluid concentrations of this drug and its principal metabolite may be a predictor of plasma concentrations, even if values are too low and variable to be considered an alternative to plasma.



Emotion regulation refers to strategies through which individuals influence their experience and expression of emotions. Two typical strategies are reappraisal, a cognitive strategy for reframing the context of an emotional experience, and suppression, a behavioral strategy for inhibiting emotional responses. Functional neuroimaging studies have revealed that regions of the prefrontal cortex modulate amygdala reactivity during both strategies, but relatively greater downregulation of the amygdala occurs during reappraisal. Moreover, these studies demonstrated that engagement of this modulatory circuitry varies as a function of gender. The uncinate fasciculus is a major structural pathway connecting regions of the anterior temporal lobe, including the amygdala to inferior frontal regions, especially the orbitofrontal cortex. The objective of the current study was to map variability in the structural integrity of the uncinate fasciculus onto individual differences in self-reported typical use of reappraisal and suppression. Diffusion tensor imaging was used in 194 young adults to derive regional fractional anisotropy values for the right and left uncinate fasciculus. All participants also completed the Emotion Regulation Questionnaire. In women but not men, self-reported typical reappraisal use was positively correlated with fractional anisotropy values in a region of the left uncinate fasciculus within the orbitofrontal cortex. In contrast, typical use of suppression was not significantly correlated with fractional anisotropy in any region of the uncinate fasciculus in either men or women. Our data suggest that in women typical reappraisal use is specifically related to the integrity of white matter pathways linking the amygdala and prefrontal cortex.
Recent electrophysiological evidence has shown that perceptual load and negative affective state can produce very similar, early-attention gating effects in early visual areas, modulating the processing of peripheral stimuli. Here we assessed the question of whether or not these modulatory effects of perceptual load and negative affect (NA) lead to comparable changes in spatial perception abilities, which could be captured at the behavioral level. High perceptual load at fixation impaired the precise spatial localization of peripheral textures, relative to a low perceptual load condition. By contrast, the coarse spatial encoding of these peripheral stimuli was not load-dependent, under neutral affective conditions. The transient experience of NA was induced in an independent sample of participants, who showed decreased performance in the localization task, even at a low perceptual-load level. These results were observed in the absence of any systematic eye movement toward the peripheral textures. These findings suggest that spatial location perception is an attention-dependent, as well as state-dependent process, in the sense that NA, very much like load, can dynamically shape early spatial perceptual abilities. Although NA mimics load during spatial localization, we discuss the possibility that these two effects likely depend upon nonoverlapping brain networks.
Surveys of Chinese students since the 1980s report that less than 1% are left-handed. This is an extraordinarily low number given the generally accepted view that between 10 and 12% of humans are left-handed. Are there actually very few left-handers in China and, if so, why? A number of sometimes overlapping reasons have shaped Chinese attitudes toward left-handedness. Some of these reflect the transcendent human reactions to biological laterality. Others have been shaped by Chinese historical and cultural experience. What is true in China can be identified in other societies: attitudes and practices toward left-handers have been and continue to be shaped by over-determined forces, which at the same time transcend specific cultures, while they respond to historical and cultural pressures. Like the Chinese, many North and East African peoples attempt to 'cure' left-handedness by a combination of restraints and severe punishments. Religion has often reinforced these practices. In China, we can see how a combination of traditional values and practical considerations seems to have merged to reduce both the actual and reported prevalence of left-handedness. When we add in the population of India, and much of the remaining Islamic world, we can conclude that for two-thirds of the world's population, being born left-handed exposes one to discrimination and stigma.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are industrial contaminants and known endocrine-disrupting chemicals. Previous work has shown that gestational exposure to PCBs cause changes in reproductive neuroendocrine processes. Here we extended work farther down the life spectrum and tested the hypothesis that early life exposure to Aroclor 1221 (A1221), a mixture of primarily estrogenic PCBs, results in sexually dimorphic aging-associated alterations to reproductive parameters in rats, and gene expression changes in hypothalamic nuclei that regulate reproductive function. Pregnant Sprague Dawley rats were injected on gestational days 16 and 18 with vehicle (dimethylsulfoxide), A1221 (1 mg/kg), or estradiol benzoate (50 g/kg). Developmental parameters, estrous cyclicity (females), and timing of reproductive senescence were monitored in the offspring through 9 months of age. Expression of 48 genes was measured in 3 hypothalamic nuclei: the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV), arcuate nucleus (ARC), and median eminence (females only) by real-time RT-PCR. Serum LH, testosterone, and estradiol were assayed in the same animals. In males, A1221 had no effects; however, prenatal estradiol benzoate increased serum estradiol, gene expression in the AVPV (1 gene), and ARC (2 genes) compared with controls. In females, estrous cycles were longer in the A1221-exposed females throughout the life cycle. Gene expression was not affected in the AVPV, but significant changes were caused by A1221 in the ARC and median eminence as a function of cycling status. Bionetwork analysis demonstrated fundamental differences in physiology and gene expression between cycling and acyclic females independent of treatment. Thus, gestational exposure to biologically relevant levels of estrogenic endocrine-disrupting chemicals has sexually dimorphic effects, with an altered transition to reproductive aging in female rats but relatively little effect in males.
In a short series of articles, we will review the evidence for genotype by environment interaction (GE) in developmental psychopathology. We will focus specifically on the characteristics of types of exposure assessed with respect to both their methods and findings. This article aims to review the studies exploring the effects of the child's broader social ecology on child and adolescent internalizing and externalizing psychopathology, based on a GE perspective.
Activation likelihood estimation (ALE) meta-analyses allow investigators to integrate the results of multiple neuroimaging studies, potentially yielding novel results that may not have been evident in the individual studies. Here, we provide a brief, introductory description of ALE methods for readers without extensive expertise in neuroimaging.




Seizure-related head injury (SRHI) is an under-recognized condition frequently experienced by people with epilepsy (PWE). The purpose of this study is to investigate the potential impact of SRHI on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) among PWE receiving care in a tertiary epilepsy center. Consecutive adult PWE receiving care at the Baylor Comprehensive Epilepsy Center (BCEC) were recruited for the study. After their informed consent was obtained, patients were administered the QOLIE-31 to measure HRQOL and the NDDI-E to screen for depression. Simple linear regression was used to identify clinical variables associated with HRQOL and that included SRHI obtained systematically at each clinic visit. Data were also compared between the SRHI and non-SRHI groups. Participants included 172 subjects. Recurrent mild SRHI occurred in 50 (29%) subjects. Factors with a negative effect on HRQOL included depression (slope=-19.99 [95% CI -25.16, -14.81]; p&lt;.0001), recurrent SRHI (-17.02 [-22.35, -11.69]; p&lt;.0001), past SRHI (-13.46 [-18.43, -8.48]; p&lt;.0001), and seizure frequency (-0.17 [-0.26, -0.07]; p=0.001) on univariate analysis. With stepwise multiple regression, depression and recurrent SRHI significantly impacted HRQOL with slopes (95% CI; p-value) of (-17.53 [-22.34, -12.73]; p&lt;.0001) and (-14.03 [-18.78, -9.28]; p&lt;.0001), respectively. Patient-derived HRQOL is negatively associated with depression and recurrent SRHI, independently. There has been a justifiable increased awareness of the potential effects of head injuries among healthy individuals. Our data suggest that head injuries can certainly be detrimental among PWE, and greater efforts should be made to recognize and formulate prevention strategies for SRHI.
Patients with left mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) have deficits in verbal memory processes, while patients with right MTLE have visuospatial memory impairment. However, atypical cognitive phenotypes among patients with MTLE may occur. In this study, we analyzed preoperative memory deficits in a cohort of 426 right-handed patients with unilateral MTLE. We also evaluated the cognitive outcome after anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL) of patients with atypical profiles in comparison with those with typical memory profile. We found that 25% of our patients had a typical cognitive profile, with verbal memory deficits associated with left side hippocampal sclerosis (HS) and visuospatial memory deficits associated with right side HS. However, 75% of our patients had atypical memory profiles. Despite these atypical profiles, patients submitted to right ATL had no significant cognitive deficit after surgery. In patients submitted to left ATL, the higher the presurgical scores on verbal memory and naming tests, the higher the cognitive decline after surgery.

The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of Withania somnifera (WS) extract, withanolide A (WA), and carbamazepine (CBZ) on cerebellar AMPA receptor function in pilocarpine-induced temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). In the present study, motor learning deficit was studied by rotarod test, grid walk test, and narrow beam test. Motor learning was significantly impaired in rats with epilepsy. The treatment with WS and WA significantly reversed the motor learning deficit in rats with epilepsy when compared with control rats. There was an increase in glutamate content and IP3 content observed in rats with epilepsy which was reversed in WS- and WA-treated rats with epilepsy. alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor dysfunction was analyzed using radiolabeled AMPA receptor binding assay, AMPA receptor mRNA expression, and immunohistochemistry using anti-AMPA receptor antibody. Our results suggest that there was a decrease in Bmax, mRNA expression, and AMPA receptor expression indicating AMPA receptor dysfunction, which is suggested to have contributed to the motor learning deficit observed in rats with epilepsy. Moreover, treatment with WS and WA resulted in physiological expression of AMPA receptors. There was also alteration in GAD and GLAST expression which supplemented the increase in extracellular glutamate. The treatment with WS and WA reversed the GAD and GLAST expression. These findings suggest that WS and WA regulate AMPA receptor function in the cerebellum of rats with TLE, which has therapeutic application in epilepsy.
This study was carried out to analyze the semiological characteristics of adults with psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNESs) and to propose a modified new classification of PNESs. This retrospective analysis included 82 patients (M:F=38:44; mean age: 33.4  12.0 years) diagnosed to have PNESs based on video-EEG recording. Detailed semiological characteristics including pattern of limb movements, body movements, psychological/emotional manifestations, &quot;aura&quot;, level of consciousness, age at onset of PNESs, age at diagnosis, and history of AED intake were recorded. We classified our cohort of patients as per available classifications and proposed a modified new classification. Age at onset of PNESs was 21.8  14.1 years (range: 2-64; median: 18.5 years), age at diagnosis was 29.3  12.7 years (range: 2-67; median: 26.0 years), and delay in diagnosis was 7.4  7.3 years (range: 0-28; median: 5.0 years). There were 369 recorded attacks (range: 1-10; median: 4). Prior to VEEG, 47 (57.3%) patients were incorrectly diagnosed as having true epileptic seizures initially and were on antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), 15 (18.3%) patients had an initial diagnosis of PNESs which remained unchanged after VEEG analysis, and 20 (24.4%) patients had both PNESs and epileptic seizures. We could not classify 40-66% of our patients into any of the available classification proposed by previous authors. We categorized all our patients into the following categories of a modified new classification: abnormal hypermotor response: 23 (28%), abnormal partial motor response: 18 (22%), affective/emotional behavior phenomena: 4 (4.9%), dialeptic type: 5 (6.1%), nonepileptic aura: 5 (6.1%), and mixed pattern: 27 (32.9%). Incorrect diagnosis of PNESs leads to unnecessary prescription of AEDs, with side effects and cost implications. A modified systematic classification of PNESs is proposed which would help in the better characterization of PNESs.
There is a glaring gap in the psychiatric literature concerning the nature of psychiatric symptoms and signs, and a corresponding lack of epistemological discussion of psycho-diagnostic interviewing. Contemporary clinical neuroscience heavily relies on the use of fully structured interviews that are historically rooted in logical positivism and behaviorism. These theoretical approaches marked decisively the so-called &quot;operational revolution in psychiatry&quot; leading to the creation of DSM-III. This paper attempts to examine the theoretical assumptions that underlie the use of a fully structured psychiatric interview. We address the ontological status of pathological experience, the notions of symptom, sign, prototype and Gestalt, and the necessary second-person processes which are involved in converting the patient's experience (originally lived in the first-person perspective) into an &quot;objective&quot; (third person), actionable format, used for classification, treatment, and research. Our central thesis is that psychiatry targets the phenomena of consciousness, which, unlike somatic symptoms and signs, cannot be grasped on the analogy with material thing-like objects. We claim that in order to perform faithful distinctions in this particular domain, we need a more adequate approach, that is, an approach that is guided by phenomenologically informed considerations. Our theoretical discussion draws upon clinical examples derived from structured and semi-structured interviews. We conclude that fully structured interview is neither theoretically adequate nor practically valid in obtaining psycho-diagnostic information. Failure to address these basic issues may have contributed to the current state of malaise in the study of psychopathology.
Currently, autism cannot be reliably diagnosed before the age of 2years, which is why longitudinal studies of high-risk populations provide the potential to generate unique knowledge about the development of autism during infancy and toddlerhood prior to symptom onset. Early autism research is an evolving field in child psychiatric science. Key objectives are fine mapping of neurodevelopmental trajectories and identifying biomarkers to improve risk assessment, diagnosis and treatment. ESSEA (Enhancing the Scientific Study of Early Autism) is a COST (European Cooperation in Science and Technology) Action striving to create a European collaboration to enhance the progress of the discovery and treatment of the earliest signs of autism, and to establish European practice guidelines on early identification and intervention by bringing together European expertise from cognitive neuroscience and clinical sciences. The objective of this article is to clarify the state of current European research on at-risk autism research, and to support the understanding of different contexts in which the research is being conducted. We present ESSEA survey data on ongoing European high-risk ASD studies, as well as perceived challenges and opportunities in this field of research. We conclude that although high-risk autism research in Europe faces several challenges, the existence of several key factors (e.g., new and/or large-scale autism grants, availability of new technologies, and involvement of experienced research groups) lead us to expect substantial scientific and clinical developments in Europe in this field during the next few years.
Although Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is recognised to be a familial and heritable disorder, little is known about the broader family characteristics of having a parent with ADHD problems. The main aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between parent ADHD problems, child clinical presentation and family functioning in a sample of children with ADHD. The sample consisted of 570 children with ADHD. Child psychopathology was assessed using a semi-structured diagnostic interview. Questionnaires were used to assess ADHD in the parents (childhood and current symptoms), family environment and mother/father-child relationship. Parental ADHD problems were associated with a range of adverse clinical outcomes in children with no difference in effects for mothers with ADHD problems compared to fathers with ADHD problems. Levels of maternal hostility were higher in families where mothers had ADHD problems, but reduced where fathers had ADHD problems. Parental ADHD problems index higher risk for more severe clinical presentation of ADHD in children and higher levels of family conflict (where there are maternal but not paternal ADHD problems). This study highlights that children with more severe behavioural symptoms are more likely to have a parent with persistent ADHD which has important implications when considering treatment and intervention strategies.
Assessing changes in brain activity under extreme conditions like weightlessness is a desirable, but difficult undertaking. Results from previous studies report specific changes in brain activity connected to an increase or decrease in gravity forces. Nevertheless, so far it remains unclear (1) whether this is connected to a redistribution of blood volume during micro- or hypergravity and (2) whether this redistribution might account for neurocognitive alterations. This study aimed to display changes in brain oxygenation caused by altered gravity conditions during parabolic flight. It was hypothesized that an increase in gravity would be accompanied by a decrease in brain oxygenation, whereas microgravity would lead to an increase in brain oxygenation. Oxygenized and deoxygenized haemoglobin were measured using two near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) probes on the left and right prefrontal cortex throughout ten parabolas in nine subjects. Results show a decrease of 1.44 mol/l in oxygenized haemoglobin with the onset of hypergravity, followed by a considerable increase during microgravity (up to 5.34 mol/l). In contrast, deoxygenized haemoglobin was not altered during the first but only during the second hypergravity phase and showed only minor changes during microgravity. Changes in oxygenized and deoxygenized haemoglobin indicate an increase in arterial flow to the brain and a decrease in venous outflow during microgravity.
This study compared maximal strength training (MST) with equal training volume (kg  sets  repetitions) of conventional strength training (CON) primarily with regard to work economy, and second one repetition maximum (1RM) and rate of force development (RFD) of single leg knee extension. In an intra-individual design, one leg was randomized to knee-extension MST (4 or 5RM) and the other leg to CON (3  10RM) three times per week for 8 weeks. MST was performed with maximal concentric mobilization of force while CON was performed with moderate velocity. Eight untrained or moderately trained men (26  1 years) completed the study. The improvement in gross work economy was -0.10  0.08 L min(-1) larger after MST (P = 0.011, between groups). From pre- to post-test the MST and CON improved net work economy with 31 % (P &lt; 0.001) and 18 % (P = 0.01), respectively. Compared with CON, the improvement in 1RM and dynamic RFD was 13.7  8.4 kg (P = 0.002) and 587  679 N s(-1) (P = 0.044) larger after MST, whereas isometric RFD was of borderline significance 3,028  3,674 N s(-1) (P = 0.053). From pre- to post-test, MST improved 1RM and isometric RFD with 50 % (P &lt; 0.001) and 155 % (P &lt; 0.001), respectively whereas CON improved 1RM and isometric RFD with 35 % (P &lt; 0.001) and 83 % (P = 0.028), respectively. Anthropometric measures of quadriceps femoris muscle mass and peak oxygen uptake did not change. In conclusion, 8 weeks of MST was more effective than CON for improving work economy, 1RM and RFD in untrained and moderately trained men. The advantageous effect of MST to improve work economy could be due to larger improvements in 1RM and RFD.



In the brains of adult vertebrates, including humans, neurogenesis occurs in restricted niches where it maintains cellular turnover and cognitive plasticity. In virtually all species, however, aging is associated with a significant decline in adult neurogenesis. Moreover, an acceleration of neurogenic defects is observed in models of Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases, suggesting an involvement in aging- and disease-associated cognitive deficits. To gain insights into when, how and why adult neurogenesis decreases in the aging brain, we critically reviewed the scientific literature on aging of the rodent subventricular zone, the neurogenic niche of the adult forebrain. Our analysis revealed that deficits in the neurogenic pathway are largely established by middle age, but that there remains striking ambiguity in the underlying mechanisms, especially at the level of stem and progenitor cells. We identify and discuss several challenging issues that have contributed to these key gaps in our current knowledge. In the future, addressing these issues should help untangle the interactions between neurogenesis, aging and aging-associated diseases.
Neuritic plaque is the pathological hallmark in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid- protein (A), the central component of neuritic plaques, is generated from amyloid- precursor protein (APP) by -site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) and -secretase. -site APP cleaving enzyme 2 (BACE2), a homolog of BACE1, functions differently from BACE1 in APP processing. BACE1 is the -secretase essential for A production, and BACE2, a -secretase, cleaves APP within the A domain, preventing A production. Elucidation of the mechanism underlying BACE2 degradation is important for defining its biological features and its potential role in Alzheimer's disease drug development. In this report we first showed that the half-life of BACE2 is approximately 20 h. Lysosomal inhibition increased BACE2 protein levels whereas proteasomal inhibition had no effect on BACE2 protein expression. Furthermore, we identified that macroautophagy mediated BACE2 degradation. Finally, we showed that lysosomal inhibition increased BACE2 cleavage of APP. Taken together, our in vitro study showed that BACE2 is degraded through the macrophagy-lysosome pathway and that lysosomal inhibition affects BACE2 processing of APP. Modulation of BACE2 degradation via the lysosomal pathway could be a new target for AD drug development.
Cleavage of amyloid- precursor protein (APP) at the Asp1 -secretase site of the amyloid- protein (A) domain by -site A precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is required for the generation of A, a central component of neuritic plaques in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. In this study, we found that A Glu11 is the major -secretase site for cleavage of APP by BACE1 to generate soluble secreted APP (sAPP)(606) and the C-terminal membrane-bound fragment (CTF) product C89. Cleavage of C89 by -secretase resulted in truncated A generation in a non-amyloidogenic pathway. A familial AD-associated Swedish APP mutation adjacent to A Asp1 shifted the major APP -secretase cleavage site from A Glu11 to Asp1, resulting in significant increases in sAPP596 and CTF C99 generation and the C99/89 ratio, in turn leading to increased A production in cultured cells in vitro and transgenic AD model mouse brains in vivo. Furthermore, increased BACE1 expression facilitated APP being processed by the -secretase processing pathway rather than the -secretase pathway, leading to more A production. Our results suggest that potentiating BACE1 cleavage of APP at both the Asp1 and Glu11 sites, or shifting the cleavage from the Glu11 site to the Asp1 site, could result in increased A production and facilitate neuritic plaque formation. Our study provides new insights into how alteration of BACE1 expression and -secretase cleavage site selection could contribute to Alzheimer pathogenesis and the pharmaceutical potential of modulating BACE1 expression and its cleavage site selection.
The learning and memory deficits associated with non-pathological ageing mainly result from alterations to the plasticity of neuronal network dynamics within the hippocampus. In addition to the broad spectrum of changes that affect the morphology and function of hippocampal excitatory circuits in the ageing brain, the impaired activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors (NMDA-R) is a typical feature, altering the induction and maintenance of long-term potentiation, a major form of synaptic plasticity. In addition to glutamate, the binding of a co-agonist at the strychnine-insensitive glycine-binding site is required for NMDA-R activation. This review presents recent evidence that: (i) the amino acid D-serine is an endogenous co-agonist of synaptic NMDA-R and necessary for long-term potentiation expression, (ii) reduced d-serine levels in the hippocampus contribute to synaptic plasticity and memory deficits in normal ageing, and (iii) age-related oxidative stress selectively targets hippocampal serine racemase to impact D-serine availability in neuronal networks. These results emphasize the critical role of the hippocampal d-serine-dependent pathway in changes affecting neuronal network dynamics in physiological ageing that underlie memory deficits. In addition, the central role of serine racemase in these changes opens new perspectives in the search for relevant therapeutic strategies aimed at reducing age-related memory defects.
Withdrawal from a chronic period of alcohol consumption is commonly associated with the manifestation of depression, potentially exerting a significant influence on treatment prospects and increasing the likelihood of relapse. Better therapeutic strategies need to be developed to assist with rehabilitation. Here, we report the detection of depression-related behaviours in a mouse model of 6-week free-choice ethanol (10%, v/v) consumption followed by 2-week abstinence. Mice abstinent from alcohol showed increased immobility time on the forced-swim test, reduced saccharin consumption and increased latency to feed in the novelty-suppressed feeding test. By comparison, there was no significant effect on anxiety-related behaviours as determined by testing on the light-dark box and elevated plus maze. We found that the provision of running-wheels through the duration of abstinence attenuated depressive behaviour in the forced-swim and novelty-suppressed feeding tests, and increased saccharin consumption. Given the link between withdrawal from addictive substances and depression, this model will be useful for the study of the pathophysiology underlying alcohol-related depression. The findings of this study establish an interaction between physical activity and the development of behavioural changes following cessation of alcohol consumption that could have implications for the development of rehabilitative therapies.
Variation in dopamine receptor levels has been associated with different facets of impulsivity. To further delineate the neural substrates underlying impulsive action (inability to withhold a prepotent motor response) and impulsive choice (delay aversion), we characterised rats in the Differential Reinforcement of Low Rates of Responding task and a delay discounting task. We also measured performance on an effort-based discounting task. We then assessed D1 and D2 dopamine receptor mRNA expression in subregions of the prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens using in situ hybridisation, and compared these data with behavioral performance. Expression of D1 and D2 receptor mRNA in distinct brain regions was predictive of impulsive action. A dissociation within the nucleus accumbens was observed between subregions and receptor subtypes; higher D1 mRNA expression in the shell predicted greater impulsive action, whereas lower D2 mRNA expression in the core predicted greater impulsive action. We also observed a negative correlation between impulsive action and D2 mRNA expression in the prelimbic cortex. Interestingly, a similar relationship was present between impulsive choice and prelimbic cortex D2 mRNA, despite the fact that behavioral indices of impulsive action and impulsive choice were uncorrelated. Finally, we found that both high D1 mRNA expression in the insular cortex and low D2 mRNA expression in the infralimbic cortex were associated with willingness to exert effort for rewards. Notably, dopamine receptor mRNA in these regions was not associated with either facet of impulsivity. The data presented here provide novel molecular and neuroanatomical distinctions between different forms of impulsivity, as well as effort-based decision-making.




Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder in children with striking persistence into adulthood and a high co-morbidity with other psychiatric disorders, including personality disorders (PD). The 4p15.31 region was shown to be associated with ADHD in several genome wide association studies (GWAS). In the present study we also report association of the 4p15.31 locus with Cluster B and Cluster C PD as identified by a pooled genome-wide association study in 400 individuals suffering from PD. The gene coding for the Kv channel-interacting protein 4 (KCNIP4) is located in this region. KCNIP4 is an interaction partner of presenilin and plays a role in a negative feedback loop in the Wnt/-catenin pathway. Thus, we reasoned it to be a promising candidate gene for ADHD as well as for PD. To clarify the role of KCNIP4 in those disorders, we conducted candidate gene based association studies in 594 patients suffering from adult ADHD and 630 PD patients as compared to 974 healthy control individuals. In the adult ADHD sample, six single markers and one haplotype block revealed to be associated with disease (p values from 0.0079 to 0.049). Seven markers within the KCNIP4 gene showed an association with PD (p values from 0.0043 to 0.0437). The results of these studies suggest a role of KCNIP4 in the etiology of ADHD, PD and other co-morbid disorders.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common neurodevelopmental disorder with impairments across the lifespan. The persistence of ADHD is associated with considerable liability to neuropsychiatric co-morbidity such as depression, anxiety and substance use disorder. The substantial heritability of ADHD is well documented and recent genome-wide analyses for risk genes revealed synaptic adhesion molecules (e.g. latrophilin-3, LPHN3; fibronectin leucine-rich repeat transmembrane protein-3, FLRT3), glutamate receptors (e.g. metabotropic glutamate receptor-5, GRM5) and mediators of intracellular signalling pathways (e.g. nitric oxide synthase-1, NOS1). These genes encode principal components of the molecular machinery that connects pre- and postsynaptic neurons, facilitates glutamatergic transmission, controls synaptic plasticity and empowers intersecting neural circuits to process and refine information. Thus, identification of genetic variation affecting molecules essential for the formation, specification and function of excitatory synapses is refocusing research efforts on ADHD pathogenesis to include the long-neglected glutamate system.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common, early onset and enduring neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by developmentally inappropriate inattention, hyperactivity, increased impulsivity and motivational/emotional dysregulation with similar prevalence rates throughout different cultural settings. Persistence of ADHD into adulthood is associated with considerable risk for co-morbidities such as depression and substance use disorder. Although the substantial heritability of ADHD is well documented the etiology is characterized by a complex coherence of genetic and environmental factors rendering identification of risk genes difficult. Genome-wide linkage as well as single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and copy-number variant (CNV) association scans recently allow to reliably define aetiopathogenesis-related genes. A considerable number of novel ADHD risk genes implicate biological processes involved in neurite outgrowth and axon guidance. Here, we focus on the gene encoding Cadherin-13 (CDH13), a cell adhesion molecule which was replicably associated with liability to ADHD and related neuropsychiatric conditions. Based on its unique expression pattern in the brain, we discuss the molecular structure and neuronal mechanisms of Cadherin-13 in relation to other cadherins and the cardiovascular system. An appraisal of various Cadherin-13-modulated signaling pathways impacting proliferation, migration and connectivity of specific neurons is also provided. Finally, we develop an integrative hypothesis of the mechanisms in which Cadherin-13 plays a central role in the regulation of brain network development, plasticity and function. The review concludes with emerging concepts about alterations in Cadherin-13 signaling contributing to the pathophysiology of neurodevelopmental disorders.
We report a case with refractory insomnia. We diagnosed her case as depression with high levels of anxiety, weakness, with diminished ability to think or concentrate and with a sensory-motor disorder. Although this last symptom was very distressing, it did not satisfy the criteria for RLS (Restless Legs Syndrome). After treatment with paroxetine (20 mg) and zolpidem (10 mg), anxiety and mood deflection were attenuated. Nevertheless, a mild depression, an intermittent awakening (fragmentation of the sleep-wake rhythm) and subsyndromal RLS persisted. Her resistant insomnia was treated with benzodiazepine sleeping drugs (triazolam 0.25 mg, lorazepam 2.5 mg, fluorazepam 30 mg) with only partial insomnia remission, antidepressants (trazodone 150 mg RP, mirtazapine 15-30 mg, agomelatine 50 mg) and antipsychotics (levomepromazine 25 mg, zuclopentixol 25 mg) without results. Her intractable insomnia was markedly responsive to pregabalin without side effects. Our hypothesis is that the therapy with pregabalin may be indicated for resistant insomnia associated with subsyndromal RLS, even when the latter does not satisfy fully all the criteria for diagnosis.

Everyday life requires the ability to flexibly switch between tasks. Often, task switching is accompanied by concurrent cognitive activities that compete for limited attentional resources. This study aimed to characterize the effects of attentional load on task switching. In experiment 1, participants performed an interleaved pro-saccade and anti-saccade task. In experiment 2, participants performed an interleaved pro-saccade and anti-saccade task simultaneously with a rapid serial visual presentation task that has been shown to create an attentional load. Error rates and reaction times of pro-saccades and anti-saccades were analysed for both experiments separately and together. Overall, error rates and reaction times increased with attentional load. With attentional load, switches to pro-saccades were associated with increased error rates and reaction times, whereas switches to anti-saccades were only associated with increased error rates. We propose that attentional load interferes with neural task-set representation and that the resulting executive control is different for the dominant and non-dominant task.
In haptic exploration, when running a fingertip along a surface, the control system may attempt to anticipate upcoming changes in curvature in order to maintain a consistent level of contact force. Such predictive mechanisms are well known in the visual system, but have yet to be studied in the somatosensory system. Thus, the present experiment was designed to reveal human capabilities for different types of haptic prediction. A robot arm with a large 3D workspace was attached to the index fingertip and was programmed to produce virtual surfaces with curvatures that varied within and across trials. With eyes closed, subjects moved the fingertip around elliptical hoops with flattened regions or Limaon shapes, where the curvature varied continuously. Subjects anticipated the corner of the flattened region rather poorly, but for the Limaon shapes, they varied finger speed with upcoming curvature according to the two-thirds power law. Furthermore, although the Limaon shapes were randomly presented in various 3D orientations, modulation of contact force also indicated good anticipation of upcoming changes in curvature. The results demonstrate that it is difficult to haptically anticipate the spatial location of an abrupt change in curvature, but smooth changes in curvature may be facilitated by anticipatory predictions.
While the process of hand preshaping during grasping has been studied for over a decade, there is relatively little information regarding the organization of digit contact timing (DCT). This dearth of information may be due to the assumption that DCT while grasping exhibits few regularities or to the difficulty in obtaining information through traditional movement recording techniques. In this study, we employed a novel technique to determine the time of digit contacts with the target object at a high precision rate in normal healthy participants. Our results indicate that, under our task conditions, subjects tend to employ a radial to ulnar pattern of DCT which may be modulated by the shape of the target object. Moreover, a number of parameters, such as the total contact time, the frequency of first contacts by the thumb and index fingers and the number of simultaneous contacts, are affected by the relative complexity of the target object. Our data support the notion that a great deal of information about the object's physical features is obtained during the early moments of the grasp.
We have investigated links between biological motion perception and time perception. Participants compared the durations of two paired visual frames, inside which task-irrelevant sequences of static body postures were presented. The sequences produced apparent movements of shorter and longer path lengths, depending on the sequential order of body postures (ABC or ACB). Shorter and longer path lengths were paired with shorter and longer interstimulus intervals (ISIs) to produce path/ISI congruent sequences with intermediate subjective speeds and path/ISI incongruent sequences with slowest and fastest subjective speeds. Participants compared the duration of the visual frames surrounding these sequences; body postures and biological motion were irrelevant. The ability to discriminate the duration of the frames (as measured by the just noticeable difference, JND) was reduced for pairs of path/ISI congruent sequences as compared to pairs of path/ISI incongruent sequences. That is, duration discrimination improved when implied speed differed between the two sequences of a pair compared to when the implied speed was the same. Since stimuli showed no actual movement and were fully matched for lower-level visual input and objective stimulus durations, our findings suggest an involvement of higher-order visual or even motor areas in temporal biases during apparent biological motion perception. We show that apparent speed is the primary dimension of such percepts consistent with a dominant role of movement dynamics in the perception of other people's actions. Our results also confirm an intimate relation between time perception and processing of human movement.
THE INFLAMMATION THAT ACCOMPANIES ACUTE INJURY HAS DUAL FUNCTIONS: bactericidal action and repair. Bactericidal functions protect damaged tissue from infection, and repair functions are initiated to aid in the recovery of damaged tissue. Brain injury is somewhat different from injuries in other tissues in two respects. First, many cases of brain injury are not accompanied by infection: there is no chance of pathogens to enter in ischemia or even in traumatic injury if the skull is intact. Second, neurons are rarely regenerated once damaged. This raises the question of whether bactericidal inflammation really occurs in the injured brain; if so, how is this type of inflammation controlled? Many brain inflammation studies have been conducted using cultured microglia (brain macrophages). Even where animal models have been used, the behavior of microglia and neurons has typically been analyzed at or after the time of neuronal death, a time window that excludes the inflammatory response, which begins immediately after the injury. Therefore, to understand the patterns and roles of brain inflammation in the injured brain, it is necessary to analyze the behavior of all cell types in the injured brain immediately after the onset of injury. Based on our experience with both in vitro and in vivo experimental models of brain inflammation, we concluded that not only microglia, but also astrocytes, blood inflammatory cells, and even neurons participate and/or regulate brain inflammation in the injured brain. Furthermore, brain inflammation played by these cells protects neurons and repairs damaged microenvironment but not induces neuronal damage.
Computational modeling can be a powerful tool for an experimentalist, providing a rigorous mathematical model of the system you are studying. This can be valuable in testing your hypotheses and developing experimental protocols prior to experimenting. This paper reviews models of seizures and epilepsy at different scales, including cellular, network, cortical region, and brain scales by looking at how they have been used in conjunction with experimental data. At each scale, models with different levels of abstraction, the extraction of physiological detail, are presented. Varying levels of detail are necessary in different situations. Physiologically realistic models are valuable surrogates for experimental systems because, unlike in an experiment, every parameter can be changed and every variable can be observed. Abstract models are useful in determining essential parameters of a system, allowing the experimentalist to extract principles that explain the relationship between mechanisms and the behavior of the system. Modeling is becoming easier with the emergence of platforms dedicated to neuronal modeling and databases of models that can be downloaded. Modeling will never be a replacement for animal and clinical experiments, but it should be a starting point in designing experiments and understanding their results.
During the last decade, experimental research has demonstrated a prominent role of glial cells, activated in brain by various injuries, in the mechanisms of seizure precipitation and recurrence. In particular, alterations in the phenotype and function of activated astrocytes and microglial cells have been described in experimental and human epileptic tissue, including modifications in potassium and water channels, alterations of glutamine/glutamate cycle, changes in glutamate receptor expression and transporters, release of neuromodulatory molecules (e.g. gliotransmitters, neurotrophic factors), and induction of molecules involved in inflammatory processes (e.g. cytokines, chemokines, prostaglandins, complement factors, cell adhesion molecules) (Seifert et al., 2006; Vezzani et al., 2011; Wetherington et al., 2008). In particular, brain injury or proconvulsant events can activate microglia and astrocytes to release a number of proinflammatory mediators, thus initiating a cascade of inflammatory processes in brain tissue. Proinflammatory molecules can alter neuronal excitability and affect the physiological functions of glia by paracrine or autocrine actions, thus perturbing the glioneuronal communications. In experimental models, these changes contribute to decreasing the threshold to seizures and may compromise neuronal survival (Riazi et al., 2010; Vezzani et al., 2008). In this context, understanding which are the soluble mediators and the molecular mechanisms crucially involved in glio-neuronal interactions is instrumental to shed light on how brain inflammation may contribute to neuronal hyperexcitability in epilepsy. This review will report the clinical observations in drug-resistant human epilepsies and the experimental findings in adult and immature rodents linking brain inflammation to the epileptic process in a causal and reciprocal manner. By confronting the clinical evidence with the experimental findings, we will discuss the role of specific soluble inflammatory mediators in the etiopathogenesis of seizures, reporting evidence for both their acute and long term effects on seizure threshold. The possible contribution of these mediators to co-morbidities often described in epilepsy patients will be also discussed. Finally, we will report on the anti-inflammatory treatments with anticonvulsant actions in experimental models highlighting possible therapeutic options for treating drug-resistant seizures and for prevention of epileptogenesis.
Astrocytes express a plethora of ion channels, neurotransmitter receptors and transporters and thus are endowed with the machinery to sense and respond to neuronal activity. Recent studies have implicated astrocytes in important physiological roles in the CNS, such as synchronization of neuronal firing, ion homeostasis, neurotransmitter uptake, glucose metabolism and regulation of the vascular tone. Astrocytes are abundantly coupled through gap junctions allowing them to redistribute elevated K(+) concentration from sites of excessive neuronal activity. Growing evidence now suggests that dysfunctional astrocytes are crucial players in epilepsy. Investigation of specimens from patients with pharmacoresistant temporal lobe epilepsy and epilepsy models revealed alterations in expression, localization and function of astroglial K(+) and water channels, entailing impaired K(+) buffering. Moreover, malfunction of glutamate transporters and the astrocytic glutamate-converting enzyme, glutamine synthetase, as observed in epileptic tissue suggested that astrocyte dysfunction is causative of hyperexcitation, seizure spread and neurotoxicity. Accordingly, dysfunctional astrocytes should be considered as promising targets for new therapeutic strategies. In this review, we will summarize current knowledge of astrocyte dysfunction in temporal lobe epilepsy and discuss putative mechanisms underlying these alterations.
Autonomic dysreflexia, a dangerous and sustained increase in blood pressure brought about by widespread, reflexly generated vasoconstriction, can be induced by visceral or somatic sensory inputs originating below the lesion following spinal cord injury (SCI). We assessed whether cutaneous vasoconstriction below the lesion could serve as a proxy marker of incipient autonomic dysreflexia during bladder distension. Skin blood flow (pulse plethysmography), sweat release, blood pressure, heart rate, bladder and rectal pressures were recorded during routine cystometry (urodynamics) in 16 patients with SCI. Eight urological patients without SCI served as control subjects. In all SCI patients, who had sustained injuries 2 months to 44 years previously at levels C3-T3, bladder filling (mean  SD, 339  132 ml) induced increases in detrusor (bladder-rectal) pressure (52  25 cmH(2)O) and cutaneous vasoconstriction in the fingers, but no consistent increases in sweat release. This occurred irrespective of whether the spinal lesions were complete [American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) grade A, n = 6] or incomplete (ASIA B-D; n = 10). Group mean blood pressure for the SCI patients increased by 17  15 mmHg, but in four patients the pressure decreased or did not change. Despite similar bladder volumes (423  126 ml) in the control patients, the increases in detrusor pressure (14  8 cmH(2)O) and blood pressure (9  12 mmHg) were significantly smaller than in the SCI patients; moreover, there were no consistent changes in skin blood flow in the control subjects. In all SCI patients, changes in finger pulse amplitudes were inversely correlated to changes in detrusor pressure (mean r = -0.62  0.17). Changes in finger pulse amplitudes correlated inversely to changes in blood pressure in nine of 15 patients. It is concluded that cystometry in SCI patients is associated with detrusor and cardiovascular reflex effects that are exaggerated compared with those in intact subjects and that measurement of skin blood flow from the fingers in patients with a high spinal lesion provides a supplementary, clinically useful, non-invasive and continuous marker of spinally mediated viscerosympathetic reflex activity below the lesion in such patients.



The saying &quot;violence begets violence&quot; is an apt descriptor of the cycle of family violence, as children who witness parental violence are at high risk for repeating family violence in their own adult intimate relationships. Neuroscience research suggests that emotional regulation may be an important link in the heritability of family violence, and promotes awareness of the importance of internalizing as well as externalizing responses to stress, neglect, and abuse. This study argues for a trauma-informed approach to identifying children and parents whose symptoms of emotional dysregulation may be otherwise overlooked, and for an expanded approach to treatment that incorporates family systems and emotional regulation strategies.
Accumulating evidence shows that hydrogen sulfide (H2S) has a variety of physiological functions. H2S is produced from cysteine by 3 sulfurtransferases. H2S, in turn, generates polysulfides, the functions of which are not well understood. H2S induces Ca(2+) influx in astrocytes, a type of glia. However, the receptor that mediates the response has not been identified. Here, we have shown that polysulfides induce Ca(2+) influx by activating transient receptor potential (TRP)A1 channels in rat astrocytes (EC50 91 nM, Hill coefficient value 1.770.26) and that the maximum response was induced at 0.5 M, which is 1/320 of the concentration of H2S required to achieve a response of similar magnitude (160 M, EC50 116 M). TRPA1-selective agonists, allyl isothiocyanate and cinnamaldehyde, induced Ca(2+) influx, and responses to polysulfides were suppressed by TRPA1-selective inhibitors, HC-030031 and AP-18, as well as by siRNAs selective to TRPA1. The present study suggests that polysulfides are possible H2S-derived signaling molecules that stimulate TRP channels in the brain.
Folic acid is an essential vitamin required for de novo biosynthesis of nucleotides and amino acids. The proton-coupled folate transporter (PCFT; SLC46A1) has been identified as the major contributor for intestinal folate uptake. It is also involved in folate transport across the blood-brain barrier and into solid tumors. PCFT belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. Major facilitator superfamily members can exist in either monomeric or homo-oligomeric form. Here, we utilized blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (BN/PAGE) and crosslinking with bi-functional chemicals to investigate the quaternary structure of human PCFT after heterologous expression in Xenopus laevis oocytes and CHO cells. PCFT was expressed in the plasma membrane in both expression systems. The functionality of the utilized PCFT construct was confirmed in oocytes by folic acid induced currents at acidic pH. For both the oocyte and CHO expression system [(3)H]folic acid uptake studies indicated that PCFT was functional. To analyze the oligomeric state of PCFT in the plasma membrane, plasma membranes were isolated by polymerization with colloidal silica and polyacrylic acid and subsequent centrifugation. The digitonin-solubilized non-denatured PCFT migrated during BN/PAGE as a monomer, as judged by comparison with a membrane protein (5-HT(3A) receptor) of known pentameric assembly that was used to create a molecular sizing ladder. The chemical crosslinkers glutaraldehyde and dimethyl adipimidate were not able to covalently link potential higher order PCFT structures to form oligomers that were stable following SDS treatment. Together, our results demonstrate that plasma-membrane PCFT functions as a monomeric protein.
The last sixty years of research has provided extraordinary advances of our knowledge of the reward system. Since its discovery as a neurotransmitter by Carlsson and colleagues (1), dopamine (DA) has emerged as an important mediator of reward processing. As a result, a number of electrochemical techniques have been developed to measure DA in the brain. Together, these techniques have begun to elucidate the complex roles of tonic and phasic DA signaling in reward processing and addiction. In this review, we will first provide a guide for the most commonly used electrochemical methods for DA detection and describe their utility in furthering our knowledge about DA's role in reward and addiction. Second, we will review the value of common in vitro and in vivo preparations and describe their ability to address different types of questions. Last, we will review recent data that has provided new mechanistic insight of in vivo phasic DA signaling and its role in reward processing and reward-mediated behavior.
During the last 50 years, the minimally invasive techniques for monitoring brain chemistry in vivo have significantly contributed to our current understanding of chemical neurotransmission in relation to behavior, as well as, to neuropathology and neuropharmacology of CNS disorders. This article provides a short historical overview of implantable devices including voltammetric electrodes, biosensors, microdialysis and related analytical techniques developed for monitoring and sampling brain chemistry in experimental disease models. A special emphasis is given to dopamine, which besides its important role as a neurotransmitter, could be readily detected by electrochemical techniques. Today, about 70% of all published papers applying voltammetry in the brain refer to dopamine monitoring; the corresponding percentage of brain microdialysis papers referring to dopamine is 41%.
Viewing tumors as ecosystems offers the opportunity to consider how ecological concepts can be translated to novel therapeutic perspectives. The ecological trap concept emerged approximately half a century ago when it was observed that animals can prefer an environment of low quality for survival over other available environments of higher quality. The presence of such a trap can drive a local population to extinction. The cancer cell trap concept is the translation of the ecological trap into glioma therapy. It exploits and diverts the invasive potential of glioma cells by guiding their migration towards specific locations where a local therapy can be delivered efficiently. This illustrates how an ecological concept can change therapeutic obstacles into therapeutic tools.

Most humans are right-handed and, like many behavioral traits, there is good evidence that genetic factors play a role in handedness. Many researchers have argued that non-human animal limb or hand preferences are not under genetic control but instead are determined by random, non-genetic factors. We used quantitative genetic analyses to estimate the genetic and environmental contributions to three measures of chimpanzee handedness. Results revealed significant population-level handedness for two of the three measures-the tube task and manual gestures. Furthermore, significant additive genetic effects for the direction and strength of handedness were found for all three measures, with some modulation due to early social rearing experiences. These findings challenge historical and contemporary views of the mechanisms underlying handedness in non-human animals.
This study investigated sex-specific effects of repeated stress and food restriction on food intake, body weight, corticosterone plasma levels and expression of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) in the hypothalamus and relaxin-3 in the nucleus incertus (NI). The CRF and relaxin-3 expression is affected by stress, and these neuropeptides produce opposite effects on feeding (anorexigenic and orexigenic, respectively), but sex-specific regulation of CRF and relaxin-3 by chronic stress is not fully understood. Male and female rats were fed ad libitum chow (AC) or ad libitum chow and intermittent palatable liquid Ensure without food restriction (ACE), or combined with repeated food restriction (60% chow, 2 days per week; RCE). Half of the rats were submitted to 1-h restraint stress once a week. In total, seven weekly cycles were applied. The body weight of the RCE stressed male rats significantly decreased, whereas the body weight of the RCE stressed female rats significantly increased compared with the respective control groups. The stressed female RCE rats considerably overate chow during recovery from stress and food restriction. The RCE female rats showed elevated plasma corticosterone levels and low expression of CRF mRNA in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus but not in the medial preoptic area. The NI expression of relaxin-3 mRNA was significantly higher in the stressed RCE female rats compared with other groups. An increase in the expression of orexigenic relaxin-3 and misbalanced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity may contribute to the overeating and increased body weight seen in chronically stressed and repeatedly food-restricted female rats.
It has not yet been established whether genetic predictors of multiple sclerosis (MS) susceptibility also influence disease severity and accumulation of disability. Our aim was to evaluate associations between 16 previously validated genetic susceptibility markers and MS phenotype. Patients with clinically isolated syndrome verified by positive magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cerebrospinal fluid findings (n=179) were treated with interferon-. Disability and volumetric MRI parameters were evaluated regularly for 2 years. Sixteen single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) previously validated as predictors of MS susceptibility in our cohort and their combined weighted genetic risk score (wGRS) were tested for associations with clinical (conversion to MS, relapses and disability) and MRI disease outcomes (whole brain, grey matter and white matter volumes, corpus callosum cross-sectional area, brain parenchymal fraction, T2 and T1 lesion volumes) 2 years from disease onset using mixed-effect models. We have found no associations between the tested SNPs and the clinical or MRI outcomes. Neither the combined wGRS predicted MS activity and progression over 2-year follow-up period. Power analyses confirmed 90% power to identify clinically relevant changes in all outcome variables. We conclude that the most important MS susceptibility loci do not determine MS phenotype and disease outcomes.
A decade-long project, led by several international research groups, called the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE), recently released an unprecedented amount of data. The ambitious project covers transcriptome, cistrome, epigenome, and interactome data from more than 1,600 sets of experiments in human. To make use of this valuable resource, it is important to understand the information it represents and the techniques that were used to generate these data. In this review, we introduce the data that ENCODE generated, summarize the observations from the data analysis, and revisit a computational approach that ENCODE used to predict gene expression, with a focus on the human transcriptome and its association with chromatin modifications.
Acute trauma to the central nervous system (CNS) can result in permanent damage and loss of function related to the poor regeneration of injured axons. Injured axons encounter several barriers to regeneration, such as the glial scar at the injury site. The glial scar contains extracellular matrix (ECM) macromolecules deposited by reactive astrocytes in response to injury. The scar ECM is rich in chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), macromolecules that inhibit axonal growth. CSPGs consist of a core protein with attachment sites for glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains. An extensive literature demonstrates that enzymatic removal of the GAG chains by chondroitinase ABC permits some axonal regrowth; however, the remaining intact core proteins also possess inhibitory domains. Because metalloproteinases can degrade core proteins of CSPGs, we have evaluated five matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and a related protease-a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs-4 (ADAMTS-4)-for their capacity to overcome CSPG inhibition of neuritic growth in culture. The metalloproteinases were selected for their known expression after CNS injuries. Of the MMPs, MMP-3, -7 and -8 reduced or abolished inhibition of neurite outgrowth on a purified CSPG substrate and on an astrocyte-derived ECM. ADAMTS-4 also attenuated CSPG inhibition of neurites and had the additional benefits of neither degrading laminin nor causing neurotoxicity. The efficacy of ADAMTS-4 matched that of blocking the EGFR signaling previously reported to mediate CSPG inhibition. These findings highlight ADAMTS-4 as a superior protease for overcoming CSPG inhibition of axonal regeneration in the CNS.
Cyclooxygenase (COX) enzyme synthesizes prostaglandins (PGs) from arachidonic acid and exists as two major isozymes, COX-1 and COX-2. The crucial role of prostaglandins in the pathogenesis of inflammatory pain in peripheral tissue and the spinal cord has been established; however its expression dynamics after peripheral nerve injury and its role in neuropathic pain are not clear. In this study, we examined the detailed expression patterns of genes for COX, PGD2 and thromboxane A2 synthases and their receptors in the spinal cord. Furthermore, we explored the altered gene expression of these molecules using the spared nerve injury (SNI) model. We also examined whether these molecules have a role in the development or maintenance of neuropathic pain. We found a number of interesting results in this study, the first was that COX-1 was constitutively expressed in the spinal cord and up-regulated in microglia located in laminae I-II after nerve injury. Second, COX-2 mRNA expression was induced in blood vessels after nerve injury. Third, TXA2 synthase and hematopoietic PGD synthase mRNAs were dramatically increased in the microglia after nerve injury. Finally, we found that intrathecal injection of a COX-1 inhibitor and DP2 receptor antagonist significantly attenuated the mechanical allodynia. Our findings indicate that PGD2 produced by microglia is COX-1 dependent, and that neurons in the spinal cord can receive PGD2 from microglia following peripheral nerve injury. We believe that PGD2 signaling via DP2 signaling pathway from microglia to neurons is one of the triggering factors for mechanical allodynia in this neuropathic pain model.
The studies on fractalkine and its unique receptor CX3CR1 in neurological disorders yielded contrasting results. We have explored the consequences of CX3CR1 deletion in ischemic (30' MCAo) mice on: (1) brain infarct size; (2) microglia dynamism and morphology; (3) expression of markers of microglia/macrophages (M/M) activation and polarization. We observed smaller infarcts in cx3cr1(-/-) (26.42  7.41 mm(3) , mean  sd) compared to wild type (36.29  11.57) and cx3cr1(-/+) (34.49  8.91) mice. We longitudinally analyzed microglia by in vivo two-photon microscopy before, 1 and 24 h after transient ischemia. Microglia were stationary in both cx3cr1(-/-) and cx3cr1(-/+) mice throughout the study. In cx3cr1(-/-) mice, they displayed a significantly higher number of ramifications &gt;10 m at baseline and at 24 h after ischemia compared to cx3cr1(-/+) mice, indicating that CX3CR1 deficiency impaired the development of microglia hypertrophic/amoeboid morphology. At 24 h after ischemia, we performed post mortem quantitative immunohistochemistry for different M/M markers. In cx3cr1(-/-) immunoreactivity for CD11b (M/M activation) and for CD68 (associated with phagocytosis) were decreased, while that for CD45(high) (macrophage and leukocyte recruitment) was increased. In addition, immunoreactivity for Ym1 (M2 polarization) was enhanced, while that for iNOS (M1) was decreased. Our data show that in cx3cr1(-/-) mice protection from ischemia at early time points after injury is associated with a protective inflammatory milieu, characterized by the promotion of M2 polarization markers.

Understanding speech in noise is one of the most complex activities encountered in everyday life, relying on peripheral hearing, central auditory processing, and cognition. These abilities decline with age, and so older adults are often frustrated by a reduced ability to communicate effectively in noisy environments. Many studies have examined these factors independently; in the last decade, however, the idea of an auditory-cognitive system has emerged, recognizing the need to consider the processing of complex sounds in the context of dynamic neural circuits. Here, we used structural equation modeling to evaluate the interacting contributions of peripheral hearing, central processing, cognitive ability, and life experiences to understanding speech in noise. We recruited 120 older adults (ages 55-79) and evaluated their peripheral hearing status, cognitive skills, and central processing. We also collected demographic measures of life experiences, such as physical activity, intellectual engagement, and musical training. In our model, central processing and cognitive function predicted a significant proportion of variance in the ability to understand speech in noise. To a lesser extent, life experience predicted hearing-in-noise ability through modulation of brainstem function. Peripheral hearing levels did not significantly contribute to the model. Previous musical experience modulated the relative contributions of cognitive ability and lifestyle factors to hearing in noise. Our models demonstrate the complex interactions required to hear in noise and the importance of targeting cognitive function, lifestyle, and central auditory processing in the management of individuals who are having difficulty hearing in noise.
The study of fear memory is important for understanding various anxiety disorders in which patients experience persistent recollections of traumatic events. These memories often involve associations of contextual cues with aversive events; consequently, Pavlovian classical conditioning is commonly used to study contextual fear learning. The use of predator odor as a fearful stimulus in contextual fear conditioning has become increasingly important as an animal model of anxiety disorders. Innate fear responses to predator odors are well characterized and reliable; however, attempts to use these odors as unconditioned stimuli in fear conditioning paradigms have proven inconsistent. Here we characterize a contextual fear conditioning paradigm using coyote urine as the unconditioned stimulus. We found that contextual conditioning induced by exposure to coyote urine produces long-term freezing, a stereotypic response to fear observed in mice. This paradigm is context-specific and parallels shock-induced contextual conditioning in that it is responsive to extinction training and manipulations of predator odor intensity. Region-specific lesions of the dorsal and ventral hippocampus indicate that both areas are independently required for the long-term expression of learned fear. These results in conjunction with c-fos immunostaining data suggest that while both the dorsal and ventral hippocampus are required for forming a contextual representation, the ventral region also modulates defensive behaviors associated with predators. This study provides information about the individual contributions of the dorsal and ventral hippocampus to ethologically relevant fear learning.
Environmental manipulations can enhance neuroplasticity in the brain, with enrichment-induced cognitive improvements being linked to increased expression of growth factors, such as neurotrophins, and enhanced hippocampal neurogenesis. There is, however, a great deal of variation in environmental enrichment protocols used in the literature, making it difficult to assess the role of particular aspects of enrichment upon memory and the underlying associated mechanisms. This study sought to evaluate the efficacy of environmental enrichment, in the absence of exercise, as a cognitive enhancer and assess the role of Nerve Growth Factor (NGF), neurogenesis and synaptogenesis in this process. We report that rats housed in an enriched environment for 3 and 6 weeks (wk) displayed improved recognition memory, while rats enriched for 6 wk also displayed improved spatial and working memory. Neurochemical analyses revealed significant increases in NGF concentration and subgranular progenitor cell survival (as measured by BrdU+ nuclei) in the dentate gyrus of rats enriched for 6 wk, suggesting that these cellular changes may mediate the enrichment-induced memory improvements. Further analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between recognition task performance and BrdU+ nuclei. In addition, rats enriched for 6 wk showed a significant increase in expression of synaptophysin and synapsin I in the dentate gyrus, indicating that environmental enrichment can increase synaptogenesis. These data indicate a time-dependent cognitive-enhancing effect of environmental enrichment that is independent of physical activity. These data also support a role for increased concentration of NGF in dentate gyrus, synaptogenesis, and neurogenesis in mediating this effect.
Mechanisms of synaptic plasticity involve proteolytic activity mediated by a complex system of proteases, including members of metalloproteinase (MMP) family. In particular, MMP-9 is critical in LTP maintenance in the Schaffer collateral-CA1 pathway and in the acquisition of hippocampus-dependent memory. Recent studies from this laboratory revealed that in the mossy fiber-CA3 (MF-CA3) projection, where LTP induction and expression are largely presynaptic, MMPs blockade disrupts LTP maintenance and that LTP induction is associated with increased MMP-9 expression. Here we used acute brain slices from MMP-9 knock-out mice and transgenic rats overexpressing MMP-9 to determine how manipulations in endogenous MMP-9 affect LTP in the MF-CA3 projection. Both types of transgenic models showed a normal basal synaptic transmission and short-term plasticity. Interestingly, the maintenance of LTP induced in slices from knock-out mice and overexpressing rats was nearly abolished. However, in the presence of active MMP-9, a gradual fEPSP autopotentiation was observed and tetanization evoked a marked LTP in knock-out mice. Additionally, in MMP-9-treated slices from wild-type mice, fEPSP autopotentiation also occurred and partially occluded LTP. This indicates that exogenous protease can restore LTP in null mice whereas in the wild-type, MMP-9 excess impairs LTP. We expected that LTP maintenance in transgenic rats could be re-established by a partial MMP blockade but non-saturating concentrations of MMP inhibitor were ineffective. In conclusion, we demonstrate that LTP maintenance in MF-CA3 pathway requires fine-tuned MMP-9 activity and raises the possibility that altered MMP-9 level might be detrimental for cognitive processes as observed in some neuropathologies.
Patients with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) suffer from a failure of cognitive control over emotional distracters. The physiological substrates of cognitive-emotional interactions and their breakdown in disease are, however, unknown. Here, we studied brain activity in PTSD patients and healthy controls in response to emotion-provoking pictures using electroencephalography and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We demonstrate that in healthy individuals, emotion-induced frontal theta rhythm modulates activity in the beta rhythm mainly in sensory-motor regions. In contrast, in PTSD patients, beta activity is elevated irrespective of emotion, and is not modulated by frontal theta activity in response to negative emotion. EEG source localization and fMRI findings suggest that theta activity is localized to the prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices while beta activity is localized to sensory-motor regions. We further found that beta activity in sensory-motor regions is related to the emotion-induced slowing of the motor response in healthy controls while the excess frontal theta activity in PTSD is related to the intensity of negative emotional experience. These findings reveal for the first time the importance of brain electrical oscillations and coherence in emotional top-down modulation and point to specific failure of these mechanisms in PTSD.
Research in auditory neuroscience has largely neglected the possible effects of different listening tasks on activations of auditory cortex (AC). In the present study, we used high-resolution fMRI to compare human AC activations with sounds presented during three auditory and one visual task. In all tasks, subjects were presented with pairs of Finnish vowels, noise bursts with pitch and Gabor patches. In the vowel pairs, one vowel was always either a prototypical /i/ or /ae/ (separately defined for each subject) or a nonprototype. In different task blocks, subjects were either required to discriminate (same/different) vowel pairs, to rate vowel &quot;goodness&quot; (first/second sound was a better exemplar of the vowel class), to discriminate pitch changes in the noise bursts, or to discriminate Gabor orientation changes. We obtained distinctly different AC activation patterns to identical sounds presented during the four task conditions. In particular, direct comparisons between the vowel tasks revealed stronger activations during vowel discrimination in the anterior and posterior superior temporal gyrus (STG), while the vowel rating task was associated with increased activations in the inferior parietal lobule (IPL). We also found that AC areas in or near Heschl's gyrus (HG) were sensitive to the speech-specific difference between a vowel prototype and nonprototype during active listening tasks. These results show that AC activations to speech sounds are strongly dependent on the listening tasks.

Synapsin I (SynI) is a synaptic vesicle (SV) phosphoprotein playing multiple roles in synaptic transmission and plasticity by differentially affecting crucial steps of SV trafficking in excitatory and inhibitory synapses. SynI knockout (KO) mice are epileptic, and nonsense and missense mutations in the human SYN1 gene have a causal role in idiopathic epilepsy and autism. To get insights into the mechanisms of epileptogenesis linked to SYN1 mutations, we analyzed the effects of the recently identified Q555X mutation on neurotransmitter release dynamics and short-term plasticity (STP) in excitatory and inhibitory synapses. We used patch-clamp electrophysiology coupled to electron microscopy and multi-electrode arrays to dissect synaptic transmission of primary SynI KO hippocampal neurons in which the human wild-type and mutant SynI were expressed by lentiviral transduction. A parallel decrease in the SV readily releasable pool in inhibitory synapses and in the release probability in excitatory synapses caused a marked reduction in the evoked synchronous release. This effect was accompanied by an increase in asynchronous release that was much more intense in excitatory synapses and associated with an increased total charge transfer. Q555X-hSynI induced larger facilitation and post-tetanic potentiation in excitatory synapses and stronger depression after long trains in inhibitory synapses. These changes were associated with higher network excitability and firing/bursting activity. Our data indicate that imbalances in STP and release dynamics of inhibitory and excitatory synapses trigger network hyperexcitability potentially leading to epilepsy/autism manifestations.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the factors underlying the ability to plan object-oriented grasping movements in the first two years of life. In particular, we were interested in evaluating the relationship between manual motor planning, object use and infant-parent interaction. In order to achieve this aim, grasping behaviors of nineteen healthy infants, aged nine to 25 months, were examined during naturalistic play sessions with a standard set of toys. Our main finding was that, regardless of age, infants perform a better manual planning when they use an object in a functional rather than non-functional way, suggesting that the planning of an action also depends on knowing the functional properties of an object. In addition, we found that the ability to use objects in a functional way was strongly affected by infant-parent interaction. Thus, level of object use and environmental role must be taken into account in order to understand the development of manual motor planning.

Using optical recordings, we studied the effects of asphyxia on intracellular Cl(-) and Ca(2+) concentrations ([Cl(-)]i; [Ca(2+)]i) in the superior colliculus of fetal rats, which were connected via the umbilical cord to the dam. Acute asphyxia was induced by umbilical cord occlusion. The number of fetal superior colliculus neurons showing GABA-mediated increases in [Cl(-)]i (leading to hyperpolarization) following local synaptic electrical stimulation had decreased by 3 h post-asphyxiation, while the number showing GABA-mediated decreases in [Cl(-)]i (leading to depolarization) increased. [Ca(2+)]i rise, which occurred after acute asphyxiation, was antagonized by both non-NMDA and NMDA receptor antagonists. The increase in [Ca(2+)]i following focal superior colliculus stimulation was markedly attenuated at 3 h post-asphyxiation. These findings suggest that asphyxia induced by umbilical occlusion induces changes in glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission in the fetal brain.


Mental health nursing education in Australia has undergone a significant transition in the last 50years, influenced by national inquiries, national decisions, and international trends in nursing education. But mental health nursing education had also accumulated decades of history in each state, including sometimes unequal relations with general nursing. Complex inter- and intra-professional relationships at state level influenced this educational transition in each state, and Western Australia provides an example of this influence. Using a range of published and unpublished sources, including oral histories, this paper describes the revision of the mental health nursing curriculum in Western Australia from 1958, responses to the call for transition to the tertiary sector between 1976 and 1984, and the final transition of mental health nursing education to university level in Western Australia in 1994. Mental health nursing's educational standards improved only gradually in Western Australia from 1958 onwards, compared with professional advances in general nursing in the same period. Factors which may have held back these improvements include mental health nursing's professional conservatism, which was outpaced by general nursing's growing radicalization at the national level. A lack of professional confidence and cohesion left mental health nursing unable to respond effectively to rapid external changes in the 1960s and 1970s, and vulnerable to absorption and dominance by general nursing education programs.
Oxytocin is a neuromodulator with antidepressant-like effects. In vitro, oxytocin is rapidly cleaved by insulin-regulated aminopeptidase (IRAP). Oxytocin metabolites are known to exert strong central activities that are different from the effects of the parent molecule. Our goal is to investigate in vivo whether IRAP deletion modifies the antidepressant-like effects of oxytocin. Male and female C57Bl/6 mice, IRAP wild-type (IRAP(+/+)) and knock-out (IRAP(-/-)) mice were injected subcutaneously with saline, oxytocin or oxytocin combined with angiotensin IV. One hour after injection, immobility was timed during a 5 min forced swim that was preceded by an open field to study locomotor behaviour. Oxytocin induced antidepressant-like effects in male (0.25 mg/kg oxytocin) and female (0.15 mg/kg oxytocin) C57Bl/6 mice subjected to the forced swim test. Oxytocin did not influence locomotor behaviour in mice, as shown with the open field. These findings were reproduced in transgenic male (aged 3-6 months) and female (aged 12-18 months) IRAP(+/+) mice. However, the major findings of our study were that the antidepressant-like effect was reversed in angiotensin IV treated IRAP(+/+) mice and was completely absent in age- and gender-matched IRAP(-/-) mice. The lack of an antidepressant-like effect of oxytocin in young male and middle-aged female IRAP(-/-) mice attributes an important role to IRAP in mediating this effect.
Addiction changes prefrontal cortex regulation of the nucleus accumbens, including reduced ability to induce long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). This important potential mechanism of impaired prefrontal regulation of behaviour has been shown only for cocaine. Here we show that animals trained to self-administer heroin demonstrate impaired LTP and LTD in the core of the nucleus accumbens following in vivo stimulation of the prelimbic prefrontal cortex. These data indicate that compromised synaptic plasticity in prefrontal to accumbens projections is a common feature of at least two distinct classes of addictive drug.
Dysfunctional noradrenergic transmission is related to several neuropsychiatric conditions, such as depression. Nowadays, the role of G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK)2 subunit containing GIRK channels controlling neuronal intrinsic excitability in vitro is well known. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of GIRK2 subunit mutation on the central noradrenergic transmission in vivo. For that purpose, single-unit extracellular activity of locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic neurons and brain monoamine levels using the HPLC technique were measured in wild-type and GIRK2 mutant mice. Girk2 gene mutation induced significant differences among genotypes regarding burst activity of LC neurons. In fact, the proportion of neurons displaying burst firing was increased in GIRK2 heterozygous mice as compared to that recorded from wild-type mice. Furthermore, this augmentation was even greater in the homozygous genotype. However, neither the basal firing rate nor the coefficient of variation of LC neurons was different among genotypes. Noradrenaline and serotonin basal levels were altered in the dorsal raphe nucleus from GIRK2 heterozygous and homozygous mice, respectively. Furthermore, noradrenaline levels were increased in LC projecting areas such as the hippocampus and amygdale from homozygous mice, although not in the prefrontal cortex. Finally, potency of clonidine and morphine inhibiting LC activity was reduced in GIRK2 mutant mice, although the efficacy remained unchanged. Altogether, the present study supports the role of GIRK2 subunit-containing GIRK channels on the maintenance of tonic noradrenergic activity in vivo. Electric and neurochemical consequences derived from an altered GIRK2-dependent signalling could facilitate the understanding of the neurobiological basis of pathologies related to a dysfunctional monoaminergic transmission.
Motor surround inhibition (mSI) is one mechanism by which the central nervous system individuates finger movements, and yet the neuroanatomical substrate of this phenomenon is currently unknown. In this study, we examined the role of the cerebellum in the generation of mSI, using transcranial direct current stimulation of the cerebellum (cDC). We also examined intrasubject and intersubject variability of mSI. Twelve subjects completed a three session cross over study in which mSI was measured before and after (0 and 20 minutes) sham, anodal and cathodal cDC. mSI of the surround muscle (adductor digiti minimi) at the onset of flexion of the index finger was consistently observed. Anodal and cathodal cDC did not modulate the magnitude of mSI. For individual subjects (across the three sessions), the intrasubject coefficient of variation was 27%. Between subjects, the intersubject coefficient of variation was 47%. mSI was a stable effect in individual subjects across multiple sessions. This is an important observation and contrasts with other neurophysiological paradigms such as paired associative stimulation response, which exhibit great variability. In addition, we have quantified intrasubject variability of mSI, which will allow future therapeutic studies that attempt to modulate mSI to be adequately powered. We have not found evidence that the cerebellum contributes to the neuroanatomical network needed for the generation of mSI. Understanding the mechanisms of mSI remains a challenge but is important for disorders in which it is deficient such as Parkinson's disease and focal hand dystonia.
Nitric oxide has a definitive role in the complex pathophysiology of traumatc brain injury (TBI). This prospective cohort study investigated the changes in nitric oxide metabolite (NOx) levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and their correlation with factors associated with severity and prognosis after severe TBI. NOx levels were measured in CSF obtained via ventriculostomy in 44 adult patients admitted after severe TBI (Glasgow Coma Scale  8/15). The overall mean level of CSF NOx in the study population was 7.40  1.59 mol/L. Levels of CSF NOx were found to be significantly higher in subgroups of patients with poorer outcome measured by Glasgow Outcome Scale score (p &lt; 0.042), in patients with high intracranial pressure (ICP) readings (p &lt; 0.027) and in those with higher Marshall computed tomography (CT) grading scores (p &lt; 0.026). Simple logistic regression demonstrated that CSF NOx levels were a significant predictor of ICP (b = 0.493, 95%CI: 1.03, 2.58, p = 0.033). A patient with 1 mol/L increase in NOx level had 1.6 times the odds to have an ICP  20 mmHg when other confounders were not adjusted. NOx level is also a significant predictor of Marshall CT grading (b = 0.473, 95%CI: 1.02, 2.50, p = 0.037). A patient with 1 mol/L increase in NOx level had 1.6 times the odds to have a high Marshall grade when other confounders were not adjusted. It can be concluded that CSF NOx levels may serve as a potentially useful biomarker in severe TBI given its significant association with ICP readings as well as Marshall CT grading.
We have previously demonstrated that exposure to high fat (HF) during early development alters the presynaptic regulation of mesolimbic dopamine (DA), and increases incentive motivation for HF food rewards. The goal of the present experiments was to examine the long-term consequences of early exposure to HF on anticipatory and consumatory nucleus accumbens (NAc) DA responses to HF food rewards. Mothers were maintained on a HF (30% fat) or control diet (CD; 5% fat) from gestation day 13 to postnatal day 22 when offspring from both diet groups were weaned and maintained on the CD until adulthood. In vivo NAc DA responses to food anticipation and consumption were measured in a Pavlovian conditioning paradigm using voltammetry in freely moving rats. HF-exposed offspring displayed reduced NAc DA responses to a tone previously paired with the delivery of HF food rewards. In an unconditioned protocol, consumatory NAc DA responses could be isolated, and were similar in HF and control offspring. These data demonstrate that exposure to HF through maternal diet during early development might program behavioral and functional responses associated with mesolimbic DA neurotransmission, thus leading to an increased HF feeding and obesity.


For almost a century, speech-language pathologists (SLPs) have worked at refining communication disorder phenotypes. Yet a hundred years of mastering the characterization of surface behaviours has provided only limited understanding of the neurobiological underpinnings of communication disorder. Arguably, the most momentous aetiological findings in speech-language pathology have been made relatively recently and by cross-disciplinary colleagues in the fields of molecular genetics and neuroimaging. Such findings include discovery of FOXP2, for example, the first gene found to be associated with a primary speech disorder. New gene-brain-behaviour discoveries in communication disorder are occurring on an almost weekly basis and it is challenging for clinical SLPs to engage with, interpret, and keep abreast of this literature. This paper aims to provide a brief overview of genetic and neuroimaging approaches to the study of communication disorders. Further examples of key findings in these fields are presented, with a discussion of the impacts on core SLP practice. Future research directions for further illuminating gene-brain-behaviour relationships in communication disorder are identified.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways are activated in skeletal muscle during endurance exercise, but the upstream molecular events are incompletely resolved. As an increase in plasma nonesterified fatty acids (NEFA) is a common feature of long-lasting exercise, the authors tested the hypothesis that NEFA contribute to the activation of MAPK during endurance exercise. Acipimox was used before and during endurance exercise to prevent the elevation of plasma NEFA levels in healthy subjects and patients with diabetes. In 2 separate studies, healthy subjects cycled for 2 hr and patients with diabetes for 1 hr at 50% Wmax. In control conditions, plasma NEFA concentrations increased from 0.35 to 0.90 mM during exercise in healthy subjects and from 0.55 to 0.70 mM in patients with diabetes (p &lt; .05). Phosphorylation states of extracellularly regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), p38, and c-Jun NH2-terminal kinases (JNK) were significantly increased after exercise in the vastus lateralis in both groups. Acipimox blocked the increase in plasma NEFA concentrations and almost completely repressed any rise in ERK1/2 and p38 but not in JNK. In conclusion, the data support a role for plasma NEFA in the activation of p38 and ERK1/2 in skeletal-muscle tissue of healthy and diabetic subjects during endurance exercise. Further investigation will be required to determine the molecular link between NEFA and MAPK activation during exercise in human skeletal muscle.

Medical learners, teachers, and institutions face significant challenges in health care delivery and in training the next generation of clinicians. We propose that psychiatry offers lessons which may help improve how we take care of patients and how we teach others to care for patients. Our objective is to discuss what learners and teachers can learn from psychiatry, organized around (1) how we make decisions, (2) how we learn, and (3) how we reflect on our practice. Information from clinical care, education, neuroscience and other aspects of life (e.g. business, creativity, and research) help us on these processes. We make 'good' decisions in concert with patients and learners, by listening to their experiences, asking questions and exploring subjective and objective information. Our learning has a neurobiological basis, and is effectively furthered by personalization, reinforcement, acquisition of critical thinking skills, and assessment of our limitations and errors. Our ability to reflect is determined by attitude, skill, tolerating ambiguity or dissonance, and planning for the unexpected. These processes - in addition to knowledge and other skills - will help physicians be successful in practice, learning and teaching, research and leadership.
The evidence base for the field of psychiatry is rapidly changing in the twenty-first century due to advances in neuroscience that are in the process of being translated into clinical interventions. The delivery systems for mental healthcare are simultaneously undergoing dramatic transformations as the field attempts to meet population needs effectively and efficiently. These changes demand a reconsideration of the content and priorities of psychiatric training programmes for both medical students and residents. This article examines the current state of psychiatric practice, as well as future challenges and potential models of practice, and discusses how these changes are impacting the present needs of trainees. Preparing today's medical students and residents to be active participants in the creation of the mental healthcare delivery system of the future is the key to the success of the specialism and to the welfare of tomorrow's patients.
Advances in areas of neuroscience are highly relevant to psychiatric disorders but there exists a gap between discoveries in neuroscience and the practice of clinical psychiatry. Psychiatry is a field in need of high impact research conducted by physician-scientists who have first-hand experience treating patients with mental illness and who use this clinical knowledge to improve and discover better or novel interventions. This paper focuses primarily on the training of psychiatry residents for successful scientific research careers and what residency programmes and others can do to help them succeed. Changes also need to be made at a regulatory level to enhance the research training and literacy of psychiatry residents. The shortage of psychiatrists who are well trained in basic and translational research can only be remedied if the path to becoming an independent investigator is lined with stepping stones that support success, including during the residency years. Partnerships among funding agencies, professional societies and training institutions can lay the groundwork for our psychiatric trainees to stay on the path to rewarding scientific research careers.
Neuropsychiatry and psychiatric neuroscience should be part of the general psychiatry curriculum so that graduate psychiatrists will be able to allow their patients the benefit of neuroscientifically informed diagnosis and treatment. Current neurology and neuroscience educational requirements for US psychiatry training are reviewed. The draft milestone requirements for clinical neuroscience training as part of the US Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education's Next Accreditation System are also provided. Suggestions for the neuropsychiatric and neuroscience content of psychiatry residency training are made, along with a description of pedagogic methods and resources. Survey data are reviewed indicating agreement by programme directors with the importance of neuroscience training and an increase in the amount of time devoted to this area. Faculty staff development in neuropsychiatry and neuroscience literacy will be needed to provide high quality training in these areas.
This paper reviews the current state of psychotherapy supervision in psychiatric training programmes. A focused literature search was carried out that examined three questions concerning the content, process and outcome of psychotherapy supervision. Results indicate that although requirements for training have broadened somewhat, methods of instruction in supervision have remained the same for many decades. In addition, there is a lack of discussion on what supervision outcomes should be assessed. This paper explores these areas and provides some suggestions for the future of psychotherapy supervision that are evidence-based and generalizable to an international audience. It is time to arrive at an international consensus about guidelines for psychotherapy supervision in psychiatry training programmes. This paper attempts to provide a starting place for psychotherapy supervisors and educators so that we can advance the field forward.
Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a rare multisystem disease characterized by systemic necrotizing arteritis of small and medium size arteries. The skin, joints, kidneys, gastrointestinal tract and peripheral nerves are most commonly involved. Although aneurysms are commonly seen in the visceral vessels, intracranial aneurysms are rare with 15 reported cases. The intracranial aneurysms are usually multiple and located in supra- as well as infra-tentorial compartments. Most of the cases presented with subarachnoid or parenchymal hemorrhage. The aneurysms were usually small, although large cavernous aneurysms were reported in one case. Treatment guidelines are not clear regarding the management of these cases. Most patients were treated conservatively by medical management with surgical excision performed in only two cases and coiling done in one patient with cavernous aneurysms. Repeat hemorrhages or re-bleed in spite of medical treatment have also been reported. We describe the case of a 22-year-old woman, a known case of PAN who presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiogram showed a ruptured right middle cerebral artery bifurcation aneurysm along with unruptured left middle cerebral, right posterior communicating and left posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysms. Her previous abdominal angiogram had revealed multiple aneurysms in visceral arteries. Successful coil embolization of the ruptured right MCA bifurcation aneurysm was performed with preservation of the parent vessel. The patient made a complete recovery and was placed on medical treatment for PAN. Follow-up MR angiography at three months revealed stable occlusion of the embolized aneurysm with no change in the unruptured aneurysms. Although rare, PAN can be associated with intracranial aneurysms which can cause subarachnoid or parenchymal hemorrhage. Selected cases can be treated safely by coil embolization.
This paper concisely summarizes major aspects of cephalopod biology, behavior, and ecology providing a backdrop against which neurobiology of these animals can be interpreted. Reproduction, camouflage, motor control, memory, learning, and behavioral ecology are introduced, and thorough literature reviews of these subjects are cited for further reading. The aim of this paper is to provide a general introduction to cephalopods for use by workers currently focused on other model systems.
Some of the finest minds in the field of Caenorhabditis elegans neurobiology were brought together from 14 June to 17 June 2012 in the small, quaint and picturesque German city of Heidelberg for the biannual C. elegans neurobiology conference. Held at the EMBL Advanced Training Centre and wonderfully organised by Diah Yulianti, Jean-Louis Bessereau, Gert Jansen and William Schafer, the meeting contained 62 verbal presentations and hundreds of posters that were displayed around the double-helical walkways that looped throughout the conference centre. Presentations on recent advances in microfluidics, cell ablation and targeted gene expression exemplified the strengths of C. elegans as a model organism, with these advances allowing detailed high-throughput analysis and study. Interesting behaviours that were previously poorly characterised were widely discussed, as were the advantages of C. elegans as a model for neurodevelopment and neurodegeneration and the investigation of neuropeptide function. The examples discussed in this meeting report seek to illustrate the breadth and depth of presentations given on these recurring topics.
The decline of honeybees and other pollinating insects is a current cause for concern. A major factor implicated in their decline is exposure to agricultural chemicals, in particular the neonicotinoid insecticides such as imidacloprid. Honeybees are also subjected to additional chemical exposure when beekeepers treat hives with acaricides to combat the mite Varroa destructor. Here, we assess the effects of acute sublethal doses of the neonicotinoid imidacloprid, and the organophosphate acaricide coumaphos, on honey bee learning and memory. Imidacloprid had little effect on performance in a six-trial olfactory conditioning assay, while coumaphos caused a modest impairment. We report a surprising lack of additive adverse effects when both compounds were administered simultaneously, which instead produced a modest improvement in learning and memory.

Angle surgery is often performed for pediatric glaucomas. Here we report visually significant hyphema and &quot;spill-over&quot; vitreous hemorrhage after trabeculotomy performed for aphakic glaucoma. Vitrectomy was necessary to remove the persistent vitreous blood in 2 of the 3 cases. We suspect this risk may be greater in aphakic eyes and propose measures to minimize this potentially amblyogenic complication.



Aquaporin-1 (AQP1) facilitates the osmotic transport of water across the capillary endothelium, among other cell types, and thereby has a substantial role in ultrafiltration during peritoneal dialysis. At present, pharmacologic agents that enhance AQP1-mediated water transport, which would be expected to increase the efficiency of peritoneal dialysis, are not available. Here, we describe AqF026, an aquaporin agonist that is a chemical derivative of the arylsulfonamide compound furosemide. In the Xenopus laevis oocyte system, extracellular AqF026 potentiated the channel activity of human AQP1 by &gt;20% but had no effect on channel activity of AQP4. We found that the intracellular binding site for AQP1 involves loop D, a region associated with channel gating. In a mouse model of peritoneal dialysis, AqF026 enhanced the osmotic transport of water across the peritoneal membrane but did not affect the osmotic gradient, the transport of small solutes, or the localization and expression of AQP1 on the plasma membrane. Furthermore, AqF026 did not potentiate water transport in Aqp1-null mice, suggesting that indirect mechanisms involving other channels or transporters were unlikely. Last, in a mouse gastric antrum preparation, AqF026 did not affect the Na-K-Cl cotransporter NKCC1. In summary, AqF026 directly and specifically potentiates AQP1-mediated water transport, suggesting that it deserves additional investigation for applications such as peritoneal dialysis or clinical situations associated with defective water handling.
Jung's Word Association Test was performed under fMRI conditions by 12 normal subjects. Pooled complexed responses were contrasted against pooled neutral ones. The fMRI activation pattern of this generic 'complexed response' was very strong (corrected Z scores ranging from 4.90 to 5.69). The activation pattern in each hemisphere includes mirror neurone areas that track 'otherness' (perspectival empathy), anterior insula (both self-awareness and emotional empathy), and cingulated gyrus (self-awareness and conflict-monitoring). These are the sites described by Siegel and colleagues as the 'resonance circuitry' in the brain which is central to mindfulness (awareness of self) and empathy (sense of the other), negotiations between self awareness and the 'internal other'. But there is also an interhemispheric dialogue. Within 3seconds, the left hemisphere over-rides the right (at least in our normal subjects). Mindfulness and empathy are central to good psychotherapy, and complexes can be windows of opportunity if left-brain hegemony is resisted. This study sets foundations for further research: (i) QEEG studies (with their finer temporal resolution) of complexed responses in normal subjects (ii) QEEG and fMRI studies of complexed responses in other conditions, like schizophrenia, PTSD, disorders of self organization.
It is unclear how rotations of the lower limb affect the knee joint compression forces during walking. Increases in the frontal plane knee moment have been reported when walking with internally rotated feet and a decrease when walking with externally rotated feet. The aim of this study was to investigate the knee joint compressive forces during walking with internal, external and normal foot rotation and to determine if the frontal plane knee joint moment is an adequate surrogate for the compression forces in the medial and lateral knee joint compartments under such gait modifications. Ten healthy males walked at a fixed speed of 4.5 km/h under three conditions: Normal walking, internally rotated and externally rotated. All gait trials were recorded by six infrared cameras. Net joint moments were calculated by 3D inverse dynamics. The results revealed that the medial knee joint compartment compression force increased during external foot rotation and the lateral knee joint compartment compression force increased during internal foot rotation. The increases in joint loads may be a result of increased knee flexion angles. Further, these data suggest that the frontal plane knee joint moment is not a valid surrogate measure for knee joint compression forces but rather indicates the medial- to-lateral load distribution.
Recent behavioral studies have suggested that the human auditory nerve of cochlear implant (CI) users is mainly excited by the positive (anodic) polarity. Those findings were only obtained using asymmetric pseudomonophasic (PS) pulses where the effect of one phase was measured in the presence of a counteracting phase of opposite polarity, longer duration, and lower amplitude than the former phase. It was assumed that only the short high-amplitude phase was responsible for the excitation. Similarly, it has been shown that electrically evoked compound action potentials could only be obtained in response to the anodic phases of asymmetric pulses. Here, experiment 1 measured electrically evoked auditory brainstem responses to standard symmetric, PS, reversed pseudomonophasic, and reversed pseudomonophasic with inter-phase gap (6 ms) pulses presented for both polarities. Responses were time locked to the short high-amplitude phase of asymmetric pulses and were smaller, but still measurable, when that phase was cathodic than when it was anodic. This provides the first evidence that cathodic stimulation can excite the auditory system of human CI listeners and confirms that this stimulation is nevertheless less effective than for the anodic polarity. A second experiment studied the polarity sensitivity at different intensities by means of a loudness balancing task between pseudomonophasic anodic (PSA) and pseudomonophasic cathodic (PSC) stimuli. Previous studies had demonstrated greater sensitivity to anodic stimulation only for stimuli producing loud percepts. The results showed that PSC stimuli required higher amplitudes than PSA stimuli to reach the same loudness and that this held for current levels ranging from 10 to 100% of the dynamic range.
Many human subjects suffering from chronic tinnitus also suffer from hyperacusis, a heightened perception of loudness at moderate to intense sound levels. While numerous studies suggest that animals develop chronic tinnitus following intense noise exposure, it is not yet clear whether sound exposure also induces chronic hyperacusis-like responses in animals. We addressed this question by examining the chronic effects of intense sound exposure on the acoustic startle response (ASR) and its suppression by background noise containing brief gaps. We compared startle amplitudes in intense tone-exposed (10 kHz, 115 dB SPL, 4 h) and age-matched controls at 2-28 weeks post-exposure. While both groups showed similar startle thresholds, exposed animals showed a hyperacusis-like augmentation of ASR at high stimulus levels. Addition of background noise had little effect on ASR in controls but had a strong suppressive effect on startle in exposed animals, indicating a sensitization to background noise. When the background noise contained a gap preceding the startle stimulus, ASR was suppressed in control animals, but exposed animals showed a marked weakening of gap-induced suppression of ASR. This weakening of gap-induced startle suppression is consistent with the interpretation that the gap may have been masked by tinnitus. The associated hyper-responsiveness to startle stimuli presented alone and the sensitization to background noise suggest that hyperacusis may have also been induced. The results indicate that noise exposure leads to increases in the gain of auditory responsiveness and may offer a model of the association of hyperacusis with tinnitus.
Children with communication disorders present with a range of comorbid conditions. Occasionally one of the comorbid conditions manifests so strongly that the primary condition goes unnoticed by the clinician. This tendency to overlook comorbid health problems in the presence of a disability is referred to as diagnostic overshadowing. This is a five-year follow up case study of a 9-year-old female child. The child was initially diagnosed to have Separation anxiety disorder (SAD), but during the course of follow up she began to exhibit features of pervasive developmental disorder-not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS). This case report throws light on the severity of SAD which overshadowed PDD-NOS. Importance of follow-up and the need for a multidisciplinary team to be sensitive to the phenomenon of diagnostic overshadowing is discussed.
Escherichia coli is used as a model organism for elucidation of menaquinone biosynthesis, for which a hydrolytic step from 1,4-dihydroxy-2-naphthoyl-coenzyme A (DHNA-CoA) to 1,4-dihydroxy-2-naphthoate is still unaccounted for. Recently, a hotdog fold thioesterase has been shown to catalyze this conversion in phylloquinone biosynthesis, suggesting that its closest homolog, YbgC in Escherichia coli, may be the DHNA-CoA thioesterase in menaquinone biosynthesis. However, this possibility is excluded by the involvement of YbgC in the Tol-Pal system and its complete lack of hydrolytic activity toward DHNA-CoA. To identify the hydrolytic enzyme, we have performed an activity-based screen of all nine Escherichia coli hotdog fold thioesterases and found that YdiI possesses a high level of hydrolytic activity toward DHNA-CoA, with high substrate specificity, and that another thioesterase, EntH, from siderophore biosynthesis exhibits a moderate, much lower DHNA-CoA thioesterase activity. Deletion of the ydiI gene from the bacterial genome results in a significant decrease in menaquinone production, which is little affected in ybgC and entH mutants. These results support the notion that YdiI is the DHNA-CoA thioesterase involved in the biosynthesis of menaquinone in the model bacterium.
Biomarker composites (BCs) that objectively quantify psychosocial stress independent of self report could help to identify those at greatest risk for negative health outcomes and elucidate mechanisms of stress-related processes. Here, BCs are examined in the context of existing disease progression among HIV-positive African American men who have sex with men and women (MSMW) with high stress histories, including childhood sexual abuse. Participants (N=99) collected 12-h overnight and morning urine samples for assay of cortisol and catecholamines (primary BC) and neopterin (an indicator of HIV disease progression). Data on cumulative psychosocial trauma history (severity, types, frequency, age at first incident), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms, sexual risk behaviors, and a secondary BC consisting of routine health indicators (heart rate, blood pressure, body mass index, waist-to-hip ratio) were also collected. Lifetime trauma exposure was highly pervasive and significantly greater among those meeting a standard cutoff for PTSD caseness (24%). After controlling for HIV factors (neopterin levels and years with disease), PTSD was a significant (p&lt;.05) predictor of the primary, but not secondary BC. Those with PTSD also had significantly more sexual partners, sex without a condom, and exchange sex for money or drugs than those without PTSD. Specific trauma characteristics predicted PTSD severity and caseness independently and uniquely in regression models (p's&lt;.05-.001). A primary BC appears sensitive to cumulative trauma burden and PTSD in HIV-positive African American MSMW, providing support for the use of BCs to quantify psychosocial stress and inform novel methods for examining mechanisms of stress influenced health behaviors and disease outcomes in at-risk populations.
The unmet need for the treatment of disorders of the nervous system is growing, and as highlighted in the media and elsewhere, the results of an aging population will ensure this continues with an upward trajectory. Incredibly, the efforts within industry to identify new drugs to treat these conditions have seemingly disappeared despite the growing need. There has been a run of extraordinary failure in the later stages of the drug discovery process for neurological and psychiatric disorders, which has many causes. We believe, though, that we have to confront this dire situation, both by using learnings from the post hoc analysis of our historical failure, as well as harnessing the bewildering array of new technologies and data now available to us, to ensure we are making the right decisions along the very complicated path of drug discovery to registration.
TRPV1 was originally characterized as an integrator of various noxious stimuli such as capsaicin, heat, and protons. TRPV1-null mice exhibit a deficiency in sensing noxious heat stimuli, suggesting that TRPV1 is one of the main heat sensors on nociceptive primary afferent neurons and a candidate target for heat hypersensitivity in chronic pain. Several different potent and selective TRPV1 antagonists have been developed by more than 50 companies since the characterization of the receptor in 1997. A consequence of this competitive interest is the crowding of patentable chemical space, because very similar in vitro screening assays are used. To circumvent this issue and to expand our understanding of TRPV1 biology, we sought to take advantage of recent advancements in automated patch-clamp technology to design a novel screening cascade. This SAR-driving assay identified novel modulators that blocked the depolarization-induced activation of outwardly-rectifying TRPV1 currents independent of agonist stimulation, and we correlated the pharmacology to three other innovative assays for higher-throughput screening. Ultimately, we have identified a screening paradigm that would have good predictive value for future TRPV1 drug discovery projects and novel chemical space with a higher probability of gaining intellectual property coverage.


The foot processes of astrocytes cover over 60% of the surface of brain microvascular endothelial cells, regulating tight junction integrity. Retraction of astrocyte foot processes has been postulated to be a key mechanism in pathology. Therefore, movement of an astrocyte in response to a proinflammatory cytokine or even limited retraction of processes would result in leaky junctions between endothelial cells. Astrocytes lie at the gateway to the CNS and are instrumental in controlling leukocyte entry. Cultured astrocytes typically have a polygonal morphology until stimulated. We hypothesized that cultured astrocytes which were induced to stellate would have an activated phenotype compared with polygonal cells. We investigated the activation of astrocytes derived from adult macaques to the cytokine TNF- under resting and stellated conditions by four parameters: morphology, intermediate filament expression, adhesion, and cytokine secretion. Astrocytes were stellated following transient acidification; resulting in increased expression of GFAP and vimentin. Stellation was accompanied by decreased adhesion that could be recovered with proinflammatory cytokine treatment. Surprisingly, there was decreased secretion of proinflammatory cytokines by stellated astrocytes compared with polygonal cells. These results suggest that astrocytes are capable of multiple phenotypes depending on the stimulus and the order stimuli are applied.
Finding new treatments targeting cancer stem cells (CSCs) within a tumor seems to be critical to halt cancer and improve patient survival. Osteosarcoma is an aggressive tumor affecting adolescents, for which there is no second-line chemotherapy. Uncovering new molecular mechanisms underlying the development of osteosarcoma and origin of CSCs is crucial to identify new possible therapeutic strategies. Here, we aimed to characterize genetically and molecularly the human osteosarcoma 3AB-OS CSC line, previously selected from MG63 cells and which proved to have both in vitro and in vivo features of CSCs. Classic cytogenetic studies demonstrated that 3AB-OS cells have hypertriploid karyotype with 71-82 chromosomes. By comparing 3AB-OS CSCs to the parental cells, array CGH, Affymetrix microarray, and TaqMan Human MicroRNA array analyses identified 49 copy number variations (CNV), 3,512 dysregulated genes and 189 differentially expressed miRNAs. Some of the chromosomal abnormalities and mRNA/miRNA expression profiles appeared to be congruent with those reported in human osteosarcomas. Bioinformatic analyses selected 196 genes and 46 anticorrelated miRNAs involved in carcinogenesis and stemness. For the first time, a predictive network is also described for two miRNA family (let-7/98 and miR-29a,b,c) and their anticorrelated mRNAs (MSTN, CCND2, Lin28B, MEST, HMGA2, and GHR), which may represent new biomarkers for osteosarcoma and may pave the way for the identification of new potential therapeutic targets.
Cdc42-interacting protein 4 (CIP4), a member of the F-BAR family of proteins, plays important roles in a variety of cellular events by regulating both membrane and actin dynamics. In many cell types, CIP4 functions in vesicle formation, endocytosis and membrane tubulation. However, recent data indicate that CIP4 is also involved in protrusion in some cell types, including cancer cells (lamellipodia and invadopodia) and neurons (ribbed lamellipodia and veils). In neurons, CIP4 localizes specifically to extending protrusions and functions to limit neurite outgrowth early in development. The mechanism by which CIP4 localizes to the protruding edge membrane and induces lamellipodial/veil protrusion and actin rib formation is not known. Here, we show that CIP4 localization to the protruding edge of neurons is dependent on both the phospholipid content of the plasma membrane and the underlying organization of actin filaments. Inhibiting phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP3) production decreases CIP4 at the membrane. CIP4 localization to the protruding edge is also dependent on Rac1/WAVE1, rather than Cdc42/N-WASP. Capping actin filaments with low concentrations of cytochalasin D or by overexpressing capping protein dramatically decreases CIP4 at the protruding edge, whereas inactivating Arp2/3 drives CIP4 to the protruding edge. We also demonstrate that CIP4 dynamically colocalizes with Ena/VASP and DAAM1, two proteins known to induce unbranched actin filament arrays and play important roles in neuronal development. Together, this is the first study to show that the localization of an F-BAR protein depends on both actin filament architecture and phospholipids at the protruding edge of developing neurons.
Endocytic recycling is a process in which molecules that have been internalized are recycled back to the plasma membrane, and although it is crucial for regulating various cellular events, the molecular nexus underlying this process remains poorly understood. Here we report a molecular link between two gatekeepers for endocytic recycling, the molecular switch Rab35 and the molecular scissors EHD1, that is mediated by two distinct Rab35 effectors during neurite outgrowth of PC12 cells. Rab35 forms a tripartite complex with MICAL-L1 and centaurin-2/ACAP2 and recruits them to perinuclear Arf6-positive endosomes in response to nerve growth factor stimulation. MICAL-L1 and centaurin-2 then cooperatively recruit EHD1 to the same compartment by functioning as a scaffold for EHD1 and as an inactivator of Arf6, respectively. We propose that Rab35 regulates the formation of an EHD1-association site on Arf6-positive endosomes by integrating the functions of two distinct Rab35 effectors for successful neurite outgrowth.
Myogenesis involves expression of muscle-specific transcription factors such as myogenin and myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2), and is essentially regulated by fluctuations of cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration. Recently we demonstrated that molecular players of store-operated Ca(2+) entry (SOCE), stromal interacting molecule (STIM) and Orai, were fundamental in the differentiation process of post-natal human myoblasts. Besides STIM and Orai proteins, the family of transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC) channels was shown to be part of SOCE in several cellular systems. In the present study, we investigated the role of TRPC channels in the human myogenesis process. We demonstrate, using an siRNA strategy or dominant negative TRPC overexpression, that TRPC1 and TRPC4 participate in SOCE, are necessary for MEF2 expression, and allow the fusion process to generate myotubes of normal size. Conversely, the overexpression of STIM1 with TRPC4 or TRPC1 increased SOCE, accelerated myoblast fusion, and produced hypertrophic myotubes. Interestingly, in cells depleted of TRPC1 or TRPC4, the normalization of SOCE by increasing the extracellular calcium concentration or by overexpressing STIM1 or Orai1 was not sufficient to restore normal fusion process. A normal differentiation occurred only when TRPC channel was re-expressed. These findings indicate that Ca(2+) entry mediated specifically by TRPC1 and TRPC4 allow the formation of normal-sized myotubes.

We investigated the effects of ionizing radiation on microvessel structure and complexity in the hippocampus. We also assessed neurogenesis and the neurovascular niche. Postnatal day 14 male C57BL/6 mice received a single dose of 8Gy to the whole brain and were killed 6 hours, 1 week, 7 weeks, or 1 year later. Irradiation decreased the total number of microvessels and branching points from 1 week onwards and decreased the total microvessel area 1 and 7 weeks after irradiation. After an initial increase in vascular parameter densities, concomitant with reduced growth of the hippocampus, the densities normalized with time, presumably adapting to the needs of the surrounding nonvascular tissue. Irradiation decreased the number of neural stem and progenitor cells in the hippocampus. The relative loss increased with time, resulting in almost completely ablated neurogenesis (DCX(+) cells) 1 year after irradiation (77% decreased 1 week, 86% decreased 7 weeks, and 98% decreased 1 year after irradiation compared with controls). After irradiation, the distance between undifferentiated stem cells and microvessels was unaffected, and very few dying endothelial cells were detected. Taken together, these results indicate that the vasculature adjusts to the surrounding neural and glial tissue after irradiation, not vice-versa.

Slit ventricle syndrome is a rare condition whereby brain compliance is reduced and can be associated with intermittent intracranial hypertension. A 19-year-old male with a ventriculoperitoneal shunt for congenital hydrocephalus presented with a 1-day history of headache and drowsiness-symptoms from which he suffered in many recurrent episodes over the past 5 years. The improvement of headaches without surgical intervention led to the diagnosis of migraine. During this hospitalization, episodes of intermittent intracranial hypertension were documented along with the remission and relapse of the symptoms. While the patient's intracranial pressure was within normal range in over 90% of his monitoring period, which postponed shunting, replacement of his ventriculoperitoneal shut eventually resolved his symptoms. Slit ventricle syndrome with reduced ventricular compliances should be considered in patients with clinical evidence of intermittent intracranial hypertension and small ventricular size. The authors advocate shunt replacement as an appropriate treatment for this condition.

Minimally invasive lumbar fusion is well described and is reported to offer significant advantages to patients in terms of blood loss, a reduction in post-operative pain and a quicker recovery. However, this technique may expose patients to a greater risk of complications when compared to open lumbar instrumented fusion that may negate these advantages. Between January 2007 and March 2001, we conducted a prospective observational study of 100 consecutive patients (48 males and 52 females, mean age of 54 years) to investigate complications occurring from minimally invasive lumbar interbody fusion surgery using an image-guided technique. All patients underwent post-operative CT scans to assess implant placement. Scanning was repeated at 6 months to assess bony fusion. We observed the following complications: 2.5% (11/435) pedicle screw misplacement, 1.7% (2/120) interbody cage misplacement; 0.8% (1/120) interbody cage migration; 0.8% (1/120) patients requiring a post-operative blood transfusion; 2% (2/100) venous thrombo-embolism and 3% (3/100) patients with complications thought to be related to the use of bone morphogenic protein. There were no occurrences of infection and no cerebrospinal fluid leaks. We concluded that the rate of complications from minimally invasive lumbar interbody fusion is low, and compares favourably with the rates of complication from open procedures. Moreover, computerised navigation systems can be used in place of real-time fluoroscopy to guide implant placement, without an increase in the rate of complications.
Ventricular enlargement is a common finding after severe head injury and has a poor prognosis if associated with post-traumatic hydrocephalus (PTH). We retrospectively reviewed our head injury database and identified patients who suffered from severe head injury and subsequently had shunt insertion after a diagnosis of PTH. A total of 871 patients with severe head injury were admitted from April 1999 to December 2006. Twenty-three patients (2.6%) were diagnosed with post-traumatic hydrocephalus and had a shunt inserted. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that age, and unilateral and bilateral decompressive craniectomy, were significant predictors of PTH. The timing of shunt placement was between 2 weeks and 5 months post-head injury with a mean interval of 70 days. Three patients developed complications after shunt insertion. Seventeen patients (74%) achieved improvement after shunt insertion while the remainder had no significant change in neurological status. Eleven patients (48%) had improvements in their Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 2 points, while six patients (26%) had a single-point improvement in their GCS score. At 1 year after shunting, 35% of patients had Glasgow Outcome Scale scores of 3 to 4. PTH is a condition that has an insidious onset with varying clinical and radiological presentations. The incidence is low but there is a significant benefit from ventricular shunt insertion. The use of cerebrospinal fluid dynamic studies, in addition to clinical and radiological findings, has the potential for better diagnosis and management of these patients.

The objective of the present study was to assess demographic and disease-specific factors associated with perceived cognitive problems in children and adolescents with heart disease. 246 children with congenital heart disease ages 8-18years and their parents completed the Cognitive Problems Scale of the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory Cardiac Module. The 5-item Cognitive Problems Scale assesses school-related cognitive problems including attention and memory from the perspective of the child and parent. Multiple linear regression analysis was conducted with demographic variables and disease-specific factors entered as independent variables and perceived cognitive problems as the dependent variable. Socioeconomic status (SES) and cardiac disease severity were significantly associated with parent proxy-reported cognitive problems (p&lt;.05). None of the demographic or disease-specific variables were significantly associated with child self-reported cognitive problems. In conclusion, our data suggest that assessment of perceived cognitive problems in children and adolescents with greater disease severity and from lower SES homes may facilitate early identification of children who need formal evaluation and interventions to address cognitive impairments.

Risperidone is metabolized by polymorphic enzymes, and a large variability in plasma concentration and therapeutic response is observed. Risperidone long-acting injection (RLAI) avoids the first-pass effect, and little is known about the influence of gene polymorphisms involved in its pharmacokinetics. The influence on plasma concentrations of risperidone (RIS), its metabolite 9-hydroxy-risperidone, and on adverse effects were investigated for polymorphisms of cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) (*3, *4, *5, *6), CYP3A (CYP3A4*1B, CYP3A4 rs4646437, CYP3A5*3, CYP3A7*1C), ABCB1 (1236C&gt;T, 2677G&gt;T, 3435C&gt;T), NR1/2 coding for pregnane X receptor (rs1523130, rs2472677, rs7643645), and for CYP3A activity measured by a phenotyping test. Forty-two patients with at least 4 consecutive unchanged doses of RLAI were included in a multicenter cross-sectional study. A 55% lower dose-adjusted plasma levels of RIS were observed for CYP2D6 ultrarapid metabolizers (n = 5) as compared with CYP2D6 intermediate metabolizers (P &lt; 0.007). NR1/2 polymorphism (rs7643645A&gt;G) influenced RIS exposure with a 2.8-fold lower active moiety (P = 0.031) in GG compared with the AA genotype. This was confirmed in a second independent cohort (n = 16). Furthermore, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol was positively correlated with CYP3A activity (P = 0.01), and the NR1/2 (rs2472677) polymorphism was associated with different adverse effects including prolactin plasma levels adjusted for age and sex. In conclusion, our results confirmed the influence of CYP2D6 genotype on plasma levels of RIS. This is the first report on the influence of NR1/2 polymorphisms on RLAI exposure and on drug-induced adverse effects. These results should be validated in larger cohorts.
Several studies have proposed an optimal dopamine D2 receptor occupancy by antipsychotics (OOc) to establish optimal pharmacological treatment of schizophrenia. However, there are limitations to the use of the OOc, especially in application to patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia, including dopamine supersensitivity psychosis (DSP) or late-onset psychosis (LOP). It has been suggested that D2 receptor density is up-regulated by chronic treatment of antipsychotics in DSP, whereas it may be low in LOP owing to age-related reduction. In estimation of the proposed OOc, these alterations have not been taken into account, which may be one of the factors contributing to the limited application of this index. We here hypothesize that there is an optimal range in the number of D2 receptors available for dopamine binding to elicit adequate neurotransmission in the treatment of patients with schizophrenia. We then estimated the OOc under the assumption that the range is constant while D2 density is variable. The results showed that the OOc and plasma level of antipsychotics increase with an increase in the D2 density but decrease with a decrease in the D2 density. That is, if the range of OOc is 65% to 78% in a standard D2 density, it becomes 82% to 89% under 2-fold up-regulated density and 42% to 63% under a 40% reduced density. The results also indicated that the reduction of the plasma antipsychotic level is greater during a given time period in patients with higher D2 density, as they need a higher antipsychotic dose to achieve the raised OOc, which would account for the clinical features of DSP, for example, acute exacerbation after a discontinuation of antipsychotics. On the other hand, in patients with lower D2 density, only a lower antipsychotic dose will achieve the OOc, and a small increase in the dose will result in a greater increase in occupancy and induce extrapyramidal adverse effects more easily. Furthermore, the reduction of the plasma antipsychotic level during the time period is smaller, which prolongs extrapyramidal adverse effects after discontinuation of antipsychotics in LOP. We also attempted to develop a strategy for the prevention and treatment of patients with DSP or LOP by focusing on D2 density.
It is typically assumed that the conscious experience of wanting to move is not the driving force for motor planning, but the secondary consequence of the unconscious neural processes preparing the movement. A recent study by Schneider et al. [Schneider, L., Houdayer, E., Bai, O., &amp; Hallett, M. What we think before a voluntary movement. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 25, 822-829, 2013] seems consistent with this dominant view by showing that the brain can be preparing to make voluntary movements not only &quot;prior to the conscious appreciation that this is happening&quot; but also &quot;while subjects are thinking about something else.&quot; However, an alternative hypothesis exists. It is supported by several lines of evidence and suggests that the early neural signals recorded by Schneider et al. (and others) do not reflect movement preparation per se, but rather a buildup in neural activity that ultimately leads to the emergence of a conscious intention to move. According to this view, the conscious experience of wanting to move is not the consequence but the cause of movement initiation.
Traditionally, it has been theorized that the human visual system identifies and classifies scenes in an object-centered approach, such that scene recognition can only occur once key objects within a scene are identified. Recent research points toward an alternative approach, suggesting that the global image features of a scene are sufficient for the recognition and categorization of a scene. We have previously shown that disrupting object processing with repetitive TMS to object-selective cortex enhances scene processing possibly through a release of inhibitory mechanisms between object and scene pathways [Mullin, C. R., &amp; Steeves, J. K. E. TMS to the lateral occipital cortex disrupts object processing but facilitates scene processing. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 23, 4174-4184, 2011]. Here we show the effects of TMS to the transverse occipital sulcus (TOS), an area implicated in scene perception, on scene and object processing. TMS was delivered to the TOS or the vertex (control site) while participants performed an object and scene natural/nonnatural categorization task. Transiently interrupting the TOS resulted in significantly lower accuracies for scene categorization compared with control conditions. This demonstrates a causal role of the TOS in scene processing and indicates its importance, in addition to the parahippocampal place area and retrosplenial cortex, in the scene processing network. Unlike TMS to object-selective cortex, which facilitates scene categorization, disrupting scene processing through stimulation of the TOS did not affect object categorization. Further analysis revealed a higher proportion of errors for nonnatural scenes that led us to speculate that the TOS may be involved in processing the higher spatial frequency content of a scene. This supports a nonhierarchical model of scene recognition.
Muscarinic neurotransmission in the anterior basolateral amygdalar nucleus (BLa) mediated by the M1 receptor (M1R) is critical for memory consolidation. Although knowledge of the subcellular localization of M1R in the BLa would contribute to an understanding of cholinergic mechanisms involved in mnemonic function, there have been no ultrastructural studies of this receptor in the BLa. In the present investigation, immunocytochemistry at the electron microscopic level was used to determine which structures in the BLa express M1R. The innervation of these structures by cholinergic axons expressing the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) was also studied. All perikarya of pyramidal neurons were labeled, and about 90% of dendritic shafts and 60% of dendritic spines were M1R+. Some dendrites had spines suggesting that they belonged to pyramidal cells, whereas others had morphological features typical of interneurons. M1R immunoreactivity (M1R-ir) was also seen in axon terminals, most of which formed asymmetrical synapses. The main targets of M1R+ terminals forming asymmetrical synapses were dendritic spines, most of which were M1R+. The main targets of M1R+ terminals forming symmetrical synapses were M1R+ perikarya and dendritic shafts. About three-quarters of VAChT+ cholinergic terminals formed synapses; the main postsynaptic targets were M1R+ dendritic shafts and spines. In some cases M1R-ir was seen near the postsynaptic membrane of these processes, but in other cases it was found outside of the active zone of VAChT+ synapses. These findings suggest that M1R mechanisms in the BLa are complex, involving postsynaptic effects as well as regulating release of neurotransmitters from presynaptic terminals.
The dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) has long been implicated in feeding behavior and thermogenesis. The DMH contains orexigenic neuropeptide Y (NPY) neurons, but the role of these neurons in the control of energy homeostasis is not well understood. NPY expression in the DMH is low under normal conditions in adult rodents but is significantly increased during chronic hyperphagic conditions such as lactation and diet-induced obesity (DIO). To understand better the role of DMH-NPY neurons, we characterized the efferent projections of DMH-NPY neurons using the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) in lactating rats and DIO mice. In both models, BDA- and NPY-colabeled fibers were limited mainly to the hypothalamus, including the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH), lateral hypothalamus/perifornical area (LH/PFA), and anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV). Specifically in lactating rats, BDA-and NPY-colabeled axonal swellings were in close apposition to cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART)-expressing neurons in the PVH and AVPV. Although the DMH neurons project to the rostral raphe pallidus (rRPa), these projections did not contain NPY immunoreactivity in either the lactating rat or the DIO mouse. Instead, the majority of BDA-labeled fibers in the rRPa were orexin positive. Furthermore, DMH-NPY projections were not observed within the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), another brainstem site critical for the regulation of sympathetic outflow. The present data suggest that NPY expression in the DMH during chronic hyperphagic conditions plays important roles in feeding behavior and thermogenesis by modulating neuronal functions within the hypothalamus, but not in the brainstem.
NMDA receptors are among the crucial elements of central nervous system models. Recent studies show that both conductance and kinetics of these receptors are changing voltage-dependently in some parts of the brain. Therefore, several models have been introduced to simulate their current. However, on the one hand, kinetic models-which are able to simulate these voltage-dependent phenomena-are computationally expensive for modeling of large neural networks. On the other hand, classic exponential models, which are computationally less expensive, are not able to simulate the voltage-dependency of these receptors, accurately. In this study, we have modified these classic models to endow them with the voltage-dependent conductance and time constants. Temperature sensitivity and desensitization of these receptors are also taken into account. We show that, it is possible to simulate the most important physiological aspects of NMDA receptor's behavior using only three to four differential equations, which is significantly smaller than the previous kinetic models. Consequently, it seems that our model is both fast and physiologically plausible and therefore is a suitable candidate for the modeling of large neural networks.
Estimating sample averages and sample variability is important in analyzing neural spike trains data in computational neuroscience. Current approaches have focused on advancing the use of parametric or semiparametric probability models of the underlying stochastic process, where the probabilistic distribution is characterized at each time point with basic statistics such as mean and variance. To directly capture and analyze the average and variability in the observation space of the spike trains, we focus on a data-driven approach where statistics are defined and computed in a function space in which the spike trains are viewed as individual points. Based on the definition of a &quot;Euclidean&quot; metric, a recent paper introduced the notion of the mean of a set of spike trains and developed an efficient algorithm to compute it under some restrictive conditions. Here we extend this study by: (1) developing a novel algorithm for mean computation that is quite general, and (2) introducing a notion of covariance of a set of spike trains. Specifically, we estimate the covariance matrix using the geometry of the warping functions that map the mean spike train to each of the spike trains in the dataset. Results from simulations as well as a neural recording in primate motor cortex indicate that the proposed mean and covariance successfully capture the observed variability in spike trains. In addition, a &quot;Gaussian-type&quot; probability model (defined using the estimated mean and covariance) reasonably characterizes the distribution of the spike trains and achieves a desirable performance in the classification of the spike trains.
Theta (4-12Hz) and gamma (30-80Hz) rhythms are considered important for cortical and hippocampal function. Although several neuron types are implicated in rhythmogenesis, the exact cellular mechanisms remain unknown. Subthreshold electric fields provide a flexible, area-specific tool to modulate neural activity and directly test functional hypotheses. Here we present experimental and computational evidence of the interplay among hippocampal synaptic circuitry, neuronal morphology, external electric fields, and network activity. Electrophysiological data are used to constrain and validate an anatomically and biophysically realistic model of area CA1 containing pyramidal cells and two interneuron types: dendritic- and perisomatic-targeting. We report two lines of results: addressing the network structure capable of generating theta-modulated gamma rhythms, and demonstrating electric field effects on those rhythms. First, theta-modulated gamma rhythms require specific inhibitory connectivity. In one configuration, GABAergic axo-dendritic feedback on pyramidal cells is only effective in proximal but not distal layers. An alternative configuration requires two distinct perisomatic interneuron classes, one exclusively receiving excitatory contacts, the other additionally targeted by inhibition. These observations suggest novel roles for particular classes of oriens and basket cells. The second major finding is that subthreshold electric fields robustly alter the balance between different rhythms. Independent of network configuration, positive electric fields decrease, while negative fields increase the theta/gamma ratio. Moreover, electric fields differentially affect average theta frequency depending on specific synaptic connectivity. These results support the testable prediction that subthreshold electric fields can alter hippocampal rhythms, suggesting new approaches to explore their cognitive functions and underlying circuitry.

Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has been used therapeutically for reducing choreiform movements in patients with Huntington disease. There have been case studies reporting improvement in choreiform movements with administration of low-frequency rTMS lasting for a brief period. We report a case series where application of 7 consecutive sessions of bilateral low-frequency rTMS over the scalp area corresponding to supplementary motor area in patients with severe Huntington chorea did not reduce the intensity of choreiform movements even transiently. Hence, the proposed role of rTMS in reducing intensity of choreiform movements by altering neuronal plasticity may not hold true in severe cases.
Retrograde amnesia following electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a major concern for both patients and clinicians. In contemporary ECT research, retrograde autobiographical amnesia (RAA) is commonly measured with instruments assessing autobiographical memory (AM) consistency over time. However, normal AM recall loses in consistency with the passage of time, and time has a differential effect on stability of personal memories. In addition, experiencing depression is associated with a decreased ability to recall specific AMs, and this difficulty may persist in the euthymic phase of recurrent depression. Despite these scientific facts, relatively few attempts have been made to accurately measure the specific effect of ECT on AM independent of both normal and mood-associated forgetting over time. This major gap in our knowledge prevents us at present from objectively quantifying the nature and extent of RAA associated with ECT. In turn, this hinders our identifying and implementing strategies for prevention or remediation of AM deficits. The present article aims to provide an up-to-date review and historical perspective of this major methodological conundrum for ECT research, highlight current issues in retrograde amnesia assessment following ECT, and propose directions for future studies. In conclusion, we suggest methods to reliably and specifically measure the extent and progression over time of ECT-associated RAA independently from persistent depressive symptoms' contribution and normal loss in AM consistency over time.
Cholinesterases are associated with pathology characteristic of conditions such as Alzheimer's disease and are therefore, considered targets for neuroimaging. Ester derivatives of N-methylpiperidinol are promising potential imaging agents; however, methodology is lacking for evaluating these compounds in vitro. Here, we report the synthesis and evaluation of a series of N-methylpiperidinyl thioesters, possessing comparable properties to their corresponding esters, which can be directly evaluated for cholinesterase kinetics and histochemical distribution in human brain tissue. N-methylpiperidinyl esters and thioesters were synthesized and they demonstrated comparable cholinesterase kinetics. Furthermore, thioesters were capable, using histochemical method, to visualize cholinesterase activity in human brain tissue. N-methylpiperidinyl thioesters can be rapidly evaluated for cholinesterase kinetics and visualization of enzyme distribution in brain tissue which may facilitate development of cholinesterase imaging agents for application to conditions such as Alzheimer's disease.

As advances in neuroscience and genetics reveal complex associations between brain structures, functions and symptoms of mental disorders, there have been calls for psychiatric classifications to be reconfigured, to conceptualize mental disorders as disorders of the brain. In this paper, I argue that this view is mistaken, and that the level at which we identify mental disorders is, and should be, the person, not the brain. This is not to deny physicalism or argue that the mental realm is somehow distinct from the physical, but rather to suggest the things that are going 'wrong' in mental disorder are picked out at the person-level: they are characterized by breaches in epistemic, rational, evaluative, emotional, social and moral norms. However, as our scientific understanding of the brain becomes advanced, what makes an identified neurobiological difference in brain structure or functioning indicative of pathology is its association with these behaviours at the person-level. Instead of collapsing psychiatry into biomedicine, biomedicine may benefit from drawing closer to the expertise of psychiatry, as it is able to accommodate social, psychological and biological explanations while focusing on the person, within their environment.
The natural history of adult worker honey bees (Apis mellifera) provides an opportunity to study the molecular basis of learning in an ecological context. Foragers must learn to navigate between the hive and floral locations that may be up to miles away. Young pre-foragers prepare for this task by performing orientation flights near the hive, during which they begin to learn navigational cues such as the appearance of the hive, the position of landmarks, and the movement of the sun. Despite well-described spatial learning and navigation behavior, there is currently limited information on the neural basis of insect spatial learning. We found that Egr, an insect homolog of Egr-1, is rapidly and transiently upregulated in the mushroom bodies in response to orientation. This result is the first example of an Egr-1 homolog acting as a learning-related immediate-early gene in an insect and also demonstrates that honey bee orientation uses a molecular mechanism that is known to be involved in many other forms of learning. This transcriptional response occurred both in nave bees and in foragers induced to re-orient. Further experiments suggest that visual environmental novelty, rather than exercise or memorization of specific visual cues, acts as the stimulus for Egr upregulation. Our results implicate the mushroom bodies in spatial learning and emphasize the deep conservation of Egr-related pathways in experience-dependent plasticity.
Adults can integrate multiple sensory estimates to reduce their uncertainty in perceptual and motor tasks. In recent studies, children did not show this ability until after 8 years. Here we investigated development of the ability to integrate vision with proprioception to localize the hand. We tested 109 4- to 12-year-olds and adults on a simple pointing task. Participants used an unseen hand beneath a table to point to targets presented on top of the table to vision alone, proprioception alone, or both together. Overall, 7- to 9-year-olds' and adults' points were significantly less variable given vision and proprioception together compared with either alone. However, this variance reduction was present at all ages in the subset of participants whose proprioceptive estimates were less than two times more variable than their visual. These results, together with analyses of cue weighting, indicate that all groups integrated vision and proprioception, but only 7- to 9-year-olds and adults consistently selected cue weights that were appropriate to their own single-cue reliabilities. Cue weights used at 4-6 and 10-12 years still allowed over half of participants at these ages to reduce their pointing variability. One explanation for poorer group-level cue weighting at 10-12 years is that this ages represents a period of relatively rapid physical growth. An existing Bayesian model of hand localization did not describe either adults' or children's data well, but the results suggest future improvements to the model.
Two experiments examined whether word recognition progressed from one word to the next during reading, as maintained by sequential attention shift models such as the E-Z Reader model. The boundary technique was used to control the visibility of to-be-identified short target words, so that they were either previewed in the parafovea or masked. The eyes skipped a masked target on more than a quarter of the trials, and the following fixation must have been mislocated, if word recognition and saccade targeting progressed from one word to the next. Readers responded to the skipping parafoveally masked target words with relatively long viewing duration for the following posttarget word or with corrective saccades that returned the eyes from the posttarget word to the target. Experiment 2 manipulated the time-line of posttarget onset after target skipping, so that the posttarget word was either visible immediately upon fixation or after a short delay. The delay influenced posttarget viewing even when attention should have been focused at the target location according to E-Z Reader 10 simulations. These findings favor theoretical conceptions according to which lexical processing can encompass more than one word at a time.
Melatonin in the mammalian eye is synthesized by the photoreceptors and its levels show a clear daily pattern with high levels at night and lower levels during the day. It is synthesized in the ciliary body and secreted into the aqueous humor with a pattern similar to what has been reported for the retina. It acts by interacting with a family of G-protein coupled receptors that are negatively coupled with adenylate cyclase. Melatonin receptor subtypes MT1 and MT2 have been identified in the retina. Both are found in the inner nuclear layer (horizontal and amacrine cells), in the inner plexiform layer, ganglion cells (RGC) and retinal pigmented epithelium. They are also present in the ciliary body. Several studies implicate melatonin in the rhythmic regulation of intraocular pressure. MT1 and MT2 melatonin receptors are expressed in many parts of the eye. Melatonin receptors are expressed in the iris and ciliary body. Recent studies showed that mice lacking MT1 receptors have elevated intraocular pressure during the night and show a significantly reduced number of RGCs. These new studies suggest that dysfunctional melatonin signaling may be considered a possible risk factor in the pathogenesis of glaucoma and that mice deficient in MT1 receptors may be an animal model of glaucoma.

In in vitro mouse hippocampal slices we investigated whether cyclocreatine is capable of entering brain cells independently of the creatine transporter and if it reproduces the neuroprotective effect of creatine. Our study shows that cyclocreatine does not increase the creatine content, but is taken up as such and then phosphorylated to phosphocyclocreatine. This uptake is largely blocked by inactivation of the creatine transporter, however some cyclocreatine is taken up and posphorylated even after such inactivation. Thus, cyclocreatine sets up a cyclocreatine/phosphocyclocreatine system in the brain independently of the creatine transporter. Cyclocreatine did not delay the disappearance of the evoked synaptic potentials during anoxia in hippocampal slices, unlike creatine which exerts a neuroprotective effect.
It is well known that ionizing radiations induce a marked downregulation of antigen-dependent and natural immunity for a prolonged period of time. This is due, at least in part, to radiation-induced apoptosis of different lymphocyte subpopulations, including natural killer (NK) cells. Aim of this study was to investigate the capability of Beta Interferon (-IFN) and Interleukin-2 (IL2), alone or in combination, to restore the functional activity of the natural immune system. Mononuclear cells (MNCs) obtained from intact or in vitro irradiated human peripheral blood were treated in vitro with -IFN immediately before or at the end of the 4-day treatment with IL2. Time-course analysis was performed on the NK activity, the total number and the apoptotic fraction of CD16+ and CD56+ cells, the 2 main NK effector cell subpopulations. The results indicate that radiation-induced impairment of natural cytotoxicity of MNC could be successfully antagonized by the -IFN+IL2 combination, mainly when exposure to -IFN preceded IL2 treatment. This radioprotective effect is paralleled by lower levels of radiation-induced apoptosis and increased expression of the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 protein. Since natural immunity can play a significant role in antitumor host's resistance, these results could provide the rational basis for a cytokine-based pharmacological strategy able to restore immune responsiveness and to afford possible therapeutic benefits in cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy.



Our understanding of prenatal morphogenesis of mammary glands has recently greatly advanced. This review focuses on morphogenesis proper, as well as cellular processes and tissue interactions involved in the progression of the embryonic mammary gland through sequential morphogenic stages in both the mouse and rabbit embryo. We provide a synthesis of both historical and more recent studies of embryonic mammary gland development, as well as arguments to revise old concepts about mechanisms of mammary line and rudiment formation. Finally, we highlight outstanding issues that remain to be addressed.
Complex disulfide bond patterns in synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kD B (SNAP25B) are thought to regulate neurotransmitter release in response to oxidative stress. However, the steric feasibility of each possible disulfide pattern in SNAP25B has not been assessed. To assess the steric feasibility of hypothesized closely spaced complex disulfide patterning in SNAP25B and also the feasibility of identifying complex disulfide bond patterns with MS, we have developed a novel probabilistic analysis to unambiguously resolve complex double disulfide bond patterns by using an ion trap mass spectrometer. We analyzed fragmentation patterns of singly linked peptides to determine likely fragmentation events in an ion trap mass spectrometer and observed double and single backbone cleavage along with heterolytic cleavage of the disulfide bond. We modeled these same events in the doubly disulfide linked SNAP25B peptide and used a cumulative hypergeometric distribution with top-down scoring to both identify and differentiate these bonding patterns. Because of the presence of unique MS/MS peaks, two of the bonding patterns were directly identified. The third was assigned on the basis of full chromatographic separation and confirmed by modeling triple breakage fragments. In total, this work demonstrates the feasibility--and also limitations--of identification of complex intradisulfide patterns by using ion trap-based collision-induced dissociation-based fragmentation methods.
Metabolites of the kynurenine pathway (KP), which arise from the degradation of tryptophan, have been studied in detail for over a century and garnered the interest of the neuroscience community in the late 1970s and early 1980s with work uncovering the neuromodulatory potential of this pathway. Much research in the following decades has found that perturbations in the levels of KP metabolites likely contribute to the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases. More recently, it has become apparent that targeting KP enzymes, in particular kynurenine 3-monooxygenase (KMO), may hold substantial therapeutic potential for these disorders. Here we provide an overview of the KP, the neuroactive properties of KP metabolites and their role in neurodegeneration. We also discuss KMO as a therapeutic target for these disorders, and our recent resolution of the crystallographic structure of KMO, which will permit the development of new and improved KMO inhibitors which may ultimately expedite clinical application of these compounds.
Coleoid cephalopods adaptively change their body patterns (color, contrast, locomotion, posture, and texture) for camouflage and signaling. Benthic octopuses and cuttlefish possess the capability, unique in the animal kingdom, to dramatically and quickly change their skin from smooth and flat to rugose and three-dimensional. The organs responsible for this physical change are the skin papillae, whose biomechanics have not been investigated. In this study, small dorsal papillae from cuttlefish (Sepia officinalis) were preserved in their retracted or extended state, and examined with a variety of histological techniques including brightfield, confocal, and scanning electron microscopy. Analyses revealed that papillae are composed of an extensive network of dermal erector muscles, some of which are arranged in concentric rings while others extend across each papilla's diameter. Like cephalopod arms, tentacles, and suckers, skin papillae appear to function as muscular hydrostats. The collective action of dermal erector muscles provides both movement and structural support in the absence of rigid supporting elements. Specifically, concentric circular dermal erector muscles near the papilla's base contract and push the overlying tissue upward and away from the mantle surface, while horizontally arranged dermal erector muscles pull the papilla's perimeter toward its center and determine its shape. Each papilla has a white tip, which is produced by structural light reflectors (leucophores and iridophores) that lie between the papilla's muscular core and the skin layer that contains the pigmented chromatophores. In extended papillae, the connective tissue layer appeared thinner above the papilla's apex than in surrounding areas. This result suggests that papilla extension might create tension in the overlying connective tissue and chromatophore layers, storing energy for elastic retraction. Numerous, thin subepidermal muscles form a meshwork between the chromatophore layer and the epidermis and putatively provide active papillary retraction.




Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder with a multifaceted pathogenesis. There are at present three Food and Drug Administration-approved drugs based on the &quot;one drug, one target&quot; paradigm (donepezil, galantamine and rivastigmine) that improve symptoms by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase. However, apart from the beneficial palliative properties, cholinergic drugs have shown little efficacy to prevent the progression of the disease evidencing the unsuitability of this strategy for the complex nature of AD. By contrast, the multifactorial nature of this neurodegenerative disorder supports the most current innovative therapeutic approach based on the &quot;one drug, multiple targets&quot; paradigm, which suggests the use of compounds with multiple activities at different target sites. Accordingly, the also called multitarget-directed ligand (MTDL) approach has been the subject of increasing attention by many research groups, which have developed a variety of hybrid compounds acting on very diverse targets. The therapeutic potential of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) in AD has been suggested due to their demonstrated neuroprotective properties besides their enhancing effect on monoaminergic transmission. Especially, those containing a propargylamine moiety are of particular interest due to their reported beneficial actions. Therefore, targeting MAO enzymes should be considered in therapeutic interventions. This review makes a special emphasis on MTDLs that commonly target MAO enzymes. There is at present an urgent need for real disease-modifying therapies for AD and the MTDL approach makes a breakthrough for the development of new drugs capable of addressing the biological complexity of this disorder.
The pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1), whose levels are elevated in the brain in Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases, has been shown to have both detrimental and beneficial effects on disease progression. In this article, we demonstrate that incubation of mouse primary cortical neurons (mPCNs) with IL-1 increases the expression of the P2Y2 nucleotide receptor (P2Y2R) and that activation of the up-regulated receptor with UTP, a relatively selective agonist of the P2Y2R, increases neurite outgrowth. Consistent with the accepted role of cofilin in the regulation of neurite extension, results indicate that incubation of IL-1-treated mPCNs with UTP increases the phosphorylation of cofilin, a response absent in PCNs isolated from P2Y2R(-/-) mice. Other findings indicate that function-blocking anti-v 3/5 integrin antibodies prevent UTP-induced cofilin activation in IL-1-treated mPCNs, suggesting that established P2Y2R/v 3/5 interactions that promote G12 -dependent Rho activation lead to cofilin phosphorylation involved in neurite extension. Cofilin phosphorylation induced by UTP in IL-1-treated mPCNs is also decreased by inhibitors of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), suggesting a role for P2Y2R-mediated and Gq-dependent calcium mobilization in neurite outgrowth. Taken together, these studies indicate that up-regulation of P2Y2Rs in mPCNs under pro-inflammatory conditions can promote cofilin-dependent neurite outgrowth, a neuroprotective response that may be a novel pharmacological target in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
We examined the impact of intracellular dialysis on fluorescence detection of neuronal intracellular Zn(2+) accumulation. Comparison between two dialysis conditions (standard; 20min, brief; 2min) by standard whole-cell clamp revealed a high vulnerability of intracellular Zn(2+) buffers to intracellular dialysis. Thus, low concentrations of zinc-pyrithione generated robust responses in neurons with standard dialysis, but signals were smaller in neurons with short dialysis. Release from oxidation-sensitive Zn(2+) pools was reduced by standard dialysis, when compared with responses in neurons with brief dialysis. The dialysis effects were partly reversed by inclusion of recombinant metallothionein-3 in the dialysis solution. These findings suggested that extensive dialysis could be exploited for selective detection of transmembrane Zn(2+) influx. Different dialysis conditions were then used to probe responses to synaptic stimulation. Under standard dialysis conditions, synaptic stimuli generated significant FluoZin-3 signals in wild-type (WT) preparations, but responses were almost absent in preparations lacking vesicular Zn(2+) (ZnT3-KO). In contrast, under brief dialysis conditions, intracellular Zn(2+) transients were very similar in WT and ZnT3-KO preparations. This suggests that both intracellular release and transmembrane flux can contribute to intracellular Zn(2+) accumulation after synaptic stimulation. These results demonstrate significant confounds and potential use of intracellular dialysis to investigate intracellular Zn(2+) accumulation mechanisms.
Spreading depolarization (SD) is a feed-forward wave that propagates slowly throughout brain tissue and recovery from SD involves substantial metabolic demand. Presynaptic Zn(2+) release and intracellular accumulation occurs with SD, and elevated intracellular Zn(2+) ([Zn(2+) ]i ) can impair cellular metabolism through multiple pathways. We tested here whether increased [Zn(2+) ]i could exacerbate the metabolic challenge of SD, induced by KCl, and delay recovery in acute murine hippocampal slices. [Zn(2+) ]i loading prior to SD, by transient ZnCl2 application with the Zn(2+) ionophore pyrithione (Zn/Pyr), delayed recovery of field excitatory post-synaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in a concentration-dependent manner, prolonged DC shifts, and significantly increased extracellular adenosine accumulation. These effects could be due to metabolic inhibition, occurring downstream of pyruvate utilization. Prolonged [Zn(2+) ]i accumulation prior to SD was required for effects on fEPSP recovery and consistent with this, endogenous synaptic Zn(2+) release during SD propagation did not delay recovery from SD. The effects of exogenous [Zn(2+) ]i loading were also lost in slices preconditioned with repetitive SDs, implying a rapid adaptation. Together, these results suggest that [Zn(2+) ]i loading prior to SD can provide significant additional challenge to brain tissue, and could contribute to deleterious effects of [Zn(2+) ]i accumulation in a range of brain injury models.
Prothymosin alpha (ProT), a nuclear protein, is implicated in the inhibition of ischemia-induced necrosis as well as apoptosis in the brain and retina. Although ProT has multiple biological functions through distinct regions in its sequence, it has remained which region is involved in this neuroprotection. This study reported that the active core peptide sequence P30 (amino acids 49-78) of ProT exerts its full survival effect in cultured cortical neurons against ischemic stress. Our in vivo study revealed that intravitreous administration of P30 at 24h after retinal ischemia significantly blocks the ischemia-induced functional damages of retina at day7. In addition, P30 completely rescued the retinal ischemia-induced ganglion cell damages at day7 after the ischemic stress, along with partial blockade of the loss of bipolar, amacrine, and photoreceptor cells. On the other hand, intracerebroventricular (3nmol) or systemic (1mg/kg; i.v.) injection of P30 at 1h after cerebral ischemia (1h tMCAO) significantly blocked the ischemia-induced brain damages and disruption of blood vessels. Systemic P30 delivery (1mg/kg; i.v.) also significantly ameliorated the ischemic brain caused by photochemically induced thrombosis. Taken together, this study confers a precise demonstration about the novel protective activity of ProT-derived small peptide P30 against the ischemic damages in vitro and in vivo.
Humans and other organisms have adapted to a 24-h solar cycle in response to life on Earth. The rotation of the planet on its axis and its revolution around the sun cause predictable daily and seasonal patterns in day length. To successfully anticipate and adapt to these patterns in the environment, a variety of biological processes oscillate with a daily rhythm of approximately 24h in length. These rhythms arise from hierarchally-coupled cellular clocks generated by positive and negative transcription factors of core circadian clock gene expression. From these endogenous cellular clocks, overt rhythms in activity and patterns in hormone secretion and other homeostatic processes emerge. These circadian rhythms in physiology and behaviour can be organised by a variety of cues, although they are most potently entrained by light. In recent history, there has been a major change from naturally-occurring light cycles set by the sun, to artificial and sometimes erratic light cycles determined by the use of electric lighting. Virtually every individual living in an industrialised country experiences light at night (LAN) but, despite its prevalence, the biological effects of such unnatural lighting have not been fully considered. Using female Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus), we investigated the effects of chronic nightly exposure to dim light on daily rhythms in locomotor activity, serum cortisol concentrations and brain expression of circadian clock proteins (i.e. PER1, PER2, BMAL1). Although locomotor activity remained entrained to the light cycle, the diurnal fluctuation of cortisol concentrations was blunted and the expression patterns of clock proteins in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and hippocampus were altered. These results demonstrate that chronic exposure to dim LAN can dramatically affect fundamental cellular function and emergent physiology.
Natural variations in maternal care have profound influences on offspring behaviour, brain activity and hormone release. Measuring the amount of time that a rat dam spends licking/grooming (LG) her pups during their first week of life allows for characterisation of distinctive Low, Mid and High LG phenotypes. We have previously found that female offspring of High LG mothers are less sexually receptive, less motivated to mate and show a later onset of puberty relative to Low LG offspring. Given that High LG females are exposed to greater levels of testosterone in utero, we hypothesise that differences in sexual behaviour between High and Low LG female offspring are driven in part by differences in prenatal hormone exposure. To test this hypothesis, pregnant dams pre-characterised as Low, Mid, or High LG mothers were implanted with testosterone or placebo on gestational day (GD) 16. Offspring body weight and anogenital index were assessed at GD 21 and in adulthood. Age of vaginal opening and oestrous cyclicity were assessed to determine the timing of pubertal onset. Testosterone exposure removed the difference between LG phenotypes in pubertal onset by delaying vaginal opening and the appearance of first pro-oestrus. In adulthood, sexual behaviour in a paced mating chamber after sham surgery or ovariectomy with steroid-replacement was examined. Our findings show that Low, Mid and High LG female offspring are differentially affected by perinatal testosterone exposure, and that this exposure removes the precocial pubertal onset of Low LG offspring and increases the sexual proceptivity and receptivity of High LG offspring. These results suggest that maternal programming of the female reproductive system may be mediated, in part, through differences in perinatal testosterone exposure, instead of solely through maternal behaviour.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) is an important brain neurotransmitter that is implicated in mental and neurodegenerative diseases and is modulated by ovarian hormones. Nevertheless, the effect of oestrogens on 5-HT neurotransmission in the primate caudate nucleus, putamen and nucleus accumbens, which are major components of the basal ganglia, and the anterior cerebral cortex, mainly the frontal and cingulate gyrus, is not well documented. The present study evaluated 5-HT reuptake transporter (SERT) and 5-HT metabolism in these brain regions in response to 1-month treatment with 17-oestradiol in short-term (1 month) ovariectomised (OVX) monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). SERT-specific binding was measured by autoradiography using the radioligand [H]citalopram. Biogenic amine concentrations were quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography. 17-Oestradiol increased SERT in the superior frontal cortex and in the anterior cingulate cortex, in the nucleus accumbens, and in subregions of the caudate nucleus of OVX monkeys. 17-Oestradiol left [H]citalopram-specific binding unchanged in the putamen, as well as the dorsal and medial raphe nucleus. 17-Oestradiol treatment decreased striatal concentrations of the precursor of 5-HT, 5-hydroxytryptophan, and increased 5-HT, dopamine and 3-methoxytyramine concentrations in the nucleus accumbens, caudate nucleus and putamen, whereas the concentrations of the metabolites 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid remained unchanged. No effect of 17-oestradiol treatment was observed for biogenic amine concentrations in the cortical regions. A significant positive correlation was observed between [H]citalopram-specific binding and 5-HT concentrations in the caudate nucleus, putamen and nucleus accumbens, suggesting their link. These results have translational value for women with low oestrogen, such as those in surgical menopause or perimenopause.
Interleukin (IL)-1 and IL-6 are immune modulating cytokines that also affect metabolic function because both IL-1 receptor I deficient (IL-1RI/) and IL-6 deficient (IL-6/) mice develop late-onset obesity and leptin resistance. Both IL-1 and IL-6 appear to target the central nervous system (CNS) to increase energy expenditure. The hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC) is a major relay between the periphery and CNS in body fat regulation (e.g. by being a target of leptin). The present study aimed to investigate the possible mechanisms responsible for the effects exerted by endogenous IL-1 and IL-6 on body fat at the level of the ARC, as well as possible interactions between IL-1 and IL-6. Therefore, we measured the gene expression of neuropeptides of the ARC involved in energy balance in IL-1RI/ and IL-6/ mice. We also investigated the interactions between expression of IL-1 and IL-6 in these mice, and mapped IL-6 receptor  (IL-6R) in the ARC. The expression of the obesity promoting peptide neuropeptide Y (NPY), found in the ARC, was increased in IL-1RI/ mice. The expression of NPY and agouti-related peptide (AgRP), known to be co-expressed with NPY in ARC neurones, was increased in cold exposed IL-6/ mice. IL-6R immunoreactivity was densely localised in the ARC, especially in the medial part, and was partly found in NPY positive cell bodies and also -melanocyte-stimulating hormone positive cell bodies. The expression of hypothalamic IL-6 was decreased in IL-1RI/ mice, whereas IL-1 expression was increased in IL-6/ mice. The results of the present study indicate that depletion of the activity of the fat suppressing cytokines IL-1 and IL-6 in knockout mice can increase the expression of the obesity promoting neuropeptide NPY in the ARC. Depletion of IL-1 activity suppresses IL-6 expression, and IL-6R-like immunoreactivity is present in neurones in the medial ARC, including neurones containing NPY. Therefore, IL-6, IL-1 and NPY/AgRP could interact at the level of the hypothalamic ARC in the regulation of body fat.
Previous studies have shown that oestradiol (E) decreases the orexigenic effect of melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH). In the present study, we examined whether this action of E is mediated by its ability to decrease the expression of MCH or its receptor (MCHR1). Using immunocytochemistry and western blotting, we examined whether E decreases MCH-immunoreactive neurones or MCHR1 protein content in the hypothalamus of female rats. We found that both MCH and MCHR1 protein expression was decreased by acute E treatment in ovariectomised rats, and by the peri-ovulatory increase in circulating E in pro-oestrous rats, relative to rats at other cycle stages. To determine whether these changes in MCH/MCHR1 protein expression may be mediated by E's ability to directly regulate the transcription of MCH and MCHR1 genes, the effect of E treatment on MCH and MCHR1 mRNA expression in a neuronal hypothalamic cell line was examined using real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. We also determined whether MCH and oestrogen receptor (ER) are co-expressed in the hypothalamus of female rats. E treatment did not decrease MCH or MCHR1 mRNA expression in vitro, and no hypothalamic neurones were identified that co-expressed MCH and ER. We conclude that E-dependent decreases in hypothalamic MCH/MCHR1 protein expression mediate the ability of E to decrease MCH-induced feeding. The current findings suggest, however, that E exerts these actions indirectly, most likely though interactions with other neuronal systems that provide afferent input to MCH and MCHR1 neurones.
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H MRS) has been applied to numerous clinical studies, especially for neurological disorders. This technique can non-invasively evaluate brain metabolites and neurochemicals in selected brain regions and is particularly useful for assessing neuroinflammatory disorders. Neurometabolites assessed with MRS include the neuronal markers N-acetylaspartate (NAA) and glutamate (Glu), as well as the glial marker myo-inositol (MI). Therefore, the concentrations of these metabolites typically correspond to disease severity and often correlate well with clinical variables in the various brain disorders. Neuroinflammation with activated astrocytes and microglia in brain disorders are often associated with elevated MI, and to a lesser extent elevated total creatine (tCr) and choline containing compounds (Cho), which are found in higher concentrations in glia than neurons, while neuronal injury is indicated by lower than normal levels of NAA and Glu. This review summarizes the neurometabolite abnormalities found in MRS studies performed in patients with neuroinflammatory disorders or neuropathic pain, which also may be associated with neuroinflammation. These brain disorders include multiple sclerosis, neuroviral infections (including Human Immunodeficiency virus and Hepatitis C), degenerative brain disorders (including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease), stimulant abuse (including methamphetamine and cocaine) as well as several chronic pain syndromes.
While it has been well-documented that drugs of abuse such as cocaine can enhance progression of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated neuropathological disorders, the underlying mechanisms mediating these effects remain poorly understood. The present study was undertaken to examine the effects of cocaine on microglial viability. Herein we demonstrate that exposure of microglial cell line-BV2 or rat primary microglia to exogenous cocaine resulted in decreased cell viability as determined by MTS and TUNEL assays. Microglial toxicity of cocaine was accompanied by an increase in the expression of cleaved caspase-3 as demonstrated by western blot assays. Furthermore, increased microglial toxicity was also associated with a concomitant increase in the production of intracellular reactive oxygen species, an effect that was ameliorated in cells pretreated with NADPH oxidase inhibitor apocynin, thus emphasizing the role of oxidative stress in this process. A novel finding of this study was the involvement of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) signaling mediators such as PERK, Elf2, and CHOP, which were up regulated in cells exposed to cocaine. Reciprocally, blocking CHOP expression using siRNA ameliorated cocaine-mediated cell death. In conclusion these findings underscore the importance of ER stress in modulating cocaine induced microglial toxicity. Understanding the link between ER stress, oxidative stress and apoptosis could lead to the development of therapeutic strategies targeting cocaine-mediated microglial death/dysfunction.
MR-based brain imaging technologies provide a suite of functional and structural metrics that can be used to test hypotheses about the CNS mechanisms underlying pain perception and chronification, from a cellular level to a systems level. Two types of functional MRI discussed in this review provide insight into pain mechanisms: stimulus-evoked fMRI and task-free (&quot;resting state&quot;) fMRI. The former can assess how the brain responds to noxious or non-noxious stimuli normally or in a chronic pain state as a window into understanding pain, hyperalgesia and allodynia. The latter can assess functional connectivity reflecting synchronous ultra-slow frequency oscillation between brain areas. This provides insight into how brain areas work together as networks to produce pain and how these networks may be modified due to chronic pain. Perfusion MR (e.g., arterial spin labeling) can also provide task-free information pertaining to ongoing brain activity that may reflect spontaneous (ongoing) chronic pain. Structural MR techniques can be used to delineate gray and white matter abnormalities and markers of neuroinflammation associated with chronic pains. Functional and structural MRI findings point to brain and peripheral nerve abnormalities in patients with chronic pain, some of which are pre-existing and others that develop with prolonged pain (and related neuroinflammation) over time. Recent studies indicate that some structural brain abnormalities associated with chronic pain are reversible following effective pain treatment. These data together with findings from studies of individual differences suggest that some chronic pains arise from a combination of pre-existing vulnerabilities and sustained abnormal input.
Chronic pain is now recognized as a disease state that involves changes in brain function. This concept is reinforced by data that document structural and morphological remapping of brain circuitry under conditions of chronic pain. Evidence for aberrant neurophysiology in the brain further confirms neuroplasticity at cellular and molecular levels. Proper detection of pain-induced changes using emerging non-invasive and cost-effective technologies, such as analytical electroencephalography methods, could yield objective diagnostic measures and may guide therapeutic interventions targeting the brain for effective management of chronic pain.
The impact of neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) on interferon  (IFN) efficacy in MS patients is still an object of controversy. To evaluate the clinical response to IFN during NAb-positive (NAb+) and NAb-negative (NAb-) statuses on a large population of relapsing remitting (RR) MS patients were followed up to 5years. Sera from 567 RR MS patients treated with IFN for 2-5years were collected every 6-12months and evaluated for NAb presence by a cytopathic effect assay. The relapse rate and expanded disability status scale (EDSS) score were assessed at baseline and every 6months for each patient. A NAb+ status was defined after two consecutive positive titers of NAbs&gt;/=20 neutralizing units (NU)/mL. Multivariate models were used to analyze the relapse rate, the time to first relapse, the time to confirmed EDSS score 4 during NAb+ and NAb- statuses. A propensity score (PS) matching analysis was performed to assess the robustness of the multivariate models. Fourteen percent of patients became NAb+ during the follow-up. A significant increase of the relapse rate (IRR=1.38; p=0.0247) and decrease of the time to 1st relapse (IRR=1.51; p=0.0111) were found during NAb+ periods. The PS matching analysis, in a selected cohort of patients, demonstrated a negative trend of NAbs on the time to reach the milestone EDSS 4 (IRR=2.94; p=0.0879). This long-term post-marketing observational study further confirms that the occurrence of NAbs significantly affects the risk of disease worsening in IFN- treated RRMS.
The diagnostic algorithm of computerized tomography (CT) and lumbar puncture (LP) for suspected subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) has lately been challenged by the advancement of radiological techniques, such as higher resolution offered by newer generation CT-scanners and increased availability of CT-angiography. A purely radiological workup of suspected SAH offers great advantages for both patients and the health care system, but the risks of abandoning LP in this setting are not well investigated. We have characterized the differential diagnostic yield of LP in the investigation of suspected SAH by a retrospective study. From the hospital laboratory database, we analyzed the medical records of all patients who had undergone CSF-analysis in search of subarachnoid bleeding during 2009-2011. A total of 453 patients were included. In 14 patients (3%) the LP resulted in an alternative diagnosis, the most common being aseptic meningitis. Two patients (0.5%) received treatment for herpes meningitis. Five patients (1%) with subarachnoid haemorrhages were identified. Among these, the four patients presenting with thunderclap headache had non-aneurysmal bleedings and did not require surgical intervention. We conclude that the differential diagnostic yield of LP in investigation of suspected SAH is low, which indicates that alternative diagnoses is not a reason to keep LP in the workup when a purely radiological strategy has been validated. However, algorithms should be developed to increase the recognition of aseptic meningitis. One hundred and fifty-three patients (34%) were admitted to undergo LP, which estimates the number of hospital beds that might be made available by a radiological diagnostic algorithm.

Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease involving progressive motor, cognitive and behavioural decline, leading to death approximately 20 years after motor onset. The disease is characterised pathologically by an early and progressive striatal neuronal cell loss and atrophy, which has provided the rationale for first clinical trials of neural repair using fetal striatal cell transplantation. Between 2000 and 2003, the 'NEST-UK' consortium carried out bilateral striatal transplants of human fetal striatal tissue in five HD patients. This paper describes the long-term follow up over a 3-10-year postoperative period of the patients, grafted and non-grafted, recruited to this cohort using the 'Core assessment program for intracerebral transplantations-HD' assessment protocol. No significant differences were found over time between the patients, grafted and non-grafted, on any subscore of the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale, nor on the Mini Mental State Examination. There was a trend towards a slowing of progression on some timed motor tasks in four of the five patients with transplants, but overall, the trial showed no significant benefit of striatal allografts in comparison with a reference cohort of patients without grafts. Importantly, no significant adverse or placebo effects were seen. Notably, the raclopride positron emission tomography (PET) signal in individuals with transplants, indicated that there was no obvious surviving striatal graft tissue. This study concludes that fetal striatal allografting in HD is safe. While no sustained functional benefit was seen, we conclude that this may relate to the small amount of tissue that was grafted in this safety study compared with other reports of more successful transplants in patients with HD.
A growing number of progressive heredodegenerative conditions mimic the presentation of Huntington's disease (HD). Differentiating among these HD-like syndromes is necessary when a patient with a combination of movement disorders, cognitive decline, behavioural abnormalities and progressive disease course proves negative to the genetic testing for HD causative mutations, that is, IT15 gene trinucleotide-repeat expansion. The differential diagnosis of HD-like syndromes is complex and may lead to unnecessary and costly investigations. We propose here a guide to this differential diagnosis focusing on a limited number of clinical features ('red flags') that can be identified through accurate clinical examination, collection of historical data and a few routine ancillary investigations. These features include the ethnic background of the patient, the involvement of the facio-bucco-lingual and cervical district by the movement disorder, the co-occurrence of cerebellar features and seizures, the presence of peculiar gait patterns and eye movement abnormalities, and an atypical progression of illness. Additional help may derive from the cognitive-behavioural presentation of the patient, as well as by a restricted number of ancillary investigations, mainly MRI and routine blood tests. These red flags should be constantly updated as the phenotypic characterisation and identification of more reliable diagnostic markers for HD-like syndromes progress over the following years.
Most of our knowledge regarding glioma cell biology comes from cell culture experiments. For many years the standards for glioma cell culture were the use of cell lines cultured in the presence of serum and 20 % O2. However, in vivo, normoxia in many brain areas is in close to 3 % O2. Hence, in cell culture, the experimental value referred as the norm is hyperoxic compared to any brain physiological value. Likewise, cells in vivo are not usually exposed to serum, and low-passaged glioma neurosphere cultures maintained in serum-free medium is emerging as a new standard. A consequence of changing the experimental normoxic standard from 20 % O2 to the more brain physiological value of 3 % O2, is that a 3 % O2 normoxic reference point enabled a more rigorous characterization of the level of regulation of genes by hypoxia. Among the glioma hypoxia-regulated genes characterized using this approach we found VE-cadherin that is required for blood vessel formation, and filamin B a gene involved in endothelial cell motility. Both VE-cadherin and filamin B were found expressed in pseudopalisades, a glioblastoma pathognomonic structure made of hypoxic migrating cancer cells. These results provide additional clues on the role played by hypoxia in the acquisition of endothelial traits by glioma cells and on the functional links existing between pseudopalisades, hypoxia, and tumor progression.
Nemaline myopathy is the most common congenital myopathy and is caused by mutations in various genes such as ACTA1 (encoding skeletal -actin). It is associated with limb and respiratory muscle weakness. Despite increasing clinical and scientific interest, the molecular and cellular events leading to such weakness remain unknown, which prevents the development of specific therapeutic interventions. To unravel the potential mechanisms involved, we dissected lower limb and diaphragm muscles from a knock-in mouse model of severe nemaline myopathy expressing the ACTA1 His40Tyr actin mutation found in human patients. We then studied a broad range of structural and functional characteristics assessing single-myofiber contraction, protein expression, and electron microscopy. One of the major findings in the diaphragm was the presence of numerous noncontractile areas (including disrupted sarcomeric structures and nemaline bodies). This greatly reduced the number of functional sarcomeres, decreased the force generation capacity at the muscle fiber level, and likely would contribute to respiratory weakness. In limb muscle, by contrast, there were fewer noncontractile areas and they did not seem to have a major role in the pathogenesis of weakness. These divergent muscle-specific results provide new important insights into the pathophysiology of severe nemaline myopathy and crucial information for future development of therapeutic strategies.
The generation of activity in the central nervous system requires precise tuning of cellular properties and synaptic transmission. Neural networks in the spinal cord produce coordinated locomotor movements. Synapses in these networks need to be equipped with multiple mechanisms that regulate their operation over varying regimes to produce locomotor activity at different frequencies. Using the in vitro lamprey spinal cord, we explored whether Ca(2+) influx via different routes in postsynaptic soma and dendrites and in presynaptic terminals can activate apamin-sensitive Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (SK) channels and thereby shape synaptic transmission. We show that postsynaptic SK channels are tightly coupled to Ca(2+) influx via NMDA receptors. Activation of these channels by synaptically induced NMDA-dependent Ca(2+) transients restrains the time course of the synaptic current and the amplitude of the synaptic potential. In addition, presynaptic SK channels are activated by Ca(2+) influx via voltage-gated channels and control the waveform of the action potential and the resulting Ca(2+) dynamics in the axon terminals. The coupling of SK channels to different Ca(2+) sources, pre- and postsynaptically, acts as a negative feedback mechanism to shape synaptic transmission. Thus SK channels can play a pivotal role in setting the dynamic range of synapses and enabling short-term plasticity in the spinal locomotor network.
Functional imaging of intrinsic signals allows minimally invasive spatiotemporal mapping of stimulus representations in the cortex, but representations are often corrupted by stimulus-independent spatial artifacts, especially those originating from the blood vessels. In this paper, we present novel algorithms for unsupervised identification of cerebral vascularization, allowing blind separation of stimulus representations from noise. These algorithms commonly take advantage of the temporal fluctuations in global reflectance to extract anatomic information. More specifically, the phase of low-frequency oscillations relative to global fluctuations reveals local vascular identity. Arterioles can be reconstructed using their characteristically high power in those frequencies corresponding to respiration, heartbeat, and vasomotion signals. By treating the vasculature as a dynamic flow network, we finally demonstrate that direction of blood perfusion can be quantitatively visualized. Application of these methods for removal of stimulus-independent changes in reflectance permits isolation of stimulus-evoked representations even if the representation spatially overlaps with blood vessels. The algorithms can be expanded further to extract temporal information on blood flow, monitor revascularization following a focal stroke, and distinguish arterioles from venules and parenchyma.
Tactile shape information is elaborated in a cortical hierarchy spanning primary (SI) and secondary somatosensory cortex (SII). Indeed, SI neurons in areas 3b and 1 encode simple contour features such as small oriented bars and edges, whereas higher order SII neurons represent large curved contour features such as angles and arcs. However, neural coding of these contour features has not been systematically characterized in area 2, the most caudal SI subdivision in the postcentral gyrus. In the present study, we analyzed area 2 neural responses to embossed oriented bars and curved contour fragments to establish whether curvature representations are generated in the postcentral gyrus. We found that many area 2 neurons (26 of 112) exhibit clear curvature tuning, preferring contours pointing in a particular direction. Fewer area 2 neurons (15 of 112) show preferences for oriented bars. Because area 2 response patterns closely resembled SII patterns, we also compared area 2 and SII response time courses to characterize the temporal dynamics of curvature synthesis in the somatosensory system. We found that curvature representations develop and peak concurrently in area 2 and SII. These results reveal that transitions from orientation tuning to curvature selectivity in the somatosensory cortical hierarchy occur within SI rather than between SI and SII.
Behavioral deficits in visuomotor planning and control exhibited by children with developmental coordination disorder (DCD) have been extensively reported. Although these functional impairments are thought to result from &quot;atypical brain development,&quot; very few studies to date have identified potential neurological mechanisms. To address this knowledge gap, electroencephalography (EEG) was recorded from 6- to 12-yr-old children with and without DCD (n = 14 and 20, respectively) during the performance of a visuomotor drawing task. With respect to motor performance, typically developing (TD) children exhibited age-related improvements in key aspects of motor planning and control. Although some children with DCD performed outside this TD landscape (i.e., age-related changes within the TD group), the group developmental trajectory of the children with DCD was similar to that of the TD children. Despite overall similarities in performance, engagement of cortical resources in the children with DCD was markedly different from that in their TD counterparts. While the patterns of activation are stable in TD children across the age range, the young children with DCD exhibited less engagement of motor cortical brain areas and the older children with DCD exhibited greater engagement of motor cortical brain areas than their TD peers. These results suggest that older children with DCD may employ a compensatory strategy in which increased engagement of relevant motor resources allows these children to perform comparably to their TD peers. Moreover, the magnitude of activation was related to several kinematic measures, particularly in children with DCD, suggesting that greater engagement in motor resources may underlie better behavioral performance.
Altering neuronal membrane properties, including input resistance, is a key modulatory mechanism for changing neural activity patterns. The effect of membrane currents generated by either synaptic or voltage-dependent channels directly depends on neuron input resistance. We found that local application of serotonin to different regions of identified motoneurons (MNs) of the postural/walking network of isolated crayfish produced different changes in input resistance. Puff-applied 5-HT in the periphery of the initial segment produced exclusively inhibitory responses. In contrast, when 5-HT was puff-applied on the central arbor of the same depressor (Dep) MN, exclusively depolarizing responses were obtained. Both inhibitory and excitatory responses were direct because they persisted in low-calcium saline. We found numerous close appositions between 5-HT-immunoreactive processes and the initial segment of dextran-rhodamine-filled Dep MNs. In contrast, almost no close apposition sites were found in Dep MN arbor. It seems that the 5-HT controls the level of excitability of postural network MNs by two mechanisms acting at two different sites: inhibitory responses (consistent with an action involving opening of K(+) channels) occur in the initial segment region and may involve classic synaptic transmission, whereas depolarizing responses (consistent with an action involving closing of K(+) channels) occur on MN branches via apparent paracrine effects.
In an influential model of frontal eye field (FEF) and superior colliculus (SC) activity, saccade initiation occurs when the discharge rate of either single neurons or a population of neurons encoding a saccade motor plan reaches a threshold level of activity. Conflicting evidence exists for whether this threshold is fixed or can change under different conditions. We tested the fixed-threshold hypothesis at the single-neuron and population levels to help resolve the inconsistency between previous studies. Two rhesus monkeys performed a randomly interleaved pro- and antisaccade task in which they had to look either toward (pro) or 180 away (anti) from a peripheral visual stimulus. We isolated visuomotor (VM) and motor (M) neurons in the FEF and SC and tested three specific predictions of a fixed-threshold hypothesis. We found little support for fixed thresholds. First, correlations were never totally absent between presaccadic discharge rate and saccadic reaction time when examining a larger (plausible) temporal period. Second, presaccadic discharge rates varied markedly between saccade tasks. Third, visual responses exceeded presaccadic motor discharges for FEF and SC VM neurons. We calculated that only a remarkably strong bias for M neurons in downstream projections could render the fixed-threshold hypothesis plausible at the population level. Also, comparisons of gap vs. overlap conditions indicate that increased inhibitory tone may be associated with stability of thresholds. We propose that fixed thresholds are the exception rather than the rule in FEF and SC, and that stabilization of an otherwise variable threshold depends on task-related, inhibitory modulation.
Phase-resetting properties of neurons determine their functionality as integrators (type 1) vs. resonators (type 2), as well as their synchronization tendencies. We introduce a novel, bias-correction method to estimate the infinitesimal phase-resetting curve (iPRC) and confirm type 1 excitability in hippocampal pyramidal CA1 neurons in vitro by two independent methods. First, PRCs evoked using depolarizing pulses consisted only of advances, consistent with type 1. Second, the frequency/current (f/I) plots showed no minimum frequency, again consistent with type 1. Type 1 excitability was also confirmed by the absence of a resonant peak in the interspike interval histograms derived from the f/I data. The PRC bias correction assumed that the distribution of noisy phase resetting is truncated, because an input cannot advance a spike to a point in time before the input (the causal limit) and successfully removed the statistical bias for delays in the null PRC in response to zero-magnitude input by computing the phase resetting as the mean of the untruncated distribution. The PRC for depolarization peaked at late phases and decreased to zero by the end of the cycle, whereas delays observed in response to hyperpolarization increased monotonically. The bias correction did not affect this difference in shape, which was due instead to the causal limit obscuring the iPRC for depolarization but not hyperpolarization. Our results suggest that weak periodic hyperpolarizing drive can theoretically entrain CA1 pyramidal neurons at any phase but that strong excitation will preferentially phase-lock them with zero time lag.
Epilepsy is the second most common neurological disorder after migraines and headaches, with an economic burden of 15.5 billion dollars annually. Most patients with epilepsy can be controlled with antiepileptic drugs. Those who remain uncontrolled are considered refractory and are often admitted to an epilepsy monitoring unit for definitive diagnosis. Nonepileptic seizures are a common differential diagnosis in persons with refractory seizures. It is helpful for providers to witness the patients' seizures to make a definitive diagnosis for seizure classification. Frequently, unstandardized practice-provocation techniques are employed in an epilepsy monitoring unit setting. The purpose of these techniques is to elicit a seizure. A debate is occurring on whether the use of provocation techniques is ethical and necessary. This article will review the literature related to the current evidence and moral opinions swirling around this topic. It is important for the neuroscience nurse to be familiar with both sides of the seizure provocation debate as he or she will be on the front lines of shaping future policy and practice to come.
The protein kinase CK2 (casein kinase 2) is a ubiquitous serine/threonine protein kinase that suppresses apoptosis. CK2 is composed of catalytic and regulatory subunits, and CK2-dependent phosphorylation is a global mechanism in the inhibition of caspase signaling pathways. The serum response factor (SRF) is an important regulator of cell growth and differentiation. Although CK2 has been shown to phosphorylate SRF in vitro, the biological relevance of this interaction remains largely unclear. We observed increased SRF phosphorylation and increased Mcl-1 gene expression in hippocampal CA1 neurons following transfection with a plasmid expressing the wild-type CK2 (CK2WT) protein, whereas transfection with a plasmid expressing a catalytically inactive mutant of CK2 (CK2156A) reduced Mcl-1 gene expression. Cotransfection with a plasmid expressing the inactive SRF99A mutant inhibited the CK2WT-induced upregulation of Mcl-1 gene expression. The expression of either the CK2156A or the SRF99A mutant also inhibited the glutamate-induced upregulation of Mcl-1 protein expression in PC12 cells. Our results suggest that CK2-mediated signaling represents a cellular mechanism that may aid in the development of alternative therapeutic strategies to attenuate apoptosis in hippocampal neurons.
Lack of regeneration in the adult central nervous system (CNS) is a major hurdle that limits recovery from neurological ailments. Although accumulating research suggests the possibility of axon regeneration by targeting intrinsic signaling mechanisms, it remains a matter of controversy whether functional recovery can be achieved by manipulating aspects of molecular signaling. Recent studies have shown that granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) may be an effective means of targeting repair following CNS injury; how this molecule is able to produce this effect is not known. Indeed, GM-CSF has been shown to promote neuronal survival, potentially through activation of as yet unknown cytokine-dependent signals and potentially through regulation of antiapoptotic mechanisms. It is well established that the loss of intrinsic regenerative ability is highly correlated with development of CNS neurons. We therefore designed experiments, using a well-established in vitro retinal ganglion cell (RGC) culture system, to evaluate the effect of GM-CSF on axon growth and cell survival and define possible mechanisms involved in GM-CSF-mediated effects in vitro. Several developmental stages were evaluated, with particular focus placed on stages at which axon growth is known to be significantly diminished. Our results reveal that GM-CSF not only promotes axon growth in postnatal RGCs but also enhances cell survival through a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)-dependent mechanism.


Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a rare, subacute, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system caused by JC virus. Studies of PML from HIV Clade C prevalent countries are scarce. We sought to study the clinical, neuroimaging, and pathological features of PML in HIV Clade C patients from India. This is a prospective cum retrospective study, conducted in a tertiary care Neurological referral center in India from Jan 2001 to May 2012. Diagnosis was considered &quot;definite&quot; (confirmed by histopathology or JCV PCR in CSF) or &quot;probable&quot; (confirmed by MRI brain). Fifty-five patients of PML were diagnosed between January 2001 and May 2012. Complete data was available in 38 patients [mean age 398.9years; duration of illness-82.174.7days). PML was prevalent in 2.8% of the HIV cohort seen in our Institute. Hemiparesis was the commonest symptom (44.7%), followed by ataxia (36.8%). Definitive diagnosis was possible in 20 cases. Eighteen remained &quot;probable&quot; wherein MRI revealed multifocal, symmetric lesions, hypointense on T1, and hyperintense on T2/FLAIR. Stereotactic biopsy (n=11) revealed demyelination, enlarged oligodendrocytes with intranuclear inclusions and astrocytosis. Immunohistochemistry revelaed the presence of JC viral antigen within oligodendroglial nuclei and astrocytic cytoplasm. No differences in clinical, radiological, or pathological features were evident from PML associated with HIV Clade B. Clinical suspicion of PML was entertained in only half of the patients. Hence, a high index of suspicion is essential for diagnosis. There are no significant differences between clinical, radiological, and pathological picture of PML between Indian and Western countries.


At age 35, a man with a genetic diagnosis of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A (CMT1A) but no family history of neuropathy and no clinical symptoms developed rapidly progressive loss of balance, distal limb numbness, loss of manual dexterity, and hand tremor. Five years later, he walked with support and had mild pes cavus, marked sensory ataxia, severe leg and hand weakness, absent deep tendon reflexes (DTRs), severe sensory loss, and hand tremor. He had dramatically reduced motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV), strikingly prolonged motor distal latencies, absent sensory action potentials and lower limb compound muscle action potentials. CMT1A duplication was reconfirmed but the dramatic change in his clinical course suggested a superimposed acquired neuropathy. An IgM-kappa monoclonal gammopathy of uncertain significance (MGUS) with high titer anti-myelin associated glycoprotein (anti-MAG) activity was found. Nerve biopsy showed severe loss of myelinated fibers with onion bulbs, no evidence of uncompacted myelin, and few IgM deposits. Rituximab was given and he improved. It is very likely that this is a chance association of two rare and slowly progressive neuropathies; rapidly worsening course may have been due to a &quot;double hit&quot;. Interestingly, there are reports of possible superimposition of dysimmune neuropathies on hereditary ones, and the influence of the immune system on inherited neuropathies is matter for debate.
Long-term studies of Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease across the entire lifespan require stable endpoints that measure the same underlying construct (e.g., disability). The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between the CMT Pediatric Scale (CMTPedS) and the adult CMT Neuropathy Score (CMTNSv2) in 203 children, adolescents, and young adults with CMT. There was a moderate curvilinear correlation between the CMTPedS and the CMTNSv2 (Spearman's rho  = 0.716, p &lt; 0.0001), although there appears to be a floor effect of the CMTNSv2 in patients with a milder CMT phenotype. Univariate analyses indicate that the relationship between the CMTPedS and CMTNSv2 scores improves with worsening disease severity and advancing age. Although one universal scale throughout life would be ideal, our data supports the transition from the CMTPedS in childhood to the CMTNSv2 in adulthood as a continuum of measuring lifelong disability in patients with CMT.
Understanding of Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) has progressed substantially since the seminal 1916 report by Guillain et al. Although Guillain, Barr, and Strohl summarised the syndrome based on observations of two French infantrymen, 2012 saw the beginning of an ambitious collaborative study designed to collect detailed data from at least 1,000 patients worldwide (IGOS, www.gbsstudies.org/about-igos). Progress has been made in many areas even since GBS was last reviewed in this journal in 2009. GBS subsequently received prominent attention in light of concerns regarding H1N1 influenza vaccinations, and several large-scale surveillance studies resulted. Despite these developments, and promising pre-clinical studies, disease-modifying therapies for GBS have not substantially altered since intravenous immunoglobulin was introduced over 20 years ago. In other areas, management has improved. Antibiotic prophylaxis in ventilated patients reduces respiratory tract infection, thromboprophylaxis has reduced the risk of venous thromboembolism, and there is increasing awareness of the benefit of high-intensity rehabilitation. This article highlights some of the interesting and thought-provoking developments of the last 3 years, and is based on a plenary lecture given at the 2012 Peripheral Nerve Society (PNS) meeting.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is increasingly used in drug discovery and development for evaluation of CNS drug disposition and for studies of disease biomarkers to monitor drug effects on brain pathology. The quantitative analysis of PET data is based on kinetic modeling of radioactivity concentrations in plasma and brain tissue compartments. A number of quantitative methods of analysis have been developed that allow the determination of parameters describing drug pharmacokinetics and interaction with target binding sites in the brain. The optimal method of quantification depends on the properties of the radiolabeled drug or radioligand and the binding site studied. We here review the most frequently used methods for quantification of PET data in relation to CNS drug discovery and development. The utility of PET kinetic modeling in the development of novel CNS drugs is illustrated by examples from studies of the brain kinetic properties of radiolabeled drug molecules.

The concepts of disease progression are discussed in the context of neurological disorders. The importance of understanding the time course of the response to inactive (placebo) treatment is discussed. Disease progression and response to placebo treatment both need to be considered before drug effects can be reliably identified. Criteria for distinguishing between symptomatic and disease modifying drug effects are proposed and used to interpret the results of clinical trials in pain, depression, schizophrenia, stroke, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.
The ability to deliver drug molecules effectively across the blood-brain barrier into the brain is important in the development of central nervous system (CNS) therapies. Cerebral microdialysis is the only existing technique for sampling molecules from the brain extracellular fluid (ECF; also termed interstitial fluid), the compartment to which the astrocytes and neurones are directly exposed. Plasma levels of drugs are often poor predictors of CNS activity. While cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of drugs are often used as evidence of delivery of drug to brain, the CSF is a different compartment to the ECF. The continuous nature of microdialysis sampling of the ECF is ideal for pharmacokinetic (PK) studies, and can give valuable PK information of variations with time in drug concentrations of brain ECF versus plasma. The microdialysis technique needs careful calibration for relative recovery (extraction efficiency) of the drug if absolute quantification is required. Besides the drug, other molecules can be analysed in the microdialysates for information on downstream targets and/or energy metabolism in the brain. Cerebral microdialysis is an invasive technique, so is only useable in patients requiring neurocritical care, neurosurgery or brain biopsy. Application of results to wider patient populations, and to those with different pathologies or degrees of pathology, obviously demands caution. Nevertheless, microdialysis data can provide valuable guidelines for designing CNS therapies, and play an important role in small phase II clinical trials. In this review, we focus on the role of cerebral microdialysis in recent clinical studies of antimicrobial agents, drugs for tumour therapy, neuroprotective agents and anticonvulsants.
Human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sampling is of high value as the only general applicable methodology to obtain information on free drug concentrations in individual human brain. As the ultimate interest is in the free drug concentration at the CNS target site, the question is what CSF concentrations may tell us in that respect. Studies have been performed in rats and other animals for which concentrations in brain extracellular fluid (brain ECF) as a target site for many drugs, have been compared to (cisterna magna) CSF concentrations, at presumed steady state conditions,. The data indicated that CSF drug concentrations provided a rather good indication of, but not a reliable measure for predicting brain ECF concentrations. Furthermore, comparing rat with human CSF concentrations, human CSF concentrations tend to be higher and display much more variability. However, this comparison of CSF concentrations cannot be a direct one, as humans probably had a disease for which CSF was collected in the first place, while the rats were healthy. In order to be able to more accurately predict human brain ECF concentrations, understanding of the complexity of the CNS in terms of intrabrain pharmacokinetic relationships and the influence of CNS disorders on brain pharmacokinetics needs to be increased. This can be achieved by expanding a currently existing preclinically derived physiologically based pharmacokinetic model for brain distribution. This model has been shown to successfully predict data obtained for human lumbar CSF concentrations of acetaminophen which renders trust in the model prediction of human brain ECF concentrations. This model should further evolute by inclusion of influences of drug properties, fluid flows, transporter functionalities and different disease conditions. Finally the model should include measures of target site engagement and CNS effects, to ultimately learn about concentrations that best predict particular target site concentrations, via human CSF concentrations.
Following reinnervation of denervated rat tail arteries, nerve-evoked contractions are at least as large as those evoked in normally innervated arteries despite a much lower nerve terminal density. Here nerve-evoked contractions have been investigated after transection of half the sympathetic innervation of normal tail arteries. After 1 week, the noradrenergic plexus 50-70 mm along the tail was about half as dense as control. Excitatory junction potentials recorded in smooth muscle cells of arterial segments isolated in vitro were half their normal amplitude. Surprisingly, nerve-evoked contractions of isometrically mounted segments were not reduced in amplitude, as was also the case after only 3 days. After 1 week, enhancement of nerve-evoked contractions by blocking either neuronal re-uptake of noradrenaline with desmethylimipramine or prejunctional 2-adrenoceptors with idazoxan was similar to control, suggesting that these mechanisms are matched to the number of innervating axons. The relative contribution of postjunctional 2-adrenoceptors to contractions evoked by long trains of stimuli was enhanced but that of 1-adrenoceptors was unchanged. Transiently, sensitivity to the 1-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine was slightly increased. After 7 weeks, amplitudes of nerve-evoked contractions remained similar to control, and sensitivity to phenylephrine had recovered but that to the 2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine was slightly raised. The normal amplitude of nerve-evoked contractions after partial denervation is only partly explained by the greater contribution of 2-adrenoceptors. While the post-receptor mechanisms activated by nerve-released transmitter may be modified to amplify the contractions after partial denervation, our findings suggest that these mechanisms are normally saturated, at least in this artery.

Communication between auditory and vocal motor nuclei is essential for vocal learning. In songbirds, the nucleus interfacialis of the nidopallium (NIf) is part of a sensorimotor loop, along with auditory nucleus avalanche (Av) and song system nucleus HVC, that links the auditory and song systems. Most of the auditory information comes through this sensorimotor loop, with the projection from NIf to HVC representing the largest single source of auditory information to the song system. In addition to providing the majority of HVC's auditory input, NIf is also the primary driver of spontaneous activity and premotor-like bursting during sleep in HVC. Like HVC and RA, two nuclei critical for song learning and production, NIf exhibits behavioral-state dependent auditory responses and strong motor bursts that precede song output. NIf also exhibits extended periods of fast gamma oscillations following vocal production. Based on the converging evidence from studies of physiology and functional connectivity it would be reasonable to expect NIf to play an important role in the learning, maintenance, and production of song. Surprisingly, however, lesions of NIf in adult zebra finches have no effect on song production or maintenance. Only the plastic song produced by juvenile zebra finches during the sensorimotor phase of song learning is affected by NIf lesions. In this review, we carefully examine what is known about NIf at the anatomical, physiological, and behavioral levels. We reexamine conclusions drawn from previous studies in the light of our current understanding of the song system, and establish what can be said with certainty about NIf's involvement in song learning, maintenance, and production. Finally, we review recent theories of song learning integrating possible roles for NIf within these frameworks and suggest possible parallels between NIf and sensorimotor areas that form part of the neural circuitry for speech processing in humans.
Songbirds provide an excellent model system exhibiting vocal learning associated with an extreme brain plasticity linked to quantifiable behavioral changes. This animal model has thus far been intensively studied using electrophysiological, histological and molecular mapping techniques. However, these approaches do not provide a global view of the brain and/or do not allow repeated measures, which are necessary to establish correlations between alterations in neural substrate and behavior. In contrast, functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) is a non-invasive in vivo technique which allows one (i) to study brain function in the same subject over time, and (ii) to address the entire brain at once. During the last decades, fMRI has become one of the most popular neuroimaging techniques in cognitive neuroscience for the study of brain activity during various tasks ranging from simple sensory-motor to highly cognitive tasks. By alternating various stimulation periods with resting periods during scanning, resting and task-specific regional brain activity can be determined with this technique. Despite its obvious benefits, fMRI has, until now, only been sparsely used to study cognition in non-human species such as songbirds. The Bio-Imaging Lab (University of Antwerp, Belgium) was the first to implement Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) fMRI in songbirds - and in particular zebra finches - for the visualization of sound perception and processing in auditory and song control brain regions. The present article provides an overview of the establishment and optimization of this technique in our laboratory and of the resulting scientific findings. The introduction of fMRI in songbirds has opened new research avenues that permit experimental analysis of complex sensorimotor and cognitive processes underlying vocal communication in this animal model.
Mechano-sensitivity of the vascular network is known to be implicated in the rapid dilatation at the onset of exercise, however, it is not known how this mechanism responds to repetitive mechanical stimulation. This study tests the hypothesis that the mechanically-induced hyperaemia undergoes some attenuation upon repetitive stimulation. Muscle blood flow was recorded from 9 masseteric arteries (5 right, 4 left) in 6 anesthetized rabbits. Two mechanical stimuli, masseter muscle compression (MC) and occlusion of the masseteric artery (AO), were provided in different combinations: A) repeated stimulation (0.5 Hz, for 40 s); B) single stimuli delivered at decreasing inter-stimulus interval (ISI) from 4 min to 2 s, C) single AO delivered before and immediately after a series of 20 MCs at 0.5 Hz, and vice-versa. Repetitive AO stimulation at 0.5 Hz produced a transient hyperaemia (378 189%) peaking at 4.5 1.4 s and then decaying before the end of stimulation. The hyperaemic response to individual AOs progressively decreased by 74 39% with decreasing ISI from 4 min to 2 s (p&lt;0.01). Non significant differences were observed between AO and MC stimulation. Decreased response to AO was also provoked by previous repetitive MC stimulation, and vice-versa. The results provide evidence that the mechano-sensitivity of the vascular network is attenuated by previous mechanical stimulation. It is suggested that the mechano-sensitive dilatory mechanisms undergoes some inactivation whose recovery time is in the order of a few minutes.

Negative symptoms of schizophrenia are normally grouped into a single category. However, the diversity of such symptoms suggests that they are actually made up of more than one dimension. The DSM-V proposes two negative symptom domains, namely expressive deficits and avolition/asociality. We investigated whether the negative symptoms do indeed have two dimensions. An exploratory factor analysis was carried out based on interviews with the PANSS (664 patients). We restricted our analysis to items that had been described as negative symptoms in previous factor analyses. The symptom structure was then tested for stability by performing a confirmatory factor analysis on PANSS interviews from a separate cohort (2172 patients). Exploratory factor analysis yielded a two-factor structure of negative symptoms. The first factor consisted of PANSS items Flat affect, Poor rapport, Lack of spontaneity, Mannerisms and posturing, Motor retardation, and Avolition. The second factor consisted of Emotional withdrawal, Passive/apathetic social withdrawal, and Active social avoidance. The first factor could be related to expressive deficits, reflecting a loss of initiative, and the second factor to social amotivation, related to community interaction. This factor structure supports the DSM-V classification and may be relevant for pathophysiology and treatment of schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders.

Developmental neuroscience models suggest that changes in responsiveness to incentives contribute to increases in adolescent risk behavior, including substance use. Trajectories of sensitivity to reward (SR) and sensitivity to punishment (SP) were examined and tested as predictors of escalation of early substance use in a community sample of adolescents (N=765, mean baseline age 11.8 years, 54% female). SR and SP were assessed using a laboratory task. Across three annual assessments, SR increased, and rapid escalation was associated with increases in substance use. SP declined and was unrelated to substance use. Findings support contemporary views of adolescent brain development, and suggest that early adolescent substance use is motivated by approach responses to reward, rather than failure to avoid potential aversive consequences.



Viral infections of the central nervous system (CNS) are of increasing concern, especially among immunocompromised populations. Rodent models are often inappropriate for studies of CNS infection, as many viruses, including JC virus (JCV) and HIV, cannot replicate in rodent cells. Consequently, human fetal brain-derived multipotential CNS progenitor cells (NPCs) that can be differentiated into neurons, oligodendrocytes, or astrocytes have served as a model in CNS studies. NPCs can be nonproductively infected by JCV, while infection of progenitor-derived astrocytes (PDAs) is robust. We profiled cellular gene expression at multiple times during differentiation of NPCs to PDAs. Several activated transcription factors show commonality between cells of the brain, in which JCV replicates, and lymphocytes, in which JCV is likely latent. Bioinformatic analysis determined transcription factors that may influence the favorable transcriptional environment for JCV in PDAs. This study attempts to provide a framework for understanding the functional transcriptional profile necessary for productive JCV infection.
One of the central tasks in retinal neuroscience is to understand the circuitry of retinal neurons and how those connections are responsible for shaping the signals transmitted to the brain. Photons are detected in the retina by rod and cone photoreceptors, which convert that energy into an electrical signal, transmitting it to other retinal neurons, where it is processed and communicated to central targets in the brain via the optic nerve. Important early insights into retinal circuitry and visual processing came from the histological studies of Cajal and, later, from electrophysiological recordings of the spiking activity of retinal ganglion cells--the output cells of the retina. A detailed understanding of visual processing in the retina requires an understanding of the signaling at each step in the pathway from photoreceptor to retinal ganglion cell. However, many retinal cell types are buried deep in the tissue and therefore relatively inaccessible for electrophysiological recording. This limitation can be overcome by working with vertical slices, in which cells residing within each of the retinal layers are clearly visible and accessible for electrophysiological recording. Here, we describe a method for making vertical sections of retinas from larval tiger salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinum). While this preparation was originally developed for recordings with sharp microelectrodes, we describe a method for dual whole-cell voltage clamp recordings from photoreceptors and second-order horizontal and bipolar cells in which we manipulate the photoreceptor's membrane potential while simultaneously recording post-synaptic responses in horizontal or bipolar cells. The photoreceptors of the tiger salamander are considerably larger than those of mammalian species, making this an ideal preparation in which to undertake this technically challenging experimental approach. These experiments are described with an eye toward probing the signaling properties of the synaptic ribbon--a specialized synaptic structure found in only a handful of neurons, including rod and cone photoreceptors, that is well suited for maintaining a high rate of tonic neurotransmitter release--and how it contributes to the unique signaling properties of this first retinal synapse.

We are at an inflection point in our study of the human genome as it relates to neurodegenerative disease. The sequencing of the human genome, and its associated cataloging of human genetic variation and technological as well as methodological development, introduced a period of rapid gene discovery over the past decade. These efforts have yielded many new insights and will continue to uncover the genetic architecture of syndromically defined neurodegenerative diseases in the coming decades. More recently, these successful study designs have been applied to the investigation of intermediate traits that relate to and inform our understanding of clinical syndromes and to exploration of the epigenome, the higher-order structure of DNA that dictates the expression of a given genetic risk factor. While still nascent, given the challenges of accumulating large numbers of subjects with detailed phenotypes and technological hurdles in characterizing the state of chromatin, these efforts represent key investments that will enable the study of the functional consequences of a genetic risk factor and, eventually, its contribution to the clinical manifestations of a given disease. As a community of investigators, we are therefore at an exciting inflection point at which gene discovery efforts are transitioning toward the functional characterization of implicated genetic variation; this transition is crucial for understanding the molecular, cellular, and systemic events that lead to a syndromic diagnosis for a neurodegenerative disease.
In recent years, neurogenetics research had made some remarkable advances owing to the advent of genotyping arrays and next-generation sequencing. These improvements to the technology have allowed us to determine the whole-genome structure and its variation and to examine its effect on phenotype in an unprecedented manner. The identification of rare disease-causing mutations has led to the identification of new biochemical pathways and has facilitated a greater understanding of the etiology of many neurological diseases. Furthermore, genome-wide association studies have provided information on how common genetic variability impacts on the risk for the development of various complex neurological diseases. Herein, we review how these technological advances have changed the approaches being used to study the genetic basis of neurological disease and how the research findings will be translated into clinical utility.
Ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) are essential communicative sounds used between rodent pups and their mother. Rat pups emit USVs in stressful situations, such as when they are cold or separated from the nest. We verified the ontogenetic changes in USVs emitted by infant rats isolated from their mother during the pre-weaning period. The number of calls, and the median frequency and first peak of frequency of the calls were measured at 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 12, and 14 days postnatal age in Wistar-Imamichi rats. Pups were placed in a cold glass beaker and USVs were recorded for 5 min. The number of calls increased to a peak on day 5 and then gradually decreased. The median frequency of calls decreased slowly during the first 12 days, and then increased slightly on day 14. Similarly, the first peak frequency of calls was the highest on day 1, and then decreased gradually by day 12. A small increase was observed on day 14. These changes in frequency were correlated with the physical development of the pups, whose body weights increased significantly with age except during postnatal days 7-10.
The pathway leading from soluble and monomeric to hyperphosphorylated, insoluble and filamentous tau protein is at the centre of many human neurodegenerative diseases, collectively referred to as tauopathies. Dominantly inherited mutations in MAPT, the gene that encodes tau, cause forms of frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism, proving that dysfunction of tau is sufficient to cause neurodegeneration and dementia. However, most cases of tauopathy are not inherited in a dominant manner. The first tau aggregates form in a few nerve cells in discrete brain areas. These become self propagating and spread to distant brain regions in a prion-like manner. The prevention of tau aggregation and propagation is the focus of attempts to develop mechanism-based treatments for tauopathies.



The low MR sensitivity of the sodium nucleus and its low concentration in the human body constrain acquisition time. The use of both single-quantum and triple-quantum sodium imaging is, therefore, restricted. In this work, we present a novel MRI sequence that interleaves an ultra-short echo time radial projection readout into the three-pulse triple-quantum preparation. This allows for simultaneous acquisition of tissue sodium concentration weighted as well as triple-quantum filtered images. Performance of the sequence is shown on phantoms. The method is demonstrated on six healthy informed volunteers and is applied to three cases of brain tumors. A comparison with images from tumor specific O-(2-[18F]fluoroethyl)-L-tyrosine positron emission tomography and standard MR images is presented. The combined information of the triple-quantum-filtered images with single-quantum images may enable a better understanding of tissue viability. Future studies can benefit from the evaluation of both contrasts with shortened acquisition times.
Given the absence of a body coil, the radio frequency screen of a whole-body 9.4T magnetic resonance imaging scanner can be used as a circular waveguide. In the unloaded case, the screen allows propagation of the dominant TE11- as well as the TM01-mode. In the first part of this study, the optimum coupling of a circular polarized TE11-mode was determined empirically for excitation and reception with a rectangular patch antenna. Employing full-wave simulations, two simulation models and two phantoms, different patch positions were tested to find the optimum position with respect to coupled power and homogenous excitation field. The best simulation results were validated with measurements. The second part of this study describes the design and measurements of a multimode excitation device. Using the parallel transmit system of the MR scanner, all propagable traveling wave modes could be excited and detected independently. The performance of the multimode device related to field of view, B1+-efficiency and radio frequency shimming was assessed by phantom measurements. Initial results show that three modes are sufficient to homogeneously excite regions of interest at 9.4 T.
The second scientific meeting of the European systems genetics network for the study of complex genetic human disease using genetic reference populations (SYSGENET) took place at the Center for Cooperative Research in Biosciences in Bilbao, Spain, December 10-12, 2012. SYSGENET is funded by the European Cooperation in the Field of Scientific and Technological Research (COST) and represents a network of scientists in Europe that use mouse genetic reference populations (GRPs) to identify complex genetic factors influencing disease phenotypes (Schughart, Mamm Genome 21:331-336, 2010). About 50 researchers working in the field of systems genetics attended the meeting, which consisted of 27 oral presentations, a poster session, and a management committee meeting. Participants exchanged results, set up future collaborations, and shared phenotyping and data analysis methodologies. This meeting was particularly instrumental for conveying the current status of the US, Israeli, and Australian Collaborative Cross (CC) mouse GRP. The CC is an open source project initiated nearly a decade ago by members of the Complex Trait Consortium to aid the mapping of multigenetic traits (Threadgill, Mamm Genome 13:175-178, 2002). In addition, representatives of the International Mouse Phenotyping Consortium were invited to exchange ongoing activities between the knockout and complex genetics communities and to discuss and explore potential fields for future interactions.
With a microtubule-based axoneme supporting its plasma membrane-ensheathed projection from the basal body of almost all cell types in the human body, and present in only one copy per cell, the primary cilium can be considered an organelle sui generis. Although it was first observed and recorded in histological studies from the late 19th century, the tiny structure was essentially forgotten for many decades. In the past ten years, however, scientists have turned their eyes once again upon primary cilia and realized that they are very important for the development of almost all organs in the mammalian body, especially those dependent upon the signaling from members Hedgehog family, such as Indian and Sonic hedgehog. In this review, we outline the roles that primary cilia play in forebrain development, not just in the crucial transduction of Sonic hedgehog signaling, but also new results showing that cilia are important for cell cycle progression in proliferating neural precursors. We will focus upon cerebral cortex development but will also discuss the importance of cilia for the embryonic hippocampus, olfactory bulb, and diencephalon.
It is commonly known that mental activity helps to maintain a healthy brain. Recent research has unraveled the underlying molecular mechanisms that explain why an active brain lives longer. These mechanisms involve the activation of a comprehensive transcriptional program that is triggered by enhanced synaptic activity and renders neurons resistant to harmful conditions. Functionally, this state of acquired neuroprotection may be achieved mainly via one mechanism, which is the stabilization of mitochondria. In this review we propose a model that describes the signaling network that links synaptic activity to neuroprotection. We suggest that the divergent-convergent architecture of this signaling network ensures both robust and reliable as well as persistent activation of the neuroprotective machinery.
Many mammals are born in a very immature state and develop their rich repertoire of behavioral and cognitive functions postnatally. This development goes in parallel with changes in the anatomical and functional organization of cortical structures which are involved in most complex activities. The emerging spatiotemporal activity patterns in multi-neuronal cortical networks may indeed form a direct neuronal correlate of systemic functions like perception, sensorimotor integration, decision making or memory formation. During recent years, several studies--mostly in rodents--have shed light on the ontogenesis of such highly organized patterns of network activity. While each local network has its own peculiar properties, some general rules can be derived. We therefore review and compare data from the developing hippocampus, neocortex and--as an intermediate region--entorhinal cortex. All cortices seem to follow a characteristic sequence starting with uncorrelated activity in uncoupled single neurons where transient activity seems to have mostly trophic effects. In rodents, before and shortly after birth, cortical networks develop weakly coordinated multineuronal discharges which have been termed synchronous plateau assemblies (SPAs). While these patterns rely mostly on electrical coupling by gap junctions, the subsequent increase in number and maturation of chemical synapses leads to the generation of large-scale coherent discharges. These patterns have been termed giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs) for predominantly GABA-induced events or early network oscillations (ENOs) for mostly glutamatergic bursts, respectively. During the third to fourth postnatal week, cortical areas reach their final activity patterns with distinct network oscillations and highly specific neuronal discharge sequences which support adult behavior. While some of the mechanisms underlying maturation of network activity have been elucidated much work remains to be done in order to fully understand the rules governing transition from immature to mature patterns of network activity.
Laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR) indicates the reflux-induced extra-esophageal disorders. LPR and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) occur by the same mechanism: the escape of gastric contents into the esophagus and beyond. However, the classic GERD symptoms are not typical in LPR disease, which can cause a lot of symptoms none of which is specific, making the diagnosis often elusive. The protective mechanisms present in the esophagus are entirely lacking in the larynx, and more generally in upper aerodigestive tract, making them particularly vulnerable to injury from acidic gastric contents. Since gastric acid backflow can affect supraesophageal structures, even in the absence of heartburn or regurgitation symptoms, an early diagnosis is important to prevent the onset of histological modifications in the supraesophageal mucosa. For this scope clinicians need to use different methods to get a diagnosis. We adopted two validated scoring systems: the reflux symptom index (RSI) for symptom assessing and the reflux finding score (RFS) for sign evaluation. In our experience we detect a new objective endoscopic rhinopharyngeal marker, called &quot;white-line&quot; characterized by mucosal metaplasia, that in a significant proportion of patients lines up to these validated indexes as a further element in the LPR diagnosis.
Although ammonia is considered the main factor involved in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE), it correlates well with the severity of HE in acute liver failure, but not in chronic liver disease. Oxidative stress is another factor believed to play a role in the pathogenesis of this syndrome; it represents an imbalance between the production and neutralization of reactive oxygen species, which leads to cellular dysfunction. In the setting of liver disease, oxidative stress represents a systemic phenomenon induced by several mechanisms: decreased antioxidant synthesis, increased systemic release of oxidant enzymes, generation of reactive oxygen species, and impaired neutrophil function. High ammonia concentrations induce cerebral oxidative stress, thus contributing to severe hepatic encephalopathy, as observed in acute liver failure. In chronic liver disease, significantly lower degrees of hyperammonemia (&lt;500 M) do not induce cerebral nor systemic oxidative stress. Data from both animal and human studies sustain that there is a synergistic effect between systemic oxidative stress, and ammonia that is implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy.
Acquired hepatolenticular degeneration, also known as &quot;Parkinsonism in cirrhosis&quot; is characterized by extrapyramidal symptoms including hypokinesia, dystonia and rigidity that are rapidly progressive and may be independent of the severity of cognitive dysfunction. Magnetic resonance imaging reveals T1-weighted hyperintense signals in both globus pallidus and substantia nigra. Estimates of the prevalence of Parkinsonism in cirrhosis have been reported as high as 21 %. The cause of Parkinsonism in cirrhosis has been attributed to manganese deposition in basal ganglia structures, leading to the dysfunction of the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system. In particular, there is evidence from both spectroscopic and biochemical investigations for damage to (or dysfunction of) presynaptic dopamine transporters together with a loss of post-synaptic dopamine receptors in basal ganglia of affected patients. Therapeutic options are limited; ammonia-lowering strategies are without substantial benefit, and an effective manganese chelator is not available. In many patients, L-Dopa replacement therapy and the dopamine receptor agonist bromocriptine are beneficial, and liver transplantation is generally effective. However, reports of post-transplant residual extrapyramidal symptoms suggest an element of irreversibility in some cases.
The therapeutic effects of lithium in bipolar disorder are poorly understood. Lithium decreases free inositol levels by inhibiting inositol monophosphatase 1 and myo-inositol 3-phosphate synthase (IPS). In this study, we demonstrate for the first time that IPS can be phosphorylated. This was evident when purified rat IPS was dephosphorylated by lambda protein phosphatase and analyzed by phospho-specific ProQ-Diamond staining and Western blot analysis. These techniques demonstrated a mobility shift consistent with IPS being phosphorylated. Mass spectral analysis revealed that Serine-524 (S524), which resides in the hinge region derived from exon 11 of the gene, is the site for phosphorylation. Further, an antibody generated against a synthetic peptide of IPS containing monophosphorylated-S524, was able to discriminate the phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated forms of IPS. The phosphoprotein is found in the brain and testis, but not in the intestine. The intestinal IPS isoform lacks the peptide bearing S524, and hence, cannot be phosphorylated. Evidences suggest that IPS is monophosphorylated at S524 and that the removal of this phosphate does not alter its enzymatic activity. These observations suggest a novel function for IPS in brain and other tissues. Future studies should resolve the functional role of phospho-IPS in brain inositol signaling.
Both Gaucher disease patients and heterozygous glucocerebrosidase mutation carriers are at increased risk of Parkinson's disease. Retinal thinning has been reported in early Parkinson's disease. Here we used optical coherence tomography to demonstrate thinning of the retinal ganglion cell layer in Gaucher disease patients and carriers who manifest clinical markers of potential early neurodegeneration. Optical coherence tomography may help identify Gaucher disease patients and carriers at increased risk of developing Parkinson's disease.

Alpha-synuclein (aSyn) is implicated in Parkinson's disease and several other neurodegenerative disorders. To date, the function and intracellular dynamics of aSyn are still unclear. Here, we tracked the dynamics of aSyn using photoactivatable green fluorescent protein as a reporter. We found that the availability of the aSyn N terminus modulates its shuttling into the nucleus. Interestingly, familial aSyn mutations altered the dynamics at which the protein distributes throughout the cell. Both the A30P and A53T aSyn mutations increase the speed at which the protein moves between the nucleus and cytoplasm, respectively. We also found that specific kinases potentiate the shuttling of aSyn between nucleus and cytoplasm. A mutant aSyn form that blocks S129 phosphorylation, S129A, results in the formation of cytoplasmic inclusions, suggesting phosphorylation modulates aggregation in addition to modulating aSyn intracellular dynamics. Finally, we found that the molecular chaperone HSP70 accelerates the entry of aSyn into the nuclear compartment.
Arduous efforts have been made in the last three decades to elucidate the role of insulin in the brain. A growing number of evidences show that insulin is involved in several physiological function of the brain such as food intake and weight control, reproduction, learning and memory, neuromodulation and neuroprotection. In addition, it is now clear that insulin and insulin disturbances particularly diabetes mellitus may contribute or in some cases play the main role in development and progression of neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders. Focusing on the molecular mechanisms, this review summarizes the recent findings on the involvement of insulin dysfunction in neurological disorders like Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease and also mental disorders like depression and psychosis sharing features of neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration.
Bioluminescence imaging (BLI) takes advantage of the light-emitting properties of luciferase enzymes, which produce light upon oxidizing a substrate (i.e., D-luciferin) in the presence of molecular oxygen and energy. Photons emitted from living tissues can be detected and quantified by a highly sensitive charge-coupled device camera, enabling the investigator to noninvasively analyze the dynamics of biomolecular reactions in a variety of living model organisms such as transgenic mice. BLI has been used extensively in cancer research, cell transplantation, and for monitoring of infectious diseases, but only recently experimental models have been designed to study processes and pathways in neurological disorders such as Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In this review, we highlight recent applications of BLI in neuroscience, including transgene expression in the brain, longitudinal studies of neuroinflammatory responses to neurodegeneration and injury, and in vivo imaging studies of neurogenesis and mitochondrial toxicity. Finally, we highlight some new developments of BLI compounds and luciferase substrates with promising potential for in vivo studies of neurological dysfunctions.
Changes in serotonin(2C) receptor (5-HTR2c) editing, splicing and density were found in conditions such as depression and suicide, but mechanisms explaining the changes in 5-HTR2c function are unknown. Thus, mice expressing only the fully edited VGV isoform of 5-HTR2c, in which clinically relevant behavioral changes are associated with alterations in splicing and receptor density, were studied. VGV mice displayed enhanced anxiety-like behavior in response to a preferential 5-HTR2c agonist in the social interaction test. Nearly half of interactions between pairs of VGV congeners consisted of fighting behaviors, whereas no fighting occurred in wild-type (WT) mice. VGV mice also exhibited a striking increase in freezing behaviors in reaction to an innately aversive ultrasonic stimulus. This behavioral phenotype occurred in conjunction with decreased brain 5-HT turnover during stress. These functional data were put in relation with the 5-HTR2c mRNA splicing process generating a truncated protein (5-HTR2c-Tr) in addition to the full-length receptor (5-HTR2c-Fl). 5-HTR2c-Tr mRNA was less abundant in many brain regions of VGV mice, which concomitantly had more 5-HTR2c than WT mice. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer and bioluminescence resonance energy transfer studies in transfected living HEK293T cells showed that 5-HTR2c-Tr interacts with 5-HTR2c-Fl. The 5-HTR2c-Tr was localized in the endoplasmic reticulum where it retained 5-HTR2c-Fl, preventing the latter to reach the plasma membrane. Consequently, 5-HTR2c-Tr decreased (3)H-mesulergine binding to 5-HTR2c-Fl at the plasma membrane in a concentration-dependent manner and more strongly with edited 5-HTR2c-Fl. These results suggest that 5-HTR2c pre-mRNA editing and splicing are entwined processes determining increased 5-HTR2c levels in pathological conditions through a deficit in 5-HTR2c-Tr.
Resiliency to the adverse effects of extraordinary emotional trauma on the brain varies within the human population. Accordingly, some people cope better than others with traumatic stress. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a 36-amino-acid peptide transmitter abundantly expressed in forebrain limbic and brain stem areas that regulate stress and emotional behaviors. Studies largely in rodents demonstrate a role for NPY in promoting coping with stress. Moreover, accruing data from the genetic to the physiological implicate NPY as a potential 'resilience-to-stress' factor in humans. Here, we consolidate findings from preclinical and clinical studies of NPY that are of relevance to stress-associated syndromes, most prototypically posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Collectively, these data suggest that reduced central nervous system (CNS) NPY concentrations or function may be associated with PTSD. We also link specific symptoms of human PTSD with extant findings in the NPY field to reveal potential physiological contributions of the neuropeptide to the disorder. In pursuit of understanding the physiological basis and treatment of PTSD, the NPY system is an attractive target.
Upon binding of cortisol, the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) regulates the transcription of specific target genes, including those that encode the stress hormones corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and adrenocorticotropic hormone. Dysregulation of the stress axis is a hallmark of major depression in human patients. However, it is still unclear how glucocorticoid signaling is linked to affective disorders. We identified an adult-viable zebrafish mutant in which the negative feedback on the stress response is disrupted, due to abolition of all transcriptional activity of GR. As a consequence, cortisol is elevated, but unable to signal through GR. When placed into an unfamiliar aquarium ('novel tank'), mutant fish become immobile ('freeze'), show reduced exploratory behavior and do not habituate to this stressor upon repeated exposure. Addition of the antidepressant fluoxetine to the holding water and social interactions restore normal behavior, followed by a delayed correction of cortisol levels. Fluoxetine does not affect the overall transcription of CRH, the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR), the serotonin transporter (Serta) or GR itself. Fluoxetine, however, suppresses the stress-induced upregulation of MR and Serta in both wild-type fish and mutants. Our studies show a conserved, protective function of glucocorticoid signaling in the regulation of emotional behavior and reveal novel molecular aspects of how chronic stress impacts vertebrate brain physiology and behavior. Importantly, the zebrafish model opens up the possibility of high-throughput drug screens in search of new classes of antidepressants.
The Schizophrenia Psychiatric Genome-Wide Association Study Consortium (PGC) highlighted 81 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with moderate evidence for association to schizophrenia. After follow-up in independent samples, seven loci attained genome-wide significance (GWS), but multi-locus tests suggested some SNPs that did not do so represented true associations. We tested 78 of the 81 SNPs in 2640 individuals with a clinical diagnosis of schizophrenia attending a clozapine clinic (CLOZUK), 2504 cases with a research diagnosis of bipolar disorder, and 2878 controls. In CLOZUK, we obtained significant replication to the PGC-associated allele for no fewer than 37 (47%) of the SNPs, including many prior GWS major histocompatibility complex (MHC) SNPs as well as 3/6 non-MHC SNPs for which we had data that were reported as GWS by the PGC. After combining the new schizophrenia data with those of the PGC, variants at three loci (ITIH3/4, CACNA1C and SDCCAG8) that had not previously been GWS in schizophrenia attained that level of support. In bipolar disorder, we also obtained significant evidence for association for 21% of the alleles that had been associated with schizophrenia in the PGC. Our study independently confirms association to three loci previously reported to be GWS in schizophrenia, and identifies the first GWS evidence in schizophrenia for a further three loci. Given the number of independent replications and the power of our sample, we estimate 98% (confidence interval (CI) 78-100%) of the original set of 78 SNPs represent true associations. We also provide strong evidence for overlap in genetic risk between schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized neuropathologically by the cytoplasmic accumulation of misfolded -synuclein in specific brain regions. The endolysosomal pathway appears to be involved in -synuclein degradation and, thus, may be relevant to PD pathogenesis. This assumption is further strengthened by the association between PD and mutations in the gene encoding for the lysosomal hydrolase glucocerebrosidase. The objective of the present study was to determine whether endolysosomal enzyme activities in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) differ between PD patients and healthy controls. Activity levels of 6 lysosomal enzymes (-hexosaminidase, -fucosidase, -mannosidase, -galactosidase, -glucocerebrosidase, and cathepsin D) and 1 endosomal enzyme (cathepsin E) were measured in CSF from 58 patients with PD (Hoehn and Yahr stages 1-3) and 52 age-matched healthy controls. Enzyme activity levels were normalized against total protein levels. Normalized cathepsin E and -galactosidase activity levels were significantly higher in PD patients compared with controls, whereas normalized -fucosidase activity was reduced. Other endolysosomal enzyme activity levels, including -glucocerebrosidase activity, did not differ significantly between PD patients and controls. A combination of normalized -fucosidase and -galactosidase discriminated best between PD patients and controls with sensitivity and specificity values of 63%. In conclusion, the activity of a number of endolysosomal enzymes is changed in CSF from PD patients compared with healthy controls, supporting the alleged role of the endolysosomal pathway in PD pathogenesis. The usefulness of CSF endolysosomal enzyme activity levels as PD biomarkers, either alone or in combination with other markers, remains to be established in future studies.
Mutations or exon deletions of the epsilon-sarcoglycan (SGCE) gene cause myoclonus-dystonia (M-D), but a subset of M-D patients are mutation-negative and the sensitivity and specificity of current genetic testing criteria are unknown. We screened 46 newly enrolled M-D patients for SGCE mutations and deletions; moreover, 24 subjects previously testing negative for SGCE mutations underwent gene dosage analysis. In our combined cohorts, we calculated sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and area under the curve of 2 published sets of M-D diagnostic criteria. A stepwise logistic regression was used to assess which patients' characteristics best discriminated mutation carriers and to calculate a new mutation predictive score (&quot;new score&quot;), which we validated in previously published cohorts. Nine of 46 (19.5%) patients of the new cohort carried SCGE mutations, including 5 novel point mutations and 1 whole-gene deletion; in the old cohort, 1 patient with a complex phenotype carried a 5.9-Mb deletion encompassing SGCE. Current diagnostic criteria had a poor ability to discriminate SGCE-positive from SGCE-negative patients in our cohort; conversely, age of onset, especially if associated with psychiatric features (as included in the new score), showed the best discriminatory power to individuate SGCE mutation carriers, both in our cohort and in the validation cohort. Our results suggest that young age at onset of motor symptoms, especially in association with psychiatric disturbance, are strongly predictive for SGCE positivity. We suggest performing gene dosage analysis by multiple ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) to individuate large SGCE deletions that can be responsible for complex phenotypes.
Alpha-synuclein (SNCA) is crucial in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), yet mutations in the SNCA gene are rare. Evidence for somatic genetic variation in normal humans, also involving the brain, is increasing, but its role in disease is unknown. Somatic SNCA mutations, arising in early development and leading to mosaicism, could contribute to PD pathogenesis and yet be absent or undetectable in DNA derived from peripheral lymphocytes. Such mutations could underlie the widespread pathology in PD, with the precise clinical outcome dependent on their type and the timing and location of their occurrence. We recently reported a novel SNCA mutation (c.150T&gt;G, p.H50Q) in PD brain-derived DNA. To determine if there was mosaicism for this, a PCR and cloning strategy was used to take advantage of a nearby heterozygous intronic polymorphism. No evidence of mosaicism was found. High-resolution melting curve analysis of SNCA coding exons, which was shown to be sensitive enough to detect low proportions of 2 known mutations, did not reveal any further mutations in DNA from 28 PD brain-derived samples. We outline the grounds that make the somatic SNCA mutation hypothesis consistent with genetic, embryological, and pathological data. Further studies of brain-derived DNA are warranted and should include DNA from multiple regions and methods for detecting other types of genomic variation.


The syndrome of deafness-dystonia is rare and refers to the association of hearing impairment and dystonia when these are dominant features of a disease. Known genetic causes include Mohr-Tranebjaerg syndrome, Woodhouse-Sakati syndrome, and mitochondrial disorders, but the cause frequently remains unidentified. The aim of the current study was to better characterize etiological and clinical aspects of deafness-dystonia syndrome. We evaluated 20 patients with deafness-dystonia syndrome who were seen during the period between 1994 and 2011. The cause was identified in only 7 patients and included methylmalonic aciduria, meningoencephalitis, perinatal hypoxic-ischemic injury, large genomic deletion on chromosome 7q21, translocase of inner mitochondrial membrane 8 homolog A (TIMM8A) mutation (Mohr-Tranebjaerg syndrome), and chromosome 2 open reading frame 37 (C2orf37) mutation (Woodhouse-Sakati syndrome). The age of onset and clinical characteristics in these patients varied, depending on the etiology. In 13 patients, the cause remained unexplained despite extensive work-up. In the group of patients who had unknown etiology, a family history for deafness and/or dystonia was present the majority of patients, suggesting a strong genetic component. Sensory-neural deafness always preceded dystonia. Two clinical patterns of deafness-dystonia syndrome were observed: patients who had an onset in childhood had generalized dystonia (10 of 13 patients) with frequent bulbar involvement, whereas patients who had a dystonia onset in adulthood had segmental dystonia (3 of 13 patients) with the invariable presence of laryngeal dystonia. Deafness-dystonia syndrome is etiologically and clinically heterogeneous, and most patients have an unknown cause. The different age at onset and variable family history suggest a heterogeneous genetic background, possibly including currently unidentified genetic conditions.






Using brain surgery, specific areas in the brain can be stimulated with electrical impulses to reversibly change their activity and alleviate symptoms related to mental illnesses. This so-called deep brain stimulation and other methodological advances that even more selectively activate specific groups of neurons can give us clues as to what neural circuitry is involved in a particular mental disorder and whether therapeutic activation of these brain areas and neurons may be effective. In &quot;Bedside to Bench&quot;, Eric Nestler discusses two trials of individuals with anorexia nervosa in which deep brain stimulation of different brain areas resulted in improvement of behavioral domains associated with the syndrome. The results and potential of this technique in animals and humans may bring us closer to understanding the neurobiology of anorexia nervosa, which still remains a mystery and poses a challenge for treatment. In &quot;Bench to Bedside&quot;, Jennifer Warner-Schmidt peruses recent findings that uncover the functional connectivity of brain regions involved in depression and how activation of cortical regions can result in antidepressant effects that can compensate for the malfunction of other brain circuits that results in depression.


When we recognize a sensory event, we experience a confident feeling that we certainly know the perceived world 'here and now'. However, it is unknown how and where the brain generates such 'perceptual confidence'. Here we found neural correlates of confidence in the primate pulvinar, a visual thalamic nucleus that has been expanding markedly through evolution. During a categorization task, the majority of pulvinar responses did not correlate with any 'perceptual content'. During an opt-out task, pulvinar responses decreased when monkeys chose 'escape' options, suggesting less confidence in their perceptual categorization. Functional silencing of the pulvinar increased monkeys' escape choices in the opt-out task without affecting categorization performance; this effect was specific to the contralateral visual target. These data were supported by a theoretical model of confidence, indicating that pulvinar activities encode a subject's certainty of visual categorization and contribute to perceptual confidence.
Fragile X syndrome is caused by the loss of Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), an RNA-binding protein that suppresses protein translation. We found that FMRP binds to Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule (Dscam) RNA, a molecule that is involved in neural development and has been implicated in Down syndrome. Elevated Dscam protein levels in FMRP null Drosophila and in flies with three copies of the Dscam gene both produced specific and similar synaptic targeting errors in a hard-wired neural circuit, which impaired the flies' sensory perception. Reducing Dscam levels in FMRP null flies reduced synaptic targeting errors and rescued behavioral responses. Our results indicate that excess Dscam protein may be a common molecular mechanism underlying altered neural wiring in intellectual disabilities such as Fragile X and Down syndromes.
Although we know much about the capacity of neurons to integrate synaptic inputs in vitro, less is known about synaptic integration in vivo. Here we address this issue by investigating the integration of inputs from the two eyes in mouse primary visual cortex. We find that binocular inputs to layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons are integrated sublinearly in an amplitude-dependent manner. Sublinear integration was greatest when binocular responses were largest, as occurs at the preferred orientation and binocular disparity, and highest contrast. Using voltage-clamp experiments and modeling, we show that sublinear integration occurs postsynaptically. The extent of sublinear integration cannot be accounted for solely by nonlinear integration of excitatory inputs, even when they are activated closely in space and time, but requires balanced recruitment of inhibition. Finally, we show that sublinear binocular integration acts as a divisive form of gain control, linearizing the output of binocular neurons and enhancing orientation selectivity.
The adult CNS contains an abundant population of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (NG2(+) cells) that generate oligodendrocytes and repair myelin, but how these ubiquitous progenitors maintain their density is unknown. We generated NG2-mEGFP mice and used in vivo two-photon imaging to study their dynamics in the adult brain. Time-lapse imaging revealed that NG2(+) cells in the cortex were highly dynamic; they surveyed their local environment with motile filopodia, extended growth cones and continuously migrated. They maintained unique territories though self-avoidance, and NG2(+) cell loss though death, differentiation or ablation triggered rapid migration and proliferation of adjacent cells to restore their density. NG2(+) cells recruited to sites of focal CNS injury were similarly replaced by a proliferative burst surrounding the injury site. Thus, homeostatic control of NG2(+) cell density through a balance of active growth and self-repulsion ensures that these progenitors are available to replace oligodendrocytes and participate in tissue repair.
Excessive glucocorticoid exposure during chronic stress causes synapse loss and learning impairment. Under normal physiological conditions, glucocorticoid activity oscillates in synchrony with the circadian rhythm. Whether and how endogenous glucocorticoid oscillations modulate synaptic plasticity and learning is unknown. Here we show that circadian glucocorticoid peaks promote postsynaptic dendritic spine formation in the mouse cortex after motor skill learning, whereas troughs are required for stabilizing newly formed spines that are important for long-term memory retention. Conversely, chronic and excessive exposure to glucocorticoids eliminates learning-associated new spines and disrupts previously acquired memories. Furthermore, we show that glucocorticoids promote rapid spine formation through a non-transcriptional mechanism by means of the LIM kinase-cofilin pathway and increase spine elimination through transcriptional mechanisms involving mineralocorticoid receptor activation. Together, these findings indicate that tightly regulated circadian glucocorticoid oscillations are important for learning-dependent synaptic formation and maintenance. They also delineate a new signaling mechanism underlying these effects.
High-level cortical systems for spatial navigation, including entorhinal grid cells, critically depend on input from the head direction system. We examined spiking rhythms and modes of synchrony between neurons participating in head direction networks for evidence of internal processing, independent of direct sensory drive, which may be important for grid cell function. We found that head direction networks of rats were segregated into at least two populations of neurons firing on alternate theta cycles (theta cycle skipping) with fixed synchronous or anti-synchronous relationships. Pairs of anti-synchronous theta cycle skipping neurons exhibited larger differences in head direction tuning, with a minimum difference of 40 degrees of head direction. Septal inactivation preserved the head direction signal, but eliminated theta cycle skipping of head direction cells and grid cell spatial periodicity. We propose that internal mechanisms underlying cycle skipping in head direction networks may be critical for downstream spatial computation by grid cells.
Little is known about how attention changes the cortical representation of sensory information in humans. On the basis of neurophysiological evidence, we hypothesized that attention causes tuning changes to expand the representation of attended stimuli at the cost of unattended stimuli. To investigate this issue, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure how semantic representation changed during visual search for different object categories in natural movies. We found that many voxels across occipito-temporal and fronto-parietal cortex shifted their tuning toward the attended category. These tuning shifts expanded the representation of the attended category and of semantically related, but unattended, categories, and compressed the representation of categories that were semantically dissimilar to the target. Attentional warping of semantic representation occurred even when the attended category was not present in the movie; thus, the effect was not a target-detection artifact. These results suggest that attention dynamically alters visual representation to optimize processing of behaviorally relevant objects during natural vision.

The richness of perceptual experience, as well as its usefulness for guiding behaviour, depends on the synthesis of information across multiple senses. Recent decades have witnessed a surge in our understanding of how the brain combines sensory cues. Much of this research has been guided by one of two distinct approaches: one is driven primarily by neurophysiological observations, and the other is guided by principles of mathematical psychology and psychophysics. Conflicting results and interpretations have contributed to a conceptual gap between psychophysical and physiological accounts of cue integration, but recent studies of visual-vestibular cue integration have narrowed this gap considerably.
Contexts surround and imbue meaning to events; they are essential for recollecting the past, interpreting the present and anticipating the future. Indeed, the brain's capacity to contextualize information permits enormous cognitive and behavioural flexibility. Studies of Pavlovian fear conditioning and extinction in rodents and humans suggest that a neural circuit including the hippocampus, amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex is involved in the learning and memory processes that enable context-dependent behaviour. Dysfunction in this network may be involved in several forms of psychopathology, including post-traumatic stress disorder, schizophrenia and substance abuse disorders.
We conducted a genome-wide association study in a cohort of 176 Italian Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with extreme phenotype of response to cholinesterase inhibitors. Patients were classified into responders in case of positive, stable, or 1 worsening of mini-mental state examination score and into nonresponders if &gt;3 points worsening during a median follow-up of 0.85 years of treatment. Forty-eight single-nucleotide polymorphisms were selected for replication in 198 additional AD-treated patients. By using the dichotomous response trait and a quantitative trait approach (change of mini-mental state examination), a nominal replication and evidence of association when combining data were achieved for 2 single-nucleotide polymorphisms associated with response to treatment: rs6720975A (pcombined = 2.9  10(-5), beta regression coefficient: 1.61) and rs17798800A (pcombined = 6.8  10(-6), odds ratio = 0.38, 95% confidence interval = 0.25-0.58). Rs6720975 maps in the intronic region of PRKCE, a protein kinase involved in several cellular functions, whereas rs17798800 is intergenic and, according to expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analysis, it acts as a cis-regulator of NBEA, an A kinase-anchoring protein playing a substantial role in the maturation of the nervous system. Despite its limitations, this project paves the way for the application of personalized medicine in AD patients and for collaborative efforts in this field.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial disorder of unknown etiology. Mechanistically, beta amyloid peptides (A) and elevated Ca(2+) have been implicated as proximal and likely interactive features of the disease process. We tested the hypothesis that proximity to A plaque might exacerbate activity-dependent neuronal Ca(2+) signaling in hippocampal pyramidal neurons from APPSWE/PS1M146V mice. Using combined approaches of whole cell patch clamp recording and 2-photon imaging of neuronal Ca(2+) signals with thioflavin-S plaque labeling in hippocampal slices, we found no correlation between thioflavin-S labeled A plaque proximity and Ca(2+) responses triggered by ryanodine receptor (RyR) activation or action potentials in either dendrites or somata of AD mice, regardless of age. Baseline and RyR-stimulated spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials also showed little difference in relation to A plaque proximity. Consistent with previous studies, RyR-evoked Ca(2+) release in APPSWE/PS1M146V mice was greater than in nontransgenic controls. Within the soma, RyR-evoked Ca(2+) release was elevated in older APPSWE/PS1M146V mice compared with younger APPSWE/PS1M146V mice, but was still independent of plaque proximity. The results indicate that early Ca(2+) signaling disruptions can become yet more severe with age through mechanisms independent of A plaques, suggesting that alternative pathogenic mechanisms might contribute to AD-associated dysfunction.
The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) exerts numerous functions in the body and brain. In the brain, it has been implicated, amongst others, in feedback regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, with potential deficits during aging and in depression. GRs are abundantly expressed in the hippocampus of rodent, except for the Ammon's horn (CA) 3 subregion. In rhesus monkey however, GR protein was largely absent from all hippocampal subregions, which prompted us to investigate its distribution in human hippocampus. After validation of antibody specificity, we investigated GR protein distribution in the postmortem hippocampus of 26 human control subjects (1-98 years of age) and quantified changes with age and sex. In contrast to monkey, abundant GR-immunoreactivity was present in nuclei of almost all neurons of the hippocampal CA subfields and dentate gyrus (DG), although neurons of the CA3 subregion displayed lower levels of immunoreactivity. Colocalization with glial fibrillary acidic protein confirmed that GR was additionally expressed in approximately 50% of the astrocytes in the CA regions, with lower levels of colocalization (approximately 20%) in the DG. With increased age, GR expression remained stable in the CA regions in both sexes, whereas a significant negative correlation was found with age only in the DG of females. Thus, in contrast to the very low levels previously reported in monkey, GR protein is prominently expressed in human hippocampus, indicating that this region can form an important target for corticosteroid effects in human.
Large repeat expansions in the C9orf72 gene were recently reported to be a major cause of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia. Given some of the clinical and pathologic overlap between these 2 diseases and Parkinson's disease, we sought to evaluate the presence of these expansions in a cohort of French-Canadian patients with Parkinson's disease. No pathologic expansion was found in our cohort of patients suggesting that C9orf72 repeat expansions do not play a major role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
Impaired brain energy metabolism and oxidative stress are implicated in cognitive decline and the pathologic accumulations of amyloid -peptide (A) and hyperphosphorylated tau in Alzheimer's disease (AD). To determine whether improving brain energy metabolism will forestall disease progress in AD, the impact of the -nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide precursor nicotinamide on brain cell mitochondrial function and macroautophagy, bioenergetics-related signaling, and cognitive performance were studied in cultured neurons and in a mouse model of AD. Oxidative stress resulted in decreased mitochondrial mass, mitochondrial degeneration, and autophagosome accumulation in neurons. Nicotinamide preserved mitochondrial integrity and autophagy function, and reduced neuronal vulnerability to oxidative/metabolic insults and A toxicity. -Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide biosynthesis, autophagy, and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase signaling were required for the neuroprotective action of nicotinamide. Treatment of 3xTgAD mice with nicotinamide for 8 months resulted in improved cognitive performance, and reduced A and hyperphosphorylated tau pathologies in hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Nicotinamide treatment preserved mitochondrial integrity, and improved autophagy-lysosome procession by enhancing lysosome/autolysosome acidification to reduce autophagosome accumulation. Treatment of 3xTgAD mice with nicotinamide resulted in elevated levels of activated neuroplasticity-related kinases (protein kinase B [Akt] and extracellular signal-regulated kinases) and the transcription factor cyclic adenosine monophosphate (AMP) response element-binding protein in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Thus, nicotinamide suppresses AD pathology and cognitive decline in a mouse model of AD by a mechanism involving improved brain bioenergetics with preserved functionality of mitochondria and the autophagy system.
The elderly population shows various circadian disturbances, including dampened amplitude of rhythmicity and decreased responsiveness to light. The common poor folate status in the elderly might account for these aging-related circadian disturbances. To test this hypothesis, we investigated whether folate deficiency in mice affects circadian oscillations of the master clock in the suprachiasmatic nuclei, and the shifting responses to light. Mice fed a diet without folate for 6 weeks displayed markedly reduced (4.5-fold) erythrocyte folate concentration and increased (2.3-fold) homocysteinemia compared with control mice. Folate deficiency decreased the circadian amplitude of vasopressin and the clock protein PERIOD 2 (PER2) in the master clock, slowed the rate of re-entrainment of behavioral rhythms after delayed light-dark cycle and reduced light-induced phase-delays, without detectable morphologic changes in the retina, such as the number of melanopsinergic ganglion cells, that might have impaired photodetection. In conclusion, folate deficiency and consecutive hyperhomocysteinemia led to dampened PER2 and vasopressin oscillations in the master clock and reduced responsiveness to photic resetting, which constitute hallmarks of aging effects on circadian rhythmicity.
Copper-zinc superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) is the second most common mutated gene in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To date more than 150 missense mutations of SOD1 have been reported. The objective of this study was to describe a novel SOD1 mutation and its phenotypic expression. We describe a 74-year-old Caucasian man who began to complain of progressive weakness and atrophy of the right hand and over 10 months developed a severe tetraparesis, with atrophies of upper and lower limbs and neck muscles, dysphagia, and dyspnea that led to percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy and tracheotomy. A diagnosis of ALS was made. Genetic analysis identified a heterozygous mutation in exon 4 of SOD1 that results in the amino acid substitution from arginine to cysteine at position 115 (p.R115C). We identified a novel pathogenic SOD1 mutation in a patient with a very rapid disease progression and aggressive phenotype providing additional information on the wide range of SOD1 mutations in apparently sporadic ALS and confirming the possibility of a strong genotype-phenotype correlation for distinct SOD1 mutations.
Profilin 1 is a central regulator of actin dynamics. Mutations in the gene profilin 1 (PFN1) have very recently been shown to be the cause of a subgroup of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Here, we performed a large screen of US, Nordic, and German familial and sporadic ALS and frontotemporal dementia (FTLD) patients for PFN1 mutations to get further insight into the spectrum and pathogenic relevance of this gene for the complete ALS/FTLD continuum. Four hundred twelve familial and 260 sporadic ALS cases and 16 ALS/FTLD cases from Germany, the Nordic countries, and the United States were screened for PFN1 mutations. Phenotypes of patients carrying PFN1 mutations were studied. In a German ALS family we identified the novel heterozygous PFN1 mutation p.Thr109Met, which was absent in controls. This novel mutation abrogates a phosphorylation site in profilin 1. The recently described p.Gln117Gly sequence variant was found in another familial ALS patient from the United States. The ALS patients with mutations in PFN1 displayed spinal onset motor neuron disease without overt cognitive involvement. PFN1 mutations were absent in patients with motor neuron disease and dementia, and in patients with only FTLD. We provide further evidence that PFN1 mutations can cause ALS as a Mendelian dominant trait. Patients carrying PFN1 mutations reported so far represent the &quot;classic&quot; ALS end of the ALS-FTLD spectrum. The novel p.Thr109Met mutation provides additional proof-of-principle that mutant proteins involved in the regulation of cytoskeletal dynamics can cause motor neuron degeneration. Moreover, this new mutation suggests that fine-tuning of actin polymerization by phosphorylation of profilin 1 might be necessary for motor neuron survival.
Newer therapies are needed for the treatment of status epilepticus (SE) refractory to benzodiazepines. Enhanced glutamatergic neurotransmission leads to SE, and AMPA receptors are modified during SE. Reducing glutamate release during SE is a potential approach to terminate SE. The neuropeptide somatostatin (SST) is proposed to diminish presynaptic glutamate release by activating SST type-2 receptors (SST2R). SST exerts an anticonvulsant action in some experimental models of seizures. Here, we investigated the mechanism of action of SST on excitatory synaptic transmission at the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses and the ability of SST to treat SE in rats using patch-clamp electrophysiology and video-EEG monitoring of seizures. SST reduced action potential-dependent EPSCs (sEPSCs) at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses at concentrations up to 1M; higher concentrations had no effect or increased the sEPSC frequency. SST also prevented paired-pulse facilitation of evoked EPSCs and did not alter action-potential-independent miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs). The effect of SST on EPSCs was inhibited by the SST2R antagonist cyanamid-154806 and was mimicked by the SST2R agonists, octreotide and lanreotide. Both SST and octreotide reduced the firing rate of CA1 pyramidal neurons. Intraventricular administration of SST, within a range of doses, either prevented or attenuated pilocarpine-induced SE or delayed the median time to the first grade 5 seizure by 11min. Similarly, octreotide or lanreotide prevented or attenuated SE in more than 65% of animals. Compared to the pilocarpine model, octreotide was highly potent in preventing or attenuating continuous hippocampal stimulation-induced SE in all animals within 60min of SE onset. Our results demonstrate that SST, through the activation of SST2Rs, diminishes presynaptic glutamate release and attenuates SE.
It has recently been hypothesized that a sub-lethal ischemic insult induced in one organ is able to protect from a harmful ischemia occurring in a different organ. The objective of this study is to identify new putative mechanisms of neuroprotection elicited by remote ischemic femoral postconditioning. A 50% reduction in the infarct volume was observed when 100min of middle cerebral artery occlusion was followed, 10min later, by the remote postconditioning stimulus represented by 20min of femoral artery occlusion. The use of in vivo silencing strategy allowed to demonstrate that NO production through nNOS mediates part of the neuroprotection. Indeed, whereas CNS nNOS expression was up-regulated by remote postconditioning, the pharmacological inhibition of nNOS or its silencing-mediated knocking-down partially prevented this neuroprotective effect. This nNOS overexpression seemed to be p-ERK dependent. In fact, p-ERK expression increased in brain cortex after remote postconditioning, and its pharmacological inhibition prevented both nNOS overexpression and remote postconditioning-mediated neuroprotection. Interestingly, neuroprotection induced by remote postconditioning was partially prevented when ganglion transmission was pharmacologically interrupted by hexamethonium, thus showing that neural factors are involved in this phenomenon. Collectively, the present study demonstrates that p-ERK and nNOS take part to the complex cascade of events triggered by ischemic remote postconditioning.
The PTEN induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) gene is mutated in patients with hereditary early onset Parkinson's disease (PD). The targets of PINK1 and the mechanisms in PD are still not fully understood. Here, we carried out a high-throughput and unbiased microarray study to identify novel functions and pathways for PINK1. In larval zebrafish, the function of pink1 was inhibited using splice-site morpholino oligonucleotides and the samples were hybridized on a two-color gene expression array. We found 177 significantly altered genes in pink1 morphants compared with the uninjected wildtype controls (log fold change values from -1.6 to +0.9). The five most prominent pathways based on critical biological processes and key toxicological responses were hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) signaling, TGF- signaling, mitochondrial dysfunction, RAR activation, and biogenesis of mitochondria. Furthermore, we verified that potentially important genes such as hif1, catalase, SOD3, and atp1a2a were downregulated in pink1 morphants, whereas genes such as fech, pax2a, and notch1a were upregulated. Some of these genes have been found to play important roles in HIF signaling pathways. The pink1 morphants were found to have heart dysfunction, increased erythropoiesis, increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factors, and increased ROS. Our findings suggest that a lack of pink1 in zebrafish alters many vital and critical pathways in addition to the HIF signaling pathway.

Prolonged l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA) administration, the gold standard therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with serious motor complications, known as l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). One of the major molecular changes associated with LID is the increased activity of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (Erk1/2) signaling in the medium spiny neurons of the striatum induced by malfunctioning in the dopamine D1 receptor (D1R)-mediated transmission. We have previously established that in the striatum, activation of Shp-2, an intracellular tyrosine phosphatase associated with the D1R, is a requisite for the D1R to activate Erk1/2. In this study, we investigated the role of striatal D1R/Shp-2 complex in the molecular event underlying LID in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of PD. We found that in hemiparkinsonian rats experiencing LID, the physiological interaction between D1R and Shp-2 in the striatum was preserved. In these animals, the chronic activation of D1R either by l-DOPA or by the selective D1R agonist SKF 38393 induced both dyskinesia and Shp-2/Erk1/2 activation. These effects were prevented by the selective D1R-antagonist SCH23390 suggesting the involvement of striatal D1R/Shp-2 complex, via Erk1/2 activation, in the molecular events underlying LID. Interestingly, we found that D1R-mediated Shp-2-Erk1/2 activation was persistently detected in the striatum of dyskinetic rats during l-DOPA washout, with a close correlation between LID severity and the extent of long term activation of both Shp-2 and Erk1/2. Taken together, our data show that in hemiparkinsonian rats developing dyskinesia, the aberrant phosphorylation of Shp-2 by D1R activation, represents an upstream molecular event leading to the persistent phosphorylation of Erk1/2 and therefore a novel therapeutic target to counteract LID development and maintenance during l-DOPA therapy.
Cognitive impairment is a common comorbidity in pediatric epilepsy that can severely affect quality of life. In many cases, antiepileptic treatments fail to improve cognition. Therefore, a fundamental question is whether underlying brain abnormalities may contribute to cognitive impairment through mechanisms independent of seizures. Here, we examined the possible effects on cognition of Nav1.1 down-regulation, a sodium channel principally involved in Dravet syndrome but also implicated in other cognitive disorders, including autism and Alzheimer's disease. Using an siRNA approach to knockdown Nav1.1 selectively in the basal forebrain region, we were able to target a learning and memory network while avoiding the generation of spontaneous seizures. We show that reduction of Nav1.1 expression in the medial septum and diagonal band of Broca leads to a dysregulation of hippocampal oscillations in association with a spatial memory deficit. We propose that the underlying etiology responsible for Dravet syndrome may directly contribute to cognitive impairment in a manner that is independent from seizures.
Kainate receptors (KARs) are members of the glutamate receptor family, which also includes two other ionotropic subtypes, i.e. NMDA- and AMPA-type receptors, and types I, II and III metabotropic glutamate receptors. KARs mediate synaptic transmission postynaptically through their ionotropic capacity, while presynaptically, they modulate the release of both GABA and glutamate through operationally diverse modus operandi. At hippocampal mossy fiber (MF)-CA3 synapses, KARs have a biphasic effect on glutamate release, such that, depending on the extent of their activation, a facilitation or depression of glutamate release can be observed. This modulation is posited to contribute to important roles of KARs in short- and long-term plasticity. Elucidation of the modes of action of KARs in their depression and facilitation of glutamate release is beginning to gather impetus. Here we will focus on the cellular mechanisms involved in the modulation of glutamate release by presynaptic KAR activation at MF-CA3 synapses, a field that has seen significant progress in recent years.

Mice with a heterozygous knock-out of the myelin protein P0 gene (P0+/-) develop a neuropathy similar to human Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. They are indistinguishable from wild-types (WT) at birth and develop a slowly progressing demyelinating neuropathy. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the regeneration capacity of early symptomatic P0+/- is impaired as compared to age matched WT. Right sciatic nerves were lesioned at the thigh in 7-8months old mice. Tibial motor axons at ankle were investigated by conventional motor conduction studies and axon excitability studies using threshold tracking. To evaluate regeneration we monitored the recovery of motor function after crush, and then compared the fiber distribution by histology. The overall motor performance was investigated using Rotor-Rod. P0+/- had reduced compound motor action potential amplitudes and thinner myelinated axons with only a borderline impairment in conduction and Rotor-Rod. Plantar muscle reinnervation occurred within 21days in all mice. Shortly after reinnervation the conduction of P0+/- regenerated axons was markedly slower than WT, however, this difference decayed with time. Nevertheless, after 1month, regenerated P0+/- axons had longer strength-duration time constant, larger threshold changes during hyperpolarizing electrotonus and longer relative refractory period. Their performance at Rotor-Rod remained also markedly impaired. In contrast, the number and diameter distribution of regenerating myelinated fibers became similar to regenerated WT. Our data suggest that in the presence of heterozygously P0 deficient Schwann cells, regenerating motor axons retain their ability to reinnervate their targets and remyelinate, though their functional recovery is delayed.
Neurexins and neuroligins are synaptic cell adhesion molecules. Neurexins are primary located on the presynaptic membrane, whereas neuroligins are strictly postsynaptic proteins. Since their discovery, the knowledge of neurexins and neuroligins has expanded, implicating them in various neuronal processes, including the differentiation, maturation, stabilization, and plasticity of both inhibitory and excitatory synapses. Here, we review the most recent results regarding the structure and function of these cell adhesion molecules.
The family of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) plays a key role in controlling innate immune responses to a wide variety of pathogen-associated molecules. It was recently suggested that TLRs have an important role in the crosstalk between neurons and glial cells in the central nervous system, thus their deregulation may play a role in neurodegeneration. Multiple system atrophy (MSA) together with Parkinson's disease belongs to a diverse group of neurodegenerative conditions termed -synucleinopathies. MSA is a fatal late onset disease characterized by the presence of -synuclein positive glial cytoplasmic inclusions in oligodendrocytes. -Synuclein can act as a danger-associated molecular pattern and alter TLR expression thereby activating inflammatory responses in the brain. In this study, using real-time PCR, we assessed the expression of TLRs (TLR1-10) in selected areas of MSA brains (substantia nigra, striatum, cerebral cortex, and nucleus dentatus) in comparison with normal controls. We show evidence for increased levels of mRNA-encoding hTLR-3, hTLR-4, and hTLR-5 in substantia nigra, striatum, cerebral cortex, and nucleus dentatus from MSA brains versus normal controls. The levels of expression of hTLR-1 mRNA were elevated in substantia nigra and striatum whereas levels of hTLR-8 and hTLR-9 mRNAs were significantly higher in cerebella from MSA patients. The concerted alteration of expression of multiple TLRs in MSA brains can be of relevance for understanding the pathogenesis of the disease.
Neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAMs) are complexes of transmembranal proteins critical for cell-cell interactions. Initially recognized as key players in the orchestration of developmental processes involving cell migration, cell survival, axon guidance, and synaptic targeting, they have been shown to retain these functions in the mature adult brain, in relation to plastic processes and cognitive abilities. NCAMs are able to interact among themselves (homophilic binding) as well as with other molecules (heterophilic binding). Furthermore, they are the sole molecule of the central nervous system undergoing polysialylation. Most interestingly polysialylated and non-polysialylated NCAMs display opposite properties. The precise contributions each of these characteristics brings in the regulations of synaptic and cellular plasticity in relation to cognitive processes in the adult brain are not yet fully understood. With the aim of deciphering the specific involvement of each interaction, recent developments led to the generation of NCAM mimetic peptides that recapitulate identified binding properties of NCAM. The present review focuses on the information such advances have provided in the understanding of NCAM contribution to cognitive function.
The Drosophila protein Turtle and the vertebrate proteins immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF), member 9 (IGSF9/Dasm1) and IGSF9B are members of an evolutionarily ancient protein family. A bioinformatics analysis of the protein family revealed that invertebrates contain only a single IGSF9 family gene, whereas vertebrates contain two to four genes. In cnidarians, the gene appears to encode a secreted protein, but transmembrane isoforms of the protein have also evolved, and in many species, alternative splicing facilitates the expression of both transmembrane and secreted isoforms. In most species, the longest isoforms of the proteins have the same general organization as the neural cell adhesion molecule family of cell adhesion molecule proteins, and like this family of proteins, IGSF9 family members are expressed in the nervous system. A review of the literature revealed that Drosophila Turtle facilitates homophilic cell adhesion. Moreover, IGSF9 family proteins have been implicated in the outgrowth and branching of neurites, axon guidance, synapse maturation, self-avoidance, and tiling. However, despite the few published studies on IGSF9 family proteins, reports on the functions of both Turtle and mammalian IGSF9 proteins are contradictory.
Neuronal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) play a critical role in synaptic plasticity. Their activation requires not only binding of their ligand glutamate and membrane depolarization but also the presence of a co-agonist, glycine or D-serine. An increasing body of experimental evidence suggests that different populations of NMDARs could be gated by different co-agonists. Here we discuss how the spatial distribution of co-agonist sources and uptake mechanisms, together with diffusional properties of the synaptic environment, could shape NMDAR co-agonist supply and therefore NMDAR-dependent plasticity.
Neuronal structural plasticity is known to have a major role in cognitive processes and in the response of the CNS to aversive experiences. This type of plasticity involves processes ranging from neurite outgrowth/retraction or dendritic spine remodeling, to the incorporation of new neurons to the established circuitry. However, the study of how these structural changes take place has been focused mainly on excitatory neurons, while little attention has been paid to interneurons. The exploration of these plastic phenomena in interneurons is very important, not only for our knowledge of CNS physiology, but also for understanding better the etiology of different psychiatric and neurological disorders in which alterations in the structure and connectivity of inhibitory networks have been described. Here we review recent work on the structural remodeling of interneurons in the adult brain, both in basal conditions and after chronic stress or sensory deprivation. We also describe studies from our laboratory and others on the putative mediators of this interneuronal structural plasticity, focusing on the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM). This molecule is expressed by some interneurons in the adult CNS and, through its anti-adhesive and insulating properties, may participate in the remodeling of their structure. Finally, we review recent findings on the possible implication of PSA-NCAM on the remodeling of inhibitory neurons in certain psychiatric disorders and their treatments.
Snap25 (synaptosomal-associated protein) is a 25kDa protein, belonging to the SNARE-family (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors) of proteins, essential for synaptic and secretory vesicle exocytosis. Snap25 has by immunohistochemistry been demonstrated in the rat pineal gland but the biological importance of this is unknown. In this study, we demonstrate a high expression of mRNA encoding Snap25 in all parts of the rat pineal complex, the superficial-, and deep-pineal gland, as well as in the pineal stalk. Snap25 showed a low pineal expression during embryonic stages with a strong increase in expression levels just after birth. The expression showed no day/night variations. Neither removal of the sympathetic input to the pineal gland by superior cervical ganglionectomy nor bilateral decentralization of the superior cervical ganglia significantly affected the expression of Snap25 in the gland. The pineal expression levels of Snap25 were not changed following intraperitoneal injection of isoproterenol. The strong expression of Snap25 in the pineal gland suggests the presence of secretory granules and microvesicles in the rat pinealocyte supporting the concept of a vesicular release. At the transcriptional level, this Snap25-based release mechanism does not exhibit any diurnal rhythmicity and is regulated independently of the sympathetic nervous input to the gland.
The pineal gland is a neuroendocrine gland responsible for nocturnal synthesis of melatonin. During early development of the rodent pineal gland from the roof of the diencephalon, homeobox genes of the orthodenticle homeobox (Otx)- and paired box (Pax)-families are expressed and are essential for normal pineal development consistent with the well-established role that homeobox genes play in developmental processes. However, the pineal gland appears to be unusual because strong homeobox gene expression persists in the pineal gland of the adult brain. Accordingly, in addition to developmental functions, homeobox genes appear to be key regulators in postnatal phenotype maintenance in this tissue. In this paper, we review ontogenetic and phylogenetic aspects of pineal development and recent progress in understanding the involvement of homebox genes in rodent pineal development and adult function. A working model is proposed for understanding the sequential action of homeobox genes in controlling development and mature circadian function of the mammalian pinealocyte based on knowledge from detailed developmental and daily gene expression analyses in rats, the pineal phenotypes of homebox gene-deficient mice and studies on development of the retinal photoreceptor; the pinealocyte and retinal photoreceptor share features not seen in other tissues and are likely to have evolved from the same ancestral photodetector cell.
A non-selective antihistamine, dimebon, has recently emerged as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease. Dimebon exerts several effects in addition to its anti-histaminergic effect, and of particular interest is its ability to enhance cognitive function in several models. The mechanism underlying this is unknown though it has been suggested that it may be associated with its anti-cholinergic action. Dimebon has also been reported to be neuroprotective, perhaps as a result of its ability to stabilize mitochondria. We considered that these effects might impact on the well-described age-related impairment in spatial learning and therefore examined the effect of repeated administration of dimebon on performance of young and aged animals in the Morris water maze. Whereas a clear age-related deficit was observed, dimebon failed to exert any effect on performance. Similarly, dimebon exerted no effect on the age-related increase in hippocampal expression of several markers of microglial and astroglial activation. We conclude that, despite its cognitive enhancing effects in some models, dimebon failed to modulate the deficit in spatial learning in aged rats and the evidence suggests that the drug does not possess anti-inflammatory properties.









Neuroimaging results are typically graphically rendered and color-coded, which influences the process of knowledge generation within neuroscience as well as the public perception of brain research. Analyzing these issues requires empirical information on the display practice in neuroimaging. In our study we evaluated more than 9000 functional images (fMRI and PET) published between 1996 and 2009 with respect to the use of color, image structure, image production software and other factors that may determine the display practice. We demonstrate a variety of display styles despite a remarkable dominance of few image production sites and software systems, outline some tendencies of standardization, and identify shortcomings with respect to color scale explication in neuroimages. We discuss the importance of the finding for knowledge production in neuroimaging, and we make suggestions to improve the display practice in neuroimaging, especially on regimes of color coding.
EPI with Keyhole (EPIK) is a hybrid imaging technique used to improve the performance of EPI in dynamic MRI applications. The method had been previously validated at 1.5 T with both phantom and in vivo images; EPIK was able to provide a higher temporal resolution and less image distortions than single-shot EPI. The data presented here demonstrate that the performance of EPIK can be further improved by accelerating it with the parallel imaging. For this work, this combination was tested at 3 T. After initial evaluation using phantom images, use of the method in functional MRI was verified with visual fMRI measurements as well as MRI simulation results. The results showed that accelerated EPIK had increased temporal resolution with favorable robustness against susceptibility artifacts when compared with EPI or non-accelerated EPIK.
Fear-related disorders are significantly more prevalent in women than in men. Stress may modulate the neurocircuitry of fear and is a critical factor in the pathogenesis of fear-related disorders. Therefore, we tested in the present experiment the hypothesis that noradrenaline and glucocorticoids, two major stress mediators, have differential effects on fear processing in men and women. In a placebo-controlled, double-blind between-subject design, 80 healthy men and women were administered orally the 2-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine and/or the synthetic glucocorticoid hydrocortisone before they rated images of neutral and fearful faces with respect to the degree of fearfulness of the facial expression. During presentation of facial expressions, functional magnetic resonance images were collected. Yohimbine increased subjective ratings of the fearfulness of the faces in women but reduced fearfulness ratings in men. Neuroimaging data showed that yohimbine increased amygdala activity in response to fearful faces in women, whereas it attenuated amygdala responsivity to fearful faces in men. Moreover, yohimbine decreased orbitofrontal activity while viewing fearful faces in women. Hydrocortisone did not affect fear processing, neither in men nor in women. Our findings suggest that noradrenergic arousal may have opposite effects on fear processing in men and women. These sex differences may represent a biological mechanism that contributes to the differential prevalence of fear-related disorders in men and women.
Analyzing single trial brain activity remains a challenging problem in the neurosciences. We gain purchase on this problem by focusing on globally synchronous fields in within-trial evoked brain activity, rather than on localized peaks in the trial-averaged evoked response (ER). We analyzed data from three measurement modalities, each with different spatial resolutions: magnetoencephalogram (MEG), electroencephalogram (EEG) and electrocorticogram (ECoG). We first characterized the ER in terms of summation of phase and amplitude components over trials. Both contributed to the ER, as expected, but the ER topography was dominated by the phase component. This means the observed topography of cross-trial phase will not necessarily reflect the phase topography within trials. To assess the organization of within-trial phase, traveling wave (TW) components were quantified by computing the phase gradient. TWs were intermittent but ubiquitous in the within-trial evoked brain activity. At most task-relevant times and frequencies, the within-trial phase topography was described better by a TW than by the trial-average of phase. The trial-average of the TW components also reproduced the topography of the ER; we suggest that the ER topography arises, in large part, as an average over TW behaviors. These findings were consistent across the three measurement modalities. We conclude that, while phase is critical to understanding the topography of event-related activity, the preliminary step of collating cortical signals across trials can obscure the TW components in brain activity and lead to an underestimation of the coherent motion of cortical fields.
In a critical review (Thomas and Baker, 2012), we argued for caution in evaluating reports of training-dependent adult structural plasticity measured with MRI. Here, we respond to the commentaries on our review, clarifying our position and addressing some of the specific criticisms raised.
Production of actions is highly dependent on concurrent sensory information. In speech production, for example, movement of the articulators is guided by both auditory and somatosensory input. It has been demonstrated in non-human primates that self-produced vocalizations and those of others are differentially processed in the temporal cortex. The aim of the current study was to investigate how auditory and motor responses differ for self-produced and externally produced speech. Using functional neuroimaging, subjects were asked to produce sentences aloud, to silently mouth while listening to a different speaker producing the same sentence, to passively listen to sentences being read aloud, or to read sentences silently. We show that that separate regions of the superior temporal cortex display distinct response profiles to speaking aloud, mouthing while listening, and passive listening. Responses in anterior superior temporal cortices in both hemispheres are greater for passive listening compared with both mouthing while listening, and speaking aloud. This is the first demonstration that articulation, whether or not it has auditory consequences, modulates responses of the dorsolateral temporal cortex. In contrast posterior regions of the superior temporal cortex are recruited during both articulation conditions. In dorsal regions of the posterior superior temporal gyrus, responses to mouthing and reading aloud were equivalent, and in more ventral posterior superior temporal sulcus, responses were greater for reading aloud compared with mouthing while listening. These data demonstrate an anterior-posterior division of superior temporal regions where anterior fields are suppressed during motor output, potentially for the purpose of enhanced detection of the speech of others. We suggest posterior fields are engaged in auditory processing for the guidance of articulation by auditory information.
This article has been written as a comment to Dr Thomas and Dr Baker's article &quot;Teaching an adult brain new tricks: A critical review of evidence for training-dependent structural plasticity in humans&quot;. We deliberately expand on the key question about the biological substrates underlying use-dependent brain plasticity rather than reiterating the authors' main points of criticism already addressed in more general way by previous publications in the field. The focus here is on the following main issues: i) controversial brain plasticity findings in voxel-based morphometry studies are partially due to the strong dependency of the widely used T1-weighted imaging protocol on varying magnetic resonance contrast contributions; ii) novel concepts in statistical analysis allow one to directly infer topological specificity of structural brain changes associated with plasticity. We conclude that iii) voxel-based quantification of relaxometry derived parameter maps could provide a new perspective on use-dependent plasticity by characterisation of brain tissue property changes beyond the estimation of volume and cortical thickness changes. In the relevant sections we respond to the concerns raised by Dr Thomas and Dr Baker from the perspective of the proposed data acquisition and analysis strategy.
New structural and functional neuroimaging methods continue to rapidly develop, offering promising tools for cognitive neuroscientists. In the last 20 years, advanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques have provided invaluable insights into how language is represented and processed in the brain and how it can be disrupted by damage to, or dysfunction of, various parts of the brain. Current functional MRI (fMRI) approaches have also allowed researchers to purposefully investigate how individuals recover language after stroke. This paper presents recommendations for quantification of brain lesions derived from discussions among international researchers at the Neuroimaging in Aphasia Treatment Research Workshop held at Northwestern University (Evanston, Illinois, USA). Methods for detailing and characterizing the brain damage that can influence results of fMRI studies in chronic aphasic stroke patients are discussed. Moreover, we aimed to provide the reader with a set of general practical guidelines and references to facilitate choosing adequate structural imaging strategies that facilitate fMRI studies in aphasia treatment research.
Diffusion-weighted MRI (DW-MRI) has been increasingly used in imaging neuroscience over the last decade. An early form of this technique, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) was rapidly implemented by major MRI scanner companies as a scanner selling point. Due to the ease of use of such implementations, and the plausibility of some of their results, DTI was leapt on by imaging neuroscientists who saw it as a powerful and unique new tool for exploring the structural connectivity of human brain. However, DTI is a rather approximate technique, and its results have frequently been given implausible interpretations that have escaped proper critique and have appeared misleadingly in journals of high reputation. In order to encourage the use of improved DW-MRI methods, which have a better chance of characterizing the actual fiber structure of white matter, and to warn against the misuse and misinterpretation of DTI, we review the physics of DW-MRI, indicate currently preferred methodology, and explain the limits of interpretation of its results. We conclude with a list of 'Do's and Don'ts' which define good practice in this expanding area of imaging neuroscience.
Chromosome 19 is one of the several prominent chromosomes related to the risk of developing late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). However, only Apolipoprotein E (APOE) has been confirmed as a risk factor for both disorders. The aim of this study was to investigate a set of polymorphisms in the translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane 40 (TOMM40) gene, located in close proximity to APOE, to clarify if the TOMM40 gene may be considered a risk factor for AD and FTLD, independently of APOE status. We performed a case-control study in a dataset of Italian LOAD and FTLD patients, analyzing the following three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs): rs157580, rs2075650 and rs157581. The analysis was made in 710 Italian subjects: 282 LOAD patients, 156 FTLD patients and 272 healthy subjects. Our results confirm the presence of an association between TOMM40 SNPs and LOAD in our Italian population, suggesting that genetic variations proximate to APOE contributes to the LOAD risk. Genotype and allele distribution of the TOMM40 polymorphisms between the FTLD group and controls did not show any statistical difference. When we analyzed haplotype distribution of the SNPs, taking into account the presence of the APOE allele, we observed a strong association between the 4 allele and the GAC haplotype both in LOAD and FTLD patients. In contrast, this association did not hold for 3/GAC. These results demonstrate that the TOMM40 gene does not have an APOE-independent role in the risk of developing LOAD and FTLD.
We report the construction and standardization of a new comprehensive battery of tests for the assessment of semantic memory disorders. The battery is constructed on a common set of 48 stimuli, belonging to both living and non-living categories, rigidly controlled for several confounding variables, and is based on an empirically derived corpus of semantic features. It includes six tasks, in order to assess semantic memory through different modalities of input and output: two naming tasks, one with colored pictures and the other in response to an oral description, a word-picture matching task, a picture sorting task, a free generation of features task and a sentence verification task. Normative data on 106 Italian subjects pooled across homogenous subgroups for age, sex and education are reported. The new battery allows an in-depth investigation of category-specific disorders and of progressive semantic memory deficits at features level, overcoming some of the limitations of existing tests.
We prospectively examined whether vascular factors are related to an increased incidence of Chronic Idiopathic Distal Symmetric Neuropathy (CI-DSN) in a non-diabetic elderly population. In 8 Italian municipalities, 2,512 men and women without both diabetes and CI-DSN at baseline are examined. Potential effect of vascular factors was estimated by regressing new onset CI-DSN on the occurrence of several vascular diseases and risk factors. Multivariate relative risks of CI-DSN were estimated by Cox proportional hazards models. After 3.8 (2.4) years of follow-up, we documented 51 incident CI-DSN cases. At univariate analysis, age, comorbidity, waist circumference, leg length, peripheral artery disease, and coronary heart disease proved to increase the risk of developing CI-DSN. By multivariate analyses, only age (RR = 1.08; 95 % CI, 1.02-1.14), leg length (RR = 1.05; 95 % CI, 1.01-1.1) and peripheral artery disease (RR = 2.75; 95 % CI, 1.15-6.56) proved significant predictors of CI-DSN. Separate analyses by gender show that age is an independent predictor of CI-DSN both in men and in women, while PAD predicts the disease only in men, together with body height. Incidence of CI-DSN is higher in individuals carrying vascular conditions. In men, the presence at baseline of peripheral artery disease is associated with a threefold increase in the risk of developing CI-DSN. The incidence of neuropathy in non-diabetic individuals is associated with potentially modifiable vascular factors.
Hippocampus learning disturbance is a major symptom of patients with seizure, hence hippocampal dysfunction has essential role in worsening the disease. Hippocampal formation includes neurons and myelinated fibers that are necessary for acquisition and consolidation of memory, long-term potentiation and learning activity. The exact mechanism by which seizure can decrease memory and learning activity of hippocampus remains unknown. In the present study, electrical kindling-induced learning deficit in rats was evaluated by Morris water maze (MWM) test. The hippocampus was removed and changes in neurons and myelin sheaths around hippocampal fibers were investigated using histological and immunohistochemical methods. Demyelination was assessed by luxol fast blue staining, and immunohistological staining of myelin-binding protein (MBP). The TUNEL assay was used for evaluation of neuronal apoptosis and the glial fibriliary acetic protein (GFAP) was used for assessment of inflammatory reaction. The results indicated that electrical kindling of hippocampus could induce deficiency in spatial learning and memory as compared to control group. In addition, electrical kindling caused damage to the myelin sheath around hippocampal fibers and produced vast demyelination. Furthermore, an increase in the number of apoptotic cells in hippocampal slices was observed. In addition, inflammatory response was higher in kindled animals as compared to the control group. The results suggested that the decrease in learning and memory in kindled animals is likely due to demyelination and augmentation in apoptosis rate accompanied by inflammatory reaction in hippocampal neurons of kindled rats.
A greater understanding of the mechanisms that promote the survival and growth of dopaminergic neurons is essential for the advancement of cell replacement therapies for Parkinson's disease (PD). Evidence supports a role for the mitogen-activated protein kinase p38 in the demise of dopaminergic neurons, while mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-1 (MKP-1), which negatively regulates p38 activity, has not yet been investigated in this context. Here, we show that MKP-1 is expressed in dopaminergic neurons cultured from E14 rat ventral mesencephalon (VM). When dopaminergic neurons were transfected to overexpress MKP-1, they displayed a more complex morphology than their control counterparts in vitro. Specifically, MKP-1-transfection induced significant increases in neurite length and branching with a maximum increase observed in primary branches. We demonstrate that inhibition of dopaminergic neurite growth induced by treatment of rat VM neurons with the dopaminergic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in vitro is mediated by p38 and is concomitant with a significant and selective decrease in MKP-1 expression in these neurons. We further show that overexpression of MKP-1 in dopaminergic neurons contributes to neuroprotection against the effects of 6-OHDA. Collectively, we report that MKP-1 can promote the growth and elaboration of dopaminergic neuronal processes and can help protect them from the neurotoxic effects of 6-OHDA. Thus, we propose that strategies aimed at augmenting MKP-1 expression or activity may be beneficial in protecting dopaminergic neurons and may provide potential therapeutic approaches for PD.
Glutamate over-activation and the consequent neuronal excitotoxicity have been identified as crucial players in brain dysfunctions such as status epilepticus (SE). Owing to the central function of 2-amino-3-(hydroxyl-5-methylisoxazole-4-yl) propionic acid receptors (AMPARs) in fast excitatory neurotransmission, these receptors have been recognized to play a prominent role in the development and generation of epileptic seizure. This study was undertaken to investigate both the early changes that affect glutamatergic neurons in the rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus and the level and channel properties of AMPARs in response to SE. The results obtained after 3h of pilocarpine (PILO)-induced SE showed a disorganization of glutamatergic neurons in the CA3 and a thinner neuronal cell layer in the dentate gyrus (DG) region as compared with controls. A significant increase in AMPAR GluA2 protein expression, a decrease in GluA1, GluA3, and GluA4 expression, and a reduction in the phosphorylation of Ser831-GluA1 and Ser880-GluA2 were also observed. In addition, we report a downregulation of R/G editing levels and of Flip splicing isoforms, with a prominent effect on the hippocampus of PILO-treated rats. Our results suggest the presence of an attenuation of AMPARs' post-synaptic excitatory response to glutamate after PILO treatment, thus conferring neuronal protection from the excitotoxic conditions observed in the SE. This study suggests a role for AMPARs in alterations of the glutamatergic pathway during the onset and early progression of epilepsy, thus indicating additional targets for potential therapeutic interventions.
Ciguatoxins (CTXs) cause long-term disturbance of cerebral functions. The primary mechanism of neurotoxicity is related to their interaction with voltage-gated sodium channels. However, until now, the neurological targets for CTXs in the brain of intact animals have not been described. In our study, 1day following oral exposure to 0.26ng/g of Pacific ciguatoxin 1 (P-CTX-1), we performed in vivo electrophysiological recordings in the rat anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and identified the increase in spontaneous firings and enhanced responses to visceral noxious stimulation. Local field recordings characterized the P-CTX-1-induced synaptic potentiation and blockage of the induction of electrical stimulation-induced long-term potentiation in the medial thalamus (MT)-ACC pathway. Furthermore, intracerebroventricular administration of P-CTX-1 at doses of 1.0, 5.0, and 10nM produced a dose-dependent increase in ACC neuronal firings and MT-ACC synaptic transmission. Further studies showed upregulated Na(+) channel expression in astrocytes under pathological conditions. We hypothesized that the astrocytes might have been activated in the ciguatera poisoning in vivo. Increases in glial fibrillary acid protein expression were detected in reactive astrocytes in the rat ACC. The activation of astroglia was further indicated by activation of the gap junction protein connexin 43 and upregulation of excitatory amino acid transporter 2 expression suggesting that glutamate was normally rapidly cleared from the synaptic cleft during acute ciguatera poisoning. However, neurotoxicity and reactive astrogliosis were not detected in the ACC after 7days of P-CTX-1 exposure. The present results are the first characterization of P-CTX-1-invoked brain cortex neuronal excitotoxicity in vivo and supported the theme that neuron and astroglia signals might play roles in acute ciguatera poisoning.
Mutations in DPAGT1 are a newly recognised cause of congenital myasthenic syndrome. DPAGT1 encodes an early component of the N-linked glycosylation pathway. Initially mutations in DPAGT1 have been associated with the onset of the severe multisystem disorder - congenital disorder of glycosylation type 1J. However, recently it was established that certain mutations in this gene can cause symptoms restricted to muscle weakness resulting from defective neuromuscular transmission. We report four cases from a large Iranian pedigree with prominent limb-girdle weakness and minimal craniobulbar symptoms who harbour a novel mutation in DPAGT1, c.652C&gt;T, p.Arg218Trp. This myasthenic syndrome may mimic myopathic disorders and is likely under-diagnosed.

Alpha-synuclein (S) is one of the major constituents of Lewy bodies (LBs). Several lines of evidence suggest that the autophagy-lysosome pathway (ALP) is involved in the removal of S. We have previously reported that granulovacuolar degeneration (GVD) in neurons involved a subunit of the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT). In this study, we examined the association between alpha-synucleinopathy and autophagy through immunohistochemical analysis of charged multivesicular body protein 2B (CHMP2B), a component of the ESCRT-pathway. We examined the brainstems of 17 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), incidental Lewy body disease (ILBD), multiple system atrophy (MSA), and Alzheimer's disease (AD) immunohistochemically using antibodies against phosphorylated S (pS), phosphorylated tau and CHMP2B. LBs and a proportion of glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs) were immunopositive for pS and CHMP2B. Neurons containing CHMP2B-immunoreactive granules were detected in PD and ILBD, but not in MSA and AD brains. CHMP2B immunoreactivity was increased in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (DMNX) in PD and ILBD brains, relative to that in MSA and AD. These findings indicate that the ESCRT-pathway is implicated in the formation of S inclusions, especially in PD and ILBD.
Alexander disease (AD) is a rare white matter disorder resulting from mutations in the gene encoding for the glial fibrillary acidic protein. Diffuse white matter involvement with frontal predominance is typical of infantile AD that is clinically characterized by progressive motor and mental retardation, seizures, and megaloencephaly. We describe the case of a 10-year-old patient harboring a de novo missense mutation c.235C &gt; T (p.R79C) in the GFAP gene, showing a relatively slow clinical and neuroradiologic progression of disease associated with a previously unreported magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) finding consistent with the so-called tigroid pattern. This pattern has been previously described in only a few different neurologic conditions, including Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease and some lysosomal disorders. This report expands the spectrum of MRI features in AD.
Inhibitory neuron behaviour is of fundamental importance to epileptic pathophysiology. When inhibition is compromised, such as by GABAergic blockade (Curtis et al., 1970; Connors, 1984; Traub and Miles, 1991) or by shifts in GABAergic reversal potential (Huberfeld et al., 2007), epileptiform discharges occur far more readily. Other studies have shown enhanced inhibition in vivo in the surrounding cortical territories associated with both focal pathological and physiological activity (Prince and Wilder, 1967; Dichter and Spencer, 1969a,b; Goldensohn and Salazar, 1986; Traub and Miles, 1991; Liang and Jones, 1997; Liang et al., 1998; Schwartz and Bonhoeffer, 2001). This gave rise to the concept of an &quot;inhibitory restraint&quot;. This concept can explain the often confusing anatomical reorganizations seen in chronically epileptic brains (Sloviter, 1987; Cossart et al., 2001), indicating which changes might be pro-epileptic, and which oppose the epileptic state. It also may explain key electrophysiological features of epileptic seizures. Here we describe current knowledge about the restraint, gleaned mainly from acute pharmacological experiments in animals, both in vivo and in vitro, and speculate how this may alter our understanding of human seizure activity in clinical practice. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'New Targets and Approaches to the Treatment of Epilepsy'.
Optogenetic tools comprise a variety of different light-sensitive proteins from single-cell organisms that can be expressed in mammalian neurons and effectively control their excitability. Two main classes of optogenetic tools allow to either depolarize or hyperpolarize, and respectively generate or inhibit action potentials in selective populations of neurons. This opens unprecedented possibilities for delineating the role of certain neuronal populations in brain processing and diseases. Moreover, optogenetics may be considered for developing potential treatment strategies for brain diseases, particularly for excitability disorders such as epilepsy. Expression of the inhibitory halorhodopsin NpHR in hippocampal principal cells has been recently used as a tool to effectively control chemically and electrically induced epileptiform activity in slice preparations, and to reduce in vivo spiking induced by tetanus toxin injection in the motor cortex. In this review we give a comprehensive summary of what has been achieved so far in the field of epilepsy using optogenetics, and discuss some of the possible strategies that could be envisaged in the future. We also point out some of the challenges and pitfalls in relation to possible outcomes of using optogenetics for controlling network excitability, and associated brain diseases. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'New Targets and Approaches to the Treatment of Epilepsy'.
One compelling challenge in the therapy of epilepsy is to develop anti-epileptogenic drugs with an impact on the disease progression. The search for novel targets has focused recently on brain inflammation since this phenomenon appears to be an integral part of the diseased hyperexcitable brain tissue from which spontaneous and recurrent seizures originate. Although the contribution of specific proinflammatory pathways to the mechanism of ictogenesis in epileptic tissue has been demonstrated in experimental models, the role of these pathways in epileptogenesis is still under evaluation. We review the evidence conceptually supporting the involvement of brain inflammation and the associated blood-brain barrier damage in epileptogenesis, and describe the available pharmacological evidence where post-injury intervention with anti-inflammatory drugs has been attempted. Our review will focus on three main inflammatory pathways, namely the IL-1 receptor/Toll-like receptor signaling, COX-2 and the TGF- signaling. The mechanisms underlying neuronal-glia network dysfunctions induced by brain inflammation are also discussed, highlighting novel neuromodulatory effects of classical inflammatory mediators such as cytokines and prostaglandins. The increase in knowledge about a role of inflammation in disease progression, may prompt the use of specific anti-inflammatory drugs for developing disease-modifying treatments. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'New Targets and Approaches to the Treatment of Epilepsy'.

The construct of associative prosopagnosia is strongly debated for two main reasons. The first is that, according to some authors, even patients with putative forms of associative visual agnosia necessarily present perceptual defects, that are the cause of their recognition impairment. The second is that in patients with right anterior temporal lobe (ATL) lesions (and sparing of the occipital and fusiform face areas), who can present a defect of familiar people recognition, with normal results on tests of face perception, the disorder is often multimodal, affecting voices (and to a lesser extent names) in addition to faces. The present review was prompted by the claim, recently advanced by some authors, that face recognition disorders observed in patients with right ATL lesions should be considered as an associative or amnestic form of prosopagnosia, because in them both face perception and retrieval of personal semantic knowledge from name are spared. In order to check this claim, we surveyed all the cases of patients who satisfied the criteria of associative prosopagnosia reported in the literature, to see if their defect was circumscribed to the visual modality or also affected other channels of people recognition. The review showed that in most patients the study had been limited to the visual modality, but that, when the other modalities of people recognition had been taken into account, the defect was often multimodal, affecting voice (and to a lesser extent name) in addition to face.
Williams syndrome (WS) is a clinical model of dorsal stream vulnerability and impaired visual integration. However, little is still known about the neurophysiological correlates of perceptual integration in this condition. We have used a 3D structure-from-motion (SFM) integrative task to characterize the neuronal underpinnings of 3D perception in WS and to probe whether gamma oscillatory patterns reflect changed holistic perception. Coherent faces were parametrically modulated in 3D depth (three different depth levels) to vary levels of stimulus ambiguity. We have found that the electrophysiological (EEG/ERP) correlates of such holistic percepts were distinct across groups. Independent component analysis demonstrated the presence of a novel component with a late positivity around 200 ms that was absent in controls. Source localization analysis of ERP signals showed a posterior occipital shift in WS and reduced parietal dorsal stream sources. Interestingly, low gamma-band oscillations (20-40 Hz) induced by this 3D perceptual integration task were significantly stronger and sustained during the stimulus presentation in WS whereas high gamma-band oscillations (60-90 Hz) were reduced in this clinical model of impaired visual coherence, as compared to controls. These observations suggest that dorsal stream processing of 3D SFM stimuli has distinct neural correlates in WS and different cognitive strategies are employed by these patients to reach visual coherence. Importantly, we found evidence for the presence of different sub-bands (20-40 Hz/60-90 Hz) within the gamma range which can be dissociated concerning the respective role on the coherent percept formation, both in typical and atypical development.
It is known that the left hemisphere of the human brain is critical in understanding and producing spoken language, but it remains a topic of great interest determining the cerebral lateralization of multiple languages. The aim of this study is to examine the effects of similarity between languages on hemispheric asymmetry of bilingual brains. The involvement degree of left and right hemisphere was examined during the processing of the first (L1) and second (L2) language in two different groups of bilinguals with English as L2. The first group consisted of German native speakers and the second group of Italian native speakers. Subjects from the two groups acquired L2 later in life (after the age of six) and had a comparable level of proficiency in second language comprehension. The functional lateralization was tested by a classical dichotic test with words in L1 and L2. Dependent variables were number of responses associated to words presented at the left vs. right ear and reaction time. Results showed a significant right ear advantage (REA) for number of responses in both languages and in both groups. However, the REA for L2 (English) processing was stronger in the German group. Reaction times were significantly lower during L1 processing and showed a trend towards the results obtained with the number of response variable. This study provides neuropsychological evidence pointing to a different lateralization pattern in the elaboration of a same L2 if L1 comes from different linguistic roots.
A growing body of evidence suggests that a different hemispheric specialization may exist for different modalities of person identification, with a prevalent right lateralization of the sensory-motor systems allowing face and voice recognition and a prevalent left lateralization of the name recognition system. Data supporting this claim concern, however, much more disorders of familiar people recognition observed in patients with focal brain lesions than results of experimental studies conducted in normal subjects. These last data are sparse and in part controversial, but are important from the theoretical point of view, because it is not clear if hemispheric asymmetries in the recognition of faces, voices and names are limited to their perceptual processing, or also extend to the domain of their cortical representations. The present review has tried to clarify this issues, taking into account investigations that have evaluated in normal subjects laterality effects in recognition of familiar names, faces and voices, by means of behavioural, neurophysiological and neuroimaging techniques. Results of this survey indicate that: (a) recognition of familiar faces and voices show a prevalent right lateralization, whereas recognition of familiar names is lateralized to the left hemisphere; (b) the right hemisphere prevalence is greater in tasks involving familiar than unfamiliar faces and voices, and the left hemisphere superiority is greater in the recognition of familiar than unfamiliar names. Taken together, these data suggest that hemispheric asymmetries in the recognition of faces, voices and names are not limited to their perceptual processing, but also extend to the domain of their cortical representations.
Due to the logographic nature of the writing system, learning to read Chinese places heavy demands on encoding of orthographic forms through rote memorization. Moreover, phonology has to often be retrieved from memory during reading because of the inconsistent mapping between characters and their pronunciations. Using optimized voxel-based morphometry, we examined differences in volumetrics between children with reading disability (RD, 10-12 years old) and age-matched typically developing (TD) children. Our study shows reduced gray matter volume (GMV) for RD in right inferior occipital gyrus and left inferior frontal gyrus, consistent with previous studies suggesting that Chinese dyslexics have deficits in orthographic and phonological processing. The deficit in phonological processing was further supported by reductions in white matter volumes (WMV) in left precentral gyrus. Greater deficits in ortho-phonological processing may be associated with semantic compensation, as lower skill RD children showed greater GMV in anterior temporal cortex, even though as a group they showed less GMV in this region compared to TD. Perhaps most interestingly, we showed reduced GMV in bilateral ventromedial prefrontal cortices (vmPFC) and this was correlated with reductions in WMV within vmPFC, suggesting that RD have deficits in memory retrieval. Moreover, these GMV alterations in vmPFC for the RD were correlated with alterations in right parahippocampal gyrus, which also showed a reduced GMV, suggesting that RD have a correlated deficit in memory encoding. Our results are consistent with previous studies suggesting that Chinese dyslexics have deficits in visuo-orthographic and phonological processing, but our study importantly suggests deficits in memory encoding and retrieval, perhaps due to the unique demands of the Chinese writing system.
Although cognitive neuroscience has made remarkable progress in understanding the involvement of the prefrontal cortex in executive control functions for human intelligence, the necessity of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) for key competencies of general intelligence and executive function remains to be well established. Here we studied human brain lesion patients with dlPFC lesions to investigate whether this region is computationally necessary for performance on neuropsychological tests of general intelligence and executive function, administering the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) and subtests of the Delis Kaplan Executive Function System (D-KEFS) to three groups: dlPFC lesions (n=19), non-dlPFC lesions (n=152), and no brain lesions (n=55). The results indicate that: (1) patients with focal dlPFC damage exhibit lower scores, at the latent variable level, than controls in general intelligence (g) and executive function; (2) dlPFC patients demonstrate lower scores than controls in several executive measures; and (3) these latter differences are no longer significant when the pervasive influence of the general factor of intelligence (g) is statistically removed. The observed findings support a central role for the dlPFC in global aspects of general intelligence and make specific recommendations for the interpretation and application of the WAIS and D-KEFS to the study of high-level cognition in health and disease.
Acute alcohol ingestion increases attentional bias to alcohol-related stimuli; however, the underlying cognitive and brain mechanisms remain unknown. We combined functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with performance of a dual task that probed attentional distraction by alcohol-related stimuli during 'conflict' processing: the Concurrent Flanker/Alcohol-Attentional bias task (CFAAT). In this task, an Eriksen Flanker task is superimposed on task-unrelated background pictures with alcohol-associated or neutral content. Participants respond to the direction of a central 'target' arrow and ignore adjacent congruent (low cognitive load) or incongruent (high cognitive load) 'flanking' arrows. Using a between-subject design, 40 healthy moderate-to-heavy social drinkers received either no alcohol (placebo), 0.4g/kg (low dose), or 0.8g/kg (high dose) of alcohol, and underwent fMRI while performing the CFAAT. The low alcohol dose, relative to placebo, increased response latencies on trials with alcohol-associated backgrounds and, under low cognitive load, increased the activity evoked by these pictures within a medial hypothalamic region. Under high cognitive load, the low alcohol dose, relative to placebo, elicited greater activity within a more lateral hypothalamic region, and reduced activity within frontal motor areas. The high alcohol dose, relative to placebo, did not reliably affect response latencies or neural responses to background images, but reduced overall accuracy under high cognitive load. This effect correlated with changes in reactivity within medial and dorsal prefrontal cortices. These data suggest that alcohol at a low dose primes attentional bias to alcohol-associated stimuli, an effect mediated by activation of subcortical hypothalamic areas implicated in arousal and salience attribution.
Adolescence coincides with symptomatic onset of several psychiatric illnesses including schizophrenia and addiction. Excess limbic dopamine activity has been implicated in these vulnerabilities. We combined molecular and dynamic indices of dopamine neurotransmission to assess dopamine function in adolescent rats in two functionally distinct striatal subregions: nucleus accumbens (NAc) and dorsal striatum (DS). In adolescents, we find an overall reduction in dopamine availability selective to the DS. Dopamine release in the DS, but not in the NAc, was less responsive to amphetamine in adolescents compared to adults. The dopamine transporter (DAT) inhibitor, nomifensine, similarly inhibited basal and amphetamine-induced dopamine release in either regions of both the age groups, suggesting that the reduced effectiveness of amphetamine is not due to differences in DAT function. Furthermore, DAT and vesicular monoamine transporter-2 expressions were similar in the DS and NAc of adolescent rats. In contrast, expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) was reduced in the DS, but not in the NAc, of adolescents compared to adults. Behaviorally, adolescents were less sensitive to amphetamine but more sensitive to a TH inhibitor. These data indicate that, in contrast to the general notion that dopamine is hyperactive in adolescents, there is diminished presynaptic dopamine activity in adolescents that is selective to the DS and may result from attenuated TH activity. Given recent reports of altered dopamine activity in associative/dorsal striatum of individuals at a clinically high risk of psychosis, our data further support the idea that dorsal, as opposed to ventral, regions of the striatum are a locus of vulnerability for psychosis.
Although antagonists to GluN2B-containing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) have been widely considered to be neuroprotective under certain pathological conditions, their immediate and lasting impacts on synaptic, circuit, and cognitive functions are poorly understood. In hippocampal slices, we found that the GluN2B-selective antagonist Ro25-6981 (Ro25) reduced synaptic NMDAR responses and consequently neuronal output in a subpopulation of GABAergic interneurons, but not pyramidal neurons. Consistent with these effects, Ro25 reduced GABAergic responses in pyramidal neurons and hence could affect circuit functions by altering the excitation/inhibition balance in the brain. In slices from Ts65Dn mice, a Down syndrome model with excess inhibition and cognitive impairment, acutely applied Ro25-rescued long-term potentiation (LTP) and gamma oscillation deficits, whereas prolonged dosing induced persistent rescue of LTP. In contrast, Ro25 did not impact LTP in wild-type (wt) mice but reduced gamma oscillations both acutely and following prolonged treatment. Although acute Ro25 treatment impaired memory performance in wt mice, memory deficits in Ts65Dn mice were unchanged. Thus, GluN2B-NMDARs contribute to the excitation/inhibition balance via impacts on interneurons, and blocking GluN2B-NMDARs can alter functions that depend on this balance, including synaptic plasticity, gamma oscillations, and memory. That prolonged GluN2B antagonism leads to persistent changes in synaptic and circuit functions, and that the influence of GluN2B antagonism differs between wt and disease model mice, provide critical insight into the therapeutic potential and possible liabilities of GluN2B antagonists.
The Val158Met polymorphism of the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene is an important regulator of dopamine in the prefrontal cortex, an area critical to working memory. Working memory deficits are present in several psychiatric disorders, and there is wide variation in working memory capacity in the normal population. Association studies of COMT and working memory in healthy volunteers have yielded inconsistent results, possibly because of small sample sizes. Here we examine COMT in relation to N-Back working memory task performance in a large population-based cohort of young adults. We predicted individuals with one or two copies of the Met allele would perform better, and that this relationship would be more evident in males than females. Participants (N=1857-2659) tested at 18 years of age, were enrolled in the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC). We used multiple regression to examine effects of sex and COMT genotype on N-Back hits, false positives, discriminability (d'), and reaction time while controlling for important covariates. COMT genotype did not predict hits or d'. There was a nominally significant interaction between COMT and sex on false positives, but this was not in the predicted direction, and was not significant after controlling for covariates. COMT genotype was not related to working memory in this large population-based cohort. It is possible COMT is not meaningfully associated with working memory in healthy young adults, or that COMT effects are detectable only in assessments reflecting neural processes underlying cognition, such as fMRI, rather than in behavioral performance.
Although it is more common for drug abuse to progress from tobacco to cannabis, in many cases cannabis use develops before tobacco use. Epidemiological evidence indicates that prior cannabis use increases the likelihood of becoming dependent on tobacco. To determine whether this effect might be due to cannabis exposure per se, in addition to any genetic, social, or environmental factors that might contribute, we extended our series of studies on 'gateway drug' effects in animal models of drug abuse. Rats were exposed to THC, the main psychoactive constituent of cannabis, for 3 days (two intraperitoneal injections/day). Then, starting 1 week later, they were allowed to self-administer nicotine intravenously. THC exposure increased the likelihood of acquiring the nicotine self-administration response from 65% in vehicle-exposed rats to 94% in THC-exposed rats. When the price of nicotine was manipulated by increasing the response requirement, THC-exposed rats maintained higher levels of intake than vehicle-exposed rats, indicating that THC exposure increased the value of nicotine reward. These results contrast sharply with our earlier findings that prior THC exposure did not increase the likelihood of rats acquiring either heroin or cocaine self-administration, nor did it increase the reward value of these drugs. The findings obtained here suggest that a history of cannabis exposure might have lasting effects that increase the risk of becoming addicted to nicotine.
Trauma-induced damage to the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) often results in behavioral inflexibility and impaired judgment. Human alcoholics exhibit similar cognitive deficits suggesting that OFC neurons are susceptible to alcohol-induced dysfunction. A previous study from this laboratory examined OFC mediated cognitive behaviors in mice and showed that behavioral flexibility during a reversal learning discrimination task was reduced in alcohol-dependent mice. Despite these intriguing findings, the actions of alcohol on OFC neuron function are unknown. To address this issue, slices containing the lateral OFC (lOFC) were prepared from adult C57BL/6J mice and whole-cell patch clamp electrophysiology was used to characterize the effects of ethanol (EtOH) on neuronal function. EtOH (66mM) had no effect on AMPA-mediated EPSCs but decreased those mediated by NMDA receptors. EtOH (11-66mM) also decreased current-evoked spike firing and this was accompanied by a decrease in input resistance and a modest hyperpolarization. EtOH inhibition of spike firing was prevented by the GABAA antagonist picrotoxin, but EtOH had no effect on evoked or spontaneous GABA IPSCs. EtOH increased the holding current of voltage-clamped neurons and this action was blocked by picrotoxin but not the more selective GABAA antagonist biccuculine. The glycine receptor antagonist strychnine also prevented EtOH's effect on holding current and spike firing, and western blotting revealed the presence of glycine receptors in lOFC. Overall, these results suggest that acutely, EtOH may reduce lOFC function via a glycine receptor dependent process and this may trigger neuroadaptive mechanisms that contribute to the impairment of OFC-dependent behaviors in alcohol-dependent subjects.
Understanding brain pathology along with the underlying neuroanatomy and the resulting neurological deficits is of vital importance in medical education and clinical practice. To facilitate and expedite this understanding, we created a three-dimensional (3D) interactive atlas of neurological disorders providing the correspondence between a brain lesion and the resulting disorder(s). The atlas contains a 3D highly parcellated atlas of normal neuroanatomy along with a brain pathology database. Normal neuroanatomy is divided into about 2,300 components, including the cerebrum, cerebellum, brainstem, spinal cord, arteries, veins, dural sinuses, tracts, cranial nerves (CN), white matter, deep gray nuclei, ventricles, visual system, muscles, glands and cervical vertebrae (C1-C5). The brain pathology database contains 144 focal and distributed synthesized lesions (70 vascular, 36 CN-related, and 38 regional anatomy-related), each lesion labeled with the resulting disorder and associated signs, symptoms, and/or syndromes compiled from materials reported in the literature. The initial view of each lesion was preset in terms of its location and size, surrounding surface and sectional (magnetic resonance) neuroanatomy, and labeling of lesion and neuroanatomy. In addition, a glossary of neurological disorders was compiled and for each disorder materials from textbooks were included to provide neurological description. This atlas of neurological disorders is potentially useful to a wide variety of users ranging from medical students, residents and nurses to general practitioners, neuroanatomists, neuroradiologists and neurologists, as it contains both normal (surface and sectional) brain anatomy and pathology correlated with neurological disorders presented in a visual and interactive way.
One objective of preclinical animal models of stroke is to distinguish behavioral compensation from behavioral recovery. In compensation, a new behavior is substituted for a lost behavior, whereas in recovery, the original behavior is restored. Distinguishing between these processes is important because: (1) compensation can be mistaken for recovery, (2) compensatory strategies can disrupt performance, (3) the behavioral methods, therapy, and neural changes associated with enhancing compensation can be different from those associated with recovery, (4) under different conditions both compensation and recovery can be desirable outcomes. The review describes a behavioral method for assessing hand use in reaching (skilled reaching or reach-to-eat) by the rat, a behavior analogous to single handed prehension in humans. The method consists of seven separate assessments obtained with end point, movement notation, and biometric measures. The method highlights the importance of using multiple measures to identify behavioral change during acute, early, and chronic poststroke periods. Distinguishing between compensation and recovery refines the interpretation of preclinical behavioral findings and expands opportunities for developing therapies for stroke.
Epigenetic processes have profound influence on gene translation and play a key role in embryonic development and tissue type specification. Recent advances in our understanding of epigenetics have pointed out that epigenetic alterations also play an important role in neurodevelopment and may increase the risk to psychiatric disorders. In addition to genetic regulation of these processes, compelling evidence suggests that environmental conditions produce persistent changes in development through epigenetic mechanisms. Adverse environmental influences in early life such as maternal care, alcohol exposure and prenatal nutrition interact with epigenetic factors and may induce neurodevelopmental disturbances that are related to psychiatric disorders. This review outlines recent findings linking environmentally induced modifications of the epigenome to brain development and psychopathology. Better understanding of these modifications is relevant from the perspective that they may be reversible and, therefore, offer potential for novel treatment strategies. We present the current state of knowledge and show that integrative approaches are necessary to further understand the causal pathways between environmental influences, epigenetic modification, and neuronal function.
Life expectancy in the last century has greatly increased although, in most industrialized countries, this has been paralleled by an increased incidence of neurodegenerative disorders, in addition to cardiovascular and metabolic pathologies. The p66(Shc) gene has emerged as a novel gerontogene affecting health throughout life and during aging. In the last decade, studies on p66(Shc) knock-out mice have indicated that this gene is a crucial regulator of reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and is involved in age-related dysfunctions. p66(Shc-/-) mice show indeed a healthy phenotype characterized by greater brain and behavioral plasticity - associated to increased central levels of the neurotrophin Bran-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) - in addition to reduced oxidative stress, fat accumulation and incidence of metabolic and cardiovascular pathologies. Studies performed in a semi-naturalistic setting, involving exposure to low temperatures and food shortage indicate that p66(Shc) has been conserved through evolution because of its role as &quot;thrifty gene&quot; in energy metabolism. This feature, which allows survival in harsh natural conditions, can be deleterious when food is constantly available, as in westernized lifestyles, leading to fat accumulation and predisposing to metabolic, cardiovascular diseases and accelerating brain aging. Being at the crossroad of signaling pathways involved in both central and peripheral stress responses and in the regulation of energy homeostasis, p66(Shc) is a good candidate molecule to address the mechanisms underlying healthy aging and to be targeted for the development of novel pharmacological tools for the prevention or cure of age-related pathologies.
The increasing prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) emphasizes the need for sensitive biomarkers. Memory, a core deficit in AD, involves the interaction of distributed brain networks. We propose that biomarkers should be sought at the level of disease-specific disturbances in large-scale neural networks instead of alterations in a single brain region. This is the first voxel-level quantitative meta-analysis of default mode connectivity and task-related activation in 1196 patients and 1255 controls to detect robust changes in components of large-scale neural networks. We show that with disease progression, specific components of networks are widespread altered. The medial parietal regions and the subcortical areas are differentially affected depending on the disease stage. Specific compensatory mechanisms are only seen in the earliest stages, before symptoms are evident, and could become a functional network biomarker or target for interventions. These results underline the need to further fine-grain these networks spatially and temporally across disease stages. To conclude, AD should indeed be considered as a syndrome involving neural network disruption before cognitive deficits are detectable.
The neural systems underlying reward-related behaviors across development have recently generated a great amount of interest. Yet, the neurodevelopmental literature on reward processing is marked by inconsistencies due to the heterogeneity of the reward paradigms used, the complexity of the behaviors being studied, and the developing brain itself as a moving target. The present review will examine task design as one source of variability across findings by compiling this literature along three dimensions: (1) task structures, (2) cognitive processes, and (3) neural systems. We start with the presentation of a heuristic neural systems model, the Triadic Model, as a way to provide a theoretical framework for the neuroscience research on motivated behaviors. We then discuss the principles guiding reward task development. Finally, we review the extant developmental neuroimaging literature on reward-related processing, organized by reward task type. We hope that this approach will help to clarify the literature on the functional neurodevelopment of reward-related neural systems, and to identify the role of the experimental parameters that significantly influence these findings.
LIM kinase 1 (LIMK1), a cytosolic serine/threonine kinase, regulates actin filament dynamics and reorganization and is involved in neuronal development and brain function. Abnormal expression of LIMK1 is associated with several neurological disorders. In this study, we performed a conservation analysis using Vector NTI (8.0) software. The dualluciferase reporter assay and real-time quantitative RT-PCR were used to assess the protein and mRNA levels of the reporter gene, respectively. We found that a region ranging from nt +884 to +966 in the human LIMK1 3' untranslated region (UTR) was highly conserved in the mouse Limk1 3' UTR and formed a structure containing several loops and stems. Luciferase assay showed that the relative luciferase activity of the mutated construct with the conserved region deleted, pGL4-hLIMK1-3U-M, in SH-SY5Y and HEK-293 cells was only ~60% of that of the wild-type construct pGL4-hLIMK1-3U, indicating that the conserved region is critical for the reporter gene expression. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that the relative Luc2 mRNA levels in SH-SY5Y and HEK293 cells transfected with pGL4-hLIMK1-3U-M decreased to ~50% of that in cells transfected with pGL4-hLIMK1-3U, suggesting an important role of the conserved region in maintaining Luc2 mRNA stability. Our study suggests that the conserved region in the LIMK1 3' UTR is involved in regulating LIMK1 expression at the post-transcriptional level, which may help reveal the mechanism underlying the regulation of LIMK1 expression in the central nervous system and explore the relationship between the 3'-UTR mutant and neurological disorders.


In the mammalian brain, the majority of excitatory synapses are housed in micron-sized dendritic protrusions called spines, which can undergo rapid changes in shape and number in response to increased or decreased synaptic activity. These dynamic alterations in dendritic spines require precise control of the actin cytoskeleton. Within spines, multidomain Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factors (Rho GEFs) coordinate activation of their target Rho GTPases by a variety of pathways. In this review, we focus on the handful of disease-related Rho GEFs (Kalirin; Trio; Tiam1; P-Rex1,2; RasGRF1,2; Collybistin) localized at synapses and known to affect electrophysiology, spine morphology, and animal behavior. The goal is to integrate structure/function studies with measurements of synaptic function and behavioral phenotypes in animal models.
Cooperation is essential for the functioning of human societies. To better understand how cooperation both succeeds and fails, recent research in cognitive neuroscience has begun to explore novel paradigms to examine how cooperative mechanisms may be encoded in the brain. By combining functional neuroimaging techniques with simple but realistic tasks adapted from experimental economics, this approach allows for the discrimination and modeling of processes that are important in cooperative behavior. Here, we review evidence demonstrating that many of the processes underlying cooperation overlap with rather fundamental brain mechanisms, such as, for example, those involved in reward, punishment and learning. In addition, we review how social expectations induced by an interactive context and the experience of social emotions may influence cooperation and its associated underlying neural circuitry, and we describe factors that appear important for generating cooperation, such as the provision of incentives. These findings illustrate how cognitive neuroscience can contribute to the development of more accurate, brain-based, models of cooperative decision making.

Reports on seizure outcomes following surgery for lesional epilepsy consistently cite extent of resection as a significant predictor of outcome. Unfortunately, gross-total resection is not technically feasible in all cases of medically refractory tumor-associated epilepsy. Here, the authors present the case of a 4-year-old girl whose epilepsy was medically controlled after 1-stage electrocorticography-guided subtotal resection (STR) of a large diffuse protoplasmic astrocytoma. They also review the modern literature on epilepsy associated with brain tumors. Outcomes are compared with those following surgical treatment of focal cortical dysplasia and vascular lesions. Gross-total lesional resection shows significant superiority across pathologies and anatomical regions. Despite a considerable number of STRs yielding seizure freedom, other favorable treatment factors have not been defined. Although gross-total lesional resection, if possible, is clearly superior, tailored surgery may still offer patients a significant opportunity for a good outcome. Treatment factors yielding successful seizure control following STR remain to be fully elucidated.




This study represents the first longitudinal, within-subject (1) H MRS investigation of the developing rat brain spanning infancy, adolescence and early adulthood. We obtained neurometabolite profiles from a voxel located in a central location of the forebrain, centered on the striatum, with smaller contributions for the cortex, thalamus and hypothalamus, on postnatal days 7, 35 and 60. Water-scaled metabolite signals were corrected for T1 effects and quantified using the automated processing software LCModel, yielding molal concentrations. Our findings indicate age-related concentration changes in N-acetylaspartate+N-acetylaspartylglutamate, myo-inositol, glutamate+glutamine, taurine, creatine+phosphocreatine and glycerophosphocholine+phosphocholine. Using a repeated measures design and analysis, we identified significant neurodevelopment changes across all three developmental ages and identified adolescence as a distinctive phase in normative neurometabolic brain development. Between postnatal days 35 and 60, changes were observed in the concentrations of N-acetylaspartate+N-acetylaspartylglutamate, glutamate+glutamine and glycerophosphocholine+phosphocholine. Our data replicate past studies of early neurometabolite development and, for the first time, link maturational profiles in the same subjects across infancy, adolescence and adulthood.
To date, measurements of the activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 (ALDH2), a critical mitochondrial enzyme for the elimination of certain cytotoxic aldehydes in the body and a promising target for drug development, have been largely limited to in vitro methods. Recent advancements in MRS of hyperpolarized (13) C-labeled substrates have provided a method to detect and imagein vivo metabolic pathways with signal-to-noise ratio gains greater than 10 000-fold over conventional MRS techniques. However aldehydes, because of their toxicity and short T1 relaxation times, are generally poor targets for such (13) C-labeled studies. In this work, we show that dynamic MRSI of hyperpolarized [1-(13) C]pyruvate and its conversion to [1-(13) C]lactate can provide an indirect in vivo measurement of ALDH2 activity via the concentration of NADH (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, reduced form), a co-factor common to both the reduction of pyruvate to lactate and the oxidation of acetaldehyde to acetate. Results from a rat liver ethanol model (n=9) show that changes in (13) C-lactate labeling following the bolus injection of hyperpolarized pyruvate are highly correlated with changes in ALDH2 activity (R(2) =0.76).



Musculoskeletal disorders constitute major public health problems. Few studies have, however, examined risk of disability pension among persons sickness absent due to musculoskeletal diagnoses. Thus, we constructed a prospective nationwide population-based cohort study based on Swedish registers, consisting of all 4,687,756 individuals living in Sweden December 31, 2004/2005, aged 20-64 years, who were not on disability or old-age pension. Those individuals who were sickness absent in 2005 due to musculoskeletal diagnoses were compared to those sickness absent due to non-musculoskeletal diagnoses and those with no sickness absence. Musculoskeletal diagnoses were categorized as follows: 1) artropathies/systemic connective tissue disorders, 2) dorsopathies, and 3) soft tissue disorders/osteopathies/chondropathies/other musculoskeletal disorders. All-cause and diagnosis-specific incident disability pension were followed from 2006 to 2009. Incidence rate ratios (IRRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated by Cox proportional hazards regression. In models adjusted for socio-demographic factors and morbidity, sickness absence due to all categories of musculoskeletal diagnoses was associated with 12- to 18-fold increased risks of all-cause disability pension (adjusted model, category 2 diagnoses, IRR = 18.57, 95% CI = 18.18-18.97). Similar associations were observed among both women and men sickness absent due to all 3 musculoskeletal diagnostic categories. Moreover, increased risks of disability pension because of cancer, mental, circulatory and musculoskeletal diagnoses were observed among individuals sickness absent because of any musculoskeletal diagnostic category (disability pension due to musculoskeletal diagnoses, adjusted model, category 2 diagnoses, IRR = 50.66, 95% CI = 49.06-52.32). In conclusion, this nationwide cohort study reveals strongly increased risks of all-cause and diagnosis-specific disability pension among those sickness absent due to musculoskeletal diagnoses.
Pain can significantly decrease the quality of life of patients with advanced cancer. Current treatment strategies often provide inadequate analgesia and unacceptable side effects. Animal models of bone cancer pain are used in the development of novel pharmacological approaches. Here we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of publications describing in vivo modelling of bone cancer pain in which behavioural, general health, macroscopic, histological, biochemical, or electrophysiological outcomes were reported and compared to appropriate controls. In all, 150 publications met our inclusion criteria, describing 38 different models of bone cancer pain. Reported methodological quality was low; only 31% of publications reported blinded assessment of outcome, and 11% reported random allocation to group. No publication reported a sample size calculation. Studies that reported measures to reduce bias reported smaller differences in behavioural outcomes between tumour-bearing and control animals, and studies that presented a statement regarding a conflict of interest reported larger differences in behavioural outcomes. Larger differences in behavioural outcomes were reported in female animals, when cancer cells were injected into either the tibia or femur, and when MatLyLu prostate or Lewis Lung cancer cells were used. Mechanical-evoked pain behaviours were most commonly reported; however, the largest difference was observed in spontaneous pain behaviours. In the spinal cord astrocyte activation and increased levels of Substance P receptor internalisation, c-Fos, dynorphin, tumor necrosis factor- and interleukin-1 have been reported in bone cancer pain models, suggesting several potential therapeutic targets. However, the translational impact of animal models on clinical pain research could be enhanced by improving methodological quality.
One of the most common forms of chronic pain is back pain. Until now, nothing has been known about the influence of visualizing one's own back on pain perception at this site. We tested 18 patients with chronic back pain and 18 healthy controls, by implementing online video feedback of the back during painful pressure and subcutaneous electrical stimuli over the trapezius muscle. Pain threshold and pain tolerance were assessed. Pressure pain stimulation intensity was set to 50% above the pain threshold. Subcutaneous stimulation intensity was set to 70% above the pain threshold. Subjects had to rate pain intensity and unpleasantness after each stimulation block on an 11-point numerical rating scale. Visual feedback of the back reduced perceived pain intensity compared to feedback of the hand in both patients and controls. These findings suggest novel intervention modes for chronic back pain based on visualization of body parts by augmented reality applications.
Many hospitalized adults cannot reposition themselves in their beds. Therefore, they are regularly turned by their nurses, primarily to prevent pressure ulcer formation. Earlier research indicates that turning is painful and that patients are rarely premedicated with analgesics. Nonpharmacologic interventions may be used to help with this painful procedure. However, no published research was found on the use of nonpharmacologic interventions for turning of hospitalized patients. The objectives of this study were: 1) to describe patient pain characteristics during turning and their association with patient demographic and clinical characteristics; 2) to determine the frequency of use of various nonpharmacologic interventions for hospitalized adult patients undergoing the painful procedure of turning; and 3) to identify factors that predict the use of specific nonpharmacologic interventions for pain associated with turning. Hospitalized adult patients who experienced turning, the nurses caring for them, and others who were present at the time of turning were asked if they used various nonpharmacologic interventions to manage pain during the turning. Out of 1,395 patients, 92.5% received at least one nonpharmacologic intervention. Most frequently used were calming voice (65.7%), information (60.6%), and deep breathing (37.9%). Critical-care patients were more likely to receive a calming voice (odds ratio [OR] 1.66, p &lt; .01), receive information (OR 1.62, p &lt; .001), and use deep breathing (OR= 1.36, p &lt; .05) than those who were not critical-care patients. Those reporting higher pain were consistently more likely to receive each of the three interventions (OR 1.01, p &lt; .05 for all 3). In conclusion, nonpharmacologic interventions are used frequently during a turning procedure. The specific interventions used most often are ones that can be initiated spontaneously. Our data suggest that patients, nurses, and family members respond to patients' turning-related pain by using nonpharmacologic interventions.




We used an achievement goal framework to enhance identity-threatened individuals' motivation and performance by way of an understudied mechanism, namely, challenge appraisals. In three experiments, women were given a mastery goal (focus on building skills) or a performance goal (perform well, avoid errors) before a mock job interview. Women who focused on mastery rather than performance felt more challenged and less threatened when anticipating an identity-threatening interview; goals did not affect appraisals of a nonthreatening interview (Experiment 1). Mastery relative to performance goals enhanced women's intention to be assertive (Experiment 2) and their actual face-to-face performance during the job interview (Experiment 3); challenge appraisals (but not threat appraisals) served as a mediator for these effects. Whereas a great deal of prior work has alleviated identity threat by altering construals of one's identity, the current research uses an alternative strategy--modifying appraisals of the situation, leaving one's self-concept intact.
The 2 proteins are auxiliary subunits of high-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels associated with alterations of surface expression, kinetics, and voltage-dependent properties of the channel complex. Four mammalian genes and several splice 2 subunit variants have been cloned and described, though very little information concerning the transcriptional mechanisms that regulate their expression is available. Here, we report the identification and characterization of the human 2-1 subunit gene promoter and its regulation by specific transcription factor 1 (Sp1). Transient transfection of human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells with a promoter/luciferase reporter construct revealed a ~1.5 kb 5-UTR fragment of the CACNA2D1 gene that produced high levels of luciferase activity. Deletional analysis of this sequence showed that the minimal promoter was located within a 413-bp region (nt -326 to +98) with respect to the transcription start site. In this region, no canonical TATA box was present, but a high GC content and five potential Sp1 binding sites were found. The ability of two of these sites to interact with the transcription factor was confirmed by electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Likewise, Sp1 overexpression enhanced promoter activity while siRNA-mediated Sp1 silencing significantly decreased the level of 2 protein expressed in the SH-SY5Y cells, as well as reduced the amplitude of whole-cell patch clamp Ca(2+) currents in dorsal root ganglion neurons. This study thus represents the first identification of the transcriptional control region in the gene encoding the Ca(2+) channel 2-1 auxiliary subunit.

Antipsychotic-induced weight gain (AIWG) may result in the metabolic syndrome in schizophrenia (SCZ) patients. Downstream variants of the melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) gene have been associated with obesity in various populations. Thus, we examined single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the MC4R region for association with AIWG in SCZ patients. Four SNPs (rs2229616, rs17782313, rs11872992 and rs8087522) were genotyped in 224 patients who underwent treatment for SCZ and were evaluated for AIWG for up to 14 weeks. We compared weight change (%) across genotypic groups using analysis of covariance for three SNPs (r0.8). European-ancestry patients who were rs8087522 A-allele carriers (AG+AA) on clozapine gained significantly more weight than non-carriers (P=0.027, n=69). These observations were marginal after correction for multiple testing. We performed in vitro electrophoretic mobility-shift assay that suggested that the presence of the A-allele may create a transcription factor-binding site. Further investigation is warranted for both these exploratory findings.
Although bupropion has been widely used in the treatment of depression, the precise mechanism of its therapeutic actions is not fully understood. The present study investigated the role of agmatine in an antidepressant like effect of bupropion in mouse forced swim test. The antidepressant like effect of bupropion was potentiated by pretreatment with agmatine (10-20mg/kg, ip) and by the drugs known to increase endogenous agmatine levels in brain viz., l-arginine (40 g/mouse, icv), an agmatine biosynthetic precursor, ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor, dl--difluoromethyl ornithine hydrochloride, DFMO (12.5 g/mouse, icv), diamine oxidase inhibitor, aminoguanidine (6.5 g/mouse, icv) and agmatinase inhibitor, arcaine (50 g/mouse, icv) as well as imidazoline I1 receptor agonists, moxonidine (0.25mg/kg, ip) and clonidine (0.015 mg/kg, ip) and imidazoline I2 receptor agonist, 2-(2-benzofuranyl)-2-imidazoline hydrochloride, 2-BFI (5mg/kg, ip). Conversely, prior administration of I1 receptor antagonist, efaroxan (1mg/kg, ip) and I2 receptor antagonist, idazoxan (0.25mg/kg, ip) blocked the antidepressant like effect of bupropion and its synergistic combination with agmatine. These results demonstrate involvement of agmatine in the antidepressant like effect of bupropion and suggest agmatine and imidazoline receptors as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of depressive disorders.
Immunotherapy is currently being intensively explored as much-needed disease-modifying treatment for neurodegenerative diseases. While Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been the focus of numerous immunotherapeutic studies, less attention has been paid to Parkinson's disease (PD) and other neurodegenerative disorders. The reason for this difference is that the amyloid beta (A) protein in AD is a secreted molecule that circulates in the blood and is readably recognized by antibodies. In contrast, -synuclein (-syn), tau, huntingtin and other proteins involved in neurodegenerative diseases have been considered to be exclusively of intracellular nature. However, the recent discovery that toxic oligomeric versions of -syn and tau accumulate in the membrane and can be excreted to the extracellular environment has provided a rationale for the development of immunotherapeutic approaches for PD, dementia with Lewy bodies, frontotemporal dementia, and other neurodegenerative disorders characterized by the abnormal accumulation of these proteins. Active immunization, passive immunization, and T cell-mediated cellular immunotherapeutic approaches have been developed targeting A, -syn and tau. Most advanced studies, including results from phase III clinical trials for passive immunization in AD, have been recently reported. Results suggest that immunotherapy might be a promising therapeutic approach for neurodegenerative diseases that progress with the accumulation and propagation of toxic protein aggregates. In this manuscript we provide an overview on immunotherapeutic advances for neurodegenerative disorders, with special emphasis on -synucleinopathies.
Osteoarthritis is one of the most frequent, disabling, and costly pathologies of modern society. Among the main aims of osteoarthritis management are pain control and functional ability improvement. The exact cause of osteoarthritis pain remains unclear. In addition to the pathological changes in articular structures, changes in central pain processing or central sensitization appear to be involved in osteoarthritis pain. The latter calls for a broader approach to the management of patients with osteoarthritis. Yet, the scientific literature offers scant information addressing the treatment of central sensitization, specifically in patients with osteoarthritis. Interventions such as cognitive-behavioral therapy and neuroscience education potentially target cognitive-emotional sensitization (and descending facilitation), and centrally acting drugs and exercise therapy can improve endogenous analgesia (descending inhibition) in patients with osteoarthritis. Future studies should assess these new treatment avenues.
Treatment with a rational combination of standardized extracts of Phaseolus vulgaris and Cynara scolymus reduced food intake and glycemia in rats. The present study was designed to assess the effect of this extract combination and of each single extract in an experimental model of food craving, made up of rats displaying exaggerated seeking and taking behaviors for a chocolate-flavoured beverage. After training to lever-respond for the chocolate-flavoured beverage, rats were treated with vehicle, Phaseolus vulgaris extract alone (200 mg/kg), Cynara scolymus extract alone (400 mg/kg), or combination of Phaseolus vulgaris (200 mg/kg) and Cynara scolymus (400 mg/kg) extracts. The Phaseolus vulgaris extract and the extract combination exerted similar and substantial decrements in the number of lever-responses and amount of self-administered chocolate-flavoured beverage; conversely, the Cynara scolymus extract was totally ineffective. These results suggest that (i) the capacity of the extract combination to reduce the self-administration of the chocolate-flavoured beverage entirely relied on the Phaseolus vulgaris extract, (ii) Phaseolus vulgaris extract may interfere with the mechanisms regulating food-related addictive-like behaviors, and (iii) combinations of Phaseolus vulgaris and Cynara scolymus extracts may possess a broad spectrum of activities, from treatment of metabolic syndrome to overweight, obesity, and possibly food-related addictive disorders.

The progression of motor neurone disease (MND) is currently irreversible, and the grave implications of diagnosis naturally fuels concern among neurologists over missing a potential mimic disorder. There is no diagnostic test for MND but in reality there are few plausible mimics in routine clinical practice. In the presence of a progressive pure motor disorder, signs such as florid fasciculations, bilateral tongue wasting, the 'split hand', head drop, emotionality, and cognitive or behavioural impairment carry high positive predictive value. MND is clinically heterogeneous, however, with some important chameleon-like presentations and considerable variation in clinical course. Lack of confidence about the scope of such variation, or an approach to diagnosis emphasising investigations over clinical common sense, has the potential to exacerbate diagnostic delay in MND and impede timely planning of the care which is essential to maximising quality of life.
Adolescence is marked by several key development-related changes, including neurocognitive changes. Cognitive abilities associated with self-regulation are not fully developed until late adolescence or early adulthood whereas tendencies to take risks and seek thrilling and novel experience seem to increase significantly throughout this phase, resulting in a discrepancy between increased susceptibility to poor regulation and lower ability to exercise self-control. Increased vulnerability to drug use initiation, maintenance, and dependence during adolescence may be explained based on this imbalance in the self-regulation system. In this paper, we highlight the relevance of schools as a setting for delivering adolescent drug use prevention programs that are based on recent findings from neuroscience concerning adolescent brain development. We discuss evidence from school-based as well as laboratory research that suggests that suitable training may improve adolescents' executive brain functions that underlie self-regulation abilities and, as a result, help prevent drug use and abuse. We note that considerable further research is needed in order (1) to determine that self-regulation training has effects at the neurocognitive level and (2) to effectively incorporate self-regulation training based on neuropsychological models into school-based programming.
The interdisciplinary field of neuroscience has greatly advanced our understanding of the brain and neurobehavioral disorders. Translational neuroscience endeavors to use this knowledge to develop solutions to practical problems: for example, to improve treatment and preventive interventions for neurobehavioral disorders. Although functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has the potential to contribute to the diagnosis and treatment of psychiatric disorders, efforts to prevent the problems of substance misuse and antisocial behavior have been slow to incorporate neuroscience principles and neuroimaging techniques. The current article summarizes fMRI research on substance misuse and antisocial behavior, highlights its implications for intervention, and explores new ways in which the technique could contribute to prevention efforts.
There is currently no approved neuroprotective pharmacotherapy for acute conditions such as stroke and cerebral asphyxia. One of the reasons for this may be the multiplicity of cell death mechanisms, because inhibition of a particular mechanism leaves the brain vulnerable to alternative ones. It is therefore essential to understand the different cell death mechanisms and their interactions. We here review the multiple signaling pathways underlying each of the three main morphological types of cell death--apoptosis, autophagic cell death and necrosis--emphasizing their importance in the neuronal death that occurs during cerebral ischemia and hypoxia-ischemia, and we analyze the interactions between the different mechanisms. Finally, we discuss the implications of the multiplicity of cell death mechanisms for the design of neuroprotective strategies.

What are the necessary and sufficient conditions to experience pleasure in interpersonal communication and dealing with art, science, and philosophy - this is what the theory of informational needs (TIN) suggested eleven years ago is about. At the same time, at the beginning of this century, several lines of research have emerged. Neuroaesthetics has been established; the discovery of the mirror neuron system and theories about its function have appeared; a growing interest in positive affect and pleasure has developed in psychiatry and medicine. The purpose of the present paper is to reconsider the TIN (Brankovi 2001) in the context of the advance in neuroscience during the last decade and to show how much conceptual clarity is gained when the recent empirical and theoretical findings are viewed from the standpoint of the TIN. A computational model of the aesthetic response based on the TIN's two-factor model of hedonic value of stimuli is delineated.
Down's syndrome (DS) is the most frequent genetic cause of intellectual disability and patients with DS show significant psychopathology (18-23%). Moreover, individuals with DS often show a cognitive decline associated with ageing characterized by a deterioration in memory, language and cognitive functioning. According to these relevant findings, an overview is presented of state-of-the-art knowledge of the neurocognitive, neurobiological and psychopathological profile, assessment and treatment of patients with DS. The linguistic characteristics of DS develop differently along distinct developmental trajectories. Thus, for example, morphosyntax deficit, especially in production, is more evident in adolescence than in early childhood and lexicon is usually better preserved in all ages (at least in comprehension). So far, rehabilitation is the only effective approach for improving cognitive and linguistic abilities. However, ongoing preliminary reports on other approaches such as transmagnetic stimulation or drugs suggest alternative or integrative treatment for the future. Individuals with DS show typical organization of brain structures related to some cognitive abilities, such as reduced volume in frontal and prefrontal areas, which is related to poor executive and linguistic abilities. They also frequently show psychiatric disorders such as externalizing disorders as well as depression, anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Nevertheless, as for other genetic syndrome with intellectual disability, there is a significant lack of research specifically focused on treatments of psychiatric and behavioural problems in DS. This is true both for psychosocial and for pharmacological interventions.



Adolescence is an exciting and challenging period of maturation, rapid brain development, and developmental changes in neurobiological, neurocognitive, and neurobehavioral processes. Although behavioral therapies available for adolescent substance abuse have increased, effectiveness research in this area lags considerably behind that of clinical research on treatment for drug-abusing adults. Behavioral treatment approaches show significant promise for treating drug-abusing adolescents, but many have not incorporated innovations in neuroscience on brain development, cognitive processes, and neuroimaging. Linking developmental neuroscience with behavioral treatments can create novel drug abuse interventions and increase the effectiveness of existing interventions for substance-abusing adolescents. Contemporary research on brain development, cognition, and neuroscience is ripe for translation to inform developmentally sensitive drug abuse treatments for adolescents. Neuroscientists and interventionists are challenged to build mutual collaborations for integration of neuroscience and drug abuse treatment for adolescents.
Research on neurobiological mechanisms, especially the function of networks that underlie reward and cognitive control, may offer an opportunity to explore how existing treatments work and provide means for developing new treatments for substance use disorders. In this respect, the special issue of Psychology of Addictive Behaviors highlights efforts to integrate translational neuroimaging with clinical research by actively linking neuroimaging measures with psychosocial treatment mechanisms. Based on several of the articles in this special issue, mindfulness-based approaches appear poised to make rapid progress in terms of integrating neuroimaging with research on mechanisms that mediate treatment success. This commentary briefly discusses research on incentive salience and cognitive control networks in the context of addiction, followed by a discussion of specific studies within this special issue that address the integration of neuroimaging assessments in the context of mindfulness approaches. Future work may be able to leverage measures of changes in networks and regions that underlie reward processing and cognitive control to better understand how treatments work, especially for mindfulness-based approaches.
Pathological gambling (PG), a disorder currently categorized as an impulse-control disorder but being considered as a nonsubstance addiction in Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (5th ed.) discussions, represents a significant public health concern. Over the past decade, considerable advances have been made with respect to understanding the biological underpinnings of PG. Research has also demonstrated the efficacies of multiple treatments, particularly behavioral therapies, for treating PG. Despite these advances, relatively little is known regarding how biological measures, particularly those assessing brain function, relate to treatments for PG. In this article, we present a conceptual review focusing on the neurobiology of behavioral therapies for PG. To illustrate issues related to study design, we present proof-of-concept preliminary data that link Stroop-related brain activations prior to treatment onset to treatment outcome in individuals with PG receiving a cognitive-behavioral treatment incorporating aspects of imaginal desensitization and motivational interviewing. We conclude with recommendations about current and future directions regarding how to incorporate and translate biological findings into improved therapies for individuals with nonsubstance and substance addictions.
In the last decade, there has been an upsurge of interest in understanding the mechanisms of behavior change (MOBC) and effective behavioral interventions as a strategy to improve addiction-treatment efficacy. However, there remains considerable uncertainty about how treatment research should proceed to address the MOBC issue. In this article, we argue that limitations in the underlying models of addiction that inform behavioral treatment pose an obstacle to elucidating MOBC. We consider how advances in the cognitive neuroscience of addiction offer an alternative conceptual and methodological approach to studying the psychological processes that characterize addiction, and how such advances could inform treatment process research. In addition, we review neuroimaging studies that have tested aspects of neurocognitive theories as a strategy to inform addiction therapies and discuss future directions for transdisciplinary collaborations across cognitive neuroscience and MOBC research.
Addiction has generally been characterized as a chronic relapsing condition (Leshner, 1999). Several laboratory, preclinical, and clinical studies have provided evidence that craving and negative affect are strong predictors of the relapse process. These states, as well as the desire to avoid them, have been described as primary motives for substance use. A recently developed behavioral treatment, mindfulness-based relapse prevention (MBRP), was designed to target experiences of craving and negative affect and their roles in the relapse process. MBRP offers skills in cognitive-behavioral relapse prevention integrated with mindfulness meditation. The mindfulness practices in MBRP are intended to increase discriminative awareness, with a specific focus on acceptance of uncomfortable states or challenging situations without reacting &quot;automatically.&quot; A recent efficacy trial found that those randomized to MBRP, as compared with those in a control group, demonstrated significantly lower rates of substance use and greater decreases in craving following treatment. Furthermore, individuals in MBRP did not report increased craving or substance use in response to negative affect. It is important to note, areas of the brain that have been associated with craving, negative affect, and relapse have also been shown to be affected by mindfulness training. Drawing from the neuroimaging literature, we review several plausible mechanisms by which MBRP might be changing neural responses to the experiences of craving and negative affect, which subsequently may reduce risk for relapse. We hypothesize that MBRP may affect numerous brain systems and may reverse, repair, or compensate for the neuroadaptive changes associated with addiction and addictive-behavior relapse.
This paper provides a developmental overview of relevant theory and research on delay discounting and neuroeconomics, and their implications for contingency management (CM) approaches to treatment. Recent advances in the neuroscience of decision making have the potential to inform treatment development for adolescent substance use in general, and CM treatments in particular. CM interventions may be informed by research on delay discounting, a type of decision making that reflects how individuals value immediate versus delayed rewards. Delay discounting reliably distinguishes substance abusers from nonabusers and is a significant predictor of individual differences in response to substance use treatments. Discounting may also be important in predicting response to CM, as CM attempts to directly influence this decision-making process, shifting the preference from the immediate rewards of use to delayed rewards for choosing not to use. Multiple neural processes underlie decision making, and those processes have implications for adolescent substance abuse. There are significant neurodevelopmental processes that differentiate adolescents from adults. These processes are implicated in delay discounting, suggesting that adolescence may reflect a period of plasticity in temporal decision making. Understanding the neural mechanisms of delay discounting has led to promising working memory interventions directly targeting the executive functions that underlie individual choices. These interventions may be particularly helpful in combination with CM interventions that offer immediate rewards for brief periods of abstinence, and may show particular benefit in adolescence due to the heightened neural plasticity of systems that underlie temporal discounting in adolescence.
The goal of this study was to investigate the neural correlates of affective decision making, as measured by the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), which are associated with adolescent binge drinking. Fourteen adolescent binge drinkers (16-18 years of age) and 14 age-matched adolescents who had never consumed alcohol--never drinkers--were recruited from local high schools in Chengdu, China. Questionnaires were used to assess academic performance, drinking experience, and urgency. Brain regions activated by the IGT performance were identified with functional magnetic resonance imaging. Results showed that, compared to never drinkers, binge drinkers performed worse on the IGT and showed higher activity in the subcomponents of the decision-making neural circuitry implicated in the execution of emotional and incentive-related behaviors, namely, the left amygdala and insula bilaterally. Moreover, measures of the severity of drinking problems in real life, as well as high urgency scores, were associated with increased activity within the insula, combined with decreased activity within the orbitofrontal cortex. These results suggest that hyperreactivity of a neural system implicated in the execution of emotional and incentive-related behaviors can be associated with socially undesirable behaviors, such as binge drinking, among adolescents. These findings have social implications because they potentially reveal underlying neural mechanisms for making poor decisions, which may increase an individual's risk and vulnerability for alcoholism.
How do people represent object meaning? It is now uncontentious that thinking about manipulable objects (e.g., pencils) activates brain regions underlying action. But is this activation part of the meaning of these objects, or is it merely incidental? The research we report here shows that when the hands are engaged in a task involving motions that are incompatible with those used to interact with frequently manipulated objects, it is more difficult to think about those objects--but not harder to think about infrequently manipulated objects (e.g., bookcases). Critically, the amount of manual experience with the object determines the amount of interference. These findings show that brain activity underlying manual action is part of, not peripheral to, the representation of frequently manipulated objects. Further, they suggest that people's ability to think about an object changes dynamically on the basis of the match between their (experience-based) mental representation of its meaning and whatever they are doing at that moment.
Reduced connectivity between sending and receiving neurons (i.e., synaptic depression) may facilitate change detection by reducing responses for recently viewed objects so new objects can be highlighted. In the experiment reported here, we investigated high-level change detection following semantic satiation, which is the loss of meaning following repetition of a word. A computer simulation of a word-reading neural network with synaptic depression identified key predictions of connectivity reduction. A dynamic-causal-modeling analysis of magnetoencephalography (MEG) responses collected during a category-matching task identified connectivity reduction between a cortical region related to orthography and a cortical region related to semantics as the cause of the reduced MEG response to a repeated word. As predicted, prior repetitions of a category-matching word presented immediately after the repeated word enhanced semantic novelty, as measured with the M400 component. These results demonstrate that a combination of neural-network modeling and connectivity analyses can reveal the manner in which connectivity fluctuations underlie cognitive functions.
Sensorimotor synchronization (SMS) is the coordination of rhythmic movement with an external rhythm, ranging from finger tapping in time with a metronome to musical ensemble performance. An earlier review (Repp, 2005) covered tapping studies; two additional reviews (Repp, 2006a, b) focused on music performance and on rate limits of SMS, respectively. The present article supplements and extends these earlier reviews by surveying more recent research in what appears to be a burgeoning field. The article comprises four parts, dealing with (1) conventional tapping studies, (2) other forms of moving in synchrony with external rhythms (including dance and nonhuman animals' synchronization abilities), (3) interpersonal synchronization (including musical ensemble performance), and (4) the neuroscience of SMS. It is evident that much new knowledge about SMS has been acquired in the last 7 years.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) plays an important role in the regulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis regarding stress response and possibly also depression. We used quantitative real-time PCR to determine the mRNA levels of 17 stress-related genes in the human postmortem anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and dorsolateral PFC (DLPFC) of patients with mood disorder and of well-matched controls. The correlation between the expression of these DLPFC genes and their earlier measured expression in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the same subjects was also determined. Transcript level of mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) was significantly decreased, while the ratio of glucocorticoid receptor (GR)  to MR mRNA level was increased in the ACC/DLPFC, both in the bipolar and major depressive disorder subgroups and also in the pooled depression group. Significantly inverse correlations were found for MR mRNA level and for GR/MR ratio between the DLPFC and PVN. A selective disturbance of MR and of the GR/MR ratio thus seems to exist in the ACC/DLPFC in depression, which was inversely correlated with the corresponding levels in the PVN. These changes may contribute to HPA-axis hyperactivity and hence to depression etiology.
Epigenetic molecular mechanisms, which include DNA methylation and histone deacetylation, are implicated in the dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Previously, we demonstrated that repeated water avoidance stress (WAS), a validated model of chronic psychological stress, induces heightened visceral pain behaviors in rodents that resemble irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) sequelae. However, the involvement of epigenetic molecular mechanisms in the pathophysiology of stress-induced visceral pain has not been explored. Our hypothesis is that epigenetic mechanisms within the central nervous system (CNS) are important to chronic stress-induced visceral hypersensitivity. Adult male F-344 rats with intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) cannulae were exposed to 7 days of repeated WAS. Controls received a SHAM stress. Following the daily 1h stressor, trichostatin A (TSA; 100 ng/ml), a potent histone deacetylase inhibitor, or vehicle (VEH; 0.1% DMSO/saline,) as control was administered via the i.c.v. cannula. Visceral sensitivity was assessed 24h after the final WAS and quantified the visceromotor response (VMR) by recording the number of abdominal contractions in response to graded pressures (20-60 mmHg) of colorectal distensions (CRD). From a separate group of rats that were exposed to repeated WAS or SHAM stress, the amygdala was isolated to assess the methylation status of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and corticotropin releasing-factor (CRF) genes via bisulfite sequencing and verified by pyrosequencing. GR and CRF gene expression was quantified via qRT-PCR. Stressed rats exhibited visceral hypersensitivity that was significantly attenuated by TSA. Compared to SHAM controls, methylation of the GR gene was increased following WAS while expression of the GR gene was decreased. Methylation of the CRF promoter was decreased with WAS with a concomitant increase in CRF expression. This study demonstrates the involvement of central epigenetic mechanisms in regulating stress-induced visceral hypersensitivity and provides a foundation for exploring the epigenetic mechanisms that may contribute to IBS-like symptomatology.
It is increasingly recognized that estrogens produce rapid and transient effects at many neural sites ultimately impacting physiological and behavioral endpoints. The ability of estrogens to acutely regulate cellular processes implies that their concentration should also be rapidly fine-tuned. Accordingly, rapid changes in the catalytic activity of aromatase, the limiting enzyme for estrogen synthesis, have been identified that could serve as a regulatory mechanism of local estrogen concentrations. However, the precise anatomical localization, time-course, triggering stimuli and functional significance of these enzymatic changes in vivo are not well understood. To address these issues as to where, when and why aromatase activity (AA) rapidly changes after sexual interactions, AA was assayed in six populations of aromatase-expressing cells microdissected from the brain of male quail that experienced varying durations of visual exposure to or copulation with a female. Sexual interactions resulted in a rapid AA inhibition. This inhibition occurred in specific brain regions (including the medial preoptic nucleus), in a context-dependent fashion and time-scale suggestive of post-translational modifications of the enzyme. Interestingly, the enzymatic fluctuations occurring in the preoptic area followed rather than preceded copulation and were tied specifically to the female's presence. This pattern of enzymatic changes suggests that rapid estrogen effects are important during the motivational phase of the behavior to trigger physiological events essential to activate mate search and copulation.




The N1 and P2 event-related potentials (ERPs) are attenuated when the eliciting sounds coincide with our own actions. Although this ERP attenuation could be caused by central processes, it may also reflect a peripheral mechanism: the coactivation of the stapedius muscle with the task-relevant effector, which reduces signal transmission efficiency in the middle ear, reducing the effective intensity of concurrently presented tones, which, in turn, elicit lower amplitude auditory ERPs. Because stapedius muscle contraction attenuates frequencies below 2kHz, no attenuation should occur at frequencies above 2kHz. A self-induced tone paradigm was administered with 0.5, 2.0, and 8.0kHz pure tones. Self-induced tones elicited attenuated N1 and P2 ERPs, but the magnitude of attenuation was not affected by tone frequency. This result does not support the hypothesis that ERP attenuation to self-induced tones are caused by stapedius muscle contractions.
Purinergic signaling plays a major role in the regulation of phagocytosis in microglia. Interplay between P2 and P1 receptor activation is controlled by a cascade of extracellular enzymes which dephosphorylate purines resulting in the formation of adenosine. The ATP- and ADP-degrading capacity of cultured microglia depends on the expression of ecto-nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 1 (CD39) and is several times higher when compared to astrocytes which lack this enzyme. In brain slices, deletion of CD39 resulted in a 50 % decrease of ADP-degrading ability, while the degradation of ATP was decreased to about 75 % of the values measured in wild-type brain tissue. Microglia in acute slices from cd39(-/-) animals had increased constitutive phagocytic activity which could not be further enhanced by ATP in contrast to control animals. Pharmacological blockage of P2 receptors decreased the constitutive phagocytic activity to a similar base level in wild-type and cd39(-/-) microglia. Activation of P1 receptors by non-hydrolysable adenosine analog significantly decreased phagocytic activity. Deletion of CD73, an enzyme expressed by microglia which converts AMP to adenosine did not affect phagocytic activity. Taken together, these data show that CD39 plays a prominent role in controlling ATP levels and thereby microglial phagocytosis.

Experimental primate embryology has been hampered by limited access to embryos. In addition to surgical techniques, the less stressful non-surgical technique of uterine flushing has been developed but has had only limitedly used in recovering pre-implantation embryos from marmoset monkeys. In this study, we introduce the use of ultrasonography during marmoset non-surgical uterine flushing to make the cannulation easier, to further reduce stress, and to ensure thorough uterine flushing. We were able to cannulate in 99% of the transcervical cannulation attempts, repeat the flushing up to 17 times with the same animal, and recover up to 90% of the ovulation products. We also found that 8-cell or earlier stage embryos could be frequently obtained by non-surgical uterine flushing at 4 or 5 days after ovulation. The easiness and effectiveness of this novel ultrasound-guided technique will enable more research groups to study marmoset embryology and facilitate progress in this field.
Practical experience and research reveal generic spoken language benefits after cochlear implantation. However, systematic research on specific language domains and error analyses are required to probe sub-skills. Moreover, the effect of predictive factors on distinct language domains is unknown. In this study, outcomes of 70 school-aged children with cochlear implants were compared with hearing peers. Approximately half of the children with cochlear implants achieved age-adequate language levels. Results did not reveal systematic strong or weak language domains. Error analyses showed difficulties with morphological and syntactic rules and inefficient narrative skills. Children without additional disabilities who received early intervention were raised with one spoken language, and used a second cochlear implant or contralateral hearing aid were more likely to present good language skills.
This study extended the assessment of a computer-aided telephone system to enable five patients with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease to make phone calls independently. The patients were divided into two groups and exposed to intervention according to a non-concurrent multiple baseline design across groups. All patients started with baseline in which the technology was not available, and continued with intervention in which the technology was used. The technology involved a net-book computer provided with specific software, a global system for mobile communication modem (GSM), a microswitch, and lists of partners to call with related photos. All the patients learned to use the system and made phone calls independently to a variety of partners, such as family members, friends, and caregivers. A social validation assessment, in which care and health professionals working with persons with dementia were asked to rate the patients' performance with the technology and with the help of a caregiver, provided generally more positive scores for the technology-assisted performance. The positive implications of the findings for daily programs of patients with Alzheimer's disease are discussed.
Ancient Greek physicians already knew that the smell of human breath could provide a clue to the pathology. Nowadays, volatile breath biomarkers are known to be released in a broad range of diseases. However, their identification, isolation, and quantification as indicative of relevant alterations in clinical status have required the development of new techniques and analytical methods. Breath sample analysis encounters several obstacles. Particularly, there is a need of a system that could work in a continuous manner, with the low concentration and small volume of a sample. Herein we review, in the light of literature and our experience, clinical applications of the metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) sensor for breath analysis to distinguish between health and disease in some conditions, e.g., diabetes, multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) syndrome, or in tracing the central neural fatigue resulting from cognitive performance. We submit that exhaled breath analysis holds promise in the diagnosis and treatment of genetic or neurodegenerative diseases which involve cognitive derangements.

This review provides a historical overview of decades of research on recognition memory, the process that allows both humans and animals to tell familiar from novel items. The emphasis is put on how monkey research improved our understanding of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) role and how tasks designed for monkeys influenced research in humans. The story starts in the early 1950s. Back then, memory was not a fashionable scientific topic. It was viewed as a function of the whole brain and not of specialized brain areas. All that changed in 1957-1958 when Brenda Milner, a neuropsychologist from Montreal, described patient H.M. He forgot all events as he lived them despite a fully preserved intelligence. He had received a MTL resection to relieve epilepsy. H.M. (1926-2008) would become the most influential patient in brain science. Which structures among those included in H.M.'s large lesion were important for recognition memory could not be evaluated in humans. It was gradually understood only after the successful development of a monkey model of human amnesia by Mishkin in 1978. Selective lesions and two behavioral tasks, delayed nonmatching-to-sample and visual paired comparison, were used to distinguish the contribution of the hippocampus from that of adjacent cortical areas. Driven by findings in non-human primates, human research on recognition memory is now trying to solve the question of whether the different structures composing MTL contributes to familiarity and recollection, the two possible forms taken by recognition. We described in particular two French patients, FRG and JMG, whose deficits support the currently dominant model attributing to the perirhinal cortex a critical role in recognition memory. Research on recognition memory has implications for the clinician as it may help understanding the cognitive deficits observed in different diseases. An illustration of such approach, linking basic and applied research, is provided for Alzheimer's disease.
The chronic pain management structures were identified by the French health authorities regarding two levels: consultation (with a pluri-professional organization and proximity missions) and the center (with a multidisciplinary organization and expertise). Access to these structures is facilitated by guidelines published in 2008 by the Haute Autorit de sant.
The pharmacological treatment of chronic pains induced by an excess of nociception is mainly based on analgesics which are classified according to their pharmacological nature (not opioid/opioid) and to their power according to the three World Health Organization steps. Their use is founded on a strategy which differs from the nature of pain (cancer pain vs no cancer pain), in particular with regard to the use of the strong opioids.

Given the possibilities of synthetic biology, weapons of mass destruction and global climate change, humans may achieve the capacity globally to alter life. This crisis calls for an ethics that furnishes effective motives to take global action necessary for survival. We propose a research program for understanding why ethical principles change across time and culture. We also propose provisional motives and methods for reaching global consensus on engineering field ethics. Current interdisciplinary research in ethics, psychology, neuroscience and evolutionary theory grounds these proposals. Experimental ethics, the application of scientific principles to ethical studies, provides a model for developing policies to advance solutions. A growing literature proposes evolutionary explanations for moral development. Connecting these approaches necessitates an experimental or scientific ethics that deliberately examines theories of morality for reliability. To illustrate how such an approach works, we cover three areas. The first section analyzes cross-cultural ethical systems in light of evolutionary theory. While such research is in its early stages, its assumptions entail consequences for engineering education. The second section discusses Howard University and University of Puerto Rico/Mayagez (UPRM) courses that bring ethicists together with scientists and engineers to unite ethical theory and practice. We include a syllabus for engineering and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) ethics courses and a checklist model for translating educational theory and practice into community action. The model is based on aviation, medicine and engineering practice. The third and concluding section illustrates Howard University and UPRM efforts to translate engineering educational theory into community action. Multidisciplinary teams of engineering students and instructors take their expertise from the classroom to global communities to examine further the ethicality of prospective technologies and the decision-making processes that lead to them.
Infants born very preterm are high risk for acquired brain injury and disturbances in brain maturation. Although survival rates for preterm infants have increased in the last decades owing to improved neonatal intensive care, motor disabilities including cerebral palsy persist, and impairments in cognitive, language, social, and executive functions have not decreased. Evidence from neuroimaging studies exploring brain structure, function, and metabolism has indicated abnormalities in the brain development trajectory of very preterm-born infants that persist through to adulthood. In this chapter, we review neuroimaging approaches for the identification of brain injury in the preterm neonate. Advances in medical imaging and availability of specialized equipment necessary to scan infants have facilitated the feasibility of conducting longitudinal studies to provide greater understanding of early brain injury and atypical brain development and their effects on neurodevelopmental outcome. Improved understanding of the risk factors for acquired brain injury and associated factors that affect brain development in this population is setting the stage for improving the brain health of children born preterm.




This review considers recent evidence showing that cells in the reticular activating system (RAS) exhibit (1) electrical coupling mainly in GABAergic cells, and (2) gamma band activity in virtually all of the cells. Specifically, cells in the mesopontine pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), intralaminar parafascicular nucleus (Pf), and pontine dorsal subcoeruleus nucleus dorsalis (SubCD) (1) show electrical coupling, and (2) all fire in the beta/gamma band range when maximally activated, but no higher. The mechanism behind electrical coupling is important because the stimulant modafinil was shown to increase electrical coupling. We also provide recent findings demonstrating that all cells in the PPN and Pf have high threshold, voltage-dependent P/Q-type calcium channels that are essential to gamma band activity. On the other hand, all SubCD, and some PPN, cells manifested sodium-dependent subthreshold oscillations. A novel mechanism for sleep-wake control based on transmitter interactions, electrical coupling, and gamma band activity is described. We speculate that continuous sensory input will modulate coupling and induce gamma band activity in the RAS that could participate in the processes of preconscious awareness, and provide the essential stream of information for the formulation of many of our actions.
The manner in which disparate affective responses shape attitudes toward other individuals has received a great deal of attention in neuroscience research. However, the malleability of these affective responses remains largely unexplored. The perceived controllability of a stigma (whether or not the bearer of the stigma is perceived as being responsible for his or her condition) has been found to polarize behavioral affective responses to that stigma. The current study uses functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify the neural correlates underlying the evaluation of stigmatized individuals (people who are homeless) when perceptions of the controllability of their condition are altered. Results demonstrated that perceivers engaged neural networks implicated in inferring intentionality (e.g. the medial prefrontal cortex) when they evaluated a homeless individual who was described as being responsible for becoming homeless. Conversely, neural networks associated with resolving strong affective responses (e.g. insula) were engaged when evaluating a homeless individual who was described as not being responsible for becoming homeless.
Although neuroimaging studies strongly implicate the medial prefrontal cortex (ventral and dorsal), cingulate gyrus (anterior and posterior), precuneus and temporoparietal cortex in mediating self-referential processing (SRP), little is known about the neural bases mediating individual differences in valenced SRP, that is, processes intrinsic to self-esteem. This study investigated the neural correlates of experimentally engendered valenced SRP via the Visual-Verbal Self-Other Referential Processing Task in 20 women with fMRI. Participants viewed pictures of themselves or unknown other women during separate trials while covertly rehearsing 'I am' or 'She is', followed by reading valenced trait adjectives, thus variably associating the self/other with positivity/negativity. Response within dorsal and ventral medial prefrontal cortex, cingulate cortex and left temporoparietal cortex varied with individual differences in both pre-task rated self-descriptiveness of the words, as well as task-induced affective responses. Results are discussed as they relate to a social cognitive and affective neuroscience view of self-esteem.
The neuropeptide oxytocin functions as a hormone and neurotransmitter and facilitates complex social cognition and approach behavior. Given that empathy is an essential ingredient for third-party decision-making in institutions of justice, we investigated whether exogenous oxytocin modulates empathy of an unaffected third-party toward offenders and victims of criminal offenses. Healthy male participants received intranasal oxytocin or placebo in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, between-subjects design. Participants were given a set of legal vignettes that described an event during which an offender engaged in criminal offenses against victims. As an unaffected third-party, participants were asked to rate those criminal offenses on the degree to which the offender deserved punishment and how much harm was inflicted on the victim. Exogenous oxytocin selectively increased third-party decision-makers' perceptions of harm for victims but not the desire to punish offenders of criminal offenses. We argue that oxytocin promoted empathic concern for the victim, which in turn increased the tendency for prosocial approach behavior regarding the interpersonal relationship between an unaffected third-party and a fictional victim in the criminal scenarios. Future research should explore the context- and person-dependent nature of exogenous oxytocin in individuals with antisocial personality disorder and psychopathy, in whom deficits in empathy feature prominently.
Isolating processes within the brain that are specific to human behavior is a key goal for social neuroscience. The current research was an attempt to test whether recent findings of enhanced negative ERPs in response to unexpected human gaze are unique to eye gaze stimuli by comparing the effects of gaze cues with the effects of an arrow cue. ERPs were recorded while participants (N=30) observed a virtual actor or an arrow that gazed (or pointed) either toward (object congruent) or away from (object incongruent) a flashing checkerboard. An enhanced negative ERP (N300) in response to object incongruent compared to object congruent trials was recorded for both eye gaze and arrow stimuli. The findings are interpreted as reflecting a domain general mechanism for detecting unexpected events.


Abstract available from the publisher.
There is substantial evidence that fatiguing exercise is accompanied by changes within the central nervous system that reduce the force that can be produced by working muscles. Here we review studies that used non-invasive neurophysiological techniques to show that sustained single-joint contractions have the capacity to increase corticospinal responsiveness and reduce motoneuronal responsiveness. We contrast these findings with new evidence from our laboratory regarding corticospinal responsiveness during sustained cycling exercise. There seems to be a similar increase in responsiveness of the intracortical inhibitory interneurons during sustained locomotor and single-joint exercise which might be due to acute exercise responses that are common to fatiguing exercise of any nature, such as local accumulation of fatigue metabolites. In contrast, the pattern of changes in corticospinal responsiveness is fundamentally different between the two modes of exercise which might be due to greater systemic fatigue responses to locomotor exercises.
Neural stem cells of the subventricular zone (SVZ) represent a potentially important source of surrogate cells for the treatment of brain damage. Proper use of these cells for neuronal replacement depends on the ability to drive neuronal differentiation. Several neuromodulators stimulate neurogenesis. Here we examined the effects of the neuropeptide galanin, on neuronal differentiation in murine SVZ cultures. SVZ neurospheres obtained from early postnatal mice were treated with 10nM to 2M galanin. Galanin promoted neuronal differentiation, increasing numbers of NeuN-, vesicular GABA transporter- and tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing neurons. In contrast, galanin neither affected cell proliferation assessed by BrdU incorporation nor cell death evaluated by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL). Neuronal differentiation was further confirmed at the functional level by measuring [Ca(2+)]i variations in single SVZ cells after KCl and histamine stimulations to distinguish neurons from immature cells. Galanin treatment increased the numbers of neuronal-like responding cells compared to immature cells. Using selective agonists (M617, AR-M1896) and antagonists (galantide, M871) for galanin receptors 1 and 2, we showed that both galanin receptors mediated neuronal differentiation. Early proneuronal effects of galanin included positive regulation of the transcription factor neurogenin-1 (Ngn1). In addition, galanin promoted axonogenesis and dendritogenesis, increasing both the length of phosphorylated stress-activated protein kinase- and Tau-positive axons and the numbers of microtubule associated protein-2 (MAP-2)-labelled dendrites. Moreover, galanin inhibited SVZ cell migration in the transwell assay. Our results show a proneurogenic effect of galanin and open new perspectives for future applications in stem cell-based therapies for neuronal replacement.
Traditionally, in vitro stem cell systems have used oxygen tensions that are far removed from the in vivo situation. This is particularly true for the central nervous system, where oxygen (O2) levels range from 8% at the pia to 0.5% in the midbrain, whereas cells are usually cultured in a 20% O2 environment. Cell transplantation strategies therefore typically introduce a stress challenge at the time of transplantation as the cells are switched from 20% to 3% O2 (the average in adult organs). We have modeled the oxygen stress that occurs during transplantation, demonstrating that in vitro transfer of neonatal rat cortical neural precursor cells (NPCs) from a 20% to a 3% O2 environment results in significant cell death, whereas maintenance at 3% O2 is protective. This survival benefit translates to the in vivo environment, where culture of NPCs at 3% rather than 20% O2 approximately doubles survival in the immediate post-transplantation phase. Furthermore, NPC fate is affected by culture at low, physiological O2 tensions (3%), with particularly marked effects on the oligodendrocyte lineage, both in vitro and in vivo. We propose that careful consideration of physiological oxygen environments, and particularly changes in oxygen tension, has relevance for the practical approaches to cellular therapies.
Current protocols for in vitro differentiation of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) to generate dopamine (DA) neurons are laborious and time-expensive. In order to accelerate the overall process, we have established a fast protocol by expressing the developmental transcription factors ASCL1, NURR1, and LMX1A. With this method, we were able to generate mature and functional dopaminergic neurons in as few as 21 days, skipping all the intermediate steps for inducting and selecting embryoid bodies and rosette-neural precursors. Strikingly, the resulting neuronal conversion process was very proficient, with an overall efficiency that was more than 93% of all the coinfected cells. hiPSC-derived DA neurons expressed all the critical molecular markers of the DA molecular machinery and exhibited sophisticated functional features including spontaneous electrical activity and dopamine release. This one-step protocol holds important implications for in vitro disease modeling and is particularly amenable for exploitation in high-throughput screening protocols.
The ovarian hormone 17-estradiol (E2) exerts profound neuroprotective actions against ischemia-induced brain damage in rodent models of global and focal ischemia. This review focuses on the neuroprotective efficacy of post-ischemic administration of E2 and non-feminizing estrogen analogs in the aging brain, with an emphasis on studies in animals subjected to a long-term loss of circulating E2. Clinical findings from the Women's Health Initiative study as well as data from animal studies that used long-term, physiological levels of E2 treatment are discussed in this context. We summarize major published findings that highlight the effective doses and timing of E2 treatment relative to onset of ischemia. We then discuss recent findings from our laboratory showing that under some conditions the aging hippocampus remains responsive to E2 and some neuroprotective non-feminizing estrogen analogs even after prolonged periods of hormone withdrawal. Possible membrane-initiated signaling mechanisms that may underlie the neuroprotective actions of acutely administered E2 are also discussed. Based on these findings, we suggest that post-ischemic treatment with high doses of E2 or certain non-feminizing estrogen analogs may have great therapeutic potential for treatment of brain damage and neurodegeneration associated with ischemia.





Knowledge of neuroscience flourished during and in the wake of the era of frontal lobotomy, as a byproduct of psychosurgery in the late 1930s and 1940s, revealing fascinating neural pathways and neurophysiologic mechanisms of the limbic system for the formulation of emotions, memory, and human behavior. The creation of the Klver-Bucy syndrome in monkeys opened new horizons in the pursuit of knowledge in human behavior and neuropathology. In the 1950s specialized functional neurosurgery was developed in association with stereotactic neurosurgery; deep brain electrodes were implanted for more precise recording of brain electrical activity in the evaluation and treatment of intractable mental disorders, including schizophrenia, &quot;pathologic aggression,&quot; and psychomotor seizures in temporal lobe epilepsy. Psychosurgical procedures involved deep brain stimulation of the limbic system, as well as ablative procedures, such as cingulotomy and thalamotomy. The history of these developments up to the 21(st) century will continue in this three-part essay-editorial, exclusively researched and written for the readers of Surgical Neurology International.
The human body is a hierarchical organism containing many levels of mutually interacting oscillatory systems. From the viewpoint of traditional Chinese medicine, health is a state of harmony emergent from the interactions of these systems and disease is a state of discord. Hence, human diseases are considered as disturbed functions rather than changed structures. Indeed, the change from normal to abnormal structure may be beneficent rather than maleficent. For example, when one kidney becomes twice the normal size following the destruction of the other kidney, it is good and not bad for us because we might be dead otherwise. Therefore, in Part 3 of this three-part series, emphasis is mainly laid on the acupuncture mechanisms of treating disturbed physiological functions rather than disordered structures. At first, the basic tenets of conventional neuroscience and cardiology are reevaluated so that clear understanding of how nervous and cardiovascular systems work together can be obtained. Then, the general principles of diagnosis and treatment in traditional Chinese medicine from the integrative perspective of complex dynamic systems are proposed. Finally, mechanisms of acupuncture therapies for treating 14 different categories of disorders will be elucidated via the magneto-electric inductive effects of the meridian system.


The reductive power provided by nicotinamide adenine dinucleotides is invaluable for several cellular processes. It drives metabolic reactions, enzymatic activity, regulates genetic expression and allows for the maintenance of a normal cell redox status. Therefore, the balance between the oxidized (NAD(+)) and the reduced (NADH) forms is critical for the cell's proper function and ultimately, for its survival. Being intimately associated with the cells' metabolism, it is expected that alterations to the NAD(+)/NADH ratio are to be found in situations of metabolic diseases, as is the case of diabetes. NAD(+) is a necessary cofactor for several enzymes' activity, many of which are related to metabolism. Therefore, a decrease in the NAD(+)/NADH ratio causes these enzymes to decrease in activity (reductive stress), resulting in an altered metabolic situation that might be the first insult toward several pathologies, such as diabetes. Here, we review the importance of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotides in the liver cell and its fluctuations in a state of type 2 diabetes mellitus.




We aimed to replicate the association of the IVS3-35A&gt;G polymorphism in the activin receptor-like kinase (ACVRL) 1 gene and the 207G&gt;A polymorphism in the endoglin (ENG) gene with sporadic brain arteriovenous malformations (BAVM) in Dutch BAVM patients. In addition, we assessed whether these polymorphisms contribute to the risk of BAVM in patients with hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia type 1 (HHT1). We genotyped 143 Dutch sporadic BAVM patients and 360 healthy volunteers for four variants in the ACVRL1 gene including IVS3-35A&gt;G and two variants in the ENG gene including 207G&gt;A. Differences in allele and genotype frequencies between sporadic BAVM patients and controls and their combined effect were analysed with a likelihood ratio test. Furthermore, we compared the allele and genotype frequencies between 24 HHT1 patients with a BAVM with those of a relative with HHT1 without a BAVM in a matched pair analysis using Wilcoxon signed rank test. No significant differences in allele frequency were found between sporadic BAVM cases and controls or between HHT1 patients with and without BAVM for any of the polymorphisms or the combination of ACVRL1 and ENG polymorphisms. Meta-analysis of the current and the two previous studies for the ACVRL1 IVS3-35A polymorphism showed a persisting association between the ACVRL1 IVS3-35A polymorphism and risk of sporadic BAVM (odds ratio, 1.86; 95% CI: 1.32-2.61, p&lt;0.001). We did not replicate the previously found association between a polymorphism in ACVRL1 IVS3-35A&gt;G and BAVM in Dutch patients. However, meta-analysis did not rule out a possible effect.
The highly dynamic membranous network of eukaryotic cells allows spatial organization of biochemical reactions to suit the complex metabolic needs of the cell. The unique lipid composition of organelle membranes in the face of dynamic membrane activities assumes that lipid gradients are constantly generated and maintained. Important advances have been made in identifying specialized membrane compartments and lipid transfer mechanisms that are critical for generating and maintaining lipid gradients. Remarkably, one class of minor phospholipids--the phosphoinositides--is emerging as important regulators of these processes. Here, we summarize several lines of research that have led to our current understanding of the connection between phosphoinositides and the transport of structural lipids and offer some thoughts on general principles possibly governing these processes.
Both faces and voices are rich in socially-relevant information, which humans are remarkably adept at extracting, including a person's identity, age, gender, affective state, personality, etc. Here, we review accumulating evidence from behavioral, neuropsychological, electrophysiological, and neuroimaging studies which suggest that the cognitive and neural processing mechanisms engaged by perceiving faces or voices are highly similar, despite the very different nature of their sensory input. The similarity between the two mechanisms likely facilitates the multi-modal integration of facial and vocal information during everyday social interactions. These findings emphasize a parsimonious principle of cerebral organization, where similar computational problems in different modalities are solved using similar solutions.
The aggregation of the protein alpha-synuclein (-SYN) is believed to be a critical event in Parkinson's disease (PD). -SYN is characterized by a remarkable conformational plasticity, adopting different conformations depending on the environment. In vitro, -SYN lacks a well-defined structure. Therefore, it was classified as an 'intrinsically disordered protein'. A debate has recently begun over how -SYN behaves in the cell: is it an intrinsically disordered protein or a stable tetramer with a low propensity for aggregation? In this review, we discuss the aggregation of -SYN and describe factors that influence this process and their potential relevance in PD pathogenesis. We address the ways in which aggregated -SYN mediates toxicity and might lead to PD, and propose possible therapeutic strategies.

Midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons are essential for controlling key functions of the brain, such as voluntary movement, reward processing, and working memory. The largest populations of midbrain DA neurons are localized in two neighboring nuclei, the substantia nigra (SN) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Regardless of their different axonal projections to subcortical and cortical targets, midbrain DA neurons have traditionally been regarded as a relatively homogeneous group of neurons, with a stereotypical set of intrinsic electrophysiological properties and in vivo pattern of activity. In this review, I highlight recent data supporting an unexpected degree of diversity among these midbrain DA neurons in the mammalian brain, ranging from their developmental lineages and different synaptic connectivity to their electrophysiological properties and behavioral functions.
Objective: The crucial role of angiogenesis in the pathophysiology of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has been proposed. One of the key regulators of angiogenesis is the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Among the VEGF family, it has been observed that VEGF-A and VEGF-C are expressed by AML cells and mediate leukemic cell proliferation, survival, and resistance to chemotherapy. Emerging evidence, however, suggests that elevated levels of VEGF or a proangiogenic phenotype may impede, rather than promote, early tumor development and progression. As the significance of VEGF-A and VEGF-C levels in the pathogenesis of AML has not been clarified well, the aim of this study is to evaluate gene expression of these angiogenesis promoters and its possible prognostic value in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of Iranian patients with AML. Materials and Methods: We investigated the mRNA expression of VEGF-A and VEGF-C in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 27 patients with newly diagnosed AML and 28 healthy controls by quantitative real-time PCR. Results: Expression of VEGF-C mRNA was significantly lower in AML patients than in healthy controls (p&lt;0.001). However, there was no significant decrement in expression of VEGF-A mRNA of AML patients compared to the control group (p=0.861). VEGF-A and VEGF-C expression were not able to predict clinical outcome. Conclusion: Our data showed that AML is associated with a decreased expression of VEGF-C mRNA. However, expression levels did not influence the clinical outcome in our study. It seems that angiogenesis is affected by different cytokines other than VEGF-C or VEGF-A, and VEGF is also affected by different cytokines. Taken together, these findings help to provide new insights into the investigation of other angiogenic factors and cytokines that may play roles in the pathogenesis of AML. Conflict of interest:None declared.
Angiogenesis plays a key role in several rheumatic diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, systemic sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and vasculitides. An imbalance between angiogenic inducers and inhibitors seems to be a critical factor in pathogenesis of these diseases. Macrophages promote angiogenesis during rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, macrophages can produce a variety of pro-angiogenic factors that have been associated with the angiogenic response occurring during other rheumatic diseases. Lastly, macrophages could be a target in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other rheumatic diseases. Nevertheless, further studies are needed to better elucidate the exact role of macrophage in angiogenesis in these diseases.

The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) marks the first significant revision of the publication since the DSM-IV in 1994. Changes to the DSM were largely informed by advancements in neuroscience, clinical and public health need, and identified problems with the classification system and criteria put forth in the DSM-IV. Much of the decision-making was also driven by a desire to ensure better alignment with the International Classification of Diseases and its upcoming 11th edition (ICD-11). In this paper, we describe select revisions in the DSM-5, with an emphasis on changes projected to have the greatest clinical impact and those that demonstrate efforts to enhance international compatibility, including integration of cultural context with diagnostic criteria and changes that facilitate DSM-ICD harmonization. It is anticipated that this collaborative spirit between the American Psychiatric Association (APA) and the World Health Organization (WHO) will continue as the DSM-5 is updated further, bringing the field of psychiatry even closer to a singular, cohesive nosology.
To characterize fluorescent enteric neurons labeled for expression of cytoplasmic markers in zebrafish mutants, we developed a new MATLAB-based program that can be trained by user input. We used the program to count enteric neurons and to analyze co-expression of the neuronal marker, Elavl, and the neuronal subtype marker, serotonin, in 3D confocal image stacks of dissected whole-mount zebrafish intestines. We quantified the entire population of enteric neurons and the serotonergic subpopulation in specific regions of the intestines of gutwrencher mutant and wild-type sibling larvae. We show a marked decrease in enteric neurons in gutwrencher mutants that is more severe at the caudal end of the intestine. We also show that gutwrencher mutants have the same number of serotonin-positive enteroendocrine cells in the intestine as wild types.

Exocrine gland-secreting peptide 1 (ESP1) is a sex pheromone that is released in male mouse tear fluids and enhances female sexual receptive behavior. ESP1 is selectively recognized by a specific class C G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), V2Rp5, among the hundreds of receptors expressed in vomeronasal sensory neurons (VSNs). The specific sensing mechanism of the mammalian peptide pheromone by the class C GPCR remains to be elucidated. Here we identified the minimal functional region needed to retain VSN-stimulating activity in ESP1 and determined its three-dimensional structure, which adopts a helical fold stabilized by an intramolecular disulfide bridge with extensive charged patches. We then identified the amino acids involved in the activation of VSNs by a structure-based mutational analysis, revealing that the highly charged surface is crucial for the ESP1 activity. We also demonstrated that ESP1 specifically bound to an extracellular region of V2Rp5 by an in vitro pulldown assay. Based on homology modeling of V2Rp5 using the structure of the metabotropic glutamate receptor, we constructed a docking model of the ESP1-V2Rp5 complex in which the binding interface exhibited good electrostatic complementarity. These experimental results, supported by the molecular docking simulations, reveal that charge-charge interactions determine the specificity of ESP1 binding to V2Rp5 in the large extracellular region characteristic of class C GPCRs. The present study provides insights into the structural basis for the narrowly tuned sensing of mammalian peptide pheromones by class C GPCRs.
A sensitive and selective ultra-high performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC) tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) method was developed for the fast quantification of ten psychotropic drugs and metabolites in human plasma for the needs of our laboratory (amisulpride, asenapine, desmethyl-mirtazapine, iloperidone, mirtazapine, norquetiapine, olanzapine, paliperidone, quetiapine and risperidone). Stable isotope-labeled internal standards were used for all analytes, to compensate for the global method variability, including extraction and ionization variations. Sample preparation was performed by generic protein precipitation with acetonitrile. Chromatographic separation was achieved in less than 3.0min on an Acquity UPLC BEH Shield RP18 column (2.1mm50mm; 1.7m), using a gradient elution of 10mM ammonium formate buffer pH 3.0 and acetonitrile at a flow rate of 0.4ml/min. The compounds were quantified on a tandem quadrupole mass spectrometer operating in positive electrospray ionization mode, using multiple reaction monitoring. The method was fully validated according to the latest recommendations of international guidelines. Eight point calibration curves were used to cover a large concentration range 0.5-200ng/ml for asenapine, desmethyl-mirtazapine, iloperidone, mirtazapine, olanzapine, paliperidone and risperidone, and 1-1500ng/ml for amisulpride, norquetiapine and quetiapine. Good quantitative performances were achieved in terms of trueness (93.1-111.2%), repeatability (1.3-8.6%) and intermediate precision (1.8-11.5%). Internal standard-normalized matrix effects ranged between 95 and 105%, with a variability never exceeding 6%. The accuracy profiles (total error) were included in the acceptance limits of 30% for biological samples. This method is therefore suitable for both therapeutic drug monitoring and pharmacokinetic studies.
BACKGROUND: Human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) has been reported to be associated with multiple sclerosis (MS) and Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). METHODS: We analyzed cell-free HHV-6 DNA as an indication of active infection in the peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of Swedish patients with GBS, patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy, treatment-nave patients with possible MS, interferon- treated MS patients [with or without neutralizing antibodies (NAbs)], and control patients with headache. RESULTS: One of 14 GBS patients and one of eight patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy were positive for HHV-6 DNA in serum. Of the 27 treatment-nave possible MS patients, two were positive in plasma and one in CSF. HHV-6 DNA was detected in the serum of three of 79 NAb+ patients and one of 102 NAb-interferon- treated MS patients. HHV-6 DNA could not be detected in the plasma or CSF of any of the 33 controls, although the differences were not statistically significant. CONCLUSION: Our results do not suggest active HHV-6 infection to be a common phenomenon in any of the patient groups studied.
Our goal was to characterize the response of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) to a novel composite scaffold for bone tissue engineering. The hydroxyapatite-polycaprolactone (HA-PCL) composite scaffolds were prepared by a sol-gel method at room temperature and the scaffold morphology was investigated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM)/energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) to validate the synthesis process. The response of two different lines of hMSCs, bone-marrow-derived human mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) and dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) in terms of cell proliferation and differentiation into the osteoblastic phenotype, was evaluated using Alamar blue assay, SEM, histology and alkaline phosphatase activity. Our results indicate that tissue engineering by means of composite HA-PCL scaffolds may represent a new therapeutic strategy to repair craniofacial bone defects. Copyright  2013 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.

Excess production of superoxide (O(-)) and nitric oxide (NO) in blood vessel walls may occur early in atherogenesis leading to the formation of peroxynitrite, a strong oxidant and nitrating agent. This study was designed to determine the effect of diphenyl diselenide (PhSe), a synthetic organoselenium compound, in comparison with ebselen, on peroxynitrite-mediated endothelial damage. Experimental results showed that pre-incubation of BAEC (24 h) with low concentrations of (PhSe) (0.5 and 1 M) protected the cells from peroxynitrite-dependent apoptosis and protein tyrosine nitration. The intracellular levels of GSH were almost completely depleted by peroxynitrite and, although the compounds did not restore its normal levels, (PhSe) per se significantly increased GSH in a concentration-dependent manner. Moreover, (PhSe), which was about two times more active as a GPx mimic than ebselen, induced a significantly higher increase in both cellular GPx expression and activity. Taking into account the kinetics of the reaction between peroxynitrite and (PhSe), our data indicate that (PhSe) protects BAEC against peroxynitrite-mediated cell damage not by a direct reaction, but rather by increasing cellular GPx expression as a consequence of enhanced nuclear translocation of Nrf-2, which together with the increase in intracellular GSH, may work catalytically to reduce peroxynitrite to nitrite.

The purpose of this study was to investigate whether toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is implicated in the development of endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER stress) observed after a high-fat diet (HFD) in liver, skeletal muscle and adipose tissue. TLR4(-/-) and C57BL/6J wild-type mice (WT) were fed with chow or HFD (45% calories from fat) during 18 weeks. An oral glucose tolerance-test was performed. The animals were sacrificed in a fasted state and the tissues were removed. TLR4 deletion protected from body weight gain and glucose intolerance induced by HFD whereas energy intake was higher in transgenic mice suggesting larger energy expenditure. HFD induced an ER stress in skeletal muscle, liver and adipose tissue of WT mice as assessed by BiP, CHOP, spliced and unspliced XBP1 and phospho-eIF2. TLR4(-/-) mice were protected against HFD-induced ER stress. Then, we investigated the main signaling downstream of TLR4 namely the NF-B pathway, expecting to identify the mechanism by which TLR4 is able to activate ER stress. The mRNA levels of cytokines regulated by NF-B namely TNF, IL-1 and IL-6, were not changed after HFD and phospho-IB- (ser 32) was not changed. Our results indicate that TLR4 is essential for the development of ER stress related to HFD. Nevertheless, the NF-B pathway does not seem to be directly implicated. The reduced fat storage in TLR4(-/-) mice could explain the absence of an ER stress after HFD.
Adult bone marrow stroma contains multipotent stem cells (BMSC) that are a mixed population of mesenchymal and neural-crest derived stem cells. Both cells are endowed with in vitro multi-lineage differentiation abilities, then constituting an attractive and easy-available source of material for cell therapy in neurological disorders. Whereas the in vivo integration and differentiation of BMSC in neurons into the central nervous system is currently matter of debate, we report here that once injected into the striatum of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated mice, pure populations of either bone marrow neural crest stem cells (NCSC) or mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) survived only transiently into the lesioned brain. Moreover, they do not migrate through the brain tissue, neither modify their initial phenotype, while no recovery of the dopaminergic system integrity was observed. Consequently, we tend to conclude that MSC/NCSC are not able to replace lost neurons in acute MPTP-lesioned dopaminergic system through a suitable integration and/or differentiation process. Altogether with recent data, it appears that neuroprotective, neurotrophic and anti-inflammatory features characterizing BMSC are of greater interest as regards CNS lesions management.
Bitter molecules in humans are detected by 25 G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). The lack of atomic resolution structure for any of them is complicating an in depth understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying bitter taste perception. Here, we investigate the molecular determinants of the interaction of the TAS2R38 bitter taste receptor with its agonists phenylthiocarbamide (PTC) and propylthiouracil (PROP). We use the recently developed hybrid Molecular Mechanics/Coarse Grained (MM/CG) method tailored specifically for GPCRs. The method, through an extensive exploration of the conformational space in the binding pocket, allows the identification of several residues important for agonist binding that would have been very difficult to capture from the standard bioinformatics/docking approach. Our calculations suggest that both agonists bind to Asn103, Phe197, Phe264 and Trp201, whilst they do not interact with the so-called extra cellular loop 2, involved in cis-retinal binding in the GPCR rhodopsin. These predictions are consistent with data sets based on more than 20 site-directed mutagenesis and functional calcium imaging experiments of TAS2R38. The method could be readily used for other GPCRs for which experimental information is currently lacking.


In order to examine the potential involvement of gangliosides in AD (Alzheimer's disease), we compared the ganglioside compositions of the brains of a double-transgenic (Tg) mouse model [APP (amyloid precursor protein)/PSEN1 (presenilin)] of AD and a triple mutant mouse model with an additional deletion of the GD3S (GD3-synthase) gene (APP/PSEN1/GD3S(-/-)). These animals were chosen since it was previously reported that APP/PSEN1/GD3S(-/-) triple-mutant mice performed as well as WT (wild-type) control and GD3S(-/-) mice on a number of reference memory tasks. Cholinergic neuron-specific gangliosides, such as GT1a and GQ1b, were elevated in the brains of double-Tg mice (APP/PSEN1), as compared with those of WT mice. Remarkably, in the triple mutant mouse brains (APP/PSEN1/GD3S(-/-)), the concentration of GT1a was elevated and as expected there was no expression of GQ1b. On the other hand, the level of c-series gangliosides, including GT3, was significantly reduced in the double-Tg mouse brain as compared with the WT. Thus, the disruption of the gene of a specific ganglioside-synthase, GD3S, altered the expression of cholinergic neuron-specific gangliosides. Our data thus suggest the intriguing possibility that the elevated cholinergic-specific ganglioside, GT1a, in the triple mutant mouse brains (APP/PSEN1/GD3S(-/-)) may contribute to the memory retention in these mice.
This study was aimed at investigating the possible effects of phytoceramide (Pcer) on learning and memory and their underlying mechanisms. Phytoceramide was orally administered to ICR mice for 7 days. Memory performances were assessed using the passive avoidance test and Y-maze task. The expressions of phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (pCREB), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were measured with immunoblot. The incorporation of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) in hippocampal regions was investigated by using immunohistochemical methods. Treatment of Pcer enhanced cognitive performances in the passive avoidance test and Y-maze task. Immunoblotting studies revealed that the phosphorylated CREB and BDNF were significantly increased on hippocampus in the Pcer-treated mice. Immunohistochemical studies showed that the number of immunopositive cells to BrdU was significantly increased in the hippocampal dentate gyrus regions after Pcer-treatment for 7 days. These results suggest that Pcer contribute to enhancing memory and BDNF expression and it could be secondary to the elevation of neurogenesis.
Although the role of -synuclein aggregation on Parkinson's disease is relatively well known, the physiological role and the regulatory mechanism governing the expression of -synuclein are unclear yet. We recently reported that -synuclein is expressed and secreted from cultured astrocytes. In this study, we investigated the effect of valproic acid (VPA), which has been suggested to provide neuroprotection by increasing -synuclein in neuron, on -synuclein expression in rat primary astrocytes. VPA concentrationdependently increased the protein expression level of -synuclein in cultured rat primary astrocytes with concomitant increase in mRNA expression level. Likewise, the level of secreted -synuclein was also increased by VPA. VPA increased the phosphorylation of Erk1/2 and JNK and pretreatment of a JNK inhibitor SP600125 prevented the VPA-induced increase in -synuclein. Whether the increased -synuclein in astrocytes is involved in the reported neuroprotective effects of VPA awaits further investigation.
Sensory axon development requires concerted actions of growth factors for the precise control of axonal outgrowth and target innervation. How developing sensory neurons integrate different cues is poorly understood. We demonstrate here that Smad1 activation is required for neurotrophin-mediated sensory axon growth in vitro and in vivo. Through differential phosphorylation, Smad1 exerts transcriptional selectivity to regulate the expression and activity of Erk1 and Erk2-two key neurotrophin effectors. Specifically, bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) signal through carboxy-terminal phosphorylation of Smad1 (pSmad1C) to induce Erk1/2 transcription for enhanced neurotrophin responsiveness. Meanwhile, neurotrophin signaling results in linker phosphorylation of Smad1 (pSmad1L), which in turn upregulates an Erk-specific dual-specificity phosphatase, Dusp6, leading to reduced pErk1/2 and constituting a negative-feedback loop for the prevention of axon overgrowth. Together, the BMP and neurotrophin pathways form a tightly regulated signaling network with a balanced ratio of Erk1/2 and pErk1/2 to direct the precise connections between sensory neurons and peripheral targets.
Postnatal and adult human and monkey fibroblasts were infected with Sendai virus containing the Yamanaka factors for 24hr, then they were cultured in a chemically defined medium containing leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), transforming growth factor (TGF)- inhibitor SB431542, and glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3 inhibitor CHIR99021 at 39C for inactivation of the virus. Induced neural progenitor (iNP) colonies appeared as early as day 13 and can be expanded for &gt;20 passages. Under the same defined condition, no induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) colonies formed at either 37C or 39C. The iNPs predominantly express hindbrain genes and differentiate into hindbrain neurons, and when caudalized, they produced an enriched population of spinal motor neurons. Following transplantation into the forebrain, the iNP-derived cells retained the hindbrain identity. The ability to generate defined, integration-free iNPs from adult primate fibroblasts under a defined condition with predictable fate choices will facilitate disease modeling and therapeutic development.
Purpose of the Study: Older adults' gait is disturbed when a demanding secondary cognitive task is added. Gait training has been shown to improve older adults' walking performance, but it is not clear how training affects their cognitive performance. This study examined the impact on gait, in terms of cost or benefit to cognitive performance, of training healthy older adults to walk to a rhythmic musical beat. DESIGN AND METHODS: In a mixed model design, 45 healthy older adults aged more than 65 years (M = 71.7 years) were randomly assigned to 3 groups. One group received a rhythmic musical training and their dual-task (DT) walking and cognitive performances were compared with a group who had music playing in the background but no training, and a third group who heard no music and received no training. Outcomes in single-task (ST) and DT conditions were step-time variability and velocity for gait and correct cognitive responses for the cognitive task. RESULTS: The Musical Training group's step-time variability improved in both the ST (p &lt; .05) and the DT (p &lt; .05) after training, without adversely affecting their cognitive performance. No change was seen in the control groups. IMPLICATIONS: Rhythmic musical training can improve gait steadiness in healthy older adults with no negative impact on concurrent cognitive functioning. This could potentially enhance &quot;postural reserve&quot; and reduce fall risk.


Single-neuron activity in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is tuned to mixtures of multiple task-related aspects. Such mixed selectivity is highly heterogeneous, seemingly disordered and therefore difficult to interpret. We analysed the neural activity recorded in monkeys during an object sequence memory task to identify a role of mixed selectivity in subserving the cognitive functions ascribed to the PFC. We show that mixed selectivity neurons encode distributed information about all task-relevant aspects. Each aspect can be decoded from the population of neurons even when single-cell selectivity to that aspect is eliminated. Moreover, mixed selectivity offers a significant computational advantage over specialized responses in terms of the repertoire of input-output functions implementable by readout neurons. This advantage originates from the highly diverse nonlinear selectivity to mixtures of task-relevant variables, a signature of high-dimensional neural representations. Crucially, this dimensionality is predictive of animal behaviour as it collapses in error trials. Our findings recommend a shift of focus for future studies from neurons that have easily interpretable response tuning to the widely observed, but rarely analysed, mixed selectivity neurons.


We analyzed the spike discharge patterns of two types of neurons in the rodent peripheral gustatory system, Na specialists (NS) and acid generalists (AG) to lingual stimulation with NaCl, acetic acid, and mixtures of the two stimuli. Previous computational investigations found that both spike rate and spike timing contribute to taste quality coding. These studies used commonly accepted computational methods, but they do not provide a consistent statistical evaluation of spike trains. In this paper, we adopted a new computational framework that treated each spike train as an individual data point for computing summary statistics such as mean and variance in the spike train space. We found that these statistical summaries properly characterized the firing patterns (e. g. template and variability) and quantified the differences between NS and AG neurons. The same framework was also used to assess the discrimination performance of NS and AG neurons and to remove spontaneous background activity or &quot;noise&quot; from the spike train responses. The results indicated that the new metric system provided the desired decoding performance and noise-removal improved stimulus classification accuracy, especially of neurons with high spontaneous rates. In summary, this new method naturally conducts statistical analysis and neural decoding under one consistent framework, and the results demonstrated that individual peripheral-gustatory neurons generate a unique and reliable firing pattern during sensory stimulation and that this pattern can be reliably decoded.
Microglia plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders. Increasing evidence indicates the voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels are involved in the regulation of microglia function, prompting us to hypothesize Kv channels may also be involved in microglia-mediated neurotoxic activity in HIV-1-infected brain. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the involvement of Kv channels in the response of microglia to HIV-1 Tat protein. Treatment of rat microglia with HIV-1 Tat protein (200 ng/ml) resulted in pro-inflammatory microglial activation, as indicated by increases in TNF-, IL-1, reactive oxygen species, and nitric oxide, which were accompanied by enhanced outward K(+) current and Kv1.3 channel expression. Suppression of microglial Kv1.3 channel activity, either with Kv1.3 channel blockers Margatoxin, 5-(4-Phenoxybutoxy)psoralen, or broad-spectrum K(+) channel blocker 4-Aminopyridine, or by knockdown of Kv1.3 expression via transfection of microglia with Kv1.3 siRNA, was found to abrogate the neurotoxic activity of microglia resulting from HIV-1 Tat exposure. Furthermore, HIV-1 Tat-induced neuronal apoptosis was attenuated with the application of supernatant collected from K(+) channel blocker-treated microglia. Lastly, the intracellular signaling pathways associated with Kv1.3 were investigated and enhancement of microglial Kv1.3 was found to correspond with an increase in Erk1/2 mitogen-activated protein kinase activation. These data suggest targeting microglial Kv1.3 channels may be a potential new avenue of therapy for inflammation-mediated neurological disorders.
Bradykinesia is one of the major clinical symptoms of Parkinson`s disease (PD) for which treatment is sought. In most mouse models of PD, decreased locomotor activity can be reflected in an open field behavioral test. Therefore the open field test provides a useful tool to study the clinic symptoms of PD patients. Our previous work demonstrated that 100 Hz electro-acupuncture (EA) stimulation at ZUSANLI and SANYINJIAO protected the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system of C57BL/6 mice from MPTP toxicity, indicating that acupuncture might be an effective therapy for PD sufferers. In the present study, we investigated the effects of 100 Hz EA stimulation on the spontaneous locomotor activity in MPTP injured mice. Here we found that, in MPTP treated mice, the total movements significantly decreased and the movement time, velocity and distance dramatically increased, although the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system was devastated, revealed by immunohistochemistry and HPLC-ECD. After 12 sessions of 100 Hz EA stimulation, the total movements elevated and the movement time, velocity and distance decreased, in MPTP mice. 100 Hz EA increased striatal dopamine content in MPTP mice by 35.9%, but decreased its striatal dopamine turnover. We assumed that the injury of other regions in the brain, such as the A11 group in diencephalon, might be involved in the hypermotility in MPTP mice. The effects of 100 Hz EA on spontaneous locomotor activity in MPTP mice might not relate with the striatal dopamine, but with its neuroprotective and regulatory effects on motor circuits in the brain. Our study suggests that EA might be a promising treatment for neurological disorders including PD.
In order to investigate electroencephalographic (EEG) biomarkers of auditory processing for schizophrenia, we studied a group with a well known high-risk profile: patients with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11 DS) have a 30% risk of developing schizophrenia during adulthood. We performed high-density EEG source imaging to measure auditory gating of the P50 component of the evoked potential and middle to late latency auditory processing in 21 participants with the 22q11.2 deletion and 17 age-matched healthy controls. While we found no indication of altered P50 suppression in 22q11 DS, we observed marked differences for the first N1 component with increased amplitudes on central electrodes, corresponding to increased activations in dorsal anterior cingulate and medial frontal cortex. We also found a left lateralized reduction of activation of primary and secondary auditory cortex during the second N1 (120ms) and the P2 component in 22q11 DS. Our results show that sensory gating and activations until 50ms were preserved in 22q11 DS, while impairments appear at latencies that correspond to higher order auditory processing. While the increased activation of cingulate and medial frontal cortex could reflect developmental changes in 22q11 DS, the reduced activity seen in left auditory cortex might serve as a biomarker for the development of schizophrenia, if confirmed by longitudinal research protocols.
Long-term peripheral deafferentation induces representational map changes in the somatosensory cortex. It has been suggested that dendrites and axons structurally rearrange in such paradigms. However, the extent and process of this plasticity remains elusive. To more precisely quantify deafferentation-induced structural plasticity of excitatory cells we repeatedly imaged GFP-expressing L2/3 and L5 pyramidal dendrites in the mouse barrel cortex over months after the removal of a subset of the whisker follicles (FR), a procedure that completely and permanently removes whisker-sensory input. In the same mice we imaged whisker-evoked intrinsic optical signals (IOS) to assess functional cortical map changes. FR triggered the expansion of spared whisker IOS responses, whereas they remained unchanged over months in controls. The gross structure and orientation of apical dendrite tufts remained stable over a two-month period, both in controls and after deprivation. However, terminal branch tip dynamics were slightly reduced after FR, and the formation of new dendritic spines was increased in a cell-type and location-dependent manner. Together, our data suggest that peripheral nerve lesion-induced cortical map shifts do not depend on the large scale restructuring of dendritic arbors but are rather associated with local cell-type and position-dependent changes in dendritic synaptic connectivity.
The interpretation of human thought from brain activity, without recourse to speech or action, is one of the most provoking and challenging frontiers of modern neuroscience. In particular, patients who are fully conscious and awake, yet, due to brain damage, are unable to show any behavioral responsivity, expose the limits of the neuromuscular system and the necessity for alternate forms of communication. Although it is well established that selective attention can significantly enhance the neural representation of attended sounds, it remains, thus far, untested as a response modality for brain-based communication. We asked whether its effect could be reliably used to decode answers to binary (yes/no) questions. Fifteen healthy volunteers answered questions (e.g., &quot;Do you have brothers or sisters?&quot;) in the fMRI scanner, by selectively attending to the appropriate word (&quot;yes&quot; or &quot;no&quot;). Ninety percent of the answers were decoded correctly based on activity changes within the attention network. The majority of volunteers conveyed their answers with less than 3 min of scanning, suggesting that this technique is suited for communication in a reasonable amount of time. Formal comparison with the current best-established fMRI technique for binary communication revealed improved individual success rates and scanning times required to detect responses. This novel fMRI technique is intuitive, easy to use in untrained participants, and reliably robust within brief scanning times. Possible applications include communication with behaviorally nonresponsive patients.
In vitro studies suggest that the intracellular C terminus of Neuroligin1 (NL1) could play a central role in the maturation of excitatory synapses. However, it is unknown how this activity affects synapses in vivo, and whether it may impact the development of complex behaviors. To determine how NL1 influences the state of glutamatergic synapses in vivo, we compared the synaptic and behavioral phenotypes of mice overexpressing a full-length version of NL1 (NL1FL) with mice overexpressing a version missing part of the intracellular domain (NL1C). We show that overexpression of full-length NL1 yielded an increase in the proportion of synapses with mature characteristics and impaired learning and flexibility. In contrast, the overexpression of NL1C increased the number of excitatory postsynaptic structures and led to enhanced flexibility in mnemonic and social behaviors. Transient overexpression of NL1FL revealed that elevated levels are not necessary to maintain synaptic and behavioral states altered earlier in development. In contrast, overexpression of NL1FL in the fully mature adult was able to impair normal learning behavior after 1 month of expression. These results provide the first evidence that NL1 significantly impacts key developmental processes that permanently shape circuit function and behavior, as well as the function of fully developed neural circuits. Overall, these manipulations of NL1 function illuminate the significance of NL1 intracellular signaling in vivo, and enhance our understanding of the factors that gate the maturation of glutamatergic synapses and complex behavior. This has significant implications for our ability to address disorders such as autism spectrum disorders.
In touch as in vision, perceptual acuity improves with training to an extent that differs greatly across people; even individuals with similar initial acuity may undergo markedly different improvement with training. What accounts for this variability in perceptual learning? We hypothesized that a simple physical characteristic, fingertip surface area, might constrain tactile learning, because previous research suggests that larger fingers have more widely spaced mechanoreceptors. To test our hypothesis, we trained 10 human participants intensively on a tactile spatial acuity task. During 4 d, participants completed 1900 training trials (38 50-trial blocks) in which they discriminated the orientation of square-wave gratings pressed onto the stationary index or ring finger, with auditory feedback provided to signal correct and incorrect responses. We progressively increased task difficulty by shifting to thinner groove widths whenever participants achieved 90% correct block performance. We took optical scans to measure surface area from the distal interphalangeal crease to the tip of the finger. Participants' acuity improved markedly on the trained finger and to a lesser extent on the untrained finger. Crucially, we found that participants' tactile spatial acuity improved toward a theoretical optimum set by their finger size; participants with worse initial performance relative to their finger size improved more with training, and posttraining performance was better correlated than pretraining performance with finger size. These results strongly support the hypothesis that tactile perceptual learning is limited by finger size. We suspect that analogous physical constraints on perceptual learning will be found in other sensory modalities.
Polyglutamine diseases are dominantly inherited neurodegenerative diseases caused by an expansion of a CAG trinucleotide repeat encoding a glutamine tract in the respective disease-causing proteins. Extensive studies have been performed to unravel disease pathogenesis and to develop therapeutics. Here, we report on several lines of evidence demonstrating that Nemo-like kinase (NLK) is a key molecule modulating disease toxicity in spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1), a disease caused by a polyglutamine expansion in the protein ATAXIN1 (ATXN1). Specifically, we show that NLK, a serine/threonine kinase that interacts with ATXN1, modulates disease phenotypes of polyglutamine-expanded ATXN1 in a Drosophila model of SCA1. Importantly, the effect of NLK on SCA1 pathology is dependent upon NLK's enzymatic activity. Consistent with this, reduced Nlk expression suppresses the behavioral and neuropathological phenotypes in SCA1 knock-in mice. These data clearly indicate that either reducing NLK enzymatic activity or decreasing NLK expression levels can have beneficial effects against the toxicity induced by polyglutamine-expanded ATXN1.
Relapse to cocaine-seeking behavior requires an increase in nucleus accumbens (NAc) core glutamate transmission. Decreased expression of glutamate type I transporter (GLT1), which is responsible for &gt;90% of glutamate clearance, occurs in the core of rats withdrawn from cocaine self-administration, while treatment with ceftriaxone, a -lactam antibiotic previously shown to increase GLT1 expression and function in rodents, upregulates GLT1 and attenuates cue-induced cocaine reinstatement. Here, we tested the effects of increasing GLT1 expression on cue-induced cocaine seeking in rats exposed to either limited (2 h/d) or extended (6 h/d) cocaine access followed by short (2 d) or long (45 d) withdrawal periods. Treatment with ceftriaxone (200 mg/kg, i.p.) upregulated core GLT1 expression and attenuated cue-induced cocaine-seeking behavior only in rats exposed to long withdrawal periods, with a greater effect in the extended-access condition. Pearson's correlation revealed GLT1 expression in core to be inversely correlated with cue-induced cocaine-seeking behavior. To localize the effects of GLT1 upregulation within NAc, we tested the hypothesis that blockade of GLT1 in NAc core, but not shell, would reverse the ceftriaxone-mediated effect. Rats withdrawn from cocaine self-administration were treated with the same dose of ceftriaxone followed by intracore or intrashell infusions of one of two GLT1 blockers, dihydrokainic acid (500 M) or DL-threo--benzyloxyaspartate (250 M), or saline. Our results reveal that the ceftriaxone-mediated attenuation of cue-induced cocaine reinstatement is reversed by GLT1 blockade in core, but not shell, and further implicate core GLT1 as a potential therapeutic target for cocaine relapse.
The tetra(ethylene glycol) derivative of benzothiazole aniline, BTA-EG4, is a novel amyloid-binding small molecule that can penetrate the blood-brain barrier and protect cells from A-induced toxicity. However, the effects of A-targeting molecules on other cellular processes, including those that modulate synaptic plasticity, remain unknown. We report here that BTA-EG4 decreases A levels, alters cell surface expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP), and improves memory in wild-type mice. Interestingly, the BTA-EG4-mediated behavioral improvement is not correlated with LTP, but with increased spinogenesis. The higher dendritic spine density reflects an increase in the number of functional synapses as determined by increased miniature EPSC (mEPSC) frequency without changes in presynaptic parameters or postsynaptic mEPSC amplitude. Additionally, BTA-EG4 requires APP to regulate dendritic spine density through a Ras signaling-dependent mechanism. Thus, BTA-EG4 may provide broad therapeutic benefits for improving neuronal and cognitive function, and may have implications in neurodegenerative disease therapy.
Mice are increasingly being used in behavioral neuroscience, largely replacing rats as the behaviorist's animal of choice. Before aspects of behavior such as emotionality or cognition can be assessed, however, it is vital to determine whether the motor capabilities of e.g. a mutant or lesioned mouse allow such an assessment. Performance on a maze task requiring strength and coordination, such as the Morris water maze, might well be impaired in a mouse by motor, rather than cognitive, impairments, so it is essential to selectively dissect the latter from the former. For example, sensorimotor impairments caused by NMDA antagonists have been shown to impair water maze performance(2). Motor coordination has traditionally been assessed in mice and rats by the rotarod test, in which the animal is placed on a horizontal rod that rotates about its long axis; the animal must walk forwards to remain upright and not fall off. Both set speed and accelerating versions of the rotarod are available. The other three tests described in this article (horizontal bar, static rods and parallel bars) all measure coordination on static apparatus. The horizontal bar also requires strength for adequate performance, particularly of the forelimbs as the mouse initially grips the bar just with the front paws. Adult rats do not perform well on tests such as the static rods and parallel bars (personal observations); they appear less well coordinated than mice. I have only tested male rats, however, and male mice seem generally less well coordinated than females. Mice appear to have a higher strength:weight ratio than rats; the Latin name, Mus musculus, seems entirely appropriate. The rotarod, the variations of the foot fault test(12) or the Catwalk (Noldus)(15) apparatus are generally used to assess motor coordination in rats.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are characterized by impaired communication, particularly pragmatic and semantic language, resulting in verbal comprehension deficits. Semantic processing in these conditions has been studied extensively, but mostly limited only to linguistic material. Emerging evidence, however, suggests that semantic integration deficits may extend beyond the verbal domain. Here, we explored cross-modal semantic integration using visual targets preceded by musical and linguistic cues. Particularly, we have recorded the event-related potentials to evaluate whether the N400 and late positive potential (LPP) components, two widely studied electrophysiological markers of semantic processing, are differently sensitive to congruence with respect to typically developing children. Seven ASD patients and seven neurotypical participants matched by age, education and intelligence quotient provided usable data. Neuroelectric activity was recorded in response to visual targets that were related or unrelated to a preceding spoken sentence or musical excerpt. The N400 was sensitive to semantic congruence in the controls but not the patients, whereas the LPP showed a complementary pattern. These results suggest that semantic processing in ASD children is also altered in the context of musical and visual stimuli, and point to a functional decoupling between the generators of the N400 and LPP, which may indicate delayed semantic processing. These novel findings underline the importance of exploring semantic integration across multiple modalities in ASDs and provide motivation for further investigation in large clinical samples.
We examined differences in brain activity in response to two types of mechanical stimulation, which have been reported previously as being perceptually indistinguishable but having different impacts on autonomic reflexes. As an indicator of brain activity, glucose metabolism was evaluated by PET with 2-[F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (F-FDG). Twelve healthy, young adult men participated in the study. Two types of cutaneous stimulation tools, soft elastomer discs with microcones (microcone disc) or flat surfaces (flat disc), were used in a crossover, randomized double-blind manner. Each type of cutaneous stimulation tool was applied on the cheeks and F-FDG-PET scans were obtained. Greater F-FDG uptake was observed in the right anterior cingulate cortex during microcone disc stimulation compared with flat disc stimulation. However, F-FDG uptake during application of these two different stimuli was not different in the primary and secondary somatosensory cortices or insula. Stimulation using microcone discs and flat discs was noted by one and three participants, respectively, and there was no difference in the presence of perception between the stimulation tools. The results indicate that the right anterior cingulate cortex differentially responds to different types of cutaneous stimulation that are perceptually indistinguishable.
This study recorded brain event-related potentials (ERPs) during an attention task under two conditions: (a) immediately after strenuous exercise and (b) immediately after an extended rest period. The goal was to examine the effect of different physiological states on the electrophysiological data. As expected, a larger P3b ERP component was observed in response to attended infrequent events. Strenuous exercise did not differentially alter the amplitude or latency of the brain response during an attention task. This study reports a novel application of ERPs as a potential additional measure of the neurocognitive state that can be assessed on the sideline of a sporting event.

Three dietary carotenoids, lutein (L), zeaxanthin (Z) and meso-zeaxanthin (MZ) accumulate at the central retina (macula), where they are collectively referred to as macular pigment (MP). MP's pre-receptoral absorption of blue light and consequential attenuation of the effects of chromatic aberration and light scatter are important for optimal visual function. Furthermore, antioxidant activity of MP's constituent carotenoids and the same blue light-filtering properties underlie the rationale for its putative protective role for age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Supplementation with L, Z and MZ augments MP and enhances visual performance in diseased and non-diseased eyes, and may reduce risk of AMD development and/or progression.
Infant cuteness can influence adult-infant interaction and has been shown to activate reward centres in the brain. In a previous study, we found men and women to be differentially sensitive to small differences in infant facial cuteness, with reproductive hormone status as the potential underlying cause. It is unclear, however, whether reproductive hormone status impacts on the aesthetic and incentive salience of infant faces. To address this question, we conducted two interlinked studies. We used static images of the same smiling and neutral-looking infant faces in both a rating task, in which participants had to rate the cuteness of infant faces (aesthetic salience - 'liking'), and a key-press task, in which participants could prolong or shorten viewing time of infant faces by rapid alternating key-presses (incentive salience - 'wanting'). In a first study, we compared the performance of men, women who are taking oral contraceptives, and regularly cycling women. In this study, we found a significant correlation between cuteness ratings within and between groups, which implies that participants had the same concept of cuteness. Cuteness ratings and effort to look at faces was linked regardless of sex and reproductive hormone status, in that cute faces were looked at for longer than less cute faces. A happy facial expression contributed only marginally to the incentive salience of the face. To explore the potential impact of reproductive hormone status in more detail, we followed a subset of regularly cycling women during the menstrual, follicular and luteal phases of their cycle. The aesthetic and incentive salience of infant faces did not change across the menstrual cycle. Our findings suggest that reproductive hormone status does not modulate the aesthetic and incentive value of infant faces.
The interface between cognition, emotion, and motivation is thought to be of central importance in understanding complex cognitive functions such as decision-making and executive control in humans. Although nonhuman apes have complex repertoires of emotional expression, little is known about the role of affective processes in ape decision-making. To illuminate the evolutionary origins of human-like patterns of choice, we investigated decision-making in humans' closest phylogenetic relatives, chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and bonobos (Pan paniscus). In two studies, we examined these species' temporal and risk preferences, and assessed whether apes show emotional and motivational responses in decision-making contexts. We find that (1) chimpanzees are more patient and more risk-prone than are bonobos, (2) both species exhibit affective and motivational responses following the outcomes of their decisions, and (3) some emotional and motivational responses map onto species-level and individual-differences in decision-making. These results indicate that apes do exhibit emotional responses to decision-making, like humans. We explore the hypothesis that affective and motivational biases may underlie the psychological mechanisms supporting value-based preferences in these species.

Emotional faces are salient stimuli that play a critical role in social interactions. Following up on previous research suggesting that the event-related potentials (ERPs) show differential amplitudes in response to various facial expressions, the current study used trial-to-trial variability assembled from six discriminating ERP components to predict the facial expression categories in individual trials. In an experiment involved 17 participants, fearful trials were differentiated from non-fearful trials as early as the intervals of N1 and P1, with a mean predictive accuracy of 87%. Single-trial features in the occurrence of N170 and vertex positive potential could distinguish between emotional and neutral expressions (accuracy=90%). Finally, the trials associated with fearful, happy, and neutral faces were completely separated during the window of N3 and P3 (accuracy=83%). These categorization findings elucidated the temporal evolution of facial expression extraction, and demonstrated that the spatio-temporal characteristics of single-trial ERPs can distinguish facial expressions according to a three-stage scheme, with &quot;fear popup,&quot; &quot;emotional/unemotional discrimination,&quot; and &quot;complete separation&quot; as processing stages. This work constitutes the first examination of neural processing dynamics beyond multitrial ERP averaging, and directly relates the prediction performance of single-trial classifiers to the progressive brain functions of emotional face discrimination.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging has been used to identify the different networks in the brain that underpin the use of tools by humans.
Sophisticated tool use is a defining characteristic of the primate species but how is it supported by the brain, particularly the human brain? Here we show, using functional MRI and pattern classification methods, that tool use is subserved by multiple distributed action-centred neural representations that are both shared with and distinct from those of the hand. In areas of frontoparietal cortex we found a common representation for planned hand- and tool-related actions. In contrast, in parietal and occipitotemporal regions implicated in hand actions and body perception we found that coding remained selectively linked to upcoming actions of the hand whereas in parietal and occipitotemporal regions implicated in tool-related processing the coding remained selectively linked to upcoming actions of the tool. The highly specialized and hierarchical nature of this coding suggests that hand- and tool-related actions are represented separately at earlier levels of sensorimotor processing before becoming integrated in frontoparietal cortex. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.00425.001.
It is generally believed that percept alternations in binocular rivalry result from the interplay between mutual inhibition and slow adaptation of the competing percepts. This view is supported by growing evidence that dynamic changes in adaptation indeed support percept alternations in binocular rivalry. Empirical evidence for the involvement of mutual inhibition, however, is still scarce. To fill this gap, we presented human subjects with dichoptic random-dot motion stimuli and manipulated the angle between the monocular directions of motion from pure opponent horizontal motion to pure vertical motion in the same direction. We hypothesized that this decrease in motion-direction disparity increases the cross-inhibition gain due to lateral inhibition between neurons in the brain that are coarsely tuned to adjacent directions of visual motion, which predicts the largest changes in dominance at the smallest instead of the largest motion-direction disparities. We found that decreasing the angle between the two monocular directions of motion indeed systematically increased the predominance and mean dominance durations of the motion pattern presented to the ocular dominant eye (as identified by the hole-in-card test). Moreover, this effect was stronger if the contrast of the stimuli was lowered. Simulations showed that these features are indeed hallmark of weighted lateral inhibition between populations of directionally tuned motion-sensitive neurons. Our findings thus suggest dominance and suppression in binocular rivalry arises naturally from this fundamental principle in sensory processing. Interestingly, if the two monocular directions of motion differed &lt;60, the percept alternations also included transitions to in-between (vertical) motion percepts. We speculate that this behavior might result from positive feedback arising from adapting disinhibitory circuits in the network.

Profiles of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-mediated transduction show interspecies differences for each AAV serotype. Robust long-term transgene expression is generally observed in rodents, whereas insufficient transduction is seen in animals with more advanced immune systems. Non-human primates, including the common marmoset, could provide appropriate models for neuromuscular diseases because of their higher brain functions and physiological resemblance to humans. Strategies to induce pathologies in the neuromuscular tissues of non-human primates by rAAV-mediated transduction are promising; however, transgene expression patterns with rAAV transduction have not been elucidated in marmosets. In this study, transduction of adult marmoset skeletal muscle with rAAV9 led to robust and persistent enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) expression that was independent of the muscle fiber type, although lymphocyte infiltration was recognized. Systemic rAAV injection into pregnant marmosets led to transplacental fetal transduction. Surprisingly, the intraperitoneal injection of rAAV1 and rAAV9 into the neonatal marmoset resulted in systemic transduction and persistent transgene expression without lymphocyte infiltration. Skeletal and cardiac muscle were effectively transduced with rAAV1 and rAAV9, respectively. Interestingly, rAAV9 transduction led to intense EGFP signaling in the axons of the corpus callosum. These transduction protocols with rAAV will be useful for investigating gene functions in the neuromuscular tissues and developing gene therapy strategies.Molecular Therapy-Nucleic Acids (2013) 2, e95; doi:10.1038/mtna.2013.21; published online 28 May 2013.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a relatively common neurodegenerative tauopathy clinically characterized by parkinsonism, axial rigidity, and supranuclear gaze palsy. Pathologic findings of PSP are neuronal loss, gliosis, and neurofibrillary tangles in basal ganglia, diencephalon, and brainstem; there is increasing recognition of clinicopathologic variants of PSP.(1.)

Optogenetics is by now a well-established field within neuroscience where neuro-response is controlled at the molecular level using the photochemical properties of channelrhodopsin (ChR). In this study the recently published X-ray structure of retinal inside the ChR binding pocket serves as the basis for conducting high-level polarizable embedding quantum mechanical/molecular mechanical (QM/MM) mutation studies with the aim of providing insight into the tuning mechanisms of this remarkable protein. The levels of theory applied are the recently developed PERI-CC2 and PE-DFT approaches. Their computational efficiency makes it possible to rapidly carry out a large number of spectral calculations. This is exploited to construct in silico mutated ChR variants which are characterized in terms of the location of the relevant excitation energy and the magnitude of the two-photon absorption cross section. In turn, this allows us to pinpoint the amino acids that have the largest electrostatic effect on the studied excited state properties. We show that a single/double site mutation strategy in ChR does not perturb the electronic properties of retinal to a degree that satisfies the experimental demand for a significant red-shift. With respect to non-linear absorption we conjecture that the recently synthesized ChETA variant possesses an even larger two-photon cross section than the C1C2 variant and it is thus an ideal candidate for further studies on the two-photon activation of ChR.
Loss-of-function of the potassium-chloride cotransporter 3 (KCC3) causes hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy with agenesis of the corpus callosum (HMSN/ACC), a severe neurodegenerative disease associated with defective midline crossing of commissural axons in the brain. Conversely, KCC3 over-expression in breast, ovarian and cervical cancer is associated with enhanced tumor cell malignancy and invasiveness. We identified a highly conserved proline-rich sequence within the C-terminus of the cotransporter which when mutated leads to loss of the KCC3-dependent regulatory volume decrease (RVD) response in Xenopus Laevis oocytes. Using SH3 domain arrays, we found that this poly-proline motif is a binding site for SH3-domain containing proteins in vitro. This approach identified the guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) Vav2 as a candidate partner for KCC3. KCC3/Vav2 physical interaction was confirmed using GST-pull down assays and immuno-based experiments. In cultured cervical cancer cells, KCC3 co-localized with the active form of Vav2 in swelling-induced actin-rich protruding sites and within lamellipodia of spreading and migrating cells. These data provide evidence of a molecular and functional link between the potassium-chloride co-transporters and the Rho GTPase-dependent actin remodeling machinery in RVD, cell spreading and cell protrusion dynamics, thus providing new insights into KCC3's involvement in cancer cell malignancy and in corpus callosum agenesis in HMSN/ACC.
Many everyday tasks require the ability of two or more individuals to coordinate their actions with others to increase efficiency. Such an increase in efficiency can often be observed even after only very few trials. Previous work suggests that such behavioral adaptation can be explained within a probabilistic framework that integrates sensory input and prior experience. Even though higher cognitive abilities such as intention recognition have been described as probabilistic estimation depending on an internal model of the other agent, it is not clear whether much simpler daily interaction is consistent with a probabilistic framework. Here, we investigate whether the mechanisms underlying efficient coordination during manual interactions can be understood as probabilistic optimization. For this purpose we studied in several experiments a simple manual handover task concentrating on the action of the receiver. We found that the duration until the receiver reacts to the handover decreases over trials, but strongly depends on the position of the handover. We then replaced the human deliverer by different types of robots to further investigate the influence of the delivering movement on the reaction of the receiver. Durations were found to depend on movement kinematics and the robot's joint configuration. Modeling the task was based on the assumption that the receiver's decision to act is based on the accumulated evidence for a specific handover position. The evidence for this handover position is collected from observing the hand movement of the deliverer over time and, if appropriate, by integrating this sensory likelihood with prior expectation that is updated over trials. The close match of model simulations and experimental results shows that the efficiency of handover coordination can be explained by an adaptive probabilistic fusion of a-priori expectation and online estimation.
GRB-associated binding protein 2 (GAB2) represents a compelling genome-wide association signal for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) with reported odds ratios (ORs) ranging from 0.75-0.85. We tested eight GAB2 variants in four North American Caucasian case-control series (2,316 LOAD, 2,538 controls) for association with LOAD. Meta-analyses revealed ORs ranging from (0.61-1.20) with no significant association (all p&gt;0.32). Four variants were hetergeneous across the populations (all p&lt;0.02) due to a potentially inflated effect size (OR=0.61-0.66) only observed in the smallest series (702 LOAD, 209 controls). Despite the lack of association in our series, the previously reported protective association for GAB2 remained after meta-analyses of our data with all available previously published series (11,952-22,253 samples; OR=0.82-0.88; all p&lt;0.04). Using a freely available database of lymphoblastoid cell lines we found that protective GAB2 variants were associated with increased GAB2 expression (p=9.510(-7)-9.310(-6)). We next measured GAB2 mRNA levels in 249 brains and found that decreased neurofibrillary tangle (r=-0.34, p=0.0006) and senile plaque counts (r=-0.32, p=0.001) were both good predictors of increased GAB2 mRNA levels albeit that sex (r=-0.28, p=0.005) may have been a contributing factor. In summary, we hypothesise that GAB2 variants that are protective against LOAD in some populations may act functionally to increase GAB2 mRNA levels (in lymphoblastoid cells) and that increased GAB2 mRNA levels are associated with significantly decreased LOAD pathology. These findings support the hypothesis that Gab2 may protect neurons against LOAD but due to significant population heterogeneity, it is still unclear whether this protection is detectable at the genetic level.
Functional inactivation techniques enable studying the hippocampal involvement in each phase of spatial memory formation in the rat. In this study, we applied tetrodotoxin unilaterally or bilaterally into the dorsal hippocampus to evaluate the role of this brain structure in retrieval of memories acquired 28 days before in the Morris water maze. We combined hippocampal inactivation with the assessment of brain metabolism using cytochrome oxidase histochemistry. Several brain regions were considered, including the hippocampus and other related structures. Results showed that both unilateral and bilateral hippocampal inactivation impaired spatial memory retrieval. Hence, whereas subjects with bilateral hippocampal inactivation showed a circular swim pattern at the side walls of the pool, unilateral inactivation favoured swimming in the quadrants adjacent to the target one. Analysis of cytochrome oxidase activity disclosed regional differences according to the degree of hippocampal functional blockade. In comparison to control group, animals with bilateral inactivation showed increased CO activity in CA1 and CA3 areas of the hippocampus during retrieval, while the activity of the dentate gyrus substantially decreased. However, unilateral inactivated animals showed decreased CO activity in Ammon's horn and the dentate gyrus. This study demonstrated that retrieval recruits differentially the hippocampal subregions and the balance between them is altered with hippocampal functional lesions.
Multiple genetic and environmental factors play a role in the development and progression of Parkinson's disease (PD). The main neuropathological hallmark of PD is the degeneration of dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. To study genetic and molecular contributors to the disease process, there is a great need for readily accessible cells with prominent DAergic features that can be used for reproducible in vitro cellular screening. Here, we investigated the molecular phenotype of retinoic acid (RA) differentiated SH-SY5Y cells using genome wide transcriptional profiling combined with gene ontology, transcription factor and molecular pathway analysis. We demonstrated that RA induces a general neuronal differentiation program in SH-SY5Y cells and that these cells develop a predominantly mature DAergic-like neurotransmitter phenotype. This phenotype is characterized by increased dopamine levels together with a substantial suppression of other neurotransmitter phenotypes, such as those for noradrenaline, acetylcholine, glutamate, serotonin and histamine. In addition, we show that RA differentiated SH-SY5Y cells express the dopamine and noradrenalin neurotransmitter transporters that are responsible for uptake of MPP(+), a well known DAergic cell toxicant. MPP(+) treatment alters mitochondrial activity according to its proposed cytotoxic effect in DAergic neurons. Taken together, RA differentiated SH-SY5Y cells have a DAergic-like phenotype, and provide a good cellular screening tool to find novel genes or compounds that affect cytotoxic processes that are associated with PD.
The germinal zones of the embryonic macaque neocortex comprise the ventricular zone (VZ) and the subventricular zone (SVZ). The mammalian SVZ is subdivided into an inner SVZ and an outer SVZ, with the outer SVZ being particularly large in primates. The existence of distinct precursor cell types in the neocortical proliferative zones was inferred over 100 years ago and recent evidence supports this concept. Precursor cells exhibiting diverse morphologies, patterns of transcription factor expression, and fate potential have been identified in the neocortical proliferative zones. Neurogenic precursor cells are thought to exhibit characteristics of glial cells, but the existence of neurogenic precursor cells that do not share glial specific properties has also been proposed. Therefore, one question that remains is whether neural precursor cells in the prenatal neocortex belong within the astroglial cell class, as they do in neurogenic regions of the adult neocortex, or instead include a diverse collection of precursor cells belonging to distinct cell classes. We examined the expression of astroglial markers by mitotic precursor cells in the telencephalon of prenatal macaque and human. We show that in the dorsal neocortex all mitotic cells at the surface of the ventricle, and all Pax6+ and Tbr2+ mitotic cells in the proliferative zones, express the astroglial marker GFAP. The majority of mitotic cells undergoing division away from the ventricle express GFAP, and many of the GFAP-negative mitoses express markers of cells derived from the ventral telencephalon or extracortical sites. In contrast, a markedly lower proportion of precursor cells express GFAP in the ganglionic eminence. In conclusion, we propose that the heterogeneity of neural precursor cells in the dorsal cerebral cortex develops within the GFAP+ astroglial cell class.
With remarkably few exceptions, the molecules mediating synaptic vesicle exocytosis at active zones are structurally and functionally conserved between vertebrates and invertebrates. Mover was found in a yeast-2-hybrid assay using the vertebrate-specific active zone scaffolding protein bassoon as a bait. Peptides of Mover have been reported in proteomics screens for self-interacting proteins, phosphorylated proteins, and synaptic vesicle proteins, respectively. Here, we tested the predictions arising from these screens. Using flotation assays, carbonate stripping of peripheral membrane proteins, mass spectrometry, immunogold labelling of purified synaptic vesicles, and immuno-organelle isolation, we found that Mover is indeed a peripheral synaptic vesicle membrane protein. In addition, by generating an antibody against phosphorylated Mover and Western blot analysis of fractionated rat brain, we found that Mover is a bona fide phospho-protein. The localization of Mover to synaptic vesicles is phosphorylation dependent; treatment with a phosphatase caused Mover to dissociate from synaptic vesicles. A yeast-2-hybrid screen, co-immunoprecipitation and cell-based optical assays of homomerization revealed that Mover undergoes homophilic interaction, and regions within both the N- and C- terminus of the protein are required for this interaction. Deleting a region required for homomeric interaction abolished presynaptic targeting of recombinant Mover in cultured neurons. Together, these data prove that Mover is associated with synaptic vesicles, and implicate phosphorylation and multimerization in targeting of Mover to synaptic vesicles and presynaptic sites.
Stimuli associated with high rewards evoke stronger neuronal activity than stimuli associated with lower rewards in many brain regions. It is not well understood how these reward effects influence activity in sensory cortices that represent low-level stimulus features. Here, we investigated the effects of reward information in the primary visual cortex (area V1) of monkeys. We found that the reward value of a stimulus relative to the value of other stimuli is a good predictor of V1 activity. Relative value biases the competition between stimuli, just as has been shown for selective attention. The neuronal latency of this reward value effect in V1 was similar to the latency of attentional influences. Moreover, V1 neurons with a strong value effect also exhibited a strong attention effect, which implies that relative value and top-down attention engage overlapping, if not identical, neuronal selection mechanisms. Our findings demonstrate that the effects of reward value reach down to the earliest sensory processing levels of the cerebral cortex and imply that theories about the effects of reward coding and top-down attention on visual representations should be unified.
High-frequency firing of neurons depresses transmitter release at many synapses. At the glutamatergic synapse of the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction, we find that presynaptic depression is modulated by postsynaptic ionotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR) activity. Although basal release at low frequency was insensitive to postsynaptic iGluR activity, recovery from depression elicited by high-frequency presynaptic trains decreased with partial block of native iGluRs. Moreover, recovery from depression increased with optical activation of the light-gated mammalian iGluR6 (LiGluR) expressed postsynaptically. The enhancement of recovery from depression occurred within 2 min of optical activation of LiGluR and persisted for minutes after optical deactivation. This effect depended on cAMP-dependent presynaptic recruitment of vesicles from the reserve pool. Our findings reveal a unique dimension to postsynaptic iGluR activity: fast retrograde signaling that preserves transmission efficacy during high-frequency presynaptic firing.
The X-linked gene cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5) is mutated in severe neurodevelopmental disorders, including some forms of atypical Rett syndrome, but the function and regulation of CDKL5 protein in neurons remain to be elucidated. Here, we show that CDKL5 binds to the scaffolding protein postsynaptic density (PSD)-95, and that this binding promotes the targeting of CDKL5 to excitatory synapses. Interestingly, this binding is not constitutive, but governed by palmitate cycling on PSD-95. Furthermore, pathogenic mutations that truncate the C-terminal tail of CDKL5 diminish its binding to PSD-95 and synaptic accumulation. Importantly, down-regulation of CDKL5 by RNA interference (RNAi) or interference with the CDKL5-PSD-95 interaction inhibits dendritic spine formation and growth. These results demonstrate a critical role of the palmitoylation-dependent CDKL5-PSD-95 interaction in localizing CDKL5 to synapses for normal spine development and suggest that disruption of this interaction by pathogenic mutations may be implicated in the pathogenesis of CDKL5-related disorders.
Nicotine abuse and addiction is a major health liability. Nicotine, an active alkaloid in tobacco, is self-administered by animals and produces cellular adaptations in brain regions associated with drug reward, such as the nucleus accumbens. However, it is unknown whether, akin to illicit drugs of abuse such as cocaine or heroin, the adaptations endure and contribute to the propensity to relapse after discontinuing nicotine use. Using a rat model of cue-induced relapse, we made morphological and electrophysiological measures of synaptic plasticity, as well as quantified glutamate overflow, in the accumbens after 2 wk of withdrawal with extinction training. We found an enduring basal increase in dendritic spine head diameter and in the ratio of AMPA to NMDA currents in accumbens spiny neurons compared with yoked saline animals at 2 wk after the last nicotine self-administration session. This synaptic potentiation was associated with an increase in both AMPA (GluA1) and NMDA (GluN2A and GluN2B) receptor subunits, and a reduction in the glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1). When nicotine seeking was reinstated by presentation of conditioned cues, there were parallel increases in behavioral responding, extracellular glutamate, and further increases in dendritic spine head diameter and ratio of AMPA to NMDA currents within 15 min. These findings suggest that targeting glutamate transmission might inhibit cue-induced nicotine seeking. In support of this hypothesis, we found that pharmacological inhibition of GluN2A with 3-Chloro-4-fluoro-N-[4-[[2-(phenylcarbonyl)hydrazino]carbonyl]benzyl]benzenesulfonamide (TCN-201) or GluN2B with ifenprodil abolished reinstated nicotine seeking. These results indicate that up-regulated GluN2A, GluN2B, and rapid synaptic potentiation in the accumbens contribute to cue-induced relapse to nicotine use.

Inflammatory processes have a fundamental role in the pathophysiology of stroke. A key initial event is the rapid activation of resident immune cells, primarily microglia. This cell population is an important target for new therapeutic approaches to limit stroke damage. Activation of microglia is normally held in check by strictly controlled mechanisms involving neuronal-glial communication. Ischemic stroke is a powerful stimulus that disables the endogenous inhibitory signaling and triggers microglial activation. Once activated, microglia exhibit a spectrum of phenotypes, release both pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators, and function to either exacerbate ischemic injury or help repair depending on different molecular signals the microglial receptors receive. Various ligands and receptors have been identified for microglial activation. Experimental tools to detect these inflammatory signals are being increasingly developed in an effort to define the functional roles of microglia. Fine-tuning immunomodulatory interventions based on the heterogeneous profiles of microglia are urgently needed for ischemic stroke.

The neural histaminergic system is involved in a wide range of physiological processes, including anxiety. Histaminergic neurons are localized in the tuberomammillary nucleus of the posterior hypothalamus and share bidirectional connections with the lateral septum, an area well implicated in anxiety. The current study examined whether the histaminergic system of the lateral septum regulates rats' defensive behaviors in two animal models of anxiety, the elevated plus maze (EPM) and novelty-induced suppression of feeding paradigm (NISF). We found that bilateral infusions of histamine (1.0 g and 5.0 g) into the lateral septum selectively decreased rats' defensive behaviors in the EPM (both doses) and NISF (1.0 g only). Follow-up studies found that pre-infusions of the H1 and H2 antagonists, pyrilamine (20 g) and ranitidine (20 g) respectively, reversed the anxiolytic-like effects of intra-LS histamine (1.0 g) in the NISF but not in the EPM, while pre-infusions of the H3 antagonist ciproxifan (200 pg) attenuated the anxiolytic-like effects of intra-LS histamine in the EPM but not in the NISF. This double dissociation suggests that H1 and H2 receptors in the lateral septum, likely via a post-synaptic mechanism, mediate the anxiolytic-like effects of histamine in the NISF but not in the EPM. In contrast, lateral septal H3 receptors mediate, likely pre-synaptically, the anxiolytic-like effects of histamine in the EPM but not in the NISF. Our findings indicate that these receptors differentially contribute to rats' specific defensive behaviors in the EPM and NISF, that is, avoidance of open spaces and neophagia respectively.
Dopamine (DA) is an important neurotransmitter involved in social behaviors, such as courtship and pair-bonding. In the green tree frog (Hyla cinerea), calling behavior is the primary social behavior used for mate attraction, and is critical for the reproductive success of the species. Our study examined how DA influences advertisement calling behavior of the green tree frog. In a field environment, calling males were treated with either a DA receptor-specific agonist (SKF-38393 or quinpirole), a non-specific DA agonist (apomorphine), or a control Ringer's solution, and vocalizations were recorded after a 20 min post-injection period. Behavioral analyses focused on if and when the frogs called (call latency), and the number of calls produced during post-injection recordings (call rate). There were significant differences in all measurements that varied with treatment and/or dose. The results demonstrate that activation of D2-like receptors has an inhibitory effect on vocalization in the green tree frog, while the D1-like and non-specific DA agonists do not affect calling behavior. These findings coincide with behavioral data from other taxa, and support the function of D2-like receptors in the inhibition of certain social behaviors. Overall, the results suggest conservation for DA in social behaviors across vertebrates.

Neuroimaging has improved our understanding of the evolution of stroke at discreet time points helping to identify irreversibly damaged and potentially reversible ischemic brain. Neuroimaging has also contributed considerably to the basic premise of acute stroke therapy which is to salvage some portion of the ischemic region from evolving into infarction, and by doing so, maintaining brain function and improving outcome. The term neurovascular unit (NVU) broadens the concept of the ischemic penumbra by linking the microcirculation with neuronal-glial interactions during ischemia reperfusion. Strategies that attempt to preserve the individual components (endothelium, glia and neurons) of the NVU are unlikely to be helpful if blood flow is not fully restored to the microcirculation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the foremost imaging technology able to bridge both basic science and the clinic via non-invasive real time high-resolution anatomical delineation of disease manifestations at the molecular and ionic level. Current MRI based technologies have focused on the mismatch between perfusion-weighted imaging (PWI) and diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) signals to estimate the tissue that could be saved if reperfusion was achieved. Future directions of MRI may focus on the discordance of recanalization and reperfusion, providing complimentary pathophysiological information to current compartmental paradigms of infarct core (DWI) and penumbra (PWI) with imaging information related to cerebral blood flow, BBB permeability, inflammation, and oedema formation in the early acute phase. In this review we outline advances in our understanding of stroke pathophysiology with imaging, transcending animal stroke models to human stroke, and describing the potential translation of MRI to image important interactions relevant to acute stroke at the interface of the neurovascular unit.
The auditory system is organized such that progressively more complex features are represented across successive cortical hierarchical stages. Just when and where the processing of phonemes, fundamental elements of the speech signal, is achieved in this hierarchy remains a matter of vigorous debate. Non-invasive measures of phonemic representation have been somewhat equivocal. While some studies point to a primary role for middle/anterior regions of the superior temporal gyrus (STG), others implicate the posterior STG. Differences in stimulation, task andinter-individual anatomical/functional variability may account for these discrepant findings. Here, we sought to clarify this issue by mapping phonemic representation across left perisylvian cortex, taking advantage of the excellent sampling density afforded by intracranial recordings in humans. We asked whether one or both major divisions of the STG were sensitive to phonemic transitions. The high signal-to-noise characteristics of direct intracranial recordings allowed for analysis at the individual participant level, circumventing issues of inter-individual anatomic and functional variability that may have obscured previous findings at the group level of analysis. The mismatch negativity (MMN), an electrophysiological response elicited by changes in repetitive streams of stimulation, served as our primary dependent measure. Oddball configurations of pairs of phonemes, spectro-temporally matched non-phonemes, and simple tones were presented. The loci of the MMN clearly differed as a function of stimulus type. Phoneme representation was most robust over middle/anterior STG/STS, but was also observed over posterior STG/SMG. These data point to multiple phonemic processing zones along perisylvian cortex, both anterior and posterior to primary auditory cortex. This finding is considered within the context of a dual stream model of auditory processing in which functionally distinct ventral and dorsal auditory processing pathways may be engaged by speech stimuli.
The emission of pyrrole-substituted benzoic acid can be repeatedly switched between the dark and bright states in the solid state by chemical fuming and heating processes, enabling it to work as a rapid sensitive fluorescent sensor for primary amine detection.
We present a method to use the commercially available LEGO Mindstorms NXT robotics platform to test systems level neuroscience hypotheses. The first step of the method is to develop a nervous system simulation of specific reflexive behaviors of an appropriate model organism; here we use the American Lobster. Exteroceptive reflexes mediated by decussating (crossing) neural connections can explain an animal's taxis towards or away from a stimulus as described by Braitenberg and are particularly well suited for investigation using the NXT platform.(1) The nervous system simulation is programmed using LabVIEW software on the LEGO Mindstorms platform. Once the nervous system is tuned properly, behavioral experiments are run on the robot and on the animal under identical environmental conditions. By controlling the sensory milieu experienced by the specimens, differences in behavioral outputs can be observed. These differences may point to specific deficiencies in the nervous system model and serve to inform the iteration of the model for the particular behavior under study. This method allows for the experimental manipulation of electronic nervous systems and serves as a way to explore neuroscience hypotheses specifically regarding the neurophysiological basis of simple innate reflexive behaviors. The LEGO Mindstorms NXT kit provides an affordable and efficient platform on which to test preliminary biomimetic robot control schemes. The approach is also well suited for the high school classroom to serve as the foundation for a hands-on inquiry-based biorobotics curriculum.
We screened for a Rab39-specific effector by performing a yeast two-hybrid assay with GTP-locked Rab39A/B as the bait and identified UACA (uveal autoantigen with coiled-coil domains and ankyrin repeats) as a specific Rab39A/B-binding protein. Deletion analysis revealed that a C-terminal coiled-coil domain of UACA functions as a GTP-dependent Rab39-binding domain. shRNA-mediated knockdown of endogenous Rab39A or UACA in mouse neuroblastoma Neuro2A cells resulted in a change in retinoic acid-induced neurite morphology from a multipolar morphology to a bipolar morphology. Taken together, these findings indicate that UACA functions as a Rab39A effector in the retinoic acid-induced differentiation of Neuro2A cells.
Biochemical, histochemical and coimmunoprecipitation experiments have indicated the existence of antagonistic dopamine D2 (D2R) and neurotensin 1 (NTS1R) receptor-receptor interactions in the dorsal and ventral striatum indicating a potential role of these receptor-receptor interactions in Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. By means of Bioluminiscence Resonance energy transfer (BRET(2)) evidence has for the first time been obtained in the current study for the existence of both D2LR/NTS1R and D2SR/NTS1R heteromers in living HEK293T cells. Through confocal laser microscopy the NTS1R(GFP2) and D2R(YFP) were also shown to be colocated in the plasma membrane of these cells. A bioinformatic analysis suggests the existence of a basic set of three homology protriplets (TVM, DLL and/or LRA) in the two participating receptors which may contribute to the formation of the D2R/NTS1R heteromers by participating in guide-clasp interactions in the receptor interface. The CREB reporter gene assay indicated that the neurotensin receptor agonist JMV 449 markedly reduced the potency of the D2R like agonist quinpirole to inhibit the forskolin induced increase of the CREB signal. In contrast, the neurotensin agonist was found to markedly increase the quinpirole potency to activate the MAPK pathway as also studied with luciferase reporter gene assay measuring the degree of SRE activity as well as with ERK1/2 phosphorylation assays. These dynamic changes in D2R signaling produced by the neurotensin receptor agonist may involve antagonistic allosteric receptor-receptor interactions in the D2LR-NTS1R heteromers at the plasma membrane level (CREB pathway) and synergistic interactions in PKC activation at the cytoplasmatic level (MAPK pathway).

Experimental studies of conditioned learning reveal activity changes in the amygdala and unimodal sensory cortex underlying fear acquisition to simple stimuli. However, real-world fears typically involve complex stimuli represented at the category level. A consequence of category-level representations of threat is that aversive experiences with particular category members may lead one to infer that related exemplars likewise pose a threat, despite variations in physical form. Here, we examined the effect of category-level representations of threat on human brain activation using 2 superordinate categories (animals and tools) as conditioned stimuli. Hemodynamic activity in the amygdala and category-selective cortex was modulated by the reinforcement contingency, leading to widespread fear of different exemplars from the reinforced category. Multivariate representational similarity analyses revealed that activity patterns in the amygdala and object-selective cortex were more similar among exemplars from the threat versus safe category. Learning to fear animate objects was additionally characterized by enhanced functional coupling between the amygdala and fusiform gyrus. Finally, hippocampal activity co-varied with object typicality and amygdala activation early during training. These findings provide novel evidence that aversive learning can modulate category-level representations of object concepts, thereby enabling individuals to express fear to a range of related stimuli.
Presenilin and signal peptide peptidase are multispanning intramembrane-cleaving proteases with a conserved catalytic GxGD motif. Presenilin comprises the catalytic subunit of -secretase, a protease responsible for the generation of amyloid- peptides causative of Alzheimer disease. Signal peptide peptidase proteins are implicated in the regulation of the immune system. Both protease family proteins have been recognized as druggable targets for several human diseases, but their detailed structure still remains unknown. Recently, the x-ray structures of some archaeal GxGD proteases have been determined. We review the recent progress in biochemical and biophysical probing of the structure of these atypical proteases.
In the brain and heart, auxiliary Kv channel-interacting proteins (KChIPs) co-assemble with pore-forming Kv4 -subunits to form a native K(+) channel complex and regulate the expression and gating properties of Kv4 currents. Among the KChIP1-4 members, KChIP4a exhibits a unique N terminus that is known to suppress Kv4 function, but the underlying mechanism of Kv4 inhibition remains unknown. Using a combination of confocal imaging, surface biotinylation, and electrophysiological recordings, we identified a novel endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention motif, consisting of six hydrophobic and aliphatic residues, 12-17 (LIVIVL), within the KChIP4a N-terminal KID, that functions to reduce surface expression of Kv4-KChIP complexes. This ER retention capacity is transferable and depends on its flanking location. In addition, adjacent to the ER retention motif, the residues 19-21 (VKL motif) directly promote closed-state inactivation of Kv4.3, thus leading to an inhibition of channel current. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that KChIP4a suppresses A-type Kv4 current via ER retention and enhancement of Kv4 closed-state inactivation.
Aggregation of TAR DNA-binding protein of 43 kDa (TDP-43) is a pathological signature of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Although accumulating evidence suggests the involvement of RNA recognition motifs (RRMs) in TDP-43 proteinopathy, it remains unclear how native TDP-43 is converted to pathogenic forms. To elucidate the role of homeostasis of RRM1 structure in ALS pathogenesis, conformations of RRM1 under high pressure were monitored by NMR. We first found that RRM1 was prone to aggregation and had three regions showing stable chemical shifts during misfolding. Moreover, mass spectrometric analysis of aggregated RRM1 revealed that one of the regions was located on protease-resistant -strands containing two cysteines (Cys-173 and Cys-175), indicating that this region served as a core assembly interface in RRM1 aggregation. Although a fraction of RRM1 aggregates comprised disulfide-bonded oligomers, the substitution of cysteine(s) to serine(s) (C/S) resulted in unexpected acceleration of amyloid fibrils of RRM1 and disulfide-independent aggregate formation of full-length TDP-43. Notably, TDP-43 aggregates with RRM1-C/S required the C terminus, and replicated cytopathologies of ALS, including mislocalization, impaired RNA splicing, ubiquitination, phosphorylation, and motor neuron toxicity. Furthermore, RRM1-C/S accentuated inclusions of familial ALS-linked TDP-43 mutants in the C terminus. The relevance of RRM1-C/S-induced TDP-43 aggregates in ALS pathogenesis was verified by immunolabeling of inclusions of ALS patients and cultured cells overexpressing the RRM1-C/S TDP-43 with antibody targeting misfolding-relevant regions. Our results indicate that cysteines in RRM1 crucially govern the conformation of TDP-43, and aberrant self-assembly of RRM1 at amyloidogenic regions contributes to pathogenic conversion of TDP-43 in ALS.
Dopamine depletion in Parkinson's disease (PD) results in bradykinesia and tremor. Therapeutic administration of the dopamine precursor, l-Dopa, alleviates these symptoms but dyskinesia's can manifest with chronic treatment. In the MPTP toxin mouse model of PD, lesion severity is often assessed by the rotarod behavioral assay. Dopamine depletion by MPTP is thought to induce rotarod behavioral decline. Here we surveyed rotarod behavior and striatal dopamine at timed intervals post-MPTP. Paradoxically, rotarod disability coincided with gradual striatal dopamine restoration. l-Dopa supplementation exacerbated rotarod disability, whereas dopamine antagonism restored performance. Conclusion: dopamine restoration, not depletion, precipitates rotarod disability after MPTP intoxication, and caution should be applied when using this assay for MPTP.
Diabetes mellitus is a chronic illness that has been associated with the decrease of insulin in type I diabetes. Insulin has an impact not only on the direct control of food intake and plasma glucose levels, but also on brain pathways associated with reward. It affects brain reward pathways through regulation of the dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT). Moreover, it has been found to affect the ability of drugs that target the DA system. In the present study, the effects of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes on the acquisition (development) and maintenance of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) were investigated in rats. Forty adult male Albino Wistar rats were used in these experiments. For induction of diabetes, STZ was administered at a dose of 60 mg/kg. After seven days, the CPP paradigm was done; conditioning score and locomotor activity were recorded by Ethovision software. The results showed that diabetes significantly increased the magnitude of conditioning scores, acquisition of morphine-induced CPP in compared to naive animals (P&lt;0.05). Moreover, in the diabetic group, there were significant differences among conditioning scores in the post-conditioning phase and the last four days (7th-10th), but these differences elongated up to 10 days after the CPP protocol while the extinction period was eight days in the naive group. Our findings indicated that the magnitude and maintenance of morphine rewarding properties have been changed in STZ-induced diabetic animals. It seems that a level of insulin and their receptors are involved in the development and maintenance of morphine-induced CPP in the rats.
The data reported in the Technical Comments by Fitz et al., Price et al., Tesseur et al., and Veeraraghavalu et al. replicate and validate our central conclusion that bexarotene stimulates the clearance of soluble -amyloid peptides and results in the reversal of behavioral deficits in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The basis of the inability to reproduce the drug-stimulated microglial-mediated reduction in plaque burden is unexplained. However, we concluded that plaque burden is functionally unrelated to improved cognition and memory elicited by bexarotene.
Cramer et al. (Reports, 23 March 2012, p. 1503; published online 9 February 2012) demonstrates short-term bexarotene treatment clearing preexisting -amyloid deposits from the brains of APP/PS1E9 mice with low amyloid burden, providing a rationale for repurposing this anticancer agent as an Alzheimer's disease (AD) therapeutic. Using a nearly identical treatment regimen, we were unable to detect any evidence of drug efficacy despite demonstration of target engagement.
Detailed measurements of saccadic latency--the time taken to make an eye movement to a suddenly-presented visual target--have proved a valuable source of detailed and quantitative information in a wide range of neurological conditions, as well as shedding light on the mechanisms of decision, currently of intense interest to cognitive neuroscientists. However, there is no doubt that more complex oculomotor tasks, and in particular the antisaccade task in which a participant must make a saccade in the opposite direction to the target, are potentially more sensitive indicators of neurological dysfunction, particularly in neurodegenerative conditions. But two obstacles currently hinder their widespread adoption for this purpose. First, that much of the potential information from antisaccade experiments, notably about latency distribution and amplitude, is typically thrown away. Second, that there is no standardised protocol for carrying out antisaccade experiments, so that results from one laboratory cannot easily be compared with those from another. This paper, the outcome of a recent international meeting of oculomotor scientists and clinicians with an unusually wide experience of such measurements, sets out a proposed protocol for clinical antisaccade trials: its adoption will greatly enhance the clinical and scientific benefits of making these kinds of measurements.




Developmental dyslexia (DD) has previously been associated with a number of cognitive deficits. Little attention has been directed to cognitive functions that remain intact in the disorder, though the investigation and identification of such strengths might be useful for developing new, and improving current, therapeutical interventions. In this study, an old/new recognition memory paradigm was used to examine previously untested aspects of declarative memory in children with DD and typically developing control children. The DD group was not only not impaired at the task, but actually showed superior recognition memory, as compared to the control children. These findings complement previous reports of enhanced cognition in other domains (e.g., visuo-spatial processing) in DD. Possible underlying mechanisms for the observed DD advantage in declarative memory, and the possibility of compensation by this system for reading deficits in dyslexia, are discussed.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Enlarged perivascular spaces (also known as Virchow-Robin spaces) on T2-weighted brain magnetic resonance imaging are common, but their etiology, and specificity to small vessel as opposed to general cerebrovascular disease or ageing, is unclear. We tested the association between enlarged perivascular spaces and ischemic stroke subtype, other markers of small vessel disease, and common vascular risk factors. METHODS: We prospectively recruited patients with acute stroke, diagnosed and subtyped by a stroke physician using clinical features and brain magnetic resonance imaging. A neuroradiologist rated basal ganglia and centrum semiovale enlarged perivascular spaces on a five-point scale, white matter lesions, recent and old infarcts, and cerebral atrophy. We assessed associations between basal ganglia-, centrum semiovale- and total (combined basal ganglia and centrum semiovale) enlarged perivascular spaces, stroke subtype, white matter lesions, atrophy, and vascular risk factors. RESULTS: Among 298 patients (mean age 68 years), after adjusting for vascular risk factors and white matter lesions, basal ganglia-enlarged perivascular spaces were associated with increasing age (P=0001), centrum semiovale-enlarged perivascular spaces (P&lt;0001), cerebral atrophy (P=003), and lacunar stroke subtype (P=004). Centrum semiovale-enlarged perivascular spaces were associated mainly with basal ganglia-enlarged perivascular spaces. Total enlarged perivascular spaces were associated with increasing age (P=001), deep white matter lesions (P=0005), and previous stroke (P=0006). CONCLUSIONS: Enlarged perivascular spaces are associated with age, lacunar stroke subtype and white matter lesions and should be considered as another magnetic resonance imaging marker of cerebral small vessel disease. Further evaluation of enlarged perivascular spaces in studies of ageing, stroke, and dementia is needed to determine their pathophysiological importance.

The prairie vole is a socially monogamous rodent that is an excellent animal model for studies of the neurobiology of social attachment. Such studies have demonstrated that activation of reward circuitry during social interactions facilitates pair bond formation. Within this circuitry, -opioid receptors (MORs) modulate naturally rewarding behavior in an anatomically segregated manner; MORs located throughout the striatum (dorsal striatum, NAc core, and the entire NAc shell) are implicated in general motivational processes, whereas those located specifically within the dorsomedial NAc shell mediate positive hedonics (and are referred to as a &quot;hedonic hotspot&quot;). The purpose of the present study was to determine whether MORs within these distinct subregions differentially mediate pair bond formation. We first used receptor autoradiography to compare MOR binding densities between these regions. MOR binding was significantly higher in the NAc core and dorsomedial NAc shell compared with the ventral NAc shell. We next used partner preference testing to determine whether MORs within these subregions differentially mediate pair bonding. Blockade of MORs using 1 or 3 g of H-d-Phe-Cys-Tyr-d-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 within the dorsal striatum decreased mating during the cohabitation period and inhibited partner preference formation. In contrast, blockade of MORs within dorsomedial NAc shell inhibited partner preference formation without effecting mating behavior, whereas other regions were not involved. Thus, MORs within the dorsal striatum mediate partner preference formation via impairment of mating, whereas those in the dorsomedial NAc shell appear to mediate pair bond formation through the positive hedonics associated with mating.
While glutamate in the nucleus accumbens (NAS) contributes to the promotion of drug-seeking by drug-predictive cues, it also appears to play a role in the inhibition of drug-seeking following extinction procedures. Thus we measured extracellular fluctuations of NAS glutamate in response to discriminative stimuli that signaled either cocaine availability or cocaine omission. We trained rats to self-administer intravenous cocaine and then to recognize discriminative odor cues that predicted either sessions where cocaine was available or alternating sessions where it was not (saline substituted for cocaine). Whereas responding in cocaine availability sessions remained stable, responding in cocaine omission sessions progressively declined to chance levels. We then determined the effects of each odor cue on extracellular glutamate in the core and shell subregions of NAS preceding and accompanying lever pressing under an extinction condition. Glutamate levels were elevated in both core and shell by the availability odor and depressed in the core but not the shell by the omission odor. Infusion of kynurenic acid (an antagonist for ionotropic glutamate receptors) into core but not shell suppressed responding associated with the availability odor, but had no effect on the suppression associated with the omission odor. Thus cocaine-predictive cues appear to promote cocaine seeking in part by elevating glutamatergic neurotransmission in the core of NAS, whereas cocaine-omission cues appear to suppress cocaine seeking in part by depressing glutamatergic receptor activation in the same region.
The CREB/CRE transcriptional pathway has been implicated in circadian clock timing and light-evoked clock resetting. To date, much of the work on CREB in circadian physiology has focused on how changes in the phosphorylation state of CREB regulate the timing processes. However, beyond changes in phosphorylation, CREB-dependent transcription can also be regulated by the CREB coactivator CRTC (CREB-regulated transcription coactivator), also known as TORC (transducer of regulated CREB). Here we profiled both the rhythmic and light-evoked regulation of CRTC1 and CRTC2 in the murine suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the locus of the master mammalian clock. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed rhythmic expression of CRTC1 in the SCN. CRTC1 expression was detected throughout the dorsoventral extent of the SCN in the middle of the subjective day, with limited expression during early night, and late night expression levels intermediate between mid-day and early night levels. In contrast to CRTC1, robust expression of CRTC2 was detected during both the subjective day and night. During early and late subjective night, a brief light pulse induced strong nuclear accumulation of CRTC1 in the SCN. In contrast with CRTC1, photic stimulation did not affect the subcellular localization of CRTC2 in the SCN. Additionally, reporter gene profiling and chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis indicated that CRTC1 was associated with CREB in the 5' regulatory region of the period1 gene, and that overexpression of CRTC1 leads to a marked upregulation in period1 transcription. Together, these data raise the prospect that CRTC1 plays a role in fundamental aspects of SCN clock timing and entrainment.
The pathological mechanisms underlying neurological deficits observed in individuals born prematurely are not completely understood. A common form of injury in the preterm population is periventricular white matter injury (PWMI), a pathology associated with impaired brain development. To mitigate or eliminate PWMI, there is an urgent need to understand the pathological mechanism(s) involved on a neurobiological, structural, and functional level. Recent clinical data suggest that a percentage of premature infants experience relative hyperoxia. Using a hyperoxic model of premature brain injury, we have previously demonstrated that neonatal hyperoxia exposure in the mouse disrupts development of the white matter (WM) by delaying the maturation of the oligodendroglial lineage. In the present study, we address the question of how hyperoxia-induced alterations in WM development affect overall WM integrity and axonal function. We show that neonatal hyperoxia causes ultrastructural changes, including: myelination abnormalities (i.e., reduced myelin thickness and abnormal extramyelin loops) and axonopathy (i.e., altered neurofilament phosphorylation, paranodal defects, and changes in node of Ranvier number and structure). This disruption of axon-oligodendrocyte integrity results in the lasting impairment of conduction properties in the adult WM. Understanding the pathology of premature PWMI injury will allow for the development of interventional strategies to preserve WM integrity and function.
Many animals use visual motion cues for navigating within their surroundings. Both flies and vertebrates compute local motion by temporal correlation of neighboring photoreceptors, via so-called elementary motion detectors (EMDs). In the fly lobula plate and the vertebrate visual cortex the output from many EMDs is pooled in neurons sensitive to wide-field optic flow. Although the EMD has been the preferred model for more than 50 years, recent work has highlighted its limitations in describing some visual behaviors, such as responses to higher-order motion stimuli. Non-EMD motion processing may therefore serve an important function in vision. Here, we describe a novel neuron class in the fly lobula plate that clearly does not derive its input from classic EMDs. The centrifugal stationary inhibited flicker excited (cSIFE) neuron is strongly excited by flicker, up to very high temporal frequencies. The non-EMD driven flicker sensitivity leads to strong, nondirectional responses to high-speed, wide-field motion. Furthermore, cSIFE is strongly inhibited by stationary patterns, within a narrow wavelength band. cSIFE's outputs overlap with the inputs of well described optic flow-sensitive lobula plate tangential cells (LPTCs). Driving cSIFE affects the active dendrites of LPTCs, and cSIFE may therefore play a large role in motion vision.

