We studied short-term (30 min) adaptation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) in five normal humans using a &quot;position error&quot; stimulus without retinal image motion. Both before and after adaptation a velocity gain (peak slow-phase eye velocity/peak head velocity) and a position gain (total eye movement during chair rotation/amplitude of chair motion) were measured in darkness using search coils. The vestibular stimulus was a brief ( approximately 700 ms), 15 degrees chair rotation in darkness (peak velocity 43 degrees /s). To elicit adaptation, a straight-ahead fixation target disappeared during chair movement and when the chair stopped the target reappeared at a new location in front of the subject for gain-decrease (x0) adaptation, or 10 degrees opposite to chair motion for gain-increase (x1.67) adaptation. This position-error stimulus was effective at inducing VOR adaptation, though for gain-increase adaptation the primary strategy was to substitute augmenting saccades during rotation while for gain-decrease adaptation both corrective saccades and a decrease in slow-phase velocity occurred. Finally, the presence of the position-error signal alone, at the end of head rotation, without any attempt to fix upon it, was not sufficient to induce adaptation. Adaptation did occur, however, if the subject did make a saccade to the target after head rotation, or even if the subject paid attention to the new location of the target without actually looking at it.
The present study was designed to test whether the adaptation of saccadic eye movements depends only on the eye displacement vector of the trained saccade or also on eye position information. Using the double-step target paradigm in eight human subjects, we first induced in a single session two &quot;opposite directions adaptations&quot; (ODA) of horizontal saccades of the same vector. Each ODA (backward or forward) was linked to one vertical eye position (12.5 degrees up or 25 degrees down) and alternated from trial to trial. The results showed that opposite changes of saccade amplitude can develop simultaneously, indicating that saccadic adaptation depends on orbital eye position. This finding has important functional implications because in everyday life our eyes saccade from constantly changing orbital positions. A comparison of these data to two control conditions in which training trials of a single type (backward or forward) were presented at both 12.5 degrees and -25 degrees eye elevations further indicated that eye position specificity is complete for backward, but not for forward, adaptation. Finally, the control conditions also indicated that the adaptation of a single saccade fully transferred to untrained saccades of the same vector, but initiated from different vertical eye positions. In conclusion, our study indicates that saccadic adaptation mechanisms use vectorial eye displacement signals, but can also take eye position signals into account as a contextual cue when the training involves conflicting saccade amplitude changes.
Can we find a way of thinking about the self that is compatible with modern neuroscience? I think we can. First of all, we have to recognize that &quot;the self&quot; is not the same as &quot;the conscious self,&quot; since much of who we are as individuals takes place out of conscious awareness. Second, we have to accept that some aspects of the self, especially the unconscious aspects, occur in and can be studied in other species, allowing us to relate these aspects of the self to detailed brain mechanisms. Finally, it also helps to think of the self in terms of memory. Obviously, much of who we are is based on memories learned through personal experience, including both conscious or explicit memories and unconscious or implicit memories. This is particularly important since much progress has been made in relating memory to the cells and synapses of the brain. By viewing the self as a network of memories the effort to relate the self to the brain can build on this progress. Emphasizing memory and experience does not take away from the fact that our genetic history also contributes to who we are. In fact, genes and experience, or nature and nurture, are, in the end, not different things, but different ways of doing the same thing-wiring the synapses of our brain. In many ways, the self is synaptic. This synaptic view of the self is not meant as a challenge to other views, such as spiritual, cultural, or psychological views. It is instead, just a way of understanding how these other aspects of who we are relate, deep down, to the brain.
Neural science represents an important bridge between the natural sciences concerned with the nature of the physical world and the humanities concerned with the nature of human existence. We try to illustrate this bridging function in two ways. One, we show that many neural scientists study the brain to address humanistically important questions about the mind first raised by classical philosophy. Second, in certain instances the humanities and neural sciences use common methodologies to achieve their respective goals.
In recent years, the views of the German philosopher Peter Sloterdijk about humanism and the biological self-engineering of mankind caused much turmoil in European intellectual circles. However, this is just one episode in a more general current controversy about the ethics of self-manipulation, a debate that often centers around the recent progress in genomics and the possibility of shaping human genetic structure. The complete sequencing of the human genome has reinforced this focus. Making the human genome the object of a highly visible world-wide research effort has reinforced popular notions stressing the centrality of the genome in defining individuality and humanity. As a result, proponents and opponents of the self-engineering of human nature have often concentrated on technologies related to the genome. However, if one compares &quot;genome-based&quot; and &quot;brain-based&quot; explanations of Self and behavior, it turns out that neural aspects of human nature are more directly relevant. Many philosophical and ethical questions traditionally raised about genetics and genomics acquire more relevance and urgency when re-examined in the context of neuroscience.
Scientific psychology and neuroscience are taking increasingly precise and comprehensive pictures of the human mind, both in its physical architecture and its functional processes. Meanwhile, each human mind has an abbreviated view of itself, a self-portrait that captures how it thinks it operates, and that therefore has been remarkably influential. The mind's self-portrait has as a central feature the idea that thoughts cause actions, and that the self is thus an origin of the body's actions. This self-portrait is reached through a process of inference of apparent mental causation, and it gives rise to the experience that we are consciously willing what we do. Evidence from several sources suggests that this self-portrait may often be a humble and misleading caricature of the mind's operation-but one that underlies the feeling of authorship and the acceptance of responsibility for action.
Studies of human patients reveal dissociations between perception and action; some patients have implicit knowledge for a given domain, but can't access this knowledge for action. Studies of human infant development reveal a similar dissociation, suggesting that the neural systems connecting action with perception are not formed until the early preschool years, perhaps later. These connections are fundamental to our knowledge, to what we know about what we know. In this chapter I discuss the evolution of this knowledge, and argue that the dissociations seen in patients and in infant development are also seen in normal adult nonhuman primates, especially in the domain of folk physics. This suggests that for some domains of knowledge, animals don't know what they know. The disconnect between perception and action leads, in some cases, to perseverative errors. These errors, in turn, provide the signature of a highly encapsulated, modular system.
A truly remarkable aspect of human existence is the unitary sense of self that exists across time and place. Understanding the nature of self-what it is and what it does-has challenged scholars since antiquity. How can empirical research measure what it is to have a sense of self? We propose that the sense of self may emerge from the functions of a left hemisphere &quot;interpreter&quot;. First, we examine evidence for the existence of self-processing mechanisms in the intact brain, from behavioral and functional neuroimaging research. The available evidence suggests that the sense of self is widely distributed throughout the brain. Second, we discuss these findings in relation to what is known about higher cognitive functions in humans who have undergone a surgical procedure to sever the connection between the two cerebral hemispheres. Split-brain research has facilitated an understanding of the way in which each cerebral hemisphere independently processes information. Research in this area has shown that each cerebral hemisphere features distinct information-processing capabilities. This cognitive asymmetry is reflected in the notion of a left hemisphere interpreter module which, we have argued, generates a unitary sense of consciousness even in the disconnected brain. This chapter describes how this interpreter may also give rise to a unified sense of self.
Traditional religious teachings about the nature of the person, especially body-soul dualism, influence majority views of the self. Following a historical overview, it is argued that a purely physicalist account of human nature is equally compatible with contemporary science and with Christian thought. However, an account that reduces higher human capacities to neurobiology is unacceptable from a theological perspective.
The brain's earliest self-representational capacities arose as evolution found neural network solutions for coordinating and regulating inner-body signals, thereby improving behavioral strategies. Additional flexibility in organizing coherent behavioral options emerges from neural models that represent some of the brain's inner states as states of its body, while representing other signals as perceptions of the external world. Brains manipulate inner models to predict the distinct consequences in the external world of distinct behavioral options. The self thus turns out to be identifiable not with a nonphysical soul, but rather with a set of representational capacities of the physical brain.

We found voltage-gated potassium channel (VGKC) antibodies in 4 of 15 patients with limbic encephalitis (LE). Two patients with idiopathic LE had high VGKC antibody levels (&gt;800 pM; controls &lt;100 pM), that fell in parallel with a clinical response to immunotherapy. Two patients with lower VGKC antibodies (170 pM, 300 pM) had lung cancer (radiological evidence only in one) and the LE improved with immunotherapy in one. The other 11 patients without VGKC antibodies had paraneoplastic LE and eight onconeural antibodies (Hu in 6; Ma2 in 2). VGKC antibodies do not unambiguously discriminate between idiopathic or paraneoplastic LE but probably indicate a good response to immunotherapy.
Neurotrophins promote the differentiation, growth, and survival of neurons in the nervous system. Specifically, neurotrophins promote neuronal survival by interfering with programmed cell death or apoptosis. In addition to roles of neurotrophins as survival factors, neurotrophins can act as risk factors of neuronal injury under various pathological conditions. Neurotrophins markedly potentiate neuronal cell necrosis induced by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, deprivation of oxygen and glucose, and free radicals. Moreover, prolonged exposure to neurotrophins results in widespread neuronal necrosis through free radical-mediated mechanisms. Whereas cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying antiapoptosis action of neurotrophins have been well documented, extensive study will be needed to delineate mechanisms for the neurotrophin-induced neuronal necrosis through activation of Trk tyrosine kinase receptors.
Reactive oxygen species have been implicated in brain injury after cerebral ischemia. These oxidants can damage proteins, lipids, and DNA, and lead to cell injury and necrosis. Oxidants are also initiators in intracellular cell death signaling pathways that may lead to apoptosis. The possible targets of this redox signaling include mitochondria, death membrane receptors, and DNA repair enzymes. Genetic manipulation of intrinsic antioxidants and the factors in the signaling pathways has provided substantial progress in understanding the mechanisms in cell death signaling pathways and involvement of oxygen radicals in ischemic brain injury. Future studies of these pathways may provide novel therapeutic strategies in clinical stroke.
A 35 kD protein was isolated and purified from conditioned media of Bcl-2 cDNA-transfected PC12 cells and its cDNA cloned. A database analysis showed that the 35 kD protein is a rat homologue of the human FLRG protein. The biochemical as well as morphological properties of the rat FLRG protein in PC12 cells were examined and its distribution in rat tissues determined. The levels of FLRG mRNA expressed were low during the fetal period, compared with those of follistatin mRNA. The distribution of FLRG and follistatin mRNAs differed from each other after birth; the expression levels of FLRG mRNA were abundant in the adrenal gland and testis, whereas those of follistatin mRNA and activin A were markedly high in the ovary. The presence of FLRG mRNA and/or protein was confirmed in spermatocytes at various differentiating stages andin endocrine cells of both the adrenal cortex and medulla. When overexpressed in PC12 cells, the FLRG protein was found to be stored in secretory granules of the cells and largely secreted by a regulated pathway, while activin A enhancedthe constitutive secretion of the FLRG protein from wild-typpe PC12 cells, indicating that the FLRG protein possesses dualproperties in secretory pathways. The different distribution between FLRG and follistatin mRNA suggests that, like follistatin in the ovary, the FLRG protein may be involved in the maintenance of spermatogenesis in the testis and the growth and function of adrenal tissue cells, probably by regulating the functions of its binding partners such as the TGF-beta ( superfamily members.
The astute observations of Aicardi and colleagues led to the first description of Aicardi syndrome as a triad of infantile spasms, absence of the corpus callosum, and chorioretinal lacunae. Still diagnosed clinically, we now recognize an expanded version of this probable X-linked dominant disorder that predominantly affects females. In addition to the classic findings, patients typically experience intractable epilepsy of multiple seizure types, profound mental retardation, and costovertebral anomalies. Associated cerebral and ophthalmologic malformations are numerous. This article highlights several seminal citations involving the history of the initial description and the characteristic ophthalmologic and electroencephalographic features of Aicardi syndrome.


Although stomatopod crustaceans use their chemical senses in many facets of behavior, little is known about their chemosensory neural pathways, especially in comparison to the better-studied decapod crustaceans. We examined the stomatopod Neogonodactylus oerstedii to determine organizational aspects of peripheral and central neural pathway of antennules, which is a major chemosensory organ. We describe the three flagella of the triramous antennule as the medial, dorsolateral, and ventrolateral flagella. The primary branch point is between the medial flagellum and lateral flagella, and the secondary branch point is at the junction of the dorsolateral and ventrolateral flagella. The antennule bears at least three types of setae, based on their external morphology. Simple setae are present only on the medial flagellum and ventrolateral flagellum, organized as a tuft of 10-15 setae on each flagellar annulus. Aesthetasc setae and asymmetric setae occur only on the distal annuli of the dorsolateral flagellum, with each annulus bearing a row of three aesthetascs and one asymmetric seta. DiI fills of the antennular nerve near the junction of the flagella show that sensory neurons in the antennular flagella project to two neuropils in the ipsilateral midbrain-the olfactory lobe (OL) and lateral antennular neuropil (LAN). The OL is glomerular and has rich serotonergic innervation, a characteristic of the OL in decapods. The LAN is bi-lobed and stratified as it is in decapods. However, the LAN of stomatopods differs from that of decapods in being relatively large and containing extensive serotonergic innervation. The median antennular neuropil of stomatopods has sparse serotonergic innervation, and it is more diffusely organized compared to decapods. No accessory lobes were found in N. oerstedii. Thus, the stomatopod antennular flagella have the same two, highly organized parallel pathways common to decapods-the OL pathway and the LAN pathway.
Ligand-gated ion channels (LGICs) play important roles in the regulation of cellular function and signaling and serve as excellent drug targets. However, fast desensitization of most LGICs limits the choice of reliable methods to identify agonists, antagonists, and/or modulators in a high throughput manner. In this study, automated Parallel Oocyte Electrophysiology Test station (POETs) was used to screen a directed compound library against a rapidly desensitizing LGIC and to characterize further the pharmacological properties of the hits. POETs allows up to six two-electrode voltage-clamp experiments to be performed in parallel by automatically loading of the oocytes into flowcells, assessing individual oocyte behavior prior to initiating experiments. Oocytes injected with cRNA were transferred from a chilled 96-well plate into flowcells by the instrument, where they were impaled under software control by two independent electrodes. Expression was tested by measuring current responses to rapid application of agonists. Compounds, prepared in a 96-well format, were tested for effects by coapplication with agonist at a single concentration of 30 microM over 2 s. After compound application, oocytes were washed for a minimum of 30 s, and used repeatedly if the test compounds had no significant effect on the control response. Typical throughput could reach approximately 14 plates/day depending on the protocol. Pilot library screening revealed a hit rate of 0.06%, with active compounds having IC(50) values of 4-40 microM. Hits were also confirmed in native neurons using patch-clamp techniques. We conclude that automated POETs serves as a suitable platform for screening and expedient identification of LGIC modulators.
Although techniques such as (86)Rb(+) flux provide a sensitive measure of K(+) channel activity, the relatively short half-life and high-energy emission, together with the quantities of radioactive material generated, hinder the usefulness of flux-based formats in high throughput screening efforts. This study elaborates on the utilization of flame atomic absorption spectrometry (AAS) techniques for a nonradioactive rubidium efflux assay for large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels (BK(Ca)) channels. Utilizing human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells expressing the BK(Ca) alpha subunit, a 96-well cell-based nonradioactive rubidium efflux screen for channel openers and inhibitors was established. Known BK(Ca) channel openers, including NS1608, NS1619, and NS-8, activated rubidium efflux with EC(50) values ranging from 1 to 4 microM in both radioactive and nonradioactive efflux formats. Compounds such as iberiotoxin, paxilline, and charybdotoxin inhibited rubidium efflux responses evoked by the BK(Ca) channel opener NS1608 in both radioactive and nonradioactive efflux formats. The IC(50) values of the inhibitors in AAS format were comparable to those derived from (86)Rb(+) efflux assays. The present studies show that the pharmacological profiles of BK(Ca) channels assessed by AAS compare well with those obtained using the (86)Rb(+) efflux assay, and support the utility of nonradioactive efflux format for higher throughput screening campaigns for novel K(+) channel modulators.

The isocortex is a distinctive feature of mammalian brains, which has no clear counterpart in the cerebral hemispheres of other amniotes. This paper speculates on the evolutionary processes giving rise to the isocortex. As a first step, we intend to identify what structure may be ancestral to the isocortex in the reptilian brain. Then, it is necessary to account for the transformations (developmental, connectional, and functional) of this ancestral structure, which resulted in the origin of the isocortex. One long-held perspective argues that part of the isocortex derives from the ventral pallium of reptiles, whereas another view proposes that the isocortex originated mostly from the dorsal pallium. We consider that, at this point, evidence tends to favor correspondence of the isocortex with the dorsal cortex of reptiles. In any case, the isocortex may have originated partly as a consequence of an overall &quot;dorsalizing&quot; effect (that is, an expansion of the territories expressing dorsal-specific genes) during pallial development. Furthermore, expansion of the dorsal pallium may have been driven by selective pressures favoring the development of associative networks between the dorsal cortex, the olfactory cortex, and the hippocampus, which participated in spatial or episodic memory in the early mammals. In this context, sensory projections that in reptiles end in the ventral pallium, are observed to terminate in the isocortex (dorsal pallium) of mammals, perhaps owing to their participation in these associative networks.
Oscines learn their birdsongs from tutors. The authors found that a small fraction (approximately 7%) of captive male zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) produce variant acoustic birdsong profiles consisting of repetitions of single song syllables at high frequencies. Juvenile offspring of nonrepeaters can selectively learn the syntactic rule or habit of repeating syllables from repeaters. Adult tutored syllable repeaters, unlike spontaneous repeaters, undergo a form of song plasticity involving progressive reduction of the mean number and variance of repeated syllables as a function of long-term exposure to nonrepeater songs without altering the number or sequence of syllables within motifs. These findings suggest that aspects of song syntax or temporal frame can be acquired independently of song syllable or spectral content, and plasticity involving restorative alteration of acquired variant temporal frames can occur after the closure of the critical period for song learning.
Effects of manipulations of the rat pup-dam relationship on affective learning and memory in adulthood have received scant systematic investigation. The authors previously described how early handling (EH; 15 min isolation/day) and early deprivation (ED; 4 hr isolation/day) exert similar effects on spontaneous adult affect (open-field behavior, acoustic startle, endocrine stress response) relative to nonhandling (NH; C. R. Pryce, D. Bettschen, N. I. Bahr, &amp; J. Feldon, 2001). The present study demonstrates that both EH and ED adults exhibit enhanced active avoidance relative to NH adults. Fear-conditioned context and conditioned stimulus (CS) freezing were unaffected in both EH and ED, but stress hormone responses to the CS were reduced in EH males and ED females relative to NH. In the water maze, ED adults exhibited enhanced spatial learning and memory relative to NH.



Smooth muscle cells respond to InsP(3)-generating (sarcolemma-acting) neurotransmitters and hormones by releasing Ca(2+) from the internal store. However, the release of Ca(2+) does not occur uniformly throughout the cytoplasm but often into a localized area before being transmitted to other regions of the cell in the form of Ca(2+) waves and oscillations to actively spread information within and between cells. Yet, despite their significance, our understanding of the generation of oscillations to waves is incomplete. A major aspect of controversy centres on whether or not Ca(2+) released from the InsP(3) receptor activates RyRs (ryanodine receptors) to generate further release by Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release and propagate waves or whether the entire process arises from InsP(3) receptor activity alone. Under normal physiological conditions the [Ca(2+)] required to activate RyR (approx. 15 microM) exceeds the bulk average [Ca(2+)](c) (cytoplasmic Ca(2+) concentration) generated by InsP(3) receptor activity (&lt;1 microM). Progression of waves and oscillations by RyR activity would require a loss of control of RyR activity and an unrestrained positive feedback on Ca(2+) release. Under store-overload conditions, RyR Ca(2+) sensitivity is increased and this enables waves to be induced by RyR activity. However, the relevance of these Ca(2+)-release events to normal physiological functioning is unclear. The InsP(3) receptor, on the other hand, is activated by Ca(2+) over the physiological range (up to 300 nM) and deactivated by higher [Ca(2+)](c) (&gt;300 nM), features that favour intermittent activity of the receptor as occurs in waves and oscillations. Experimental evidence for the involvement of RyR relies mainly on pharmacological approaches in the intact cell where poor drug specificity could have led to ambiguous results. In this brief review the possible interactions between InsP(3) receptors and RyR in the generation of oscillations and waves will be discussed. Evidence is presented that RyRs are not required for InsP(3)-mediated Ca(2+) transients. Notwithstanding, ryanodine can inhibit InsP(3)-mediated Ca(2+) responses after RyR activity has been induced by caffeine or by steady depolarization which evokes spontaneous transient outward currents (a sarcolemmal manifestation of RyR activity). Ryanodine inhibits InsP(3)-mediated Ca(2+) transients by depleting the store of Ca(2+) rather than by RyR involvement in the InsP(3)-mediated Ca(2+) increase.
In any scientific theory, the conceptual framework already determines the nature and possible scope of the results. Oversimplification prevents an adequate description of the system, whereas too detailed a description obscures the fundamental principles behind the observed phenomena in addition to misspending time and resources. In theoretical neuroscience, this is an important issue because the description level varies widely from detailed biophysical descriptions to abstract computational models. We discuss the question of the appropriate modeling level in the context of a recent report on synchrony in iteratively constructed feed-forward networks of rat cortex pyramidal neuron somata (Reyes, 2003).




Spontaneous intracranial hypotension presenting with confusion and coma has rarely been reported. A case is presented and the clinical features of spontaneous intracranial hypotension are discussed.
Delta9-Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main psychoactive ingredient of marijuana, induces apoptosis in cultured cortical neurons. THC exerts its apoptotic effects in cortical neurons by binding to the CB1 cannabinoid receptor. The CB1 receptor has been shown to couple to the stress-activated protein kinase, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). However, the involvement of specific JNK isoforms in the neurotoxic properties of THC remains to be established. The present study involved treatment of rat cultured cortical neurons with THC (0.005-50 microM), and combinations of THC with the CB1 receptor antagonist, AM 251 (10 microM) and pertussis toxin (PTX; 200 ng ml-1). Antisense oligonucleotides (AS) were used to deplete neurons of JNK1 and JNK2 in order to elucidate their respective roles in THC signalling. Here we report that THC induces the activation of JNK via the CB1 receptor and its associated G-protein, Gi/o. Treatment of cultured cortical neurons with THC resulted in a differential timeframe of activation of the JNK1 and JNK2 isoforms. Use of specific JNK1 and JNK2 AS identified activation of caspase-3 and DNA fragmentation as downstream consequences of JNK1 and JNK2 activation. The results from this study demonstrate that activation of the CB1 receptor induces JNK and caspase-3 activation, an increase in Bax expression and DNA fragmentation. The data demonstrate that the activation of both JNK1 and JNK2 isoforms is central to the THC-induced activation of the apoptotic pathway in cortical neurons.

The correlation between conventional MRI lesion load accumulation and multiple sclerosis clinical evolution is only modest. The assessment of brain parenchymal volume and of its changes over time may provide adjunctive MRI markers reflecting the more disabling aspects of multiple sclerosis pathology. Magnetization transfer (MT) MRI is sensitive to 'occult' multiple sclerosis-related brain damage and might also contribute to overcome the clinical/MRI paradox. In this study, we assessed the value of conventional and MT MRI-derived metrics in predicting the medium-term clinical evolution of patients with different multiple sclerosis phenotypes. We studied 73 patients, with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (n = 34), secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (n = 19) and clinically isolated syndromes suggestive of multiple sclerosis (n = 20), and 16 healthy subjects. Brain dual-echo, T1-weighted (only in patients) and MT MRI scans were obtained at baseline and after 12 months. T2-hyperintense and T1-hypointense lesion volumes, normalized brain volume and average lesion MT ratio (MTR) were measured. MTR histograms from the whole brain tissue were also obtained. Clinical multiple sclerosis evolution and neurological disability were re-assessed in all patients after a median follow-up of 4.5 years. A multivariate analysis was performed to establish which clinical and MRI-derived variables were significant predictors of neurological deterioration at the end of the study period. At the end of follow-up, 34 patients showed significant neurological deterioration. The final multivariable model included average brain MTR percentage change after one year [P = 0.02, odds ratio (OR) = 0.86] and baseline T2-hyperintense lesion volume (P = 0.04, OR=1.04) as independent predictors of medium-term disability accumulation (r2 = 0.23). In this cohort of patients, abnormal values of average brain MTR changes showed a relatively high specificity (76.9%) and positive predictive value (59.1%) for Expanded Disability Status Scale score deterioration in individual cases. In patients with multiple sclerosis, a comprehensive estimation of the short-term changes of both conventional and MT MRI-detectable lesion burden might provide useful prognostic information for the medium-term clinical disease evolution.
Patients with steeply sloping hearing losses of cochlear origin may exhibit enhanced difference limens for frequency (DLFs) near the cut-off frequency (Fc) of their hearing loss. This effect has been related to observations in deafened animals of an over-representation of Fc in the primary auditory cortex. However, alternative interpretations in terms of peripheral mechanisms have not been eliminated. In the present study, we assessed the possible role of two peripheral mechanisms [loudness cues and spontaneous otoacoustic emissions (SOAEs)] in a group of patients with high-frequency hearing loss. We tested first whether the DLF enhancement effect was still observed under conditions where subjects could not rely on loudness cues to perform the frequency discrimination task. To achieve this, we adjusted the nominal level of each stimulus so that it fell on an equal loudness contour measured at very fine (1/8 octave) frequency intervals, and we roved the level of each stimulus over a large range (12 dB). Under these conditions, the DLF enhancement was still observed in all patients; this demonstrates that the effect cannot be explained simply by loudness cues. We then screened the patients for SOAEs to test whether the DLF enhancement effect could be explained by the presence of such emissions in the vicinity of the Fc. None of the patients exhibited SOAEs. Finally, we tested whether the patients had cochlear dead regions, i.e. regions lacking functional inner hair cells and/or auditory nerve fibres. Using a refined version of a non-invasive clinical test for the identification of dead regions, we assessed the presence of such regions in fine frequency steps (1/4 octave) up to very high frequencies. All of the patients had cochlear dead regions. The first two findings support the hypothesis that DLF enhancement is due to injury-induced central reorganization in the auditory system. The last one is consistent with neurophysiological data in animals, which suggest that complete deprivation from auditory input at certain cochlear sites may be a necessary condition for the occurrence of injury-induced cortical reorganization.
Human anterior cingulate function has been explained primarily within a cognitive framework. We used functional MRI experiments with simultaneous electrocardiography to examine regional brain activity associated with autonomic cardiovascular control during performance of cognitive and motor tasks. Using indices of heart rate variability, and high- and low-frequency power in the cardiac rhythm, we observed activity in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) related to sympathetic modulation of heart rate that was dissociable from cognitive and motor-related activity. The findings predict that during effortful cognitive and motor behaviour the dorsal ACC supports the generation of associated autonomic states of cardiovascular arousal. We subsequently tested this prediction by studying three patients with focal damage involving the ACC while they performed effortful cognitive and motor tests. Each showed abnormalities in autonomic cardiovascular responses with blunted autonomic arousal to mental stress when compared with 147 normal subjects tested in identical fashion. Thus, converging neuroimaging and clinical findings suggest that ACC function mediates context-driven modulation of bodily arousal states.
The term seronegative myasthenia gravis (SNMG) refers to the generalized disease without detectable anti-acetylcholine receptor (anti-AChR) antibodies. In these patients, IgG antibodies against the muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) have been described, which reduced agrin-induced AChR clustering in vitro. We have assayed anti-MuSK antibodies in 78 patients with SNMG, who have been followed for many years in our Institution. Here we describe the clinical phenotype of the 37 patients whose results were positive on this assay. MG with anti-MuSK antibodies was characterized by a striking prevalence of female patients (eight men and 29 women). Age of onset ranged from 6 to 68 years, with 56.8% of patients presenting under 40 years of age. All these patients shared a similar pattern of muscle weakness, with prevalent involvement of cranial and bulbar muscles and a high frequency of respiratory crises; the involvement of limb muscles was comparatively less severe and inconsistent. Single-fibre-EMG confirmed the most sensitive examination in the EMG diagnosis of MuSK-positive disease, while, owing to weakness topography, repetitive nerve stimulation in limb muscles was diagnostic in 56.8% of cases. The effect of edrophonium (or neostigmine) injection was equivocal or negative in 11 of 37 patients (29.7%), and the response to oral pyridostigmine was even more unsatisfactory, ranging from mild benefit to overt intolerance. In thymectomized patients, thymus was normal for age or atrophied, and no benefit from surgery was noticed. Thirty-five of 37 patients were given immunosuppressive therapy and 22 received plasma-exchange. The course of the disease was often characterized by periodic exacerbation phases requiring hospitalization and even assisted ventilation; plasma-exchange produced marked improvement in these cases. At the end of the observation period, most patients, although improved, were still symptomatic, having developed permanent facial and pharyngeal weakness together with some atrophy of facial muscles. MuSK-negative disease was comparatively more heterogeneous. Most patients were affected with mild to moderate symptoms and responded well to pharmacological treatment; however, a few subjects in this group had severe refractory disease, poorly responsive to both acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and immunosuppressants.
This study examined the possibility that lack of behavioral evidence indicating hemispheric specialization for selective attention in healthy individuals is due to the use of tasks that are not sufficiently demanding to require selective attention. In a group of 43 participants (ages 17-23), we compared selective attention on a cued-response time task when the target was presented alone and when a distractor was simultaneously presented. The costs of invalid cueing were minimal when the right hemisphere (RH) processed the target relative to when the left hemisphere (LH) processed the target, but only for the high load condition. These results are interpreted as RH specialization in light of evidence suggesting that the RH can direct attention to a larger portion of the visual field.
The floppy infant syndrome is a well-recognized entity for pediatricians and neonatologists. The condition refers to an infant with generalized hypotonia presenting at birth or in early life. The diagnostic work up in many instances is often complex, and requires multidisciplinary assessment. Advances in genetics and neurosciences have lead to recognition of newer diagnostic entities (several congenital myopathies), and rapid molecular diagnosis is now possible for several conditions such as spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), congenital muscular dystrophies (CMD), several forms of congenital myopathies and congenital myotonic dystrophy. The focus of the present review is to describe the advances in our understanding in the genetic, metabolic basis of neurological disorders, as well as the investigative work up of the floppy infant. An algorithm for the systematic evaluation of infants with hypotonia is suggested for the practicing pediatrician/neonatologist.
Neuroimaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) are widely used to identify the cerebral correlates of cognitive tasks. The resting state presents the advantage to serve as a reference in all experiments but is also an ill-defined mental state because it may vary both from one subject to another and within the same subject. The most challenging question concerns the areas whose activity (revealed by PET or fMRI imaging) is greater in rest state than in an active condition. The present work reports the result of a meta-analysis including five previously published studies. The five different tasks involved are the following: attribution of intention, judgement of stimulus pleasantness, discrimination of spatial attributes, judgement of other peoples' belief and perception of gaze. For each study, the general linear model was used to assess statistical difference and a contrast resting state minus other conditions was calculated. The intersection of the five contrasts was used to search for the variation jointly observed across the different experiments. This lead to a reduced number of clusters: one cluster in the lower/anterior part of the cingulate gyrus and four clusters located in the medial/superior frontal gyrus, along the superior frontal sulcus. We discuss the location of these areas with respect to the location of activations induced by different tasks: externally focused attention, memory, general reasoning, theory of mind and self-referential tasks. We observed that medial prefrontal cortex exhibits a lower activity when the subject's attention is focused towards the external world than when the subject has to additionally refer to some internal states. By contrast, this activity is greater during resting state than during both externally directed and internally directed attention. Thus, we hypothesize that during rest, the subject is in a state where he refers only to his own self.
Unlike limb movements, smooth pursuit eye movements cannot normally be performed in the absence of a target. However, when subjects have a high expectancy of an imminent target appearance, the situation changes, and anticipatory smooth pursuit (ASP) tends to precede target onset by several hundred milliseconds. The velocity of this ASP is scaled predictively according to expected target velocity. And when an upcoming target is unexpectedly altered, or fails to appear, ASP continues regardless for approximately 150-200 ms before modification by visual feedback begins [J. Neurophysiol., 84 (2000) 2340]. These and other observations led to the earlier suggestion that ASP might be ballistic, being pre-programmed from start to finish. Two experiments with different timing parameters were therefore performed to test this hypothesis using a version of Logan's [Psychol. Rev., 91 (1984) 295] stop signal task. The aim was to test whether ASP could be stopped at will, and if so, whether the time taken to stop varied as a function of the time since ASP onset. Results showed that in response to a stop signal, ASP can be inhibited at any point in its trajectory, and for the majority of subjects in experiment 1, and all the subjects in experiment 2, with a latency that does not change significantly with target speed or time since ASP onset. These results provide the first demonstration that anticipatory movements can be stopped volitionally in response to a stop signal. Possible cognitive and neurophysiological mechanisms underlying this process are discussed.


Cognitive impairment and emotional disturbances in Alzheimer's disease (AD) result from the degeneration of synapses and death of neurons in the limbic system and associated regions of the cerebral cortex. An alteration in the proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) results in increased production and accumulation of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) in the brain. Abeta has been shown to cause synaptic dysfunction and can render neurons vulnerable to excitotoxicity and apoptosis by a mechanism involving disruption of cellular calcium homeostasis. By inducing membrane lipid peroxidation and generation of the aldehyde 4-hydroxynonenal, Abeta impairs the function of membrane ion-motive ATPases and glucose and glutamate transporters, and can enhance calcium influx through voltage-dependent and ligand-gated calcium channels. Reduced levels of a secreted form of APP which normally regulates synaptic plasticity and cell survival may also promote disruption of synaptic calcium homeostasis in AD. Some cases of inherited AD are caused by mutations in presenilins 1 and 2 which perturb endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium homeostasis such that greater amounts of calcium are released upon stimulation, possibly as the result of alterations in IP(3) and ryanodine receptor channels, Ca(2+)-ATPases and the ER stress protein Herp. Abnormalities in calcium regulation in astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and microglia have also been documented in studies of experimental models of AD, suggesting contributions of these alterations to neuronal dysfunction and cell death in AD. Collectively, the available data show that perturbed cellular calcium homeostasis plays a prominent role in the pathogenesis of AD, suggesting potential benefits of preventative and therapeutic strategies that stabilize cellular calcium homeostasis.
The objective of the present study was to determine levels of DNA fragmentation in blood leukocytes from guinea pigs by single-cell gel electrophoresis (comet assay) after exposure to the chemical warfare nerve agent (CWNA), soman, at doses ranging from 0.1 LD50 to 0.4 LD50, once per day for either 5 or 10 days. Post-exposure recovery periods ranged from 0 to 17 days. Leukocytes were imaged from each animal, and the images analyzed by computer. Data obtained for exposure to soman demonstrated significant increases in DNA fragmentation in circulating leukocytes in CWNA-treated guinea pigs compared with saline-injected control animals at all doses and time points examined. Notably, significantly increased DNA fragmentation was observed in leukocytes 17 days after cessation of soman exposure. Our findings demonstrate that leukocyte DNA fragmentation assays may provide a sensitive biomarker for low-dose CWNA exposure.

1. The ability to target specific neurons can be used to produce selective neural lesions and potentially to deliver therapeutically useful moieties for treatment of disease. In the present study, we sought to determine if a monoclonal antibody to the dopamine transporter (anti-DAT) could be used to target midbrain dopaminergic neurons. 2. The monoclonal antibody recognizes the second, large extracellular loop of DAT. The antibody was conjugated to the &quot;ribosome-inactivating protein&quot;; saporin, and stereotactically pressure microinjected into either the center of the striatum or the left lateral ventricle of adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats. 3. Local intrastriatal injections produced destruction of dopaminergic neurons in the ipsilateral substantia nigra consistent with suicide transport of the immunotoxin. Intraventricular injections (i.c.v.) produced significant loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area bilaterally without evident damage to any other aminergic structures such as the locus coeruleus and raphe nuclei. To confirm the anatomic findings, binding of [3-H]mazindol to DAT in the striatum and midbrain was assessed using densitometric analysis of autoradiograms. Anti-DAT-saporin injected i.c.v. at a dose of 21 microg, but not 8 microg, produced highly significant decreases in mazindol binding consistent with loss of the dopaminergic neurons. 4. These results show that anti-DAT can be used to target midbrain dopaminergic neurons and that anti-DAT-saporin may be useful for producing a lesion very similar to the naturally occurring neural degeneration seen in Parkinson's disease. Anti-DAT-saporin joins the growing list of neural lesioning agents based on targeted cytotoxins.
The sympathoinhibitory component of the baroreceptor reflex prominently involves glutamatergic visceral afferents terminating in the nuclei of the solitary tract (NTS) and C1 adrenergic neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). As reviewed, we have used electron microscopic immunocytochemical dual labeling in these regions to precisely analyze (1) the cellular sites for synergistic or opposing responses attributed to activation of different receptor subtypes on single neurons and (2) interactions involving monoaminergic neurons identified by their content of neurotransmitter synthesizing enzymes, vesicular monoamine transporter, and frequent coexpression of endogenous opioid peptides. The summarized results provide important cellular substrates for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-mediated glutamatergic transmission and activation of either serotoninergic (5-HT2A), adrenergic (alpha 2A), or mu- or delta opioid receptors within the baroreceptor reflex circuit.
1. The rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) is essential for the normal control of arterial pressure. This region of the brainstem is heterogeneous, and contains spinally projecting neurons that contain phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (C1 neurons) and non-C1 neurons. 2. The availability of a toxin, a dopamine-beta-hydroxylase antibody conjugated to saporin, that can selectively destroy C1 neurons within the RVLM allows for the study of cardiovascular regulation in rats following depletion of the C1 neuronal population. 3. C1 neurons are not essential for the maintenance of resting blood pressure in anesthetized rats, but do contribute to many cardiovascular responses mediated through the RVLM. 4. The depressor response elicited by clonidine injected into the RVLM is dependent upon C1 neurons. 5. Studies in rats with selective toxin-induced destruction of RVLM C1 neurons demonstrate that C1 neurons contribute importantly to cardiovascular regulation.
An early transient increase in brain polyamine (PA) metabolism, termed the PA-stress-response (PSR), is a common reaction to stressful stimuli, including physical, emotional, and hormonal stressors, with a magnitude related to the stress intensity. In the extreme, traumatic injury can result in an incomplete PSR, with persistent accumulation of putrescine and eventual reduction in the concentrations of the higher polyamines (PAs), spermidine and spermine. Chronic intermittent application of stressors causes a recurrence of the brain PSR, but, in contrast, it leads to habituation of the response in the periphery (liver). Severe continuous stress, however, may lead to accumulation of brain PAs. Long-term inhibition of PA synthesis depletes brain PAs and can result in altered emotional reactivity to stressors. Furthermore, the brain PSR, in contrast to the periphery, can be blocked by a long-term, but not by short-term, treatment with lithium, the most efficacious treatment of manic-depressive illness. The brain PSR is developmentally regulated, and the switch to the mature pattern coincides with the cessation of the &quot;stress hyporesponsive period&quot; in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) system. In contrast to the brain and liver, the PSR in the adrenal and thymus is down-regulated by acute stressors. Transient up-regulation of the PSR, as in the brain and liver, is implicated in cell survival while its down-regulation is implicated in cell death. Taken together, the findings indicate that the PSR is a dynamic process that varies with the type, intensity, and duration of stressors, and implicate this response as an adaptive mechanism in the reaction to stressful events. Under persistent stressful conditions, however, the PSR may be maladaptive as may be reflected by PA accumulation. This raises the hypothesis that proper regulation of brain PSR may be critical for neuronal function and for an appropriate behavioral response to stressors.
Transection of the medial forebrain bundle caused apoptosis of dopamine neurons in the rat substantia nigra. Immunohistochemical localization of activated microglia and tyrosine hydroxylase in the axotomized substantia nigra showed that activation of microglia was rapid and OX-6 (MHC-II marker)-positive and ED1 (lysosomal phagocytic marker)-positive microglia were apposed to structurally intact tyrosine hydroxylase-positive dopamine neurons, indicating microglial phagocytosis of degenerating dopamine neurons. The occurrence of microglial phagocytosis at early stages of apoptosis may indicate the evolution of apoptosis into an irreversible state. Alternatively, interventions that suppress early activation of microglia might lead to novel mechanisms for neuron protection.
1. When the individual is alerted by painful or salient stimuli, there is a vigorous sympathetically mediated constriction of the cutaneous vascular bed. We investigated central pathways mediating this response using chronically implanted Doppler ultrasonic probes to measure cutaneous blood flow in the rabbit ear pinna and in the rat tail. 2. Blockade of neuronal function in the amygdala prevents cutaneous vasoconstriction elicited by salient stimuli, but does not prevent the response to painful stimuli. Blockade of neuronal function in raphe magnus/pallidus and the parapyramidal region in anesthetized rabbits prevents cutaneous vasoconstriction elicited by painful stimuli. A similar region of the medullary raphe regulates tail artery vasoconstriction in rats. Inhibition of neuronal function in this region reverses cutaneous vasoconstriction induced by cooling the animal. 3. Bulbospinal presympathetic neurons in the rostral medullary raphe region appear to regulate cutaneous blood flow responses occurring as part of the response to painful or dangerous environmental events and as part of the regulation of body temperature.
Donald J. Reis, M.D., the late internationally reknowned neuroscientist, had a special talent for mentoring researchers early in their academic careers. His &quot;hands-on&quot; approach to laboratory investigation, his extraoridinary patience with novice researchers, his commitment to the scientific method, and his enthusiastic approach to the art of neuroscience all combined to make him the ideal mentor for many budding academics over the past four decades. The beauty of his scientific legacy is that he loved to each research. The following tribute is personal from one whose career was changed by a great mentor.
In this study we examine possible origins and migratory routes of human cortical neurons, with special emphasis on the preplate and layer I. In embryonic stages, two main cell types, Cajal-Retzius cells, and cells labeled with interneuron markers (calretinin, calbindin and GABA), were present in the preplate layer. In addition, a number of preplate GABAergic cells co-expressed either Nkx2.1 or Dlx transcription factors, findings consistent with their origin in the ganglionic eminence and subsequent tangential migration to the layer I. The orientation of the leading process indicates that some of these cells descend to the cortical plate. However, the finding of radially oriented GABAergic, NKX2.1+ and DLX+ cells in the cortical ventricular zone, argues that, unlike in rodents, a significant subpopulation of these cells originates in the cortical ventricular zone. In embryonic stages, expression of Reelin in Cajal-Retzius cells as well as Reelin/DLX2+ cells in the embryonic ganglionic eminence and the olfactory region, suggest that these cells in human may have diverse origins. In later fetal stages in human (17-22 gestational weeks) layer I and the newly formed subpial granular layer, contained a population of small interneurons that originated mainly in the lateral ganglionic eminence, since the majority of these cells were double-labeled with DLX/GABA, and rarely with NKX2.1/GABA. Therefore, neurons in the human cortical layer I are heterogeneous, with more complex origin and migratory routes than in rodents. In addition to the ganglionic eminence, both the expended subventricular zone and subpial granular layer, contribute to the neuronal population of the developing layer I and underlining cortical plate.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to compare brain activation to static facial displays versus dynamic changes in facial identity or emotional expression. Static images depicted prototypical fearful, angry and neutral expressions. Identity morphs depicted identity changes from one person to another, always with neutral expressions. Emotion morphs depicted expression changes from neutral to fear or anger, creating the illusion that the actor was 'getting scared' or 'getting angry' in real-time. Brain regions implicated in processing facial affect, including the amygdala and fusiform gyrus, showed greater responses to dynamic versus static emotional expressions, especially for fear. Identity morphs activated a dorsal fronto-cingulo-parietal circuit and additional ventral areas, including the amygdala, that also responded to the emotion morphs. Activity in the superior temporal sulcus discriminated emotion morphs from identity morphs, extending its known role in processing biologically relevant motion. The results highlight the importance of temporal cues in the neural coding of facial displays.



1. In the present study, we determined the effect of diet-induced obesity on cardiovascular and metabolic regulation in mice at standard laboratory temperatures (ambient temperature (Ta) = 22 degrees C) and during exposure to thermoneutrality (Ta = 30 degrees C). 2. Male C57BL/6J (B6) mice fed a high-fat diet (HFF; n = 17) or chow (CHW; n = 14) for 15 weeks were surgically instrumented with telemetry devices, housed in metabolic chambers and assigned to either control or atenolol treatment (25 mg/kg per day in drinking water) to determine the effects of obesity on baseline cardiovascular function and on the responses to thermoneutrality and 24 h fasting. Mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), arterial pressure and HR variability (time and frequency domain), oxygen consumption (VO2) and locomotor activity were determined. 3. The HFF mice exhibited increased bodyweight (+10.6 +/- 4.1 g), moderate light period hypertension (+8.6 +/- 2.6 mmHg), no difference in HR and increased HR variability at standard laboratory temperature compared with CHW controls. Atenolol produced less of a decrease in HR in HFF mice (-42 +/- 10 b.p.m.) compared with CHW controls (-73 +/- 15 b.p.m.). Acute exposure to thermoneutrality (Ta = 30 degrees C) reduced HR similarly in both HFF and CHW mice (approximately 175 b.p.m.), but reduced MAP less in HFF than in CHW mice (-7.3 +/- 2.5 and -15.2 +/- 1.0 mmHg), respectively. Atenolol treatment had only minor effects on the HR response to thermonuetrality (-114 +/- 13 and -129 +/- 8 b.p.m. in HFF and CHW mice, respectively). The HFF mice displayed greater fasting-induced reductions in light period MAP than did CHW mice (-10.0 +/- 1.1 vs-3.1 +/- 3.5 mmHg, respectively), whereas HR was decreased equally in both groups. Fasting-induced increases in HR variability were attenuated in HFF mice. 4. We conclude that diet-induced obesity produced generally minor changes in cardiovascular regulation in B6 mice at baseline, some of which are distinct from the effects of diet-induced obesity in larger animal models. In contrast, acute variations in Ta or caloric availability produce pronounced alterations in cardiovascular function in either lean or obese mice, which are generally evident after atenolol and, thus, presumably not due exclusively to variation in cardiac sympathetic activity. Interestingly, the degree of obesity induced hypertension was augmented when mice were studied at thermonuetrality. The results suggest an important unrecognized role for vagal tone in the regulation of cardiovascular function in mice and support the need for considerable caution when using mouse models of obesity to examine regulation of cardiovascular function. We argue that mouse physiology studies should be performed in thermoneutral conditions.
For a long time, before we developed an appreciation of the neuroanatomy and neurophysiology of the brain, there was uncertainty as to the nature and source of the human mind. Philosophers linked the mind to mythical &quot;humors&quot; that controlled the human body, and others speculated that the mind was associated with &quot;life-force&quot; or soul. Few felt that there was a relation between the human mind and brain, but they had to wait for the Age of Enlightenment and scientific discovery in the 18th and 19th centuries to establish a clear association between the two. Three centuries ago Rene Descartes described the mind as an extracorporeal entity that was expressed through the pineal gland. Descartes was wrong about the pineal, but the debate he set off regarding the relationship between mind and brain rages on. This review looks at the history of speculation on the mind and the development of ideas that have led to our present understanding of this phenomenon. The basic anatomy and physiology of the brain is reviewed to help us understand the brain's association with the complex function we call mind. This is followed by a look at some syndromes that may result when part of the brain is damaged-the parietal lobe is arbitrarily selected as an example-and the resulting effect on the subject's mind. This assists us in understanding the association of mind and brain, and also to better understanding its components, behavior, function and dysfunction.
In this paper, we review the empirical publications from the 1990s on the assessment of object relations (OR). Twelve different measures are referenced. Major findings of studies, conclusions, and evaluations of each measure are provided. In general, it was found that the most recent empirical literature has compared OR across diagnostic groups or evaluated therapy process and outcome by the quality of one's OR. Current strengths and limitations of the extant OR literature are provided, along with methodological recommendations to expand the utility and validity of OR assessment.

Memantine has been demonstrated to be safe and effective in the symptomatic treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). While the neurobiological basis for the therapeutic activity of memantine is not fully understood, the drug is not a cholinesterase inhibitor and, therefore, acts differently from current AD therapies. Memantine can interact with a variety of ligand-gated ion channels. However, NMDA receptors appear to be a key target of memantine at therapeutic concentrations. Memantine is an uncompetitive (channel blocking) NMDA receptor antagonist. Like other NMDA receptor antagonists, memantine at high concentrations can inhibit mechanisms of synaptic plasticity that are believed to underlie learning and memory. However, at lower, clinically relevant concentrations memantine can under some circumstances promote synaptic plasticity and preserve or enhance memory in animal models of AD. In addition, memantine can protect against the excitotoxic destruction of cholinergic neurons. Blockade of NMDA receptors by memantine could theoretically confer disease-modifying activity in AD by inhibiting the &quot;weak&quot; NMDA receptor-dependent excitotoxicity that has been hypothesized to play a role in the progressive neuronal loss that underlies the evolving dementia. Moreover, recent in vitro studies suggest that memantine abrogates beta-amyloid (Abeta) toxicity and possibly inhibits Abeta production. Considerable attention has focused on the investigation of theories to explain the better tolerability of memantine over other NMDA receptor antagonists, particularly those that act by a similar channel blocking mechanism such as dissociative anesthetic-like agents (phencyclidine, ketamine, MK-801). A variety of channel-level factors could be relevant, including fast channel-blocking kinetics and strong voltage-dependence (allowing rapid relief of block during synaptic activity), as well as reduced trapping (permitting egress from closed channels). These factors may allow memantine to block channel activity induced by low, tonic levels of glutamate--an action that might contribute to symptomatic improvement and could theoretically protect against weak excitotoxicity--while sparing synaptic responses required for normal behavioral functioning, cognition and memory.
The only current FDA-approved treatment for acute ischemic stroke is thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). However, there are numerous shortcomings to tPA treatment including an increased incidence of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and a short therapeutic window (3-6 h). In recent years, studies have attempted to identify new therapeutics that might be neuroprotective following ischemic strokes. Free radical scavenging spin trap agents have been proposed as potential candidates for stroke therapy because of the hypothesized role of free radicals in the progression of stroke and ischemia-induced neurodegeneration. Novel spin trap agents like (disodium-[(tert-butylimino) methyl] benzene-1,3-disulfonate N-oxide (NXY-059) are of particular interest, not only because they are broad-spectrum nitrone-based free radical scavengers, but also because of their safety profile in humans. Moreover, the rationale for developing NXY-059 for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke is further supported by the drug's reported neuroprotective effects. In addition, NXY-059 may represent a useful adjunct stroke therapy to tPA, since preclinical studies have demonstrated that NXY-059 increases the therapeutic window for tPA and lowers the occurrence of tPA-induced ICH.
The relationship between bruxism and temporomandibular disorders is complex and is not yet clearly understood. The purpose of this study was to investigate the prevalence of clinically diagnosed bruxism in 212 patients with different Research Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular Disorders (RDC/TMD) diagnoses, as compared with that in 77 sex- and age-matched TMD-free subjects. A significant association between bruxism and temporomandibular disorders emerged (p &lt; 0.05). The highest prevalence of bruxism was found in patients with the following diagnoses: combined myofascial pain and disk displacement (87.5%); combined myofascial pain, disk displacement, and other joint conditions (73.3%); and myofascial pain (68.9%). In general, it is suggested that bruxism has a stronger relationship with muscle disorders than with disk displacement and joint pathologies, and that such a relationship seems to be independent from the presence of other RDC/TMD diagnoses along with myofascial pain.

Individuals with elevated homocysteine levels are at increased risk for cardiovascular disease and stroke, and neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases Homocysteine is a modified form of the amino acid methionine that is tightly regulated by enzymes requiring folate. By impairing DNA repair mechanisms and inducing oxidative stress, homocysteine can cause the dysfunction or death of cells in the cardiovascular and nervous systems. Dietary folate stimulates homocysteine removal and may thereby protect cells against disease processes. The enzymes involved in homocysteine and folate metabolism provide novel targets for drug discovery.
Coenzyme Q(10) (ubiquinone), which serves as the electron acceptor for complexes I and II of the mitochondrial electron transport chain and also acts as an antioxidant, has the potential to be a beneficial agent in neurodegenerative diseases in which there is impaired mitochondrial function and/or excessive oxidative damage. Substantial data have accumulated to implicate these processes in the pathogenesis in certain neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and Friedreich's ataxia. Although no study to date has unequivocally demonstrated that coenzyme Q(10) can slow the progression of a neurodegenerative disease, recent clinical trials in these three disorders suggest that supplemental coenzyme Q(10) can slow the functional decline in these disorders, particularly Parkinson's disease.

Drosophila imaginal disc cells have the ability to undergo transdetermination, a process whereby determined disc cells change fate to that of another disc identity. For example, leg disc cells can transdetermine to develop as wing cells. Such events can occur after mechanical disc fragmentation and subsequent regeneration. A subset of transdetermination events can be induced in situ by misexpression of the signaling gene wingless. Both fragmentation and wingless induce transdetermination by altering the expression of selector genes, which drive disc-specific developmental programs. An important future goal is to address how signaling pathways interact with chromatin structure to regulate and maintain the proper expression of selector genes.
NeoPharm is developing liposome-encapsulated, c-Raf antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (LErafAON) for the potential treatment of various solid tumors, including those that have become resistant to radiation or chemotherapy. Phase I/II trials commenced in March 2001 and were ongoing as of June 2003.
Since its early development in the late 1940s, nuclear magnetic resonance has become a powerful tool for applications ranging from chemical analysis or the study of the structure of solids to biomedical investigations. In the early 1990s the potential of this technique for functional brain mapping was demonstrated, causing unprecedented excitement in both basic and clinical neuroscience. It was shown that by using the appropriate pulse sequences the so-called functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) technique can be made sensitive to local magnetic susceptibility alterations produced by changes in the concentration of deoxyhemoglobin in venous blood vessels. This blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) contrast mechanism was successfully implemented in awake human subjects, in small animals, and recently in the non-human primate--the experimental animal of choice for the study of cognitive behavior. Simultaneous imaging and electrode recordings promise new insights into the mechanisms by which large-scale networks in the brain contribute to the local neural activity recorded at a given cortical site. Moreover, the use of MRI-visible tracers and of electrical microstimulation applied during imaging proves to be ideal for the study of connectivity in the living animal.
High-field magnetic resonance imaging scanners with a static magnetic field of 3 Tesla or higher are becoming ubiquitous in clinical and basic neurosciences. Given the high cost and complexity of operation, it is important to ask whether or not and how the use of high-field magnets can be beneficial for the neurosciences. What new questions can be addressed? Which new insights can we expect from these new tools? In addition, what are the limitations of these new techniques? This review discusses the three most important applications of the high-field magnetic resonance techniques for the neuroscience community: first, functional magnetic resonance imaging, second, in vivo spectroscopy, and third, in vivo fiber tracking on the basis of diffusion tensor imaging.
Based on time-averaging fluctuation analysis of small fluorescent molecular ensembles in equilibrium, fluorescence correlation spectroscopy has recently been applied to investigate processes in the intracellular milieu. The exquisite sensitivity of fluorescence correlation spectroscopy provides access to a multitude of measurement parameters (rates of diffusion, local concentration, states of aggregation and molecular interactions) in real time with fast temporal and high spatial resolution. The introduction of dual-color cross-correlation, imaging, two-photon excitation, and coincidence analysis coupled with fluorescence correlation spectroscopy has expanded the utility of the technique to encompass a wide range of promising applications in living cells that may provide unprecedented insight into understanding the molecular mechanisms of intracellular neurobiological processes.
Systems biology is a new branch of biology aimed at understanding biological complexity. Genomic and proteomic methods integrated with cellular and organismal analyses allow modelling of physiological processes. Progress in understanding synapse composition and new experimental and bioinformatics methods indicate the synapse is an excellent starting point for global systems biology of the brain. A neuroscience systems biology programme, organized as a consortium, is proposed.
Axo-glial interactions are required for the organization of highly specialized molecular domains in myelinated axons. The molecular composition of these domains includes cell adhesion molecules, ion channels and cytoskeletal proteins. Recent genetic and molecular studies provide new insights into how these macromolecular complexes are assembled and organized into functional domains, and how the loss of individual components affects domain organization and function. More importantly, the key molecular components identified at the vertebrate axo-glial septate junctions are also present at the Drosophila septate junctions. In addition, new roles for axo-glial paranodal septate junctions have emerged, which suggest that the paranodal region may act as an ionic barrier and a molecular fence in myelinated axons.
One of the major obstacles to successful axon regeneration in the adult CNS is the presence of inhibitory molecules that are associated with myelin. Recent studies have identified several major myelin-associated inhibitors along with the relevant signaling molecules. Such advances have not only enhanced our understanding of the signaling mechanisms that are involved in the inhibition of axon regeneration in the adult CNS but also allowed us to assess the therapeutic potential of blocking these inhibitory influences to promote axon regeneration.

Virtual reality (VR) technology is increasingly recognized as a useful tool for the assessment and rehabilitation of neurologic and psychiatric disorders. The hope that VR can accurately mimic real-life events is also of great interest in basic neuroscience, to identify the brain activity that underlies complex behavior by combining VR with techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Toward these applications, in this study we designed and validated an fMRI-compatible data glove with a built-in vibratory stimulus device for tactile feedback during VR experiments. A simple VR-fMRI experiment was performed at 3.0 Tesla on four young healthy adults involving touching a virtual object with and without tactile feedback. The usefulness of the data glove was subsequently assessed using a series of questionnaires, behavioral performance, and the resulting activation images. Questionnaire scores indicated positive opinions with respect to the data glove, the tactile feedback, and the experimental paradigm. All subjects felt comfortable in the scanner during the VR experiment and were able to perform all aspects of the tasks successfully and with reasonable accuracy. In addition, activation maps showed the anticipated modulations in motor, somatosensory, and parietal cortex. These results support that tactile feedback enhances the realism of virtual hand-object interactions, and that the tactile data glove is suitable for use in other VR-fMRI research applications (e.g., VR physical therapy for stroke recovery).
Extracellular ATP mediates diverse biological effects by activating two families of receptors, the P2X and P2Y receptors. There is growing evidence to show that activation of G protein-coupled P2Y receptors can produce trophic effects in many cell types. Yet the expression and function of the P2Y receptors in development has rarely been studied and has never been investigated in mammalian development. This study used the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry to demonstrate the abundant and dynamic expression of P2Y receptors in rat development. These receptors were expressed in a wide range of embryonic structures, notably somites, skeletal muscle, the central and peripheral nervous system, the heart, lung, and liver. All the P2Y receptors studied were expressed as early as embryonic day 11, when most embryonic organs were far from being functional and still in the process of being formed. P2Y receptor proteins were strongly expressed in temporary, developmental structures that do not have a correlate in the adult animal, including the somites (P2Y1, P2Y2, and P2Y4) and the floor plate of the neural tube (P2Y1). P2Y receptors were also dynamically expressed, with receptor mRNA and protein being both up- and down-regulated at different developmental stages. The down-regulation of the P2Y1, 2, and 4 receptor proteins in skeletal muscle and heart, and the disappearance of the P2Y4 receptor from the brainstem and ventral white matter of the spinal cord postnatally, demonstrated that many P2Y receptors were likely to be involved in functions specific to embryonic life. Thus, these findings strongly suggest that P2Y receptors play an important role in the development of many tissues, and pioneer further studies into the role of purinergic signalling in development.
Early neural patterning along the anteroposterior (AP) axis appears to involve a number of signal transducing pathways, but the precise role of each of these pathways for AP patterning and how they are integrated with signals that govern neural induction step is not well understood. We investigate the nature of Fgf response element (FRE) in a posterior neural gene, Xcad3 (Xenopus caudal homologue) that plays a crucial role of posterior neural development. We provide evidence that FREs of Xcad3 are widely dispersed in its intronic sequence and that these multiple FREs comprise Ets-binding and Tcf/Lef-binding motifs that lie in juxtaposition. Functional and physical analyses indicate that signaling pathways of Fgf, Bmp and Wnt are integrated on these FREs to regulate the expression of Xcad3 in the posterior neural tube through positively acting Ets and Sox family transcription factors and negatively acting Tcf family transcription factor(s).
Fibroblast growth factor (Fgf) signaling plays an important role during development of posterior mesoderm in vertebrate embryos. Blocking Fgf signaling by expressing a dominant-negative Fgf receptor inhibits posterior mesoderm development. In mice, Fgf8 appears to be the principal ligand required for mesodermal development, as mouse Fgf8 mutants do not form mesoderm. In zebrafish, Fgf8 is encoded by the acerebellar locus, and, similar to its mouse otholog, is expressed in early mesodermal precursors during gastrulation. However, zebrafish fgf8 mutants have only mild defects in posterior mesodermal development, suggesting that it is not the only Fgf ligand involved in the development of this tissue. We report here the identification of an fgf8-related gene in zebrafish, fgf24, that is co-expressed with fgf8 in mesodermal precursors during gastrulation. Using morpholino-based gene inactivation, we have analyzed the function of fgf24 during development. We found that inhibiting fgf24 function alone has no affect on the formation of posterior mesoderm. Conversely, inhibiting fgf24 function in embryos mutant for fgf8 blocks the formation of most posterior mesoderm. Thus, fgf8 and fgf24 are together required to promote posterior mesodermal development. We provide both phenotypic and genetic evidence that these Fgf signaling components interact with no tail and spadetail, two zebrafish T-box transcription factors that are required for the development of all posterior mesoderm. Last, we show that fgf24 is expressed in early fin bud mesenchyme and that inhibiting fgf24 function results in viable fish that lack pectoral fins.
The receptor for the insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1R) controls a wide variety of cellular functions. IGF-1R is a tyrosine kinase receptor that is activated by the binding of a ligand to the extracellular domain. There are three ligands for IGF-1R: IGF-I, IGF-II and insulin at supraphysiological concentrations. The binding of the ligand activates the catalytic activity of the tyrosine kinase domain, which in turn causes the autophosphorylation of IGF-1R. As a consequence of autophosphorylation, the activated IGF-1R sends a potent mitogenic signal to the cell nucleus. It has been clearly shown that an overexpressed and activated IGF-1R is quasi-obligatory for the establishment of a malignant cell phenotype. Interestingly, the targeting of IGF-1R can reverse the malignant phenotype in cancer cells, without affecting the biology of normal cells. For these reasons, IGF-1R seems to be a very promising candidate target for cancer therapy. In addition, IGF-1R protects cells from apoptosis and promotes cell growth and proliferation. However, more recent studies have also shown that IGF-1R regulates cell adhesion and motility, and, in certain cellular contexts, can induce differentiation. Indeed, the biology of the IGF-1R appears more complex than previously thought. The goal of this review is to describe the multiple functions displayed by IGF-1R in cell biology.
It is well established that in both animal models and humans, traumatic or ischemic insults to the brain or spinal cord cause an excessive release of excitatory amino acids, including glutamate. Moreover, multiple in vivo and in vitro studies show that excessive release of glutamate, and subsequent activation of ionotropic (iGluRs) and metabotropic (mGluRs) classes of glutamate receptors, cause neuronal cell death through either necrosis or apoptosis. Although studies in adult animals have demonstrated the neuroprotective effects of inhibiting iGluRs following central nervous system injury, results from human trials have been disappointing. Furthermore, treatment with iGluR antagonists alone can exacerbate apoptotic cell death in the developing brain. Recently, an alternative approach has examined the modulatory effects of mGluRs on excitotoxicity and neuronal cell death. Experimental studies have shown that modulation of all groups (I, II, III) of mGluR can be neuroprotective, and that effects across groups may be additive. Group I mGluR includes mGluR1 and mGluR5. Although these receptors show certain common signal transduction pathways, activation or inhibition of these two receptors have very different actions on necrotic and apoptotic neuronal cell death. Recent work has shown that activation of mGluR5 significantly attenuates neuronal apoptosis in a variety of model systems. Given the proposed role of apoptotic cell death in both acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders, these observations suggest that this receptor may be an interesting novel target for the development of effective neuroprotective treatment.
Erectile dysfunction and premature ejaculation are the most common male sexual disorders. Generally, it is considered that erectile dysfunction is related to organic factors whilst premature ejaculation is related to psychological factors. A detailed history along with physical examination such as using penile doppler, penile tumesans and ultrasonography are insufficient for differential diagnosis in 15-20% of cases. Therefore the role of neurophysiological techniques are important. In this study urological and biochemical investigations were used in conjunction with other neurophysiological methods. According to our results, using a neurophysiological test study on its own was ineffective. As a conclusion our study has shown that neurophysiological methods are important differential diagnosis of revealing suspicious organicity--generally believed to be due to psychological factors- in male sexual disorders.
Fluorescein has an extremely low luminescence intensity in acidic aqueous media. However, when it was bound to proteins, subsequent increase of luminescence intensity took place. Furthermore, when a hydrophobic tail, such as aliphatic hydrocarbons, was introduced to fluorescein, more dramatic increase of luminescence intensity was observed upon binding to proteins. In the present study, by utilizing this luminescence enhancement, three hydrophobic fluorescein dyes (5-dodecanoyl amino fluorescein, 5-hexadecanoyl amino fluorescein, and 5-octadecanoyl amino fluorescein) were examined as noncovalent fluorescent stains of protein bands in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Effective incorporation of the dyes to proteins in gels was accomplished either simply by adding dyes at the protein fixation step, or by treating gels with a staining solution after the fixation. The sensitivity of this staining method using the fluorescein derivatives was approximately 1 ng/band for most proteins. For some cases, protein bands containing as low as 0.1 ng were successfully visualized. In addition, the detection sensitivity showed much less protein-to-protein variation than silver staining. This new staining method was also successfully applied to two-dimensional electrophoresis of rat brain proteins. Its overall sensitivity was comparable to that of silver staining.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY), a 36-amino-acid neuropeptide is the most potent physiological appetite transducer known. Episodic NPY neurosecretion in hypothalamic target sites is temporally linked with onset of the daily feeding pattern. Upregulation of NPY signaling in the arcuate nucleus-paraventricular nucleus (ARC-PVN) neural axis is responsible for the hyperphagia evoked by dieting, fasting, hormonal and genetic factors, and disruption in intrahypothalamic signaling. Clusters of NPY-producing neurons in the ARC that coexpress gamma- amino butyric acid and agouti-related peptide, and those in the brain stem (BS) that coexpress catecholamines and galanin, participate in disparate manners to regulate appetitive behavior. NPY receptors, Y1, Y2, and Y5, expressed by various components of the NPY network, mediate NPY-induced feeding. Imbalance in NPY signaling due either to high or low abundance of NPY at target sites elicits hyperphagia leading to increased fat accretion and obesity. Recent studies show that intermittent, feedback action of opposing afferent hormonal signals-leptin from adipose tissue and ghrelin from stomach-regulate the episodic secretion of orexigenic NPY in the PVN-ARC. Apparently, the hypothalamic NPY network is the primary common pathway intimately involved in genesis of appetite- stimulating impulses.
Corticosteroid hormones, including the mineralocorticoids and the glucocorticoids, regulate diverse physiological functions in vertebrates. These hormones act through two classes of corticosteroid receptors (CR) that are ligand-dependent transcription factors: type I or mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and type II or glucocorticoid receptor (GR). There is substantial overlap in the binding of these two receptor types to hormones and to DNA. In fish, the overlap in processes controlled by CRs may be different from that in other vertebrates, as fish are thought to synthesize only glucocorticoids, whereas they express both GR and MR. Here we describe the characterization of four CRs in a cichlid fish, Haplochromis burtoni: a previously undescribed GR (HbGR1), another GR expressed in two splice isoforms (HbGR2a and HbGR2b), and an MR (HbMR). Sequence comparison and phylogenetic analysis showed that these CRs sort naturally into GR and MR groups, and that the GR duplication we describe will probably be common to all teleosts. Quantitative PCR revealed differential patterns of CR tissue expression in organs dependent on corticosteroid action. Trans-activation assays demonstrated that the CRs were selective for corticosteroid hormones and showed that the HbMR was similar to mammalian MRs in being more sensitive to both cortisol and aldosterone than the GRs. Additionally, the two HbGR2 isoforms were expressed uniquely in different tissues and were functionally distinct in their actions on classical GR-sensitive promoters. The identification of four CR subtypes in teleosts suggests a more complicated corticosteroid signaling in fish than previously recognized.

Attention problems are frequently seen in children with epilepsy. This review gives an overview of the most used constructs of attention and analyzes the available evidence for attention deficits in children with epilepsy, the effects of epilepsy variables on attention, and the possible pathophysiological mechanisms involved. Children with benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BCECTS) have sustained attention difficulties. Right (R)-sided interictal epileptiform activity in these children interferes with R hemisphere function including sustained attention. Children with BCECTS also show selective and divided attention deficits if they have epileptiform discharges during sleep. Children with complex partial seizures (CPSs) have sustained attention deficits but no difficulties in selective or divided attention. Cognitive difficulties in children with epilepsy arise more frequently the earlier the onset of the epilepsy, and this could influence attentional ability development. Antiepileptic drug treatment is unlikely to impair attention, but phenobarbital has behavioral side effects similar to those in attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder. Concerning pathophysiology, evidence indicates that interictal epileptiform activity in children with BCECTS impairs sustained attention and that ongoing epileptiform discharges during sleep may impair attention. Further systematic studies of different aspects of attention in children with epilepsy are needed. Attention in children with drug-resistant epilepsy has not been addressed, and prospective studies before and after epilepsy surgery could be a useful model to study the influence of seizures on attentional ability.

This study investigates astrocytic glutamate uptake in the iron-induced animal model of posttraumatic epilepsy. Since formation of free radicals may be involved in epileptogenesis after brain trauma and hemorrhage the effects of the nitrone radical scavenger alpha-phenyl-tert-N-butyl nitrone (PBN) were also studied. Animals received an intracortical iron injection, or were sham-operated. They were given PBN intraperitoneally or saline as control. Twenty-four hours after lesion, brain tissue was collected and the level of glial glutamate transporter (GLT-1) was analyzed using immunoblotting. The extracellular concentrations of amino acids and energy metabolites were measured using microdialysis. The results showed significantly decreased levels of GLT-1 (70 kDa), higher basal levels of glutamate, and lower levels of glutamine as well as low arginine/citrulline ratios at the lesion compared to controls. PBN significantly attenuated the decrease of 70 kDa GLT-1 in the lesioned animals and attenuated the alterations in amino acid levels but not to a significant level. PBN also increased the arginine/citrulline ratios indicating reduced nitric oxide synthase activity. Our results suggest that astrocytic uptake of glutamate is oxidatively impaired in iron-induced epileptogenesis and that the administration of a radical scavenger can attenuate this process.

An important function of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is the control of goal-directed behaviour. This requires information as to whether actions were successful in obtaining desired outcomes such as rewards. While lesion studies implicate a particular PFC region, the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), in reward processing, neurons encoding reward have been reported in both the OFC and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). To compare and contrast their roles, we recorded simultaneously from both areas while two rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) performed a reward preference task. The monkeys had to choose between pictures associated with different amounts of a juice reward. Neuronal activity in both areas reflected the reward amount. However, neurons in the DLPFC encoded both the reward amount and the monkeys' forthcoming response, while neurons in the OFC more often encoded the reward amount alone. Further, reward selectivity arose more rapidly in the OFC than the DLPFC. These results are consistent with reward information entering the PFC via the OFC, where it is passed to the DLPFC and used to control behaviour.
While a goal-directed movement is prepared, motor cortical neurons selectively change their activity in relation to prior information about movement direction. Only little is known, however, about the neuronal representation of partial information about this parameter. We investigated this question by training monkeys in a multidirectional centre-out pointing task. A preparatory signal provided prior information about one, two or three possible adjacent targets, thus manipulating the level of certainty about movement direction. After a 1-s delay, the response signal specified one of the precued targets to indicate the actual movement to be performed. Based on the directional tuning curves of individual motor cortical neurons determined during the reaction time interval, we constructed distributions of the population activation (DPAs), which we were then able to estimate as well during the preparatory period. We found that these distributions were preshaped by prior information, with peaks of activation centred over the range of precued movement directions. These peaks sharpened as the response signal approached, and shifted to the specified movement direction subsequent to that signal. Wider ranges of precued movement directions were represented by broader DPAs. Trials in which monkeys produced short reaction times were characterized by narrower distributions than trials with long reaction times. Our study thus provides evidence for (i) a graded preshaping of the neuronal population representation of movement direction by partial information about this parameter, and (ii) the continuous evolution of the preshaped population representation during the preparatory period towards movement initiation.
The role of dopamine (DA) in associative learning was studied in a conditioned taste aversion (CTA) paradigm with sucrose as the conditioned stimulus (CS) and intraperitoneal lithium chloride as the unconditioned stimulus (US). Drinking on trial of a 15% sucrose solution followed 1 h later by lithium chloride (20 or 40 mg/kg i.p.) resulted in mild CTA, as shown by reduction of drinking of the sucrose solution 24 h later. Amphetamine sulphate (0.125, 0.25, 0.50 and 1.0 mg/kg s.c.), administered on trial 5 min after sucrose drinking, facilitated CTA with maximal effects at 0.25 mg/kg s.c. Amphetamine given in the absence of lithium or 45 min after sucrose did not affect sucrose intake. The DA D1 receptor antagonist SCH 39166, administered before amphetamine either systemically (0.0125 mg/kg s.c.) or in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAc; 0.025 micro g/ micro L on each side) prevented the facilitation of CTA induced by amphetamine. It is concluded that amphetamine facilitates CTA learning by strengthening the consolidation of gustatory short-term memory via D1 receptors of the NAc shell.
The role of dopamine in the rewarding aspects of sexual behaviour in female rats was investigated. This is a unique model because sexual behaviour is only rewarding when copulatory stimuli are experienced at the preferred rate of copulation for a female rat. In addition, increases in dopamine in the nucleus accumbens occur during sexual behaviour only when the female achieves this preferred rate of copulation. In this study, minute-by-minute changes in nucleus accumbens dopamine were monitored using in vivo microdialysis. We report here that extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens increases before coital stimulation only when sexual behaviour is occurring under conditions that are rewarding to the female rat. We conclude that increases in dopamine in the nucleus accumbens are involved in anticipation, not consummation, of sexual behaviour in the female rat.
We compared the effects of three models of permanent ischemia, as well as cortical aspiration, on behaviour and brain morphology. Rats received a stroke either by devascularization or by two different procedures of medial cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO; small vs. large). Animals were trained in a reaching task, forepaw asymmetry, forepaw inhibition, sunflower seed task and tongue extension. Behaviour was assessed 1 week after the lesion and at 2-week intervals for a total of 9 weeks. One week after the surgery all animals were severely impaired on all tasks and although they improved over time they only reached preoperative base lines on tongue extension. Animals with small MCAOs performed better in reaching and sunflower tasks; no other behavioural differences were detected among the groups. Pyramidal cells in forelimb and cingulate areas as well as spiny neurons of the striatum were examined for dendritic branching and spine density using a Golgi-Cox procedure. Each lesion type had a different impact on cell morphology. Overall, different changes (atrophy or hypertrophy) were observed with each kind of lesion and these changes were specific for the region (forelimb, cingulate, striatum) and the condition (intact vs. damaged hemisphere). These results suggest that: (i) different lesions to the motor cortex produce subtle differences in behaviour, and (ii) the method used to induce the lesion produces striking differences in cortical and subcortical plasticity.
Conventional and no net flux microdialysis were used to quantify basal and morphine-induced extracellular dopamine (DA) levels and the basal extraction fraction, which provides an estimate of the rate of DA uptake, in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) of wild-type mice and those with a constitutive deletion of mu (MOR)- or delta (DOR)-opioid receptors. Locomotor activity was assessed in these same animals. No difference between genotypes in basal dialysate DA levels was seen. No net flux studies revealed significant decreases in the DA extraction fraction in both MOR- and DOR-knockout mice, indicating decreased basal DA uptake in both genotypes. Extracellular DA, however, was unchanged. Because extracellular neurotransmitter levels are determined by the dynamics of both release and uptake, these findings provide suggestive evidence that basal DA release is decreased in mutant mice. Systemic administration of morphine significantly increased locomotor activity and dialysate DA levels in wild-type mice. MOR-knockout mice failed to exhibit a behavioural response to morphine. The ability of morphine to increase DA levels, however, was reduced but not prevented. No alteration in the effects of morphine was observed in DOR-knockout mice. These data provide genetic evidence for the existence of tonically active MOR and DOR systems that modulate basal DA neurotransmission in the NAc. Furthermore, they demonstrate that in contrast to the locomotor-activating effects of morphine, a small component of morphine-evoked DA release occurs independently of MOR activation.
Neuronal activity is thought to play an important role in refining patterns of synaptic connectivity during development and in the molecular maturation of synapses. In experiments reported here, a 2-week infusion of tetrodotoxin (TTX) into rat hippocampus beginning on postnatal day 12 produced abnormal synchronized network discharges in in vitro slices. Discharges recorded upon TTX washout were called 'minibursts', owing to their small amplitude. They were routinely recorded in area CA3 and abolished by CNQX, an AMPA receptor antagonist. Because recurrent excitatory axon collaterals remodel and glutamate receptor subunit composition changes after postnatal day 12, experiments examined possible TTX-induced alterations in recurrent excitation that could be responsible for network hyperexcitability. In biocytin-labelled pyramidal cells, recurrent axon arbors were neither longer nor more highly branched in the TTX infusion site compared with saline-infused controls. However, varicosity size and density were increased. Whereas most varicosities contained synaptophysin and synaptic vesicles, many were not adjacent to postsynaptic specializations, and thus failed to form anatomically identifiable synapses. An increased pattern of excitatory connectivity does not appear to explain network hyperexcitability. Quantitative immunoblots also indicated that presynaptic markers were unaltered in the TTX infusion site. However, the postsynaptic AMPA and NMDA receptor subunits, GluR1, NR1 and NR2B, were increased. In electrophysiological studies EPSPs recorded in slices from TTX-infused hippocampus had an enhanced sensitivity to the NR2B containing NMDA receptor antagonist, ifenprodil. Thus, increases in subunit protein result in alterations in the composition of synaptic NMDA receptors. Postsynaptic changes are likely to be the major contributors to the hippocampal network hyperexcitability and should enhance both excitatory synaptic efficacy and plasticity.
Programmed cell death occurs during both early and late neural development. The mechanisms for the regulation and execution of the early cell death as well as its developmental role are still not fully understood. In this work we have studied the early programmed cell death in the retinal neuroepithelium. Apoptotic cells were selectively located around the optic nerve head in the retinal neuroepithelium of 2- to 6-day-old chick embryos. TUNEL-positive cells and cells which were immunostained for activated caspase-3 showed overlapping distributions suggesting that caspase-3 is involved in the early retinal cell death. Caspase-3 involvement in early retinal cell death was also demonstrated by in vivo treatment with caspase inhibitors z-DEVD-fmk and Boc-D-fmk. After 6 h of treatment, the number of TUNEL-positive cells was reduced by 50%. Sustained treatments (20 h) resulted in a slight widening in the central part of the neural retina but the retinal ganglion cell axons maintained their organization and navigation towards the optic fissure. The most prominent result after inhibition of cell death was an increase in the number of retinal ganglion cells which also produced an enlargement of the ganglion cell layer and an increased number of ganglion cell axons. In conclusion, our results show that caspase-dependent programmed cell death occurs in the embryonic chick retina and that it plays a role to modulate the generation of retinal ganglion cells.
The mesencephalic dopaminergic (mesDA) system is involved in many brain functions including motor control and motivated behaviour, and is of clinical importance because of its implication in psychiatric disorders and Parkinson's disease. Nurr1, a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily of transcription factors, is essential for establishing the dopaminergic phenotype, because expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis, requires Nurr1. In addition, Nurr1 plays an important role in the maintenance of mesDA neurons. Neonatal Nurr1 knockout mice lack expression of the dopamine transporter (DAT), the vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) and l-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) in addition to TH specifically in mesDA neurons. It is unclear whether the lack of expression of these dopaminergic markers is caused by a maintenance defect or whether the induction of these markers depends on Nurr1 expression. To address this problem, the expression of DAT, VMAT2 and AADC was analysed at embryonic day 12.5 and 14.5. Here we demonstrate that induction of VMAT2 and DAT specifically in mesDA neurons requires Nurr1 expression, whereas AADC expression in mesDA neurons is induced independently of Nurr1 function.
Cognitive behaviour requires complex context-dependent mapping between sensory stimuli and actions. The same stimulus can lead to different behaviours depending on the situation, or the same behaviour may be elicited by different cueing stimuli. Neurons in the primate prefrontal cortex show task-specific firing activity during working memory delay periods. These neurons provide a neural substrate for mapping stimulus and response in a flexible, context- or rule-dependent, fashion. We describe here an integrate-and-fire network model to explain and investigate the different types of working-memory-related neuronal activity observed. The model contains different populations (or pools) of neurons (as found neurophysiologically) in attractor networks which respond in the delay period to the stimulus object, the stimulus position ('sensory pools'), to combinations of the stimulus sensory properties (e.g. the object identity or object location) and the response ('intermediate pools'), and to the response required (left or right) ('premotor pools'). The pools are arranged hierarchically, are linked by associative synaptic connections, and have global inhibition through inhibitory interneurons to implement competition. It is shown that a biasing attentional input to define the current rule applied to the intermediate pools enables the system to select the correct response in what is a biased competition model of attention. The integrate-and-fire model not only produces realistic spiking dynamicals very similar to the neuronal data but also shows how dopamine could weaken and shorten the persistent neuronal activity in the delay period; and allows us to predict more response errors when dopamine is elevated because there is less different activity in the different pools of competing neurons, resulting in more conflict.
Neurotrophins and their cognate trk receptors regulate key events, most notably survival and differentiation of specific neuron populations, during the development of the nervous system. Their functions in the adult and aged CNS are far less well understood. We have analysed mice aged 21-23 months with haploinsufficiencies of the trkB and/or trkC genes with regard to morphological alterations in the hippocampus and amygdala. Neuronal densities and total numbers of neurons in the dentate gyrus were significantly decreased in trkB+/-, trkC+/-, and trkB+/-/C+/- mutants. In the hippocampal area CA2/3, neuronal density and the total number of neurons were only reduced in double-heterozygous mice. Within the amygdala, neuronal densities were not altered. The lateral, basolateral and basomedial nuclei of the amygdala, as well as the dentate gyrus and area CA3, revealed significant increases in the densities of degenerated axonal fragments; the most pronounced changes were found in the double-heterozygous mice. Thus, partial impairment in trkB and/or trkC receptor expression caused region-specific neuron losses in the hippocampus and increased axonal fragmentation in both hippocampus and amygdala, which may result from degeneration of both intrinsic and extrinsic fibre systems. Together, these data indicate that endogenous ligands to the trkB and trkC receptors are essential to maintain neuronal integrity in the aged hippocampus and amygdala.
The neuromodulator histamine plays an important role in the regulation of behavioural state and the neocortical electrocorticogram (ECoG). With the present experiments, we characterized the anatomical targets that mediate the cortical-activating effects of histamine. Urethane-anaesthetized rats displayed continuous large-amplitude, low-frequency oscillations with a maximal spectral power in the delta (0.5-3.9 Hz) frequency band. Electrical (100 Hz) stimulation of the pontine-tegmentum suppressed slow, large-amplitude oscillations and induced ECoG activation. Application of histamine (1 mm) into the basal forebrain cholinergic complex by reverse microdialysis enhanced ECoG activation elicited by tegmental stimulation without changing resting ECoG activity. Ventrolateral or central thalamic application of histamine had no effect on resting ECoG activity, and ventrolateral thalamic application produced only a slight enhancement of brainstem-induced activation. Neocortical application of histamine in close proximity (&lt; 500 micro m) to the recording electrode reduced low-frequency delta power in the resting ECoG without affecting stimulation-induced ECoG activation. These data suggest that, under the present experimental conditions, histamine facilitates ECoG activation primarily by potentiating the excitatory influence of brainstem fibers at the level of the basal forebrain. Histamine release in some parts of the thalamus results in a minor enhancement of ECoG activation, and cortical histamine release produces a small but consistent suppression of slow delta oscillations in the resting ECoG. These concurrent subcortical and cortical actions probably permit histamine to effectively modulate cortical activation and excitability across different behavioural states.
Successful axon regeneration relies on the capability of the lesioned neurons to up-regulate a specific set of injury/growth-associated genes. In the adult central nervous system, the strength of the cell body response is generally related to the distance of the injury site from the perikaryon, being stronger for proximal lesions. Nevertheless, inferior olive (IO) cells react to injury and regenerate their axons even after distal transections. To investigate the mechanisms that regulate the IO growth properties, we examined the expression of injury/growth markers (nitric oxide synthase, growth-associated protein 43 and c-Jun) after target deletion or axotomy performed at different sites along the olivocerebellar pathway. Both axon injury and target loss disclose two subsets of IO neurons distributed within precise subnuclei: one subset up-regulates all markers in all conditions, whereas the other shows a mild c-Jun expression but remains unresponsive even after a very proximal axotomy. These observations indicate that distinct subpopulations of IO cells respond to different regulatory strategies. Unresponsive neurons appear insensitive to environmental positive or negative cues, suggesting that they are intrinsically unable to set up a cellular reaction to injury. In contrast, cell body changes in reactive neurons are elicited after the removal of retrogradely transported target-derived inhibitory signals. Target loss also induces degeneration of IO cells, whose survival remains partially dependent on Purkinje targets in adulthood. Thus, the intrinsic regenerative potential of a functionally homogeneous population is regulated by multiple mechanisms, specific for distinct neuronal subsets.
Eight healthy male volunteers, lumbar-punctured before and during simvastatin treatment, were phenotyped for CYP2D6 analysis of the debrisoquine metabolic ratio (the ratio between the urinary recovery of debrisoquine and its 4-hydroxy metabolite) after a single oral dose of debrisoquine. The mean cerebrospinal fluid concentrations of cholesterol and taurine did not differ before and during treatment. During (but not before) treatment taurine in the CSF correlated with the debrisoquine metabolic ratio (r=-0.93; P=0.0007) Our results might indicate an influence of CYP2D6 on the level of taurine in the CSF that was secondary to the change in plasma cholesterol.

A case of calcifying pseudo-tumor of the thoracic spine, a rare lesion with tumor-like behavior and a probable inflammatory-reactive origin, is described. The clinical-pathological and neuro-radiological aspects of this lesion are discussed in relation to surgical treatment. In accordance with the other cases reported in the literature, the case observed confirmed the benign behavior of the lesion and the effectiveness of surgical treatment for achieving complete resolution of clinical symptoms without any recurrences, even when removal is only subtotal.
The aim of the present work was to investigate, by means of the reversible inactivation technique, the distinct roles of three neocortical sites, the Prefrontal (PFC), Frontal (FC) and Parietal (PAC) cortices, during memory consolidation of conditioned freezing to a tone, a defined conditioned stimulus (CS), and to the training context. Reversible tetrodotoxin inactivations were performed at increasing post-acquisition delays (0.25, 24 or 96 h). Retention testing was always performed 72 h after the inactivation procedure in order to avoid any possible influence on the retrieval phase. It was found that none of the three sites are involved in context freezing consolidation, but that FC and PAC are differentially involved in the consolidation of memory to the CS. FC inactivation was followed by retention impairment only when performed immediately after acquisition while PAC inactivation was followed by amnesia when performed both immediately after acquisition and 24 h later, but not when performed 96 h later. PFC inactivation was not followed by retention impairment at any of the employed delays. These findings show that some neocortical structures are involved in auditory-cued fear conditioning during the initial phases of the consolidation process.
Tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) sodium current in small-size dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons is upregulated by prostaglandin E(2) and serotonin through a protein kinase A (PKA)/protein kinase (PKC) pathway, suggesting G protein modulation of one or more TTX-R channels in these neurons. Recently, GTP(gammaS), a hydrolysis-resistant analogue of GTP, was shown to increase the persistent current produced by the TTX-R Na(v)1.9. In this study, we investigated the modulation of another TTX-R channel, Na(v)1.8, by GTP(gammaS) in small-diameter DRG neurons from rats using whole-cell voltage clamp recordings. Because it has been suggested that fluoride, often used in intracellular recording solutions, may bind to trace amounts of aluminum and activate G proteins, we recorded Na(v)1.8 currents with and without intracellular fluoride, and with the addition of deferoxamine, an aluminum chelator, to prevent fluoride-aluminum binding. Our results show that GTP(gammaS) (100 micro M) caused a significant increase in Na(v)1.8 current (67%) with a chloride-based intracellular solution. Although the inclusion of fluoride instead of chloride in the pipette solution increased the Na(v)1.8 current by 177%, GTP(gammaS) further increased Na(v)1.8 current by 67% under these conditions. While the effect of GTP(gammaS) was prevented by pretreatment with H7 (100 micro M), a non-selective PKA/PKC inhibitor, the fluoride-induced increase in Na(v)1.8 current was not sensitive to H7 (100 micro M), or to inclusion of deferoxamine (1 mM) in the intracellular solution. We conclude that G protein activation by GTP(gammaS) increases Na(v)1.8 current through a PKA/PKC mechanism and that addition of fluoride to the pipette solution further enhances the current, but is not a confounding variable in the study of Na(v)1.8 channel modulation by G proteins independent of a PKA/PKC pathway or binding to aluminum.
The gain of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) normally depends on the distance between the subject and the visual target, but it remains uncertain whether vergence angle can be linked to changes in VOR gain through a process of context-dependent adaptation. In this study, we examined this question with an adaptation paradigm that modified the normal relationship between vergence angle and retinal image motion. Subjects were rotated sinusoidally while they viewed an optokinetic (OKN) stimulus through either diverging or converging prisms. In three subjects the diverging prisms were worn while the OKN stimulus moved out of phase with the head, and the converging prisms were worn when the OKN stimulus moved in-phase with the head. The relationship between the vergence angle and OKN stimulus was reversed in the fourth subject. After 2 h of training, the VOR gain at the two vergence angles changed significantly in all of the subjects, evidenced by the two different VOR gains that could be immediately accessed by switching between the diverged and converged conditions. The results demonstrate that subjects can learn to use vergence angle as the contextual cue that retrieves adaptive changes in the angular VOR.
Children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are impulsive, and that impulsiveness can be measured using a countermanding task. Although the overt behaviors of ADHD attenuate with age, it is not clear how well impulsiveness is controlled in adults with ADHD. We tested ADHD adults with an oculomotor countermanding task. The task included two conditions: on 75% of the trials, participants viewed a central fixation marker and then looked to an eccentric target that appeared simultaneous with the disappearance of the fixation marker; on 25% of the trials, a signal was presented at variable delays after target appearance. The signal instructed subjects to stop, or countermand, an eye movement to the target. A correct movement in this case would be to hold gaze at the central fixation location. We expected ADHD participants to be impulsive in their countermanding performance. Additionally, we expected that a visual stop signal at the central fixation location would assist oculomotor countermanding because the signal is presented in the &quot;stop&quot; location, at fixation. To test whether a central stop signal positively biased countermanding, we used a three types of stop signal to instruct the stop: a central visual marker, a peripheral visual signal, and a non-localized sound. All subjects performed best with the central visual stop signal. Subjects with ADHD were less able to countermand eye movements and were influenced more negatively by the non-central signals. Oculomotor countermanding may be useful for quantifying impulsive dysfunction in adults with ADHD especially if a non-central stop signal is applied.
Recent research communications indicate that the adult human brain contains undifferentiated, multipotent precursors or neural stem cells. It is not known, however, whether these cells can develop into fully functional neurons. We cultured cells from the adult human ventricular wall as neurospheres and passed them at the individual cell level to secondary neurospheres. Following dissociation and plating, the cells developed the antigen profile of the three main cell types in the brain (GFAP, astrocytes; O2, oligodendrocytes; and beta-III-tubulin/NeuN, neurons). More importantly, the cells developed the electrophysiological profiles of neurons and glia. Over a period of 3 weeks, neuron-like cells went through the same phases as neurons do during development in vivo, including up-regulation of inward Na+ -currents, drop in input resistance, shortening of the action potential, and hyperpolarization of the cell membrane. The cells developed overshooting action potentials with a mature configuration. Recordings in voltage-clamp mode displayed both the fast inactivating TTX-sensitive sodium current (INa) underlying the rising phase of the action potential and the two potassium currents terminating the action potential in mature neurons (IA and IK, sensitive to 4-AP and TEA, respectively). We have thus demonstrated that the human ventricular wall contains multipotent cells that can differentiate into functionally mature neurons.
We investigated the survival, distribution and differentiation capabilities of adult rat hippocampus-derived progenitor cells (AHPs) by grafting them into either the intact or dopamine (DA)-denervated adult rat striatum (ST). Furthermore, we tested the effects of the in vivo administration of retinoic acid (RA) on the differentiation of the grafted cells. AHPs, prelabeled in vitro with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and primed with RA, were transplanted bilaterally into the ST of hemiparkinsonian rats. Twenty animals were divided in four groups: three groups received i.p. injections of RA (1.5 mg/kg/day) for 1, 2 or 4 weeks and one group received vehicle injections for 4 weeks. Approximately 60% of the implanted BrdU-immunoreactive (BrdU+) cells were present in either intact or lesioned ST after 5 weeks of transplantation, with a striking widespread radial distribution from the implantation site. The cells became morphologically integrated with the surrounding host tissue, with no evidence of tumor formation. Approximately 18% of the BrdU+ cells were immunoreactive for the glial precursor marker NG2 and occasionally BrdU+ cells co-expressed the neuronal marker TuJ1. This differentiation pattern was similar in the intact and DA-denervated ST. Although further research is needed to find more adequate methods to drive the differentiation of these cells toward the desired phenotypes, the survival, differentiation potential and widespread distribution throughout the ST observed in this study suggest that AHPs may be useful in treatment of degenerative disorders affecting the nervous system.
Long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease with levodopa is compromised by the development of motor complications, including on-off fluctuations and involuntary movements termed dyskinesia. The neural mechanisms underlying treatment-related dyskinesias may involve underactivity of the output regions of the basal ganglia, i.e., the medial segment of the globus pallidus (GPm) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR). Increased activity of GABAergic neurons of the &quot;direct&quot; striatopallidal pathway has been implicated in the suppression of the GPm and SNR and thus the development of dyskinesia. The direct pathway uses opioids as a co-neurotransmitter. These opioid peptides are products of the high-molecular weight opioid precursor pre-proenkephalin B (PPE-B). In situ hybridisation studies were employed to investigate PPE-B mRNA expression in postmortem striatal tissue from patients with a clinicopathological diagnosis of Parkinson's disease, all of whom displayed levodopa-induced motor complications, including dyskinesia prior to death and in the caudate-putamen (striatum) of the MPTP-lesioned macaque model of Parkinson's disease with treatment-related dyskinesia. Striatal PPE-B mRNA expression was significantly increased by 172% in dyskinetic Parkinson's disease patients compared to age-matched controls. This increase was heterogeneous with increased expression within the striosomes compared to matrix compartments of the striatum. Striatal PPE-B mRNA expression was significantly increased by 185% in the MPTP-lesioned macaque exhibiting dyskinesia, compared to parkinsonian, nondyskinetic MPTP-lesioned macaques, and by 146% compared to non-parkinsonian, nondyskinetic controls. Increased PPE-B mRNA expression, with subsequent elevations in opioid peptide transmission within the direct striatal output pathways, may underlie treatment-related dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.
An endogenous antipyresis has been observed around parturition in several species, including rats. It has been proposed that the neuropeptide vasopressin is responsible for this antipyresis via an action on the V(1a) receptor subtype, but this concept is controversial. We therefore addressed the question of the regulation of V(1a) receptor expression within the rat hypothalamus around parturition, to assess its possible involvement in the antipyresis phenomenon observed at term. We analyzed V(1a) receptor mRNA and protein levels in the hypothalamus/preoptic area of female rats at Days 15 and 22 (parturition) of gestation, and at Day 5 of lactation. We used quantitative RT-PCR to assess the mRNA levels and designed a semiquantitative Western blot assay to analyze changes in protein levels between the three stages studied. No significant changes either in V(1a) receptor mRNA or protein levels were observed between the three stages, suggesting that variations in the hypothalamic V(1a) receptor expression levels alone cannot account for the endogenous antipyresis observed at term.
Pituicytes of pituitary neural lobe are rich in the amino acid taurine, which they release upon hypoosmotic stimulation. As a generally inhibitory amino acid, taurine is thought to activate receptors on neural lobe nerve terminals and exert some control over hormone release. Previous work has shown the presence of glycine and GABA(A) receptors in neural lobe, both of which have affinity for taurine. Using a perifused explant system, we studied the effects of taurine activation of glycine and GABA(A) receptors on basal hormone release. Somewhat surprisingly, taurine induced increases in basal release of both vasopressin and oxytocin. Taurine-induced increases in oxytocin release were blocked by bicuculline, suggesting involvement of GABA(A) receptors. Increases in vasopressin release were not blocked by bicuculline, indicating involvement of receptors other than GABA(A). Although combined bicuculline and strychnine, an antagonist at most glycine receptors, also did not block increased vasopressin release, picrotoxin (a Cl(-) channel blocker) was effective in blocking increases in both vasopressin and oxytocin release. The other receptor(s) involved in taurine actions is postulated to be strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors. Thus, taurine in neural lobe may act via both a GABA(A) receptor and one or more types of glycine receptors to depolarize nerve terminal membranes under basal conditions. Taurine-induced partial depolarization resulting in Na(+) channel inactivation is probably responsible for its previously observed inhibition of stimulated hormone release from neural lobe.
Nuclear receptors (NRs) are ideal targets for drug discovery. Not only do they control a myriad of biological and disease processes, but they are also regulated by small lipophilic molecules that can be easily exchanged with a drug of choice. All 48 of the NR genes in the human genome have been identified, many of their structures have been solved and their ligands identified. Their mechanism of action has been elucidated and many of their target genes have been identified. Nonetheless, presentations at the recent conference sponsored by IBC Life Sciences indicated that, while many NRs already have marketable drugs, the latest tools in robotics, genomics, proteomics, and informatics are helping to identify more selective drugs.
The accumulation of oxidized proteins is one of the highlights of age-related changes of cellular metabolism and happens at least partially as a result of a decline in the activity of intracellular proteases (e.g., the proteasome). Because the proteasome is located in numerous cellular compartments, we tested whether and to which extent the proteasome and the protein turnover changes in the cytosolic compartment and in the nucleus of proliferating fibroblasts. We demonstrated that the activity of the proteasomal system declines during proliferative senescence of human fibroblasts in the cytosol dramatically, whereas it is stable within the nucleus. It could be demonstrated in both compartments that an accumulation of oxidized proteins occurs. After oxidative stress, a short timed activation of the proteasomal system in the nucleus occurs. This activation was accompanied by an increase in the protein turnover in response to oxidative stress, which was also present in the nucleus of senescent cells. Taking into account that the nuclear/cytosol ratio of the proteasome content declines during proliferative senescence, we postulated that the senescence-related changes in the cytosolic proteasomal system are more pronounced and that the nuclear proteasomal system is only marginally affected by the senescence process.
First-ever stroke patients (n=20) with a DSM-IV diagnosis of major depressive disorder (MDD) were included in an open-label study and received a single oral dose (50-100 mg) of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor sertraline. At days 0, 7, 14, 28, 42, and 56, a psychometric test battery comprising the Hamilton rating scales for depression and anxiety, the Mini Mental State Examination and the Barthel Index was administered. At the endpoint, 9 (45%) of the subjects were no longer depressed, 4 (20%) presented minor depression, and 7 (35%) still suffered from MDD. Considering the whole group of treated patients, depression and anxiety symptoms were found to decrease continuously and cognitive and functional performances to improve continuously during the treatment. Furthermore, differences between the values recorded by the treatment responders and non responders at the end of follow up were highly significant (p&lt;0.02 for all comparisons). This report suggests that sertraline treatment of post-stroke MDD could be effective and well tolerated. However, non responders to the treatment are at risk of poor outcome. Double blind studies with a greater number of patients are necessary to confirm these preliminary results.
Brothers (1990) has proposed that the amygdala is an important component of the neural network that underlies social behavior. Kemper and Bauman (1993) identified neuropathology in the amygdala of the postmortem autistic brain. These findings, along with recent functional neuroimaging data, have led Baron-Cohen et al. (2000) to propose that dysfunction of the amygdala may be responsible, in part, for the impairment of social behavior that is a hallmark feature of autism. Recent data from studies in our laboratory on the effects of amygdala lesions in the adult and infant macaque monkey do not support a fundamental role for the amygdala in social behavior. If the amygdala is not essential for the component processes of social behavior, as seems to be case in both non-human primates and selected patients with bilateral amygdala damage, then it is unlikely to be the primary substrate for the impaired social behavior of autism. However, damage to the amygdala does have an effect on a monkey's response to normally fear-inducing stimuli, such as snakes, and removes a natural reluctance to engage novel conspecifics in social interactions. These findings lead to the conclusion that an important role for the amygdala is in the detection of threats and mobilizing an appropriate behavioral response, part of which is fear. Interestingly, an important comorbid feature of autism is anxiety (Muris et al. 1998). If the amygdala is pathological in subjects with autism, it may contribute to their abnormal fears and increased anxiety rather than their abnormal social behavior.

IL-1alpha and IL-1beta are induced immediately after insults to the brain, and signaling through the type 1 IL-1 receptor is essential for a normal microglial and astroglial response to injury. To better understand which genes are induced in astrocytes by IL-1beta, we used the unbiased technique of differential display to analyze mouse astroglial gene expression after IL-1beta treatment. Two novel genes were induced, as well as the gene for ceruloplasmin, a ferroxidase with antioxidant properties. Ceruloplasmin was analyzed further by Northern and Western blot. RNA and protein levels of ceruloplasmin were increased when astrocytes were treated with IL-1beta. To determine whether the IL-1 type 1 receptor (IL-1R1) is essential for the injury-induced expression of ceruloplasmin, a Western blot analysis was performed after a traumatic brain injury on mice that were IL-1R1-deficient. Ceruloplasmin increased significantly above controls after injury; however, injury-induced levels of ceruloplasmin were lower in IL-1R1-deficient (2.7-fold increase) than in the wild-type animals (3.5-fold increase). These data indicate that while IL-1R1 deletion has a slight effect on ceruloplasmin expression, it is not essential for either the basal or the induced expression of ceruloplasmin in vivo. Since ceruloplasmin buffers free copper, oxidizes ferrous iron, and catalyzes the dismutation of free radicals, increased levels of ceruloplasmin likely protect neurons and glia from sustaining damage after injury. Furthermore, as the IL-1R1 has been proposed to be a target for achieving neuroprotection after injury, these data suggest that the protection afforded by ceruloplasmin will be retained even when the IL-1R1 is antagonized.
Radial glia are a polarized cell type that in most neural regions appear only transiently during development. They have long been recognized as glia or glial progenitors that support neuronal migration. Recent evidence indicates that radial glia also give rise to neurons and appear to be a major population of dividing precursor cells in the embryonic cortical ventricular zone. Radial glia extend long processes from the ventricular zone to the pial surface that provide guides for neuronal migration. We reasoned that the unique morphology of radial glia is due to the composition and organization of their cytoskeleton. In this present study, we have used C6-R, a radial glial-like cell line and isolated perinatal cerebellar radial glia to ask what are the critical cytoskeletal elements in radial glial cells and how they are regulated. Treatments with nocodazole and cytochalasin D showed that microtubules, but not microfilaments, are critical for the polarized morphology of radial glia. In addition, quantitative real-time PCR indicated that certain mRNAs specific for microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) are selectively expressed in radial glia. These results together with the known ability of microtubule affinity-regulating kinases to regulate microtubule organization suggest that microtubules and MAPs are critical for the morphology of radial glia.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) was measured in plasma obtained from healthy female volunteers twice in the natural menstrual cycle or the hormonal cycle caused by oral contraceptives about 2 weeks apart. The ratio between the NPY plasma concentration in the second sample and the first sample was influenced negatively by body mass index (BMI). There were no differences in NPY plasma concentrations on comparing the first and second samples. Age and the use or non-use of oral contraceptives did not exert any influence. BMI might be a confounding factor when determining NPY in the plasma of healthy women.
Recent studies have shown that the corticofugal system systematically modulates and improves subcortical signal processing in the frequency, time and spatial domains. The present study examined corticofugal modulation of amplitude sensitivity of 113 corticofugally inhibited neurons in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (IC) of the big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus. Cortical electrical stimulation decreased the number of impulses and increased the response latency of these neurons. They had an average of 5.9+/-4.4 kHz best frequency (BF) differences between collicular and electrically stimulated cortical neurons. Cortical electrical stimulation synchronized with sound stimulation for 30 min compressed the rate-amplitude functions of half (56, 49.6%) of these collicular neurons and shifted their minimum thresholds (MT) and dynamic ranges (DR) toward that of electrically stimulated cortical neurons for as long as 40 min. These collicular neurons had an average of 1.6+/-1.4 kHz BF differences. The shift in collicular MT and DR significantly increased with differences in MT and DR between collicular and cortical neurons. Cortical electrical stimulation also shifted the BF and best amplitude (BA) of collicular neurons toward that of cortical neurons. The BF shift increased with BF differences and the BA shift increased with BA differences. These data suggest that the corticofugal system modulates collicular responses on the basis of topographic projections between the IC and auditory cortex. However, corticofugal modulation of collicular amplitude sensitivity is primarily dependent upon the difference but not the absolute amplitude sensitivity between collicular and cortical neurons.
Fifteen initially inexperienced subjects were trained for 4 weeks (12 2-h sessions) in frequency discrimination with pure tones around 88, 250, or 1605 Hz, or amplitude modulation rate discrimination of noise bands, using modulation rates around 88 or 250 Hz. Before, in the middle of, and after this training period, pure-tone frequency discrimination thresholds (DLFs), harmonic complex tone fundamental frequency discrimination thresholds (DLF0s), and amplitude modulation rate discrimination thresholds (DLFMs) were measured in several conditions including the trained one. Training in pure-tone frequency discrimination resulted in significantly larger improvements in DLF0s when the test complexes contained resolved harmonics than when they were composed of unresolved harmonics. This result supports the hypothesis that the discrimination of the F0 of resolved harmonics shares common underlying mechanisms with the frequency discrimination of pure tones. Training in rate discrimination did not result in larger DLF0 improvements for unresolved than for resolved harmonics.
Alpha-synuclein belongs to a family of vertebrate proteins, encoded by three different genes: alpha, ss, and gamma. The protein has become of interest to the neuroscience community in the last few years after the discovery that a mutation in the alpha-synuclein gene is associated with familial autosomal-dominant early-onset forms of Parkinson Disease. However, it is not yet clear how the protein is involved in the disease. Several studies have suggested that alpha-synuclein plays a role in neurotransmitter release and synaptic plasticity. This hypothesis might help elucidate how alpha-synuclein malfunctioning contributes to the development of a series of disorders known as synucleinopathies.
The aim of this study was to locate neuronal populations in the somatosensory areas engaged during discrimination of differences in: (1) static sustained pressure on the distal phalanx (PRESS); (2) spring strengths (SSTIFF) during active flexion of the right index finger; and (3) the change in position of a limb with contracting muscles, i.e., kinesthesia (KIN), during active flexion of the right index finger. The stimuli used were spring-loaded cylinders. The regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured with positron emission tomography (PET). The active fields were related to cytoarchitectonic areas of the somatosensory cortex (areas 3a, 3b, 1, and 2) and the primary motor cortex (areas 4a and 4p). We hypothesized that SSTIFF and KIN would activate areas 3a and 2. All three conditions, when contrasted against a rest condition, activated cytoarchitectural areas 3b, 1, and 2, and presumptive somatosensory areas in the left parietal operculum and right supramarginal gyrus in accordance with these areas receiving information from cutaneous mechanoreceptive afferents. Area 3a was only activated in SSTIFF and KIN, consistent with observations in monkeys and cats, showing that afferents from muscle receptors project to area 3a, and indicating that a similar arrangement seems to be apparent in humans. SSTIFF and KIN activated the right anterior lobe of the cerebellum, the left area 4a and left area 2 more than did PRESS, likely due to a combination of active movements and muscle receptor feed-back.
The glial glutamate transporter EAAT2 is primarily responsible for clearance of glutamate from the synaptic cleft and loss of EAAT2 has been previously reported in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Alzheimer's disease. The loss of functional EAAT2 could lead to the accumulation of extracellular glutamate, resulting in cell death known as excitotoxicity. However, it is still unknown whether it is a primary cause in the cascade leading to neuron degeneration or a secondary event to cell death. The goals of this study were to generate transgenic mice overexpressing EAAT2 and then to cross these mice with the ALS-associated mutant SOD1(G93A) mice to investigate whether supplementation of the loss of EAAT2 would delay or rescue the disease progression. We show that the amount of EAAT2 protein and the associated Na+-dependent glutamate uptake was increased about 2-fold in our EAAT2 transgenic mice. The transgenic EAAT2 protein was properly localized to the cell surface on the plasma membrane. Increased EAAT2 expression protects neurons from L-glutamate induced cytotoxicity and cell death in vitro. Furthermore, our EAAT2/G93A double transgenic mice showed a statistically significant (14 days) delay in grip strength decline but not in the onset of paralysis, body weight decline or life span when compared with G93A littermates. Moreover, a delay in the loss of motor neurons and their axonal morphologies as well as other events including caspase-3 activation and SOD1 aggregation were also observed. These results suggest that the loss of EAAT2 may contribute to, but does not cause, motor neuron degeneration in ALS.
Plasma prolactin (PRL) levels after acute administration of fenfluramine (FEN) have been used as a probe of brain serotonin activity. FEN-evoked increases in PRL levels inversely correlate with arterial blood pressure (ABP) in humans (Muldoon et al. Hypertension. 1998;32:972-975), thereby suggesting that brain serotonin activity may be reduced in hypertension. The present study sought to determine whether the relation between FEN-evoked PRL levels and ABP was present in two rat models of hypertension. Experiments were performed in awake male rats that were instrumented with femoral arterial and venous catheters 2 days before experiments. FEN (3.0 mg/kg IV) significantly increased plasma PRL levels in both spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY); however, FEN-evoked PRL levels were significantly lower in SHR compared with WKY, though baseline levels were similar between strains. Similar results were obtained in rats with chronic hypertension produced by figure-8 renal wrap plus contralateral nephrectomy. In contrast, the increase in PRL levels evoked by the serotonin receptor agonist m-CPP or the dopamine receptor antagonist eticlopride did not differ between SHR and WKY, indicating that PRL secretion is not generally blunted in chronic hypertensive rats. Furthermore, FEN-evoked PRL levels were not attenuated in rats made acutely hypertensive by an infusion of the alpha-adrenergic agonist phenylephrine. Thus, the present findings are consistent with the human data and suggest that chronic hypertension is associated with a presynaptic alteration in brain serotonin function.
Hemangioendothelioma (HE) is a borderline or intermediate type of vascular neoplasm. We report clinical and histopathological characteristics of four cases of HE arising from the skull bones because of its extreme rarity in this location. The age of the patients ranged from 6-45 years. Three patients presented with a painless swelling over the head and one case had sphenoid wing mass with dimness of vision and proptosis. Radiographic images showed a well-demarcated, osteolytic lesion in the skull bone in all the four, one case in addition had sclerotic edges and another had specks of calcification. Grossly, the tumour was very vascular with hemorrhagic areas. Histologically, three cases showed features of an epithelioid variant of HE, with short strands and solid nests of rounded to slightly spindled, eosinophilic endothelial cells, some of them having small intracellular vacuoles. The stroma was myxoid--hyalinised with focal mixed inflammatory infiltrate. One case had features of a 'retiform' histological variant composed of numerous elongated vessels lined by a single layer of hobnail endothelial cells, focal lymphocytic infiltrate and papillae with hyaline collagenous cores. The tumour cells in all the four were immuno-labelled by antibody to factor VIII-associated protein. The tumour cells lacked cytological atypia and mitosis was sparse. These features were important in prognostication as low-grade tumours can be cured by complete wide-resection.
We have previously raised two monoclonal antibodies (7B1, 14F11) recognizing the high-affinity leukotriene B4 receptor, BLT1. They were presently used to determine receptor surface expression in the hematopoietic system. In peripheral blood, BLT1 was primarily recognized in granulocytes, monocytes and, to a lower extent, in certain lymphocytes except the CD4 subpopulation. The expression pattern was similar in bone marrow cells. In vitro differentiation of CD34+ progenitor cells induced BLT1 expression within 7 days, which remained constant up to day 17 when a further increase was measured and maintained up to day 20. BLT1 expression was modified by inflammatory mediators: LPS, TNFalpha, fMLP, as well as LTB4 itself, caused a slight down-regulation at 30 min, an effect that was particularly marked with PMA, whereas the effect was least pronounced with IL-8. The antibodies have proved to be useful in an extensive mapping of BLT1 in both peripheral blood and bone marrow and as a tool to elucidate changes in the receptor expression.
It has been known for many years that immune system alterations occur with Parkinson's disease (PD). Changes in lymphocyte populations in cerebrospinal fluid and blood, immunoglobulin synthesis, and cytokine and acute phase protein production have been observed in patients with PD. Hence, there is evidence for inflammation. In this report we demonstrate that cyclic exercise over months results in a significant increase in the rise of plasma anti-inflammatory signal molecules, such as interleukin-10 and adrenocorticotropin. Additionally, endogenous plasma morphine levels increase with the duration of the cyclic exercise protocol. Morphine is identified and quantified by high performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrochemical detection and nano electro-spray ionization double quadrupole orthogonal acceleration time of flight mass spectrometry. Proinflammatory cytokine, i.e., interleukin-1, interleukin-6, plasma levels did not increase. These results matched with those reported previously, demonstrating enhanced motor skills and mood elevation with this cyclic exercise protocol, suggest that this protocol induces the formation of anti-inflammatory signal molecules, which appear to be associated with alleviation of some of the clinical characteristics of PD.
Thirteen patients with multiple system atrophy underwent multimodality neurophysiological evaluation, including sphincteric needle electromyography (EMG), sacral reflexes, pudendal nerve terminal latency, pudendal (PSEPs) and tibialis posterior nerve somatosensory evoked potentials (TPSEPs), and perineal motor evoked potentials (PMEPs). EMG revealed denervation or neurogenic changes, with reduction in spontaneous tonic activity at rest and abnormal pudendal nerve terminal latency in 10 patients (76.9%); anal reflex was delayed in 7 patients (53.8%). TPSEPs scalp responses were clearly abnormal in 4 patients (30.7%), whereas PSEPs exhibited changes in 9 (69.2%): in 6 patients responses were delayed at lumbar level (46.2%), and in 5 over the scalp (38.4%). PMEPs showed an increase in latency with a mild prolongation of central motor conduction time (CMCT) in 2 cases (15.3%); 1 patient had prolonged latencies following both cortical and sacral stimulation, but a normal CMCT. Even if diagnostic yield is not improved using these investigations they provide evidence of multiple lesion sites other than Onuf's nucleus.
Recent findings in both monkeys and humans indicate that multisensory convergence occurs in low-level cortical structures generally believed to be unisensory in function. In an in-depth treatment of this theme, this paper reviews anatomical and physiological findings relating to the convergence of visual, somatosensory and auditory signals at early stages of auditory cortical processing. We discuss the potential anatomical sources of the input, and the types of known projections, and attempt to integrate this information with the current hierarchical model of auditory processing. Finally, we consider the functional implications of multisensory integration in early sensory processing.
The basolateral amygdaloid complex (BLA) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) share extensive reciprocal connections, and interactions between these regions likely contribute to both mnemonic and affective processes. The present study examined the potential differential contributions of the BLA and OFC to performance of an olfactory discrimination task that incorporates auditory conditioned reinforcement and to expression of immediate post-shock freezing behavior. Damage to the BLA had little effect on performance of the conditioned reinforcement task but abolished immediate post-shock freezing behavior. In contrast, damage to OFC resulted in both a mild but significant performance decrement in the conditioned reinforcement task and a significant attenuation of immediate post-shock freezing behavior. These findings suggest that immediate post-shock freezing behavior is likely critically dependent upon interactions between the BLA and OFC. However, although mnemonic processes underlying accurate performance of the conditioned reinforcement task might be supported by OFC in part, such processes are independent of either the BLA or interactions between these two regions.



Experimental measurements were made of threshold interaural time differences (ITDs) for a &quot;target&quot; vowel presented simultaneously with a fixed-ITD &quot;distracter&quot; vowel. Three double-vowel pairs were used, comprising an &quot;er&quot; (/e/) together with either an &quot;ai,&quot; &quot;ar,&quot; or &quot;oo&quot; (respectively, /e/, /c/, and /u/). Threshold ITDs were found to be larger for the target vowel when it was part of a double-vowel pair than in control conditions in which it was presented alone. The effect size depended upon the choice of target vowel and distracter vowel, the level of the target relative to the distracter, and whether the two vowels had the same or different fundamental frequencies. The experiment was analyzed using a multichannel modification of Heller and Trahiotis' [J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 99, 3632-3637 (1996)] model, which used a weighted combination of the detectabilities of the ITD of the target and the distracter. It gave predictions consistent with the observed effects of level and with some of the effects of the choice of target vowel, but it could not describe the effect of the target-distracter differences in fundamental frequency. It was found that a single-channel version of the model, in which the chosen channel was allowed to depend upon fundamental frequency (which could be derived using a monaural autocorrelation model) did give a set of predictions in qualitative accord with the data.


We have evaluated the FLIPR Calcium 3 Assay Kit (Calcium 3), a new no-wash fluorescence calcium indicator dye reagent, for the measurement of agonist-stimulated calcium signaling in cells expressing the serotonin 2C (5-HT(2C)), metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) and the vasopressin 2 (V2) G-protein-coupled receptors. Calcium 3 yielded equivalent (5-HT(2C)) or superior (mGluR5 and V2) sensitivity to FLUO-4 as indexed by the change in fluorescence counts following agonist application. Assay variability, indexed by CV, using Calcium 3 or FLUO-4 was equivalent with 5-HT(2C) receptor responses although CVs were reduced using Calcium 3 in the examples of the mGluR5 and V2 receptors. Receptor pharmacologies based on agonist EC(50) values were identical when either Calcium 3 or FLUO-4 were utilized. Our results validate Calcium 3 as a compelling alternative to FLUO-4 in the choice of fluorescent dye reagent for studying G-protein-coupled receptors, providing the advantage of a homogenous, no-wash assay format.
Adenosine is a powerful modulator of neuronal function in the mammalian central nervous system. During a variety of insults to the brain, adenosine is released in large quantities and exerts a neuroprotective influence largely via the A(1) receptor, which inhibits glutamate release and neuronal activity. Using novel enzyme-based adenosine sensors, which allow high spatial and temporal resolution recordings of adenosine release in real time, we have investigated the release of adenosine during hypoxia/ischemia in the in vitro hippocampus. Our data reveal that during the early stages of hypoxia adenosine is likely released per se and not as a precursor such as cAMP or an adenine nucleotide. In addition, repeated hypoxia results in reduced production of extracellular adenosine and this may underlie the increased vulnerability of the mammalian brain to repetitive or secondary hypoxia/ischemia.
Ischemic preconditioning is a phenomenon that describes how a sublethal ischemic insult can induce tolerance to subsequent ischemia. This phenomenon has been observed after focal or global ischemia in different animal models. However, the hypothesis that bacterial infection might lead to neuronal tolerance to injury has not been investigated. To mimic cerebral bacterial infection, we injected bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in the right dorsal hippocampus, followed 24 hours later by an excitotoxic lesion using kainic acid in the mouse model. Quantification of lesion size after cresyl violet counterstaining revealed that LPS pretreatment afforded neuroprotection to CA3 neurons against KA challenge. To investigate the events underlying this protection, we studied the cytokine profile induced after LPS injection. Interleukin (IL)-1 beta and transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) were the main cytokines expressed at 24 hours after LPS injection. Because IL-1 beta has been described as deleterious in acute injury, we decided to investigate the function of TGF-beta 1. An adenovirus expressing a constitutively active form of TGF-beta 1 was injected intracerebrally 1 week before the induction of excitotoxic lesion, and neuronal protection was observed. To confirm the neuroprotective role of TGF-beta 1, the TGF-beta 1 adenovirus was replaced by recombinant human TGF-beta 1 protein and total neuroprotection was observed. Furthermore, the antibody-mediated blocking of TGF-beta 1 action prevented the protective effect of pretreatment with LPS. We have demonstrated in vivo that the cerebral tolerance phenomenon induced by LPS pretreatment is mediated by TGF-beta 1 cytokine.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER), which plays important roles in apoptosis, is susceptible to oxidative stress. Because reactive oxygen species (ROS) are robustly produced in the ischemic brain, ER damage by ROS may be implicated in ischemic neuronal cell death. We induced global brain ischemia on wild-type and copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) transgenic rats and compared ER stress and neuronal damage. Phosphorylated forms of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 alpha (eIF2 alpha) and RNA-dependent protein kinase-like ER eIF2 alpha kinase (PERK), both of which play active roles in apoptosis, were increased in hippocampal CA1 neurons after ischemia but to a lesser degree in the transgenic animals. This finding, together with the finding that the transgenic animals showed decreased neuronal degeneration, indicates that oxidative ER damage is involved in ischemic neuronal cell death. To elucidate the mechanisms of ER damage by ROS, we analyzed glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78) binding with PERK and oxidative ER protein modification. The proteins were oxidatively modified and stagnated in the ER lumen, and GRP78 was detached from PERK by ischemia, all of which were attenuated by SOD1 overexpression. We propose that ROS attack and modify ER proteins and elicit ER stress response, which results in neuronal cell death.

We studied the role of FGF-2 on regulation of neurogenesis and cell loss in the granule cell layer (GCL) of the hippocampal dentate gyrus after experimental traumatic brain injury (TBI). In both FGF-2(-/-) and FGF-2(+/+) mice subjected to controlled cortical impact, the number of dividing cells labeled with BrdU, injected on posttrauma days 6 through 8, increased at 9 days after TBI, and the number of BrdU-positive cells colabeled with neuron-specific nuclear antigen significantly increased at 35 days. However, in injured FGF-2-/- mice, BrdU-positive cells and BrdU-positive neurons (days 9, 35) were fewer compared with FGF-2(+/+) mice. There was also a decrease in the volume of the GCL and the number of GCL neurons after TBI in both FGF-2(-/-) and FGF-2(+/+) mice, but the decrease in both was greater in FGF-2-/- mice at 35 days. Overexpression of FGF-2 by intracerebral injection of herpes simplex virus-1 amplicon vectors encoding this factor increased numbers of dividing cells (day 9) and BrdU-positive neurons (day 35) significantly in C57BL/6 mice. Furthermore, the decrease in GCL volume was also attenuated. These results suggest that FGF-2 upregulates neurogenesis and protects neurons against degeneration in the adult hippocampus after TBI, and that FGF-2 supplementation via gene transfer can reduce GCL degeneration after TBI.
The brain shows limited ability to repair itself, but neurogenesis in certain areas of the adult brain suggests that neural stem cells may be used for structural brain repair. It will be necessary to understand how neurogenesis in the adult brain is regulated to develop strategies that harness neural stem cells for therapeutic use.



In this study, we combined functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and dynamic causal modeling (DCM) to investigate whether object category effects in the occipital anti temporal cortex are mediated by inputs from early visual cortex or parietal regions. Resolving this issue may provide anatomical constraints on theories of category specificity--which make different assumptions about the underlying neurophysiology. The data were acquired by Ishai, Ungerleider, Martin, Schouten, and Haxby (1999, 2000) and provided by the National fiNRI Data Center (http://www.fmridcc.org). The original authors used a conventional analysis to estimate differential effects in the occipital anti temporal cortex in response to pictures of chairs, faces, and houses. We extended this approach by estimating neuronal interactions that mediate category effects using DCM. DCM uses a Bayesian framework to estimate and make inferences about the influence that one region exerts over another and how this is affected by experimental changes. DCM differs from previous approaches to brain connectivity, such as multivariate autoregressive models and structural equation modeling, as it assumes that the observed hemodynamic responses are driven by experimental changes rather than endogenous noise. DCM therefore brings the analysis of brain connectivity much closer to the analysis of regionally specific effects usually applied to functional imaging data. We used DCM to estimate the influence that V3 and the superior/inferior parietal cortex exerted over category-responsive regions and how this was affected by the presentation of houses, faces, and chairs. We found that category effects in occipital and temporal cortex were mediated by inputs from early visual cortex. In contrast,the connectivity from the superior/inferior parietal area to the category-responsive areas was unaffected by the presentation of chairs, faces, or houses. These findings indicate that category effects in the occipital and temporal cortex can be mediated by bottom-up mechanisms-a finding that needs to be embraced by models of category specificity.

The application of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to investigate important questions in cognitive neuroscience has increased considerably in the last few years. TMS can provide substantial insights into the nature and the chronometry of the computations performed by specific cortical areas during various aspects of cognition. However, the use of TMS in cognitive studies has many potential perils and pitfalls. Although TMS can help bridge the gap between psychological models and brain-based arguments of cognitive functions, hypothesis-driven carefully designed experiments that acknowledge the current limitations of TMS are critical.
Salvia miltiorrhiza extracts have been reported to suppress acquisition and maintenance of alcohol drinking behavior in Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats. The present study investigated whether IDN 5082, a standardized extract of Salvia miltiorrhiza, was capable of preventing, in sP rats, the development of the so-called alcohol deprivation effect (ADE), i.e. the transient increase in alcohol intake that occurs in laboratory animals after a period of alcohol deprivation. Interestingly, ADE has been proposed to model alcohol relapses in human alcoholics. The acute, intragastric administration of 25, 50, and 100 mg/kg IDN 5082 resulted in the complete suppression of the extra amount of alcohol consumed during the first hour of re-access to alcohol after 7 days of deprivation. These results suggest that IDN 5082 may possess anti-relapse properties.
Rodent fear conditioning models both excitatory learning and the pathogenesis of human anxiety, whereas extinction of conditional fear is a paradigm of inhibitory learning and the explicit model for behavior therapy. Many studies support a general learning rule for acquisition: Temporally spaced training is more effective than massed training. The authors asked whether this rule applies to extinction of conditional fear in mice. The authors find that both short- and long-term fear extinction are greater with temporally massed presentations of the conditional stimulus (CS). The data also indicate that once CS presentations are sufficiently massed to initiate, or &quot;induce,&quot; extinction learning, further CS presentations are more effective when spaced.
Gap junction (GJ) channels provide an important pathway for direct intercellular transmission of signaling molecules. Previously we showed that fixed negative charges in the first extracellular loop domain (E1) strongly influence charge selectivity, conductance, and rectification of channels and hemichannels formed of Cx46. Here, using excised patches containing Cx46 hemichannels, we applied the substituted cysteine accessibility method (SCAM) at the single channel level to residues in E1 to determine if they are pore-lining. We demonstrate residues D51, G46, and E43 at the amino end of E1 are accessible to modification in open hemichannels to positively and negatively charged methanethiosulfonate (MTS) reagents added to cytoplasmic or extracellular sides. Positional effects of modification along the length of the pore and opposing effects of oppositely charged modifying reagents on hemichannel conductance and rectification are consistent with placement in the channel pore and indicate a dominant electrostatic influence of the side chains of accessible residues on ion fluxes. Hemichannels modified by MTS-EA+, MTS-ET+, or MTS-ES- were refractory to further modification and effects of substitutions with positively charged residues that electrostatically mimicked those caused by modification with the positively charged MTS reagents were similar, indicating all six subunits were likely modified. The large reductions in conductance caused by MTS-ET+ were visible as stepwise reductions in single-channel current, indicative of reactions occurring at individual subunits. Extension of single-channel SCAM using MTS-ET+ into the first transmembrane domain, TM1, revealed continued accessibility at the extracellular end at A39 and L35. The topologically complementary region in TM3 showed no evidence of reactivity. Structural models show GJ channels in the extracellular gap to have continuous inner and outer walls of protein. If representative of open channels and hemichannels, these data indicate E1 as constituting a significant portion of this inner, pore-forming wall, and TM1 contributing as pore-lining in the extracellular portion of transmembrane span.

Prior studies have revealed that the sympathetic nervous system regulates the clinical and pathological manifestations of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an autoimmune disease model mediated by Th1 T cells. Although the regulatory role of catecholamines has been indicated in the previous works, it remained possible that other sympathetic neurotransmitters like neuropeptide Y (NPY) may also be involved in the regulation of EAE. Here we examined the effect of NPY and NPY receptor subtype-specific compounds on EAE, actively induced with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein 35-55 in C57BL/6 mice. Our results revealed that exogenous NPY as well as NPY Y(1) receptor agonists significantly inhibited the induction of EAE, whereas a Y(5) receptor agonist or a combined treatment of NPY with a Y(1) receptor antagonist did not inhibit signs of EAE. These results indicate that the suppression of EAE by NPY is mediated via Y(1) receptors. Furthermore, treatment with the Y(1) receptor antagonist induced a significantly earlier onset of EAE, indicating a protective role of endogenous NPY in the induction phase of EAE. We also revealed a significant inhibition of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein 35-55-specific Th1 response as well as a Th2 bias of the autoimmune T cells in mice treated with the Y(1) receptor agonist. Ex vivo analysis further demonstrated that autoimmune T cells are directly affected by NPY via Y(1) receptors. Taken together, we conclude that NPY is a potent immunomodulator involved in the regulation of the Th1-mediated autoimmune disease EAE.

The modulation of TREK-1 leak and Kv1.4 voltage-gated K+ channels by fatty acids and lysophospholipids was studied in bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells. In whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, arachidonic acid (AA) (1-20 microM) dramatically and reversibly increased the activity of bTREK-1, while inhibiting bKv1.4 current by mechanisms that occurred with distinctly different kinetics. bTREK-1 was also activated by the polyunsaturated cis fatty acid linoleic acid but not by the trans polyunsaturated fatty acid linolelaidic acid or saturated fatty acids. Eicosatetraynoic acid (ETYA), which blocks formation of active AA metabolites, failed to inhibit AA activation of bTREK-1, indicating that AA acts directly. Compared to activation of bTREK-1, inhibition of bKv1.4 by AA was rapid and accompanied by a pronounced acceleration of inactivation kinetics. Cis polyunsaturated fatty acids were much more effective than trans or saturated fatty acids at inhibiting bKv1.4. ETYA also effectively inhibited bKv1.4, but less potently than AA. bTREK-1 current was markedly increased by lysophospholipids including lysophosphatidyl choline (LPC) and lysophosphatidyl inositol (LPI). At concentrations from 1-5 microM, LPC produced a rapid, transient increase in bTREK-1 that peaked within one minute and then rapidly desensitized. The transient lysophospholipid-induced increases in bTREK-1 did not require the presence of ATP or GTP in the pipette solution. These results indicate that the activity of native leak and voltage-gated K+ channels are directly modulated in reciprocal fashion by AA and other cis unsaturated fatty acids. They also show that lysophospholipids enhance bTREK-1, but with a strikingly different temporal pattern. The modulation of native K+ channels by these agents differs from their effects on the same channels expressed in heterologous cells, highlighting the critical importance of auxiliary subunits and signaling. Finally, these results reveal that AZF cells express thousands of bTREK-1 K+ channels that lie dormant until activated by metabolites including phospholipase A2 (PLA2)-generated fatty acids and lysophospholipids. These metabolites may alter the electrical and secretory properties of AZF cells by modulating bTREK-1 and bKv1.4 K+ channels.
Recent evidence for the involvement of zinc in the formation of beta-amyloid plaques in the brain in Alzheimer's disease has led to the establishment of new therapeutic strategies for the degenerative disorder based on metal chelation. The present experiment was conducted on a membrane-permeable zinc chelator, clioquinol (CQ), that has shown potential in initial studies on a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease [1]. The degree of chelatable zinc in mice treated with CQ, delivered by two different routes, was measured using complementary protocols for identifying chelatable zinc: 6-methoxy-8-quinolyl- p-toluenesulfonamide (TSQ) histofluorescence, and selenite autometalography. Mice injected intraperitoneally with CQ showed a dramatic reduction in chelatable zinc in brain, testis, and pancreas. In contrast, mice given CQ orally showed no significant change in levels of chelatable zinc in these tissues. This suggests that CQ administered orally to patients with Alzheimer's disease should not significantly perturb chelatable zinc levels in key organs and may be used over long periods without adverse endocrinological and reproductive effects related to zinc deficiency. In contrast, CQ injected intraperitoneally may be used not only as a tool for investigating chelatable zinc pools but also in a clinical context. For example, injected CQ could be employed in situations requiring the rapid buffering of excessive chelatable zinc following ischemic episodes or brain trauma. Thus, our findings indicate that CQ has considerable potential as a versatile scientific and clinical tool used for selective modulation of zinc pools.
Three midline glial populations are found at the corticoseptal boundary: the glial wedge (GW), glia within the indusium griseum (IGG), and the midline zipper glia (MG). Two of these glial populations are involved in axonal guidance at the cortical midline, specifically development of the corpus callosum. Here we investigate the phenotypic and molecular characteristics of each population and determine whether they are generated at the same developmental stage. We find that the GW is derived from the radial glial scaffold of the cortex. GW cells initially have long radial processes that extend from the ventricular surface to the pial surface, but by E15 loose their pial attachment and extend only part of the way to the pial surface. Later in development the radial morphology of cells within the GW is replaced by multipolar astrocytes, providing supportive evidence that radial glia can transform into astrocytes. IGG and MG do not have a radial morphology and do not label with the radial glial markers, Nestin and RC2. We conclude that the GW and IGG have different morphological and molecular characteristics and are born at different stages of development. IGG and MG have many phenotypic and molecular characteristics in common, indicating that they may represent a common population of glia that becomes spatially distinct by the formation of the corpus callosum.
Mitochondria are important in the pathophysiology of several neurodegenerative diseases, and mitochondrial production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), membrane depolarization, permeability changes and release of apoptogenic proteins are involved in these processes. Following brain insults, cell death often occurs in discrete regions of the brain, such as the subregions of the hippocampus. To analyse mitochondrial structure and function in such subregions, only small amounts of mitochondria are available. We developed a protocol for flow cytometric analysis of very small samples of isolated brain mitochondria, and analysed mitochondrial swelling and formation of ROS in mitochondria from the CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus. Calcium-induced mitochondrial swelling was measured, and fluorescent probes were used to selectively stain mitochondria (nonyl acridine orange), to measure membrane potential (tetramethylrhodamine-methyl-ester, 1,1',3,3,3',3'-hexamethylindodicarbocyanine-iodide) and to measure production of ROS (2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein-diacetate). We found that formation of ROS and mitochondrial permeability transition pore activation were higher in mitochondria from the CA1 than from the CA3 region, and propose that differences in mitochondrial properties partly underlie the selective vulnerability of the CA1 region to brain insults. We also conclude that flow cytometry is a useful tool to analyse the role of mitochondria in cell death processes.
Tau, a microtubule binding protein, is not only a major component of neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease, but also a causative gene for hereditary frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17). We show here that an FTDP-17 tau mutation (V337M) in SH-SY5Y cells reduces microtubule polymerization, increases voltage-dependent calcium current (ICa) density, and decreases ICa rundown. The reduced rundown of ICa by V337M was significantly inhibited by nifedipine (L-type Ca channel blocker), whereas omega-conotoxin GVIA (N-type Ca channel blocker) showed smaller effects, indicating that tau mutations affect L-type calcium channel activity. The depolarization-induced increase in intracellular calcium was also significantly augmented by the V337M tau mutation. Treatment with a microtubule polymerizing agent (taxol), an adenylyl cyclase inhibitor, or a protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor, counteracted the effects of mutant tau on ICa. Taxol also attenuated the Ca2+ response to depolarization in cells expressing mutant tau. Apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells induced by serum deprivation was exacerbated by the V337M mutation, and nifedipine, taxol, and a PKA inhibitor significantly protected cells against apoptosis. Our results indicate that a tau mutation which decreases its microtubule-binding ability augments calcium influx by depolymerizing microtubules and activating adenylyl cyclase and PKA.
Lithium is widely used in the treatment of bipolar disorder, but despite its proven therapeutic efficacy, the molecular mechanisms of action are not fully understood. The present study was undertaken to explore lithium effects of the MEK/ERK cascade of protein kinases in astrocytes and neurons. In asynchronously proliferating rat cortical astrocytes, lithium decreased time- and dose-dependently the phosphorylation of MEK and ERK, with 1 mM concentrations achieving 60 and 50% inhibition of ERK and MEK, respectively, after a 7-day exposure. Lithium also inhibited [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA and induced a G2/M cell cycle arrest. In serum-deprived, quiescent astrocytes, pre-exposure to lithium resulted in the inhibition of cell cycle re-entry as stimulated by the mitogen endothelin-1: under this experimental setting, lithium did not affect the rapid, peak phosphorylation of MEK taking place after 3-5 min, but was effective in inhibiting the long-term, sustained phosphorylation of MEK. Lithium inhibition of the astrocyte MEK/ERK pathway was independent of inositol depletion. Further, compound SB216763 inhibited Tau phosphorylation at Ser396 and stabilized cytosolic beta-catenin, consistent with the inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3 beta), but failed to reproduce lithium effects on MEK and ERK phosphorylation and cell cycle arrest. In cerebellar granule neurons, millimolar concentrations of lithium enhanced MEK and ERK phosphorylation in a concentration-dependent manner, again through an inositol and GSK-3 beta independent mechanism. These opposing effects in astrocytes and neurons make lithium treatment a promising strategy to favour neural repair and reduce reactive gliosis after traumatic injury.
The activation of microglial cells is involved in the pathogenesis of a variety of neurodegenerative diseases, stroke and traumatic brain injuries. Recent studies suggest that protein acetylation can affect the extent of inflammatory responses. Our aim was to elucidate whether histone deacetylase inhibitors, inducers of protein hyperacetylation, regulate the inflammatory response in neural models of inflammation in vitro and whether neurone-glia interactions affect this regulation. Interestingly, we observed that histone deacetylase inhibitors, such as trichostatin A (TSA) and suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, strongly potentiated the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory response in murine N9 and rat primary microglial cells as well in neural co-cultures and hippocampal slice cultures. TSA clearly potentiated the LPS-induced expression of interleukin (IL)-6 and inducible nitric oxide synthase mRNAs, as well as the secretion of cytokines IL-6, tumour necrosis factor-alpha and macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-2, and nitric oxide (NO). Co-culture and slice culture experiments showed that the presence of astrocytes and neurones did not stimulate or prevent the pro-inflammatory potentiation induced by histone deacetylase inhibitor in microglial cells. The potentiation of cytokine and NO responses was blocked by the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B) inhibitors caffeic acid phenethyl ester and helenalin, demonstrating that the NF-kappa B signalling pathway is involved. The DNA-binding activity of the NF-kappa B complex was strongly increased by LPS treatment but not enhanced by TSA. This suggests that potentiation of the inflammatory response is not dependent on the level of cytoplasmic NF-kappa B activation or DNA-binding activity but that site of action may be at the level of transcriptional regulation. Our results suggest that environmental stresses, ageing, diet and diseases that regulate protein acetylation status may also affect the inflammatory response.
Presenilin (PS) in association with nicastrin (NICA) forms a gamma-secretase complex that plays a crucial role in facilitating intramembranous processing of Notch, a signaling receptor that is essential for neuronal fate specification and differentiation. Loss of function studies have implicated a role for PS1 in regulating neuronal differentiation in association with the down-regulation of Notch signaling during neurogenesis. By using a system for stable, as well as tetracycline-inducible expression of interfering RNAs (RNAi), we studied the functions of PS1 during neuronal differentiation in the murine pluripotent p19 embryonic carcinoma cell line. After retinoic acid (RA) treatment and in the absence of doxycycline, neuronal progenitor cells in the p19 clone were found to extend their processes towards the neighboring colony to form network-like connections, as revealed by neuron-specific microtubule-associated protein 2 staining and laser scanning confocal microscopy. However, doxycycline-induced expression of PS1 small interfering RNA (siRNA) in the p19 clone resulted in a severe defect in the formation of network-like connections. Expression of the NICA and Notch down-stream effector genes Hes1 and Hes5 was unaffected in p19 cells expressing doxycycline-induced PS1 siRNA. In contrast to PS1, constitutive inactivation of NICA by siRNA in p19 cells resulted in premature and partial differentiation without RA treatment. In these NICA siRNA-expressing p19 cells the expression of the Notch1 down-stream effector Hes1 gene was substantially reduced. After RA treatment the NICA siRNA clone failed to differentiate completely into networks of neurons. These results taken together provide direct evidence that PS1 and NICA may participate in neuronal differentiation during neurogenesis in vitro.
Perturbation of histone acetyl-transferase (HAT) activity is implicated in the pathology of polyglutamine diseases, and suppression of the counteracting histone deacetylase (HDAC) proteins has been proposed as a therapeutic candidate for these intractable disorders. Meanwhile, it is not known whether mutant polyglutamine disease protein affects the HDAC activity in declining neurons, though the answer is essential for application of anti-HDAC drugs for polyglutamine diseases. Here, we show the effect of mutant huntingtin (htt) protein on the expression and activity of HDAC proteins in rat primary cortical neurons as well as in human Huntington's disease (HD) brains. Our findings indicate that expression and activity of HDAC proteins are not repressed by mutant htt protein. Furthermore, expression of normal and mutant htt protein slightly increased HDAC activity although the effects of normal and mutant htt were not remarkably different. In human HD cerebral cortex, HDAC5 immunoreactivity was increased in the nucleus of striatal and cortical neurons, suggesting accelerated nuclear import of this class II HDAC. Meanwhile, western blot and immunohistochemical analyses showed no remarkable change in the expression of class I HDAC proteins such as HDAC1 and HDCA8. Collectively, retained activity in affected neurons supports application of anti-HDAC drugs to the therapy of HD.
Antipsychotic drugs require a treatment regimen of several weeks before clinical efficacy is achieved in patient populations. While the biochemical mechanisms underlying the delayed temporal profile remain unclear, molecular adaptations in specific neuroanatomical loci are likely involved. Haloperidol-induced changes in gene expression in various brain regions have been observed; however, alterations in distinct neuronal populations have remained elusive. The present study examined changes in gene expression profiles of ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia nigra (SN) tyrosine hydroxylase immunopositive neurons following 1, 10 or 21 days of haloperidol administration (0.5 mg/kg/day). Macroarrays were used to study the expression of receptors, signaling proteins, transcription factors and pre- and post-synaptic proteins. Data were analyzed using conventional statistical procedures as well as self-organizing maps (SOM) to elucidate conserved patterns of expression changes. Results show statistically significant haloperidol-induced and time-dependent alterations in 17 genes in the VTA and 25 genes in the SN, including glutamate and GABA receptor subunits, signaling proteins and transcription factors. SOMs revealed distinct patterns of gene expression changes in response to haloperidol. Understanding how gene expression is altered over a clinically relevant time course of haloperidol administration may provide insight into the development of antipsychotic efficacy as well as the underlying pathology of schizophrenia.
Positron emission tomography studies in major depression show reduced serotonin (5-HT)1A receptor antagonist-binding potentials in many brain regions including occipital cortex. The functional meaning of this observation in terms of signal transduction is unknown. We used postmortem brain samples from depressed suicide victims to examine the downstream effectors of 5-HT1A receptor activation. The diagnosis was established by means of psychological autopsy using Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) III-R criteria. Measurements of [35S]GTPgammaS binding to Galphai/o in the occipital cortex of suicide victims and matched controls revealed a blunted response in suicide subjects and a decrease in the coupling of 5-HT1A receptor to adenylyl cyclase. No significant group differences were detected in the expression levels of Galphai/o, Galphaq/11 or Galphas proteins, or in the activity of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A. Studies of a parallel transduction pathway downstream from 5-HT1A receptor activation demonstrated a decrease in the activity of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and its downstream effector Akt, as well as an increase in PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10), the phosphatase that hydrolyzes phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate. Finally, the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 was attenuated in suicide victims. These data suggest that the alterations in agonist-stimulated 5-HT1A receptor activation in depressed suicide victims are also manifest downstream from the associated G protein, affecting the activity of second messengers in two 5-HT1A receptor transduction pathways that may have implications for cell survival.
Hydroxyurea is used in the treatment of HIV infection in combination with nucleoside analogues, 2'3'-didehydro-3'deoxythymidine (D4T), 2'3'-dideoxyinosine or abacavir. It is distributed into human CSF and is transported from the CSF to sub-ependymal brain sites, but its movement into the brain directly from the blood has not been studied. This study addressed this by a brain perfusion technique in anaesthetized guinea-pigs. The carotid arteries were perfused with an artificial plasma containing [14C]hydroxyurea (1.6 microm) and a vascular marker, [3H]mannitol (4.6 nm). Brain uptake of [14C]hydroxyurea (8.0 +/- 0.9%) was greater than [3H]mannitol (2.4 +/- 0.2%; 20-min perfusion, n = 8). CSF uptake of [14C]hydroxyurea (5.6 +/- 1.5%) was also greater than [3H]mannitol (0.9 +/- 0.3%; n = 4). Brain uptake of [14C]hydroxyurea was increased by 200 microm hydroxyurea, 90 microm D4T, 350 microm probenecid, 25 microm digoxin, but not by 120 microm hydroxyurea, 16.5-50 microm D4T, 90 microm 2'3'-dideoxyinosine or 90 microm abacavir. [14C]Hydroxyurea distribution to the CSF, choroid plexus and pituitary gland remained unaffected by all these drugs. The metabolic half-life of hydroxyurea was &gt; 15 h in brain and plasma. Results indicate that intact hydroxyurea can cross the brain barriers, but is removed from the brain by probenecid- and digoxin-sensitive transport mechanisms at the blood-brain barrier, which are also affected by D4T. These sensitivities implicate an organic anion transporter (probably organic anion transporting polypeptide 2) and possibly p-glycoprotein in the brain distribution of hydroxyurea and D4T.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by an expansion in the number of glutamine repeats in the N-terminal region of the huntingtin protein. Nuclear and cytoplasmic aggregates of the N-terminal portion of huntingtin have been found in the brains of HD patients and the brains and non-neuronal tissues of the R6/2 HD transgenic mouse. We have cultured myoblasts and myotubes from transgenic R6/2 mice and littermate controls to investigate the formation of these inclusions in post mitotic cells. Huntingtin immunoreactivity was intense in differentiating, desmin positive myoblasts and myotubes from both control and R6/2 mice suggesting that it may play a role in myotube differentiation. Following differentiation huntingtin and ubiquitin positive aggregates were observed in R6/2 but not control cultures. After 3 weeks in differentiation medium cytoplasmic huntingtin and ubiquitin immunoreactive aggregates were observed in non-myotube cells, while nuclear huntingtin aggregates were seen in a proportion of myotubes after 6 weeks. Growth in the absence of serum resulted in a marked increase in the number of R6/2 myotubes containing nuclear inclusions after 6 weeks demonstrating that environmental factors influenced huntingtin aggregate formation in these cells. Consequently, cultured myotubes from R6/2 mice may be a useful post mitotic cell culture model to study both the biochemical consequences of huntingtin aggregates and the factors that may influence aggregate formation.
Many aspects of physiology and behaviour are organized around a daily rhythm, driven by an endogenous circadian clock. Studies across numerous taxa have identified interlocked autoregulatory molecular feedback loops which underlie circadian organization in single cells. Until recently, little was known of (i) how the core clock mechanism regulates circadian output and (ii) what proportion of the cellular transcriptome is clock regulated. Studies using DNA microarray technology have addressed these questions in a global fashion and identified rhythmically expressed genes in numerous tissues in the rodent (suprachiasmatic nucleus, pineal gland, liver, heart, kidney) and immortalized fibroblasts, in the head and body of Drosophila, in the fungus Neurospora and the higher plant Arabidopsis. These clock controlled genes represent 0.5-9% of probed genes, with functional groups covering a broad spectrum of cellular pathways. There is considerable tissue specificity, with only approximately 10% rhythmic genes common to at least one other tissue, principally consisting of known clock genes. The remaining common genes may constitute genes operating close to the clock mechanism or novel core clock components. Microarray technology has also been applied to understand input pathways to the clock, identifying potential signalling components for clock resetting in fibroblasts, and elucidating the temperature entrainment mechanism in Neurospora. This review explores some of the common themes found between tissues and organisms, and focuses on some of the striking connections between the molecular core oscillator and aspects of circadian physiology and behaviour. It also addresses the limitations of the microarray technology and analyses, and suggests directions for future studies.
To test the hypothesis that oestrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) and ERbeta act together to mediate the actions of oestrogen in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), we used mice with single or double knockout mutations of the ERalpha and ERbeta genes. Ovariectomized mice were implanted with 17beta-oestradiol and killed 5 days later. Oestradiol treatment promoted progestin receptor (PR)-immunoreactivity (-ir) in the VMH of all genotypes, but was maximal in brains of wild-type and ERbetaKO females. Analysis of specific VMH subregions revealed that PR-ir induction was limited to the caudal VMH in ERalphaKO and ERalphabetaKO mice. In the rostral VMH, oestradiol only induced PR-ir in wild-type and ERbetaKO mice, and the number of PR-ir neurones in this region was greater in ERbetaKO than wild-type females. Next, we tested the ability of a dopamine agonist and progesterone to facilitate sexual behaviour in females lacking functional ERalpha, ERbeta, or both receptors. Ovariectomized mice were implanted with oestradiol, and tested for sexual behaviour three times after administration of the dopamine agonist, apomorphine, followed by two tests concurrent with progesterone treatment and a final test with just apomorphine treatment. ERalphaKO and ERalphabetaKO females failed to display lordosis under any testing conditions, while ERbetaKO females exhibited lordosis behaviour equal to that of wild-type females. Our data show that a subpopulation of PR-ir neurones is induced by oestradiol in the caudal VMH of female mice lacking both ERalpha and ERbeta genes. We hypothesize that this action of oestradiol is either mediated by a novel ER or by the mutant portion of the AF2 subregion of the ERalpha gene present in ERalphaKO brain. However, despite the presence of PR in VMH, females lacking a functional ERalpha gene do not display sexual behaviour, via either ligand-dependent or -independent activation.
In Syrian hamsters, socially relevant information is communicated with a form of scent marking known as flank marking. There is substantial evidence that arginine-vasopressin acting on V1a vasopressin receptors (V1aR) in the medial preoptic-anterior hypothalamic continuum (MPOA-AH) regulates the expression of flank marking. Previous studies have shown that the expression of flank marking is also influenced by the circulating concentrations of gonadal hormones. In hamsters housed in long 'summer-like' photoperiods (i.e. &gt;12.5 h of light/day), castration reduces flank marking and administration of testosterone restores precastration levels of flank marking. When exposed to short 'winter-like' photoperiods (i.e. &lt;12.5 h of light/day), hamsters undergo gonadal regression and the circulating levels of testosterone decline. Surprisingly, flank marking induced during social encounters is not reduced in hamsters exposed to short photoperiods despite the low circulating concentrations of testosterone. In the present study, it was hypothesized that reductions in testosterone, caused by exposure to short photoperiod, would not reduce the ability of vasopressin to stimulate flank marking by its actions in the MPOA-AH. The amount of flank marking induced by vasopressin injected into the MPOA-AH did not significantly differ between hamsters housed in long and short photoperiods; however, short photoperiod-exposed males had significantly less V1aR binding in the MPOA than long photoperiod-exposed males. These results support the hypothesis that the sensitivity of the MPOA-AH to vasopressin is not reduced in short photoperiod-exposed males, despite decreases in serum testosterone. However, by contrast to our predictions, short photoperiod-exposed males have significantly reduced V1aR binding in the MPOA-AH compared to long photoperiod-exposed males.
Our previous studies have identified a role for annexin 1 (ANXA1), a protein produced by the pituitary folliculostellate cells, as a paracrine/juxtacrine mediator of the acute regulatory effects of glucocorticoids on the release of adrenocorticotropic hormone and other pituitary hormones. In the present study, we focused on the secretion of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) and used a battery of ANXA1-derived peptides to identify the key domains in the ANXA1 molecule that are critical to the inhibition of peptide release. In addition, as ANXA1 is a substrate for protein kinase C (PKC) and tyrosine kinase, we examined the roles of these kinases in the manifestation of the ANXA1-dependent inhibitory actions of dexamethasone on TSH and LH release. Dexamethasone suppressed the forskolin-induced release of TSH and LH from rat anterior pituitary tissue in vitro. Its effects were mimicked by human recombinant ANXA1 (hrANXA1) and a truncated protein, ANXA1(1-188). ANXA1(Ac2-26), also suppressed stimulated peptide release but it lacked both the potency and the efficacy of the parent protein. Shorter N-terminal ANXA1 sequences were without effect. The PKC inhibitor PKC(19-36) abolished the inhibitory actions of dexamethasone on the forskolin-evoked release of TSH and LH; it also attenuated the inhibitory actions of ANXA1(Ac2-26). Similar effects were produced by annexin 5 (ANXA5) which sequesters PKC in other systems. By contrast, the tyrosine kinase inhibitors, p60v-src (137-157) and genistein, had no effect on the secretion of TSH or LH alone or in the presence of forskolin and/or dexamethasone. Dexamethasone caused the translocation of a tyrosine-phosphorylated species of ANXA1 to the surface of pituitary cells. The total amount of ANXA1 exported from the cells in response to the steroid was unaffected by tyrosine kinase blockade. However, the degree of tyrosine-phosphorylation of the exported protein was markedly reduced by genistein. These results suggest that (i) the ANXA1-dependent inhibitory actions of dexamethasone on the release of TSH and LH require PKC and sequences in the N-terminal domain of ANXA1, but are independent of tyrosine kinase, and (ii) while dexamethasone induces the cellular exportation of a tyrosine-phosphorylated species of ANXA1, tyrosine phosphorylation per se is not critical to the steroid-induced passage of ANXA1 across the membrane.



We report on a genome-wide screen for association with multiple sclerosis (MS) in the German population performed using 6000 microsatellite markers. These markers were typed in four DNA pools consisting of 234 MS patients (cases), 209 unrelated controls, 68 index patients from trio families and their 136 parents (related controls). Stringent analysis identified 11 markers showing apparent evidence for association. Five from regions previously identified in linkage studies and two from the MHC region on chromosome 6p21. These MHC markers are known to be in linkage disequilibrium with HLA class II alleles influencing susceptibility to MS. The identification of these markers serves as an important positive control.


Lewy bodies (LBs) are hallmark lesions in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). By raising a monoclonal antibody LB509 against purified LBs from the brains of patients with DLB that strongly immuola-beled LBs, we found that alpha-synuclein is one of the major components of LBs. Thus, the deposition of alpha-synuclein, an abundant presynaptic brain protein, as fibrillary aggregates in affected neurons or glial cells,was highlighted as a hallmark lesion of a subset of neurodegenerative disorders, including PD, DLB and multiple system atrophy collectively referred to as synucleinopathies. Importantly, the identification of missense mutations in alpha-synuclein gene in some pedigrees of familial PD has strongly implicated alpha-synuclein in the pathogenesis of PD and other synucleinopathies. We then examined the specific post-translational modifications that characterize and underlie the aggregation of alpha-synuclein in synucleinopathy brains by mass spectrometry and using a s pecific antibody,and found that serine 129 of alpha-synuclein deposited in synucleinopathy lesions is selectively and extensively phosphorylated. These findings underscore the importance of phosphorylation of filamentous proteins in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders.

It is known that GABA, a major inhibitory transmitter in the CNS, acts as an excitatory (or depolarizing) transmitter transiently after intense GABAA receptor activation in adult brains. The depolarizing effect is considered to be dependent on two GABAA receptor-permeable anions, chloride (Cl-) and bicarbonate (HCO3-). However, little is known about their spatial and temporal profiles during the GABAergic depolarization in postsynaptic neurons. In the present study, we show that the amplitude of synaptically induced depolarizing response was correlated with intracellular Cl- accumulation in the soma of mature hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells, by using whole cell patch-clamp recording and Cl- imaging technique with a Cl- indicator 6-methoxy-N-ethylquinolinium iodide (MEQ). The synaptically activated Cl- accumulation was mediated dominantly through GABAA receptors. Basket cells, a subclass of fast-spiking interneurons innervating the somatic portion of the pyramidal cells, actually fired at high frequency during the Cl- accumulation accompanying the depolarizing responses. These results suggest synaptically activated GABAA-mediated Cl- accumulation may play a critical role in generation of an excitatory GABAergic response in the mature pyramidal cells receiving intense synaptic inputs. This may be the first demonstration of microscopic visualization of intracellular Cl- accumulation during synaptic activation.
Previous investigations have suggested that GABA may act actively as an excitatory mediator in the generation of seizure-like (ictal) or interictal epileptiform activity in several experimental models of temporal lobe epilepsy. However, it remains to be known whether or not such GABAergic excitation may participate in seizure propagation into neighboring cortical regions. In our in vitro study using mature rat hippocampal slices, we examined the cellular mechanism underlying synchronous propagation of seizure-like afterdischarge in the CA1 region, which is driven by depolarizing GABAergic transmission, into the adjacent subiculum region. Tetanically induced seizure-like afterdischarge was always preceded by a GABAergic, slow posttetanic depolarization in the pyramidal cells of the original seizure-generating region. In contrast, the slow posttetanic depolarization was no longer observed in the subicular pyramidal cells when the afterdischarge was induced in the CA1 region. Surgical cutting of axonal pathways through the stratum oriens and the alveus between the CA1 and the subiculum region abolished the CA1-generated afterdischarge in the subicular pyramidal cells. Intracellular loading of fluoride ions, a GABAA receptor blocker, into single subicular pyramidal cells had no inhibitory effect on the CA1-generated afterdischarge in the pyramidal cells. Furthermore, the CA1-generated afterdischarge in the subicular pyramidal cells was largely depressed by local application of glutamate receptor antagonists to the subiculum region during afterdischarge generation. The present results indicate that the excitatory GABAergic generation of seizure-like activity seems to be restricted to epileptogenic foci of origin in the seizure-like epilepsy model in vitro.
During the course of pursuing a moving target there are often periods of transient disappearance as it moves behind objects and surfaces. In experimental settings, eye velocity decays rapidly on the extinction of a moving target. However, eye velocity does not decay to zero if there is an expectation the target will reappear further along its trajectory. Increasing eye velocity to coincide with target reappearance could minimize the developing velocity error, but it remains to be empirically verified whether this can be achieved. The aim of the present study was to examine the influence of stimulus predictability, target velocity, and interstimulus interval (ISI) on ocular pursuit during the transient disappearance of a visual target. We confirmed that subjects (n = 9) did not maintain eye velocity close to target velocity for the duration of the ISI. In general, after an initial reduction in eye velocity the majority of subjects (n = 7) exhibited a significant increase before target reappearance. The timing of the velocity increase was not influenced by target velocity, stimulus predictability, or ISI. Consequently, for the 900-ms ISI the increase occurred too early and the eye was decelerating at the moment of target reappearance. These results are consistent with a reduction in gain being applied to the visuomotor drive when the target disappeared, followed by a reactivation in expectation of target reappearance. We modeled this process such that gain was modulated within a reafferent feedback system, hence preserving its output in the absence of negative visual feedback and enabling an anticipatory increase in eye velocity before expected target reappearance.
Sindbis viruses have been widely used in neurobiology to express a variety of genes in cultured neurons, in cultured slices, and in vivo. They provide fast onset and high levels of expression of foreign genes, but the expression is limited to a short time window due to a shut-off of host protein synthesis. We have used a mutation in an essential gene (nsP2) of the life cycle of Sindbis, which allows the functional analysis of changes in protein expression for &gt;/=6 days after infection. This Sindbis mutant (nsP2) was used to express enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) in hippocampal neurons in culture and in vivo without any sign of toxicity, based on two-photon imaging and electrophysiology. In addition, the EGFP mutant virus can be injected in vivo to visualize spines and other details of neuronal structure. The Sindbis mutant described here provides an improved tool in neurobiology with reduced cytotoxicity and a prolonged time window of expression for novel applications in imaging and behavior. In addition, the use of this vector for the functional expression of mammalian voltage-gated ion channels in organotypic slices is demonstrated.
Whole cell transduction currents were recorded from hair cells in early postnatal mouse utricles in response to step deflections of the hair bundle. For displacement steps delivered by a stiff probe (1-ms rise time), half-maximal responses decayed monoexponentially with a mean time constant of 30 ms. Adaptation and other transduction properties did not vary systematically with hair cell type (I vs. II) or region (striola vs. extrastriola). Thus regional variation in the phasic properties of utricular afferents arises through other mechanisms. When bundles were deflected by a fluid jet, which delivers force steps, transduction currents decayed about 3-fold more slowly than during displacement steps. A simple model of myosin-mediated adaptation predicts such slowing through forward creep of the bundle during a force step. For a faster stiff probe (rise time 200 micros), step responses of both mouse utricular and frog saccular hair cells decayed with two exponential components, which may correspond to distinct feedback processes. For half-maximal responses, the two components had mean time constants of 5 and 45 ms (mouse) and 2 and 18 ms (frog). The fast and slow components dominated the decay of responses to small and large stimuli, respectively. Adaptation shifts the instantaneous operating range in the direction of the adapting step. In frog saccular hair cells, the operating range shift is a constant percentage of the displacement. In mouse utricular hair cells, the percentage shift increases for large displacements, extending the range of background stimuli over which adaptation can restore instantaneous sensitivity.
This study examined whether human infants under the age of 12 mo learn to modify their stepping pattern after repeated trip-inducing stimuli. Thirty three infants aged from 5 to 11 mo were studied. The infants were held over a moving treadmill belt to induce stepping. Occasionally, a mechanical tap was applied to the dorsum of the left foot during the early swing phase to elicit a high step. In some trials, the stimulus was applied for only one step. In other trials, the foot was stimulated for a few consecutive steps. We determined whether the infants continued to show high stepping immediately after the removal of the stimuli. The results showed that after the foot was touched for two or more consecutive steps, some infants continued to demonstrate high stepping for a few steps after the removal of the stimuli (i.e., aftereffect). Such adaptation was achieved by an increase in hip and knee flexor muscle torque, which led to greater hip and knee flexion during the early swing phase. Aftereffects were more commonly seen in older infants (9 mo or older). The results indicated that before the onset of independent walking, the locomotor circuitry in human infants is capable of adaptive locomotor plasticity. The increased incidence of aftereffect in older infants also suggests that the ability to adapt to repeated trip-inducing stimuli may be related to other factors such as experience in stepping and maturation of the nervous system.
It is well established that the vanilloid receptor, VR1, is an important peripheral mediator of nociception. VR1 receptors are also located in several brain regions, yet it is uncertain whether these supraspinal VR1 receptors have any influence on the nociceptive system. To investigate a possible nociceptive role for supraspinal VR1 receptors, capsaicin (10 nmol in 0.4 microl) was microinjected into either the dorsal (dPAG) or ventral (vPAG) regions of the periaqueductal gray. Capsaicin-related effects on tail flick latency (immersion in 52 degrees C water) and on neuronal activity (on-, off-, and neutral cells) in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) were measured in lightly anesthetized rats. Administration of capsaicin into the dPAG but not the vPAG caused an initial hyperalgesic response followed later by analgesia (125 +/- 20.96 min postinjection). The tail flick-related burst in on-cell activity was triggered earlier in the hyperalgesic phase and was delayed or absent during the analgesic phase. Spontaneous activity of on-cells increased at the onset of the hyperalgesic phase and decreased before and during the analgesic phase. The tail flick-related pause in off-cell activity as well as spontaneous firing for these cells was unchanged in the hyperalgesic phase. During the analgesic phase, off-cells no longer paused during noxious stimulation and had increased levels of spontaneous activity. Neutral cell firing was unaffected in either phase. Pretreatment with the VR1 receptor antagonist, capsazepine (10 nmol in 0.4 microl), into the dPAG blocked the capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia as well as the corresponding changes in on- and off-cell activity. VR1 receptor immunostaining was observed in the dPAG of untreated rats. Microinjection of capsaicin likely sensitized and then desensitized dPAG neurons affecting nocifensive reflexes and RVM neuronal activity. These results suggest that supraspinal VR1 receptors in the dPAG contribute to descending modulation of nociception.
The mouse is a promising model system for auditory cortex research because of the powerful genetic tools available for manipulating its neural circuitry. Previous studies have identified two tonotopic auditory areas in the mouse-primary auditory cortex (AI) and anterior auditory field (AAF)- but auditory receptive fields in these areas have not yet been described. To establish a foundation for investigating auditory cortical circuitry and plasticity in the mouse, we characterized receptive-field structure in AI and AAF of anesthetized mice using spectrally complex and temporally dynamic stimuli as well as simple tonal stimuli. Spectrotemporal receptive fields (STRFs) were derived from extracellularly recorded responses to complex stimuli, and frequency-intensity tuning curves were constructed from responses to simple tonal stimuli. Both analyses revealed temporal differences between AI and AAF responses: peak latencies and receptive-field durations for STRFs and first-spike latencies for responses to tone bursts were significantly longer in AI than in AAF. Spectral properties of AI and AAF receptive fields were more similar, although STRF bandwidths were slightly broader in AI than in AAF. Finally, in both AI and AAF, a substantial minority of STRFs were spectrotemporally inseparable. The spectrotemporal interaction typically appeared in the form of clearly disjoint excitatory and inhibitory subfields or an obvious spectrotemporal slant in the STRF. These data provide the first detailed description of auditory receptive fields in the mouse and suggest that although neurons in areas AI and AAF share many response characteristics, area AAF may be specialized for faster temporal processing.
The modulation of neuronal excitability by group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) was studied in isolated lamprey spinal cord. At resting potential, application of the group I mGluR agonist (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) slightly depolarized the cells. However, at depolarized membrane potentials, this agonist induced repetitive firing. When Na+ channels were blocked by TTX, DHPG induced a slight depolarization at rest that increased in amplitude as the neurons were held at more depolarized membrane potentials. In voltage-clamp conditions, DHPG application induced an inward current associated with a decrease in membrane conductance when cells were held at -40 mV. At resting membrane potential, no significant change in the current was induced by DHPG, although a decrease in membrane conductance was seen. The conductance blocked by DHPG corresponded to a leak current, since DHPG had no effect on the voltage-gated current elicited by a voltage step from -60 to -40 mV, when leak currents were subtracted. The leak current blocked by DHPG is mediated by fluxes of both K+ and Na+. The subtype of group I mGluR mediating the block of the leak current was characterized using specific antagonists for mGluR1 and mGluR5. The inhibition of the leak current was blocked by the mGluR1 antagonist LY 367385 but not by the mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP). The DHPG-induced blockage of the leak current required phospholipase C (PLC)-activation and release of Ca2+ from internal stores as the effect of DHPG was suppressed by the PLC-blocker U-73122 and after depletion of intracellular Ca2+ pools by thapsigargin. Our results thus show that mGluR1 activation depolarizes spinal neurons by inhibiting a leak current. This will boost membrane depolarization and result in an increase in the excitability of spinal cord neurons, which could contribute to the modulation of the activity of the spinal locomotor network.
Epileptic seizures are associated with neuronal hyperactivity. Here, however, we investigated whether continuous neuronal firing is necessary to maintain electrographic seizures. We studied a class of &quot;low-Ca2+&quot; ictal epileptiform bursts, induced in rat hippocampal slices, that are characterized by prolonged (2-15 s) interruptions in population spike generation. We found that, during these interruptions, neuronal firing was suppressed rather than desynchronized. Intracellular current injection, application of extracellular uniform electric fields, and antidromic stimulation showed that the source of action potential disruption was depolarization block. The duration of the extracellular potassium transients associated with each ictal burst was not affected by disruptions in neuronal firing. Application of phenytoin or veratridine indicated a critical role for the persistent sodium current in maintaining depolarization block. Our results show that continuous neuronal firing is not necessary for the maintenance of experimental electrographic seizures.
The lobster pyloric network has a densely interconnected synaptic connectivity pattern, and the role individual synapses play in generating network activity is consequently difficult to discern. We examined this issue by quantifying the effect on pyloric network phasing and spiking activity of removing the Lateral Pyloric (LP) and Ventricular Dilator (VD) neurons, which synapse onto almost all pyloric neurons. A confounding factor in this work is that LP and VD neuron removal alters pyloric cycle period. To determine the effects of LP and VD neuron removal on pyloric activity independent of these period alterations, we altered network period by current injection into a pyloric pacemaker neuron, hyperpolarized the LP or VD neuron to functionally remove each from the network, and plotted various measures of pyloric neuron activity against period with and without the LP or VD neuron. In normal physiological saline, in many (or most) cases removing either neuron had surprisingly little effect on the activity of its postsynaptic partners, which suggests that under these conditions these neurons play a relatively small role in determining pyloric activity. In the cases in which removal did alter postsynaptic activity, the effects were inconsistent across preparations, which suggests that either despite producing very similar neural outputs, pyloric networks from different animals have different cellular and synaptic properties, or some synapses contribute to network activity only under certain modulatory conditions, and the &quot;baseline&quot; level of modulatory influence the network receives from higher centers varies from animal to animal.
The intensity tuning of excitatory and suppressive domain frequency response areas was investigated in 230 cat primary auditory cortical and 92 posterior auditory field neurons. Suppressive domains were explored using simultaneous 2-tone stimulation with one tone at the best excitatory frequency. The intensity tuning of excitatory and suppressive domains was negatively correlated, supporting the hypothesis that inhibitory sidebands are related to excitatory domain intensity tuning. To further test this hypothesis, we compared the slopes of the edges of suppressive bands to the intensity tuning of excitatory domains. Edges of suppressive bands next to excitatory domains had slopes significantly more slanted toward the excitatory area in neurons with intensity-tuned excitatory domains. This relationship was not observed for suppressive band edges not next to the excitatory domain (e.g., the lower edge of lower suppressive bands). This indicates that intensity tuning ultimately observed in the excitatory domain results from overlapping excitatory and inhibitory inputs. In combination with results using forward masking, our results suggest that there are separate early and late sources of inhibition contributing to cortical frequency response areas, and only the early-stage inhibition contributes to excitatory domain intensity tuning.
Here we present the changes in cortical activity occurring within a few hours after a 1-h exposure to a 120-dB SPL pure tone (5 or 6 kHz). The changes in primary auditory cortex of 16 ketamine-anesthetized cats were assessed by recording, with two 8-microelectrode arrays, from the same multiunit clusters before and after the trauma. The exposure resulted in a peripheral threshold increase that stabilized after a few hours to on average 40 dB in the frequency range of 6-32 kHz, as measured by the auditory brain stem response. The trauma induced a shift in characteristic frequency toward lower frequencies, an emergence of new responses, a broadening of the tuning curve, and an increase in the maximum of driven discharges. In addition, the onset response after the trauma was of shorter duration than before the trauma. The results suggest the involvement of both a decrease and an increase in inhibition. They are discussed in terms of changes in central inhibition and its implications for tonotopic map plasticity.

The medullary respiratory network involves various types of respiratory neurons. The present study focused on possible inhibitory neurons called decrementing expiratory (E-DEC) neurons and aimed to determine whether their transmitter is glycine or GABA. In Nembutal-anesthetized, neuromuscularly blocked, and artificially ventilated rats we labeled E-DEC neurons with Neurobiotin and processed the tissues for detection of mRNA encoding either glycine transporter 2 (GLYT2) as a marker for glycinergic neurons or glutamic acid decarboxylase isoform 67 (GAD67) as a marker for GABAergic neurons, using in situ hybridization. Of 38 E-DEC neurons that were labeled, cranial motoneurons (n = 14), which were labeled as control, were negative for either GLYT2 mRNA (n = 10) or GAD67 mRNA (n = 4). The other E-DEC neurons (n = 24) were non-motoneurons. Sixteen of them were examined for GLYT2 mRNA, and the majority (11 of 16) was GLYT2 mRNA-positive. The remaining E-DEC neurons (n = 8) were examined for GAD67 mRNA, and all of them were GAD67 mRNA-negative. The GLYT2 mRNA-positive E-DEC neurons were located in the ventrolateral medulla spanning the Btzinger complex (BOT), the rostral ventral respiratory group (VRG), and the caudal VRG. We conclude that not only E-DEC neurons of the BOT but also many E-DEC neurons of the VRG are inhibitory and use glycine as a transmitter. Although the present negative data cannot rule out completely the release of GABA or co-release of glycine and GABA from E-DEC neurons, several lines of evidence suggest that the glycinergic process is primarily responsible for the phasic inhibition of the respiratory network during the expiratory phase.
In several systems, including some well studied invertebrate &quot;model&quot; preparations, rapid, rhythmic inputs drive slow muscles. In this situation muscle contractions can summate temporally between motor neuron bursts, tonically contract, and low-pass filter broad-band input. We have investigated how the muscles innervated by each motor neuron type of the rapid, rhythmic (cycle period, approximately 1 sec) lobster pyloric network respond when driven by previously recorded in vitro pyloric network activity from intact stomatogastric nervous systems. Under these conditions the much slower gastric mill and cardiac sac networks of the stomatogastric nervous system are also active and modify pyloric activity. All of the muscles show pyloric timed phasic contractions that ride on a sustained tonic contraction; muscle activity can range from being almost completely phasic to almost completely tonic. The modifications of pyloric neuron activity induced by gastric mill (cycle period, approximately 10 sec) activity result in some pyloric muscles showing prominent, gastric mill-timed, changes in either phasic or tonic contraction amplitude. The strong modification of pyloric neuron activity induced by cardiac sac (cycle period, approximately 60 sec) activity alters the contractions of all pyloric muscles. These changes are sufficient that for some muscles, in some preparations, the primary muscle output is cardiac sac-timed. This is the first work to examine the motor responses of all pyloric muscle classes to spontaneous stomatogastric activity and shows that the pyloric motor pattern is a complex combination of the activities of three neural networks, although only one (the pyloric) innervates the muscles.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) can result in hyperexcitability of dorsal horn neurons and central neuropathic pain. We hypothesized that these phenomena are consequences, in part, of dysregulated expression of voltage-gated sodium channels. Because the rapidly repriming TTX-sensitive sodium channel Nav1.3 has been implicated in peripheral neuropathic pain, we investigated its role in central neuropathic pain after SCI. In this study, adult male Sprague Dawley rats underwent T9 spinal contusion injury. Four weeks after injury when extracellular recordings demonstrated hyperexcitability of L3-L5 dorsal horn multireceptive nociceptive neurons, and when pain-related behaviors were evident, quantitative RT-PCR, in situ hybridization, and immunocytochemistry revealed an upregulation of Nav1.3 in dorsal horn nociceptive neurons. Intrathecal administration of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) targeting Nav1.3 resulted in decreased expression of Nav1.3 mRNA and protein, reduced hyperexcitability of multireceptive dorsal horn neurons, and attenuated mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia after SCI. Expression of Nav1.3 protein and hyperexcitability in dorsal horn neurons as well as pain-related behaviors returned after cessation of antisense delivery. Responses to normally noxious stimuli and motor function were unchanged in SCI animals administered Nav1.3 antisense, and administration of mismatch ODNs had no effect. These results demonstrate for the first time that Nav1.3 is upregulated in second-order dorsal horn sensory neurons after nervous system injury, showing that SCI can trigger changes in sodium channel expression, and suggest a functional link between Nav1.3 expression and neuronal hyperexcitability associated with central neuropathic pain.
Cervical chordomas are rare, slow-growing, but locally aggressive tumors. Predominantly found in people 50-69 years old, a chordoma arises from remnants of the primitive notochord. It is most often found in the sacrococcygeal or skull base areas. However, it can be found throughout the spine. Because chordomas are slow growing, they may reach considerable size before the patient becomes symptomatic. Surgical resection with a wide margin is the only curative procedure. Usually, because of tumor location and infiltration, this is not possible. Although this type of tumor is generally considered radioresistant, radiation therapy is often prescribed after surgical resection. The following case study illustrates the clinical presentation, surgical interventions, and neuroscience nursing considerations for a patient undergoing a posterior stabilization as well as a midline mandibulotomy-glossotomy approach for an upper cervical spine chordoma resection.
In this study, the suppressive effects of BmK IT2, a kind of Na+ channel-specific modulator from the venom of the scorpion Buthus martensi Karsch, on biphasic nociceptive behavior in rats and c-Fos expression in rat spinal cord induced by formalin were investigated. Fifty microliters of 2.5% formalin were subcutaneously injected into the rat hind paw; 0.1 and 1 microg doses of BmK IT2 were subcutaneously administered into the rat ipsilateral hind paw 1 min before or 10 min after formalin injection individually, and the number of flinches per 5 min was counted. The detection of c-Fos expression induced by formalin in either the absence or the presence of BmK IT2 was carried out with the ABC method. Biphasic nociceptive behavior in rats was significantly suppressed by pretreatment with BmK IT2. No. of flinches/5 min in the second phase was also decreased by posttreatment with BmK IT2. In addition, c-Fos expression induced by formalin was significantly inhibited in all laminae of L4-5 spinal cord by pre- or posttreatment with BmK IT2. The suppression of BmK IT2 in the first- and second-phase behaviors may be attributed to the anesthesia of the toxin toward nociceptors and primary afferents and its selective modulation of tetrodotoxin-resistant Na+ currents of dorsal root ganglion neurons, respectively. In addition, the nonparallel suppression of BmK IT2 on flinch behavior and c-Fos expression induced by formalin may be ascribed to the different activity patterns of afferent fibers and central neurons.
A role for astroglia in epileptogenesis has been hypothesised but is not established. Low doses of fluorocitrate specifically and reversibly disrupt astroglial metabolism by blocking aconitase, an enzyme integral to the tricarboxylic acid cycle. We used cerebral cortex injections of fluorocitrate, at a dose that we demonstrated to inhibit astroglial metabolism selectively, to determine whether astroglial disturbances lead to seizures. Rats were halothane-anesthetized, and 0.8 nmol of sodium fluorocitrate was injected into the cerebral cortex. Extradural electroencephalogram (EEG) electrodes were implanted, after which the anesthesia was ceased and the animals were observed. In all experiments, 14 of 15 fluorocitrate-treated animals exhibited epileptiform EEG discharges, with some animals exhibiting convulsive seizures. Discharges commenced as early as 30 min postfluorocitrate injection. Intraperitoneal octanol, but not halothane by inhalation, given to test the possible participation of gap junctions in EEG discharge generation, blocked or delayed the occurrence of discharges after fluorocitrate. These results indicate that focal cerebrocortical astroglial dysfunction leads to focal epileptiform discharges and sometimes to convulsive seizures and that the process possibly depends on effects mediated by gap junctions.
We noted previously that after unilateral cochlear ablation (UCA) in young adult guinea pigs, plastic changes in glutamatergic transmitter release in several brain stem auditory nuclei depended on protein kinase C. In this study, we assessed whether such changes depended on protein kinase A (PKA) and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). The electrically-evoked release of D-[3H]aspartate (D-[3H]Asp) was quantified in vitro as an index of glutamatergic transmitter release in the major subdivisions of the cochlear nucleus (CN) and the main nuclei of the superior olivary complex (SOC). In tissues from intact animals, dibutyryl-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (DBcAMP), a PKA activator, elevated D-[3H]Asp release by 1.9-3.7-fold. The PKA inhibitor, H-89 (2 microM), did not alter the evoked release but blocked the stimulatory effects of DBcAMP. These findings suggested that PKA could positively regulate glutamatergic transmitter release. Seven days after the ablation of one cochlea and its cochlear nerve, the stimulatory effect of DBcAMP remained evident. After 145 postablation days, H-89 blocked the plastic elevations of D-[3H]Asp release in the ipsilateral CN and lateral (LSO) and medial (MSO) superior olive. A CaMKII inhibitor, KN-93, produced similar blocks, suggesting that the postablation plasticities in these nuclei depended on PKA or CaMKII. Both H-89 and KN-93 elevated release in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) and the contralateral MSO, suggesting that either kinase could be used by endogenous mechanisms in these nuclei to downregulate glutamatergic release.
Connexin43 (cx43) forms gap junctions in astrocytes, and these gap junctions mediate intercellular communication by providing transport of low-molecular-weight metabolites and ions. We have recently shown that systemic growth hormone increases cx43 in the brain. One possibility was that local brain insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) could mediate the effect by acting directly on astrocytes. In the present study, we examined the effects of direct application of recombinant human IGF-I (rhIGF-I) on astrocytes in primary culture concerning cx43 protein expression and gap junctional communication (GJC). After 24 hr of stimulation with rhIGF-I under serum-free conditions, the GJC and cx43 protein were analyzed. Administration of 30 ng/ml rhIGF-I increased the GJC and the abundance of cx43 protein. Cell proliferation of the astrocytes was not significantly increased by rhIGF-I at this concentration. However, a higher concentration of rhIGF-I (150 ng/ml) had no effect on GJC/cx43 but increased cell proliferation. Because of the important modulatory role of IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) on IGF-I action, we analyzed IGFBPs in conditioned media. In cultures with a low abundance of IGFBPs (especially IGFBP-2), the GJC response to 30 ng/ml rhIGF-I was 81%, compared with the average of 25%. Finally, as a control, insulin was given in equimolar concentrations. However, GJC was not affected, which suggests that rhIGF-I acted via IGF-I receptors. In summary, the data show that rhIGF-I may increase GJC/cx43, whereas a higher concentration of rhIGF-I--at which stimulation of proliferation occurred--did not affect GJC/cx43. Furthermore, IGFBP-2 appeared to modulate the action of rhIGF-I on GJC in astrocytes by a paracrine mechanism.
The authors describe the case of a high cervical, intradural extramedullary cyst located anterior to the spinal cord in a 13-year-old boy. The lesion was fenestrated percutaneously by using real-time magnetic resonance (MR) imaging guidance and a local anesthetic agent. The patient's symptom, severe exercise-induced headache, immediately resolved after treatment. Nine months later, complete disappearance of the cyst was confirmed on MR imaging and computerized tomography myelography. Magnetic resonance imageing-guided fenestration can be considered a minimally invasive option for intradural cystic lesions.
Fever after acute brain injury affects neuronal function and recovery. Standard therapies have proven to be inadequate in treating hyperthermia in this patient population. We report on safety/efficacy pilot data collected using a noninvasive, novel, water-circulating cooling device in febrile acute brain injury patients. We enrolled patients who developed fever (rectal temperature &gt; or =38.0 degrees C) refractory to pharmacological therapy. The treatment device uses an ice water circulating system embedded in hydrogel-coated, energy transfer pads. Its thermoregulatory feedback control uses cold water (4.0 degrees C-42.0 degrees C) and was set at 36.5 degrees C for this study. We analyzed the temperature response during 600 consecutive minutes of treatment. Six consecutive patients were enrolled and seven episodes of fever were recorded; the mean age of the patients was 59.7 years (range 46-71 years; five male, one female). Diagnoses were as follows: subarachnoid hemorrhage (two), severe traumatic brain injury (two), status epilepticus following massive cerebral infarction (one), and intracerebral/intraventricular hemorrhage (one). Hand warming was applied at treatment onset on all patients; shivering only responsive to meperidine occurred in five of them. Fever of 38.4 degrees C (range 38.0 degrees C-38.9 degrees C) was reduced to 36.9 degrees C (range 36.0 degrees C-38.0 degrees C) after 120 minutes (P&lt;0.001). Core temperature remained &quot;locked&quot; during the remainder of the treatment (36.6 degrees C, P=0.5; 36.6 degrees C, P=0.9; and 36.5 degrees C, P=0.9 at 180, 300, and 600 minutes, respectively). Skin integrity under the pads was preserved in all study subjects. Our results indicate that use of this novel technique is safe, rapidly effective, and able to maintain sustained normothermia following fever in a cohort of critically ill neurologic/neurosurgical patients.
We have recently shown that enriched environment (EE) housing significantly enhances locomotor recovery following spinal cord contusion injury (SCI) in rats. As the type and intensity of locomotor training with EE housing are rather poorly characterized, we decided to compare the effectiveness of EE housing with that of voluntary wheel running, the latter of which is both well characterized and easily quantified. Female Wistar rats were made familiar with three types of housing conditions, social housing (nine together) in an EE (EHC), individual housing in a running wheel cage (RUN, n = 8), and standard housing two together (CON, n = 10). Subsequently, a 12.5 gcm SCI at Th8 was produced and animals were randomly divided over the three housing conditions. Locomotor function was measured regularly, once a week by means of the BBB score, BBB sub score, TLH test, Gridwalk test, and CatWalk test. In the RUN group, daily distance covered was also measured. Locomotor recovery in the EHC and the RUN groups was equal and significantly better than in the CON group. The extent of recovery at 8 weeks post injury in the RUN group did not correlate with distance covered. We conclude that locomotor training needs to exceed a given threshold in order to be effective in enhancing locomotor recovery in this experimental model, but that once this threshold is exceeded no further improvement occurs, and that the specificity of locomotor training plays little role.
Brain trauma is a major cause of morbidity and mortality, both in adult and pediatric populations. Much of the functional deficit derives from delayed cell death resulting from induction of neurotoxic factors that overwhelm endogenous neuroprotective responses. To identify the potential molecular mechanisms underlying such delayed responses, we compared gene expression patterns using high-density oligonucleotide arrays at 4, 8, 24, and 72 h after moderate levels of lateral fluid percussion-induced brain injury in rats and lateral controlled cortical impact injury in mice (a total of 47 profiles). Expression of 82 genes in 12 functional categories was significantly changed in both species after trauma. The largest number of gene expression changes were found in the functional groups related to inflammation (17%), transcription regulation (16%), and cell adhesion/extracellular matrix (15%). Fifty percent of genes similarly altered across models had not been previously implicated in traumatic brain injury. Of particular interest were expression changes in genes linked to neurodegeneration, such as ATF3 and lysosomal membrane glycoprotein 2, and to neuroprotection including lipocortin 1, calponin 3, gelsolin, Id-1, and p45 NF-E2. Gene expression profiling across species and models may help identify candidate molecular pathways induced by brain injury, some of which may provide novel targets for therapeutic intervention.
Although mild-to-moderate levels of iodine deficiency (ID) have been associated with poor cognitive outcomes in children, little is known about subclinical prenatal ID and infant development. In this study, the association between elevated cord blood thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH, thyrotropin) and infant development was examined in Northern China. Three groups of infants with elevated cord blood TSH were compared with infants with normal TSH levels on an information processing task at 7 mo, and in cognitive and motor developmental assessments at 13 mo. Infants with elevated TSH had poorer information processing skills and lower scores on the cognitive development index. There were no differences in motor abilities. Relationships between socioenvironmental factors and iodine status were assessed. Infants from more rural settings and those whose mothers had completed fewer years of schooling and had lower paying occupations had higher cord blood TSH levels. A regression analysis indicated that maternal education was predictive of cognitive performance among infants with elevated TSH but not control infants. The findings suggest that subclinical prenatal ID has negative effects on infant development and that, in some instances, maternal education may ameliorate these effects.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) (1-100 nM) decreases the activity of Na,K-ATPase, a key enzyme responsible for aqueous humor formation, in transformed human non-pigmented ciliary epithelial (HNPE) cells. The present study sought to determine if ET-1 alters the expression of the catalytically active alpha subunit of Na,K-ATPase in HNPE cells and identify mechanisms underlying these effects. We report that acute (15 and 30 min) treatment with ET-1 results in an increase in mRNA expression of the alpha 1 subunit of Na,K-ATPase. Similar to ET-1's effects, ouabain (100 microM), a selective inhibitor of Na,K-ATPase, and monensin (10 microM), a sodium ionophore, also increased Na,K-ATPase expression in HNPE cells. The increase in Na,K-ATPase expression by short-term treatment with ouabain and monensin was dependent on their ability to elevate intracellular sodium concentrations. However, acute ET-1 treatment mediated increase in Na,K-ATPase expression was independent of changes in intracellular sodium. A prolonged (24 hr) ET-1 treatment results in an increase in both mRNA and protein levels of the alpha 1 subunit of Na,K-ATPase. These observations suggest that ET-1 could play a homeostatic role in modulating aqueous humor formation by having differential effects on the activity and expression of Na,K-ATPase by the ciliary epithelium in the eye.

Interest in bridging social psychology and neuroscience has seen a significant upsurge. Much of this interest has centered on brain localization--the attempt to relate psychological events to locations of brain events. Although many articles have sought to localize brain activity that supports social behavior, scant attention has been paid to the specific methods to be used in integrating brain localization data into psychological theory. The authors describe 4 strategies psychologists can use to integrate brain localization data and psychological theory, and they consider whether social psychology presents special considerations in the use of these strategies. They conclude that brain localization offers a useful tool for some but not all problems in social psychology, and they discuss the types of problems for which it may and may not prove useful.
Developments within the neurosciences, cognitive sciences, and social sciences have contributed to the emergence of social neuroscience. Among the most obvious contemporary developments are brain-imaging procedures such as functional magnetic resonance imaging. The authors outline a set of first principles designed to help make sense of brain-imaging research within the fields of cognitive and social neuroscience. They begin with a principle few would debate--that social cognition, emotion, and behavior involve the brain--but whose implications might not be entirely obvious to those new to the field. The authors conclude that (a). complex aspects of the mind and behavior will benefit from yet a broader collaboration of neuroscientists, cognitive scientists, and social scientists, and (b). social psychologists bring important theoretical, methodological, and statistical expertise to this interdisciplinary enterprise.
The acute effects of alcohol on cognitive processing of expectancy violations were investigated using event-related brain potentials and a cued recall task to index attentional and working memory processes associated with inconsistency resolution. As predicted, expectancy-violating behaviors elicited larger late positive potentials (LPP) and were recalled better than expectancy-consistent behaviors. These effects were moderated by alcohol and the valence of initial expectancies. For placebo group participants, positive targets performing negative behaviors elicited the largest LPP responses and were recalled best. For those in the alcohol groups, negative targets behaving positively elicited the largest LPP and recall responses. These findings suggest that alcohol does not globally impair working memory processes in person perception but instead changes the nature of valenced information processing. Findings are discussed in the context of alcohol's effects on working memory processes, reward sensitivity, and the prefrontal cortical structures thought to mediate them.
This special issue of the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology: Attitudes and Social Cognition is devoted to theory and research at the interface of social psychology and neuroscience. The 5 empirical articles represent the theoretical and methodological breadth of issues considered by social neuroscientists. The methods span brain lesion work to neuroendocrinology to psychophysiological indicators of brain activity to functional magnetic resonance imaging indicators of brain activity. The remaining 2 articles consider explicitly some of the promises and pitfalls of social neuroscience; these authors, although noting the power of neuroscience methods, remind readers of the serious challenges posed in trying to examine the biological processes underlying or associated with social psychological phenomena. These articles help to reveal the richness of social neuroscience and the power of neuroscientific methods to address processes and mechanisms that would not be possible with traditional social psychology methods.
St. John's wort (SJW) has been described to show anti-inflammatory properties due to its inhibitory effects on the expression of pro-inflammatory genes like cyclooxygenase-2, interleukin-6, and inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS). Since iNOS plays a critical role in chronic inflammatory diseases, we have focused our attention on the regulation of iNOS expression by SJW in two different human epithelial cell lines, alveolar A549/8 and colon DLD-1 cells. SJW extract concentration dependently inhibited human iNOS expression evaluated by measuring the amounts of iNOS mRNA, iNOS protein, and NO production in both cell lines. This inhibitory effect resulted from transcriptional inhibition as shown in reporter gene experiments. With electrophoretic mobility shift experiments, we found a SJW-mediated down-regulation of the DNA binding activity of the transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription-1alpha (STAT-1alpha), but not of nuclear factor-kappaB. This down-regulation of the STAT-1alpha DNA binding was shown to result from reduced tyrosine phosphorylation of the STAT-1alpha protein. The diminished STAT-1alpha tyrosine phosphorylation resulted from SJW-mediated reduction of Janus kinase 2 activity. These data suggest that extracts from SJW may be a promising anti-inflammatory principle in chronic inflammatory diseases.
The ampakine CX614 positively modulates alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor-gated currents and increases brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression. In rat hippocampal slice cultures, CX614 rapidly increases BDNF gene expression but with time, mRNA levels fall despite the continued presence of active drug. The present study examined this apparent refractory period and the possibility that spaced ampakine treatments could sustain elevated BDNF protein levels. In cultured hippocampal slices, CX614, a second ampakine CX546, and the cholinergic agonist carbachol each increased BDNF mRNA levels with acute (3-h) treatment. After 4-day pretreatment with CX614, fresh ampakine (CX614 or CX546) did not induce BDNF mRNA, whereas carbachol did. Western blots confirmed that after an extended period of ampakine treatment, AMPA receptor protein levels are indeed reduced, suggesting that with longer treatments receptor down-regulation mediates ampakine insensitivity. Finally, using a &quot;24-h on/24-h off&quot; CX614 treatment protocol, the ampakine refractory state was circumvented, BDNF mRNA was induced with each ampakine application, and elevated BDNF protein levels were maintained through 5 days in vitro. These results suggest that spaced ampakine treatments can be used to sustain elevated neurotrophin levels and to test the utility of this manipulation for neuroprotection by endogenous neurotrophins.
In the serum-free culture of rat embryonic neurons, most neurons rapidly died by necrosis, which was revealed by propidium iodide (PI)-positive staining as early as 3 h after the start of culture and by marked membrane disruption and mitochondrial swelling in transmission electron microscopic (TEM) analysis. However, neither nuclear condensation/fragmentation stained with Hoechst 33342 nor activated caspase-3-like immunoreactivity was observed. In the serum-deprived culture, on the other hand, neurons showed apoptotic features, such as caspase-3 activation and nuclear damages in TEM analysis. Insulin at relatively higher concentrations, up to 100 microg/ml, ameliorated the rapid decrease in survival activity measured with 2-(2-methoxy-4-nitrophenyl)-3-(4-nitrophenyl)-5-(2,4-disulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium, monosodium salt WST-8 assay and PI staining in the serum-free culture, despite the fact that brain-derived neurotrophic factor and insulin-like growth factor-I had no survival effect even at concentrations up to 100 microg/ml. Insulin-induced survival effects were abolished by the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor calphostin C but not by the phosphatidyl inositol-3-OH-kinase inhibitor wortmannin or the mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitors PD98059 or U0126. Insulin significantly stimulated the PKC activity in cell lysates and suppressed the mitochondrial swelling and membrane disruption in TEM analysis in a calphostin C-reversible manner. All of these findings suggest that insulin inhibited the neuronal necrosis resistant to known neurotrophic factors under the serum-free culture through PKC mechanisms.
The electrophysiological characteristics of nicotine-induced excitation of dopaminergic neurons in the rat substantia nigra was investigated using the whole-cell patch clamp technique under the voltage-clamp mode. Nicotine (0.01 - 100 microM) induced inward currents corresponding to nicotine-induced depolarization with an increase in firing in a dose-dependent manner. This current was inhibited by dihydro-beta-erythroidine, a selective antagonist for the alpha4beta2 type neuronal nicotinic receptor. Nicotine directly acts on postsynaptic alpha4beta2 type nicotinic receptors and induces inward currents, resulting in excitation of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and subsequent enhancement of dopamine release in the corpus striatum.
5-HT1A receptor agonists lower body temperature. We have investigated whether activation of 5-HT1A receptors inhibits cutaneous sympathetic discharge so that dilatation of the cutaneous vascular bed lowers body temperature by increasing heat transfer to the environment. We measured ear pinna blood flow in conscious rabbits (with chronically implanted Doppler ultrasound flow probes), and postganglionic sympathetic vasomotor nerve activity in anaesthetized rabbits. Recordings from conscious rabbits were made in a cage at 26 degrees C and the rabbit was then transferred to a cage at 10 degrees C. The ear pinna Doppler signal fell from 56 +/- 4 cm s-1 in the 26 degrees C cage to 4 +/- 1 cm s-1 (P &lt; 0.0001, n = 24) after 30 min in the 10 degrees C cage, and body temperature increased from 38.8 +/- 0.2 to 39.0 +/- 0.2 degrees C (P &lt; 0.01, n = 24). The 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT; 0.1 mg kg-1 I.V.) reversed the cold-induced fall in ear pinna blood flow (Doppler signal increased from 5 +/- 1 to 55 +/- 8 cm s-1, P &lt; 0.001, n = 7) within 5 min when administered 30 min after transfer to the 10 degrees C cage, and prevented the fall in ear pinna blood flow when administered before the rabbit was transferred to the 10 degrees C cage. Body temperature decreased after administration of 8-OH-DPAT. These changes were abolished by the specific 5-HT1A antagonist WAY-100635 (0.1 mg kg-1 I.V.). In anaesthetized rabbits, 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg kg-1 I.V.) reduced resting postganglionic cutaneous sympathetic vasomotor discharge, and prevented the increase normally elicited by cooling the trunk. Our experiments constitute the first demonstration that activation of 5-HT1A receptors powerfully inhibits cold-induced increases in cutaneous sympathetic vasomotor discharge, thereby dilating the cutaneous vascular bed and increasing transfer of heat to the environment.
To acquire a better comprehension of nervous system function, it is imperative to understand how synapses are assembled during development and subsequently altered throughout life. Despite recent advances in the fields of neurodevelopment and synaptic plasticity, relatively little is known about the mechanisms that guide synapse formation in the central nervous system (CNS). Although many structural components of the synaptic machinery are pre-assembled prior to the arrival of growth cones at the site of their potential targets, innumerable changes, central to the proper wiring of the brain, must subsequently take place through contact-mediated cell-cell communications. Identification of such signalling molecules and a characterization of various events underlying synaptogenesis are pivotal to our understanding of how a brain cell completes its odyssey from &quot;wiring together to firing together&quot;. Here we attempt to provide a comprehensive overview that pertains directly to the cellular and molecular mechanisms of selection, formation and refinement of synapses during the development of the CNS in both vertebrates and invertebrates.
Neurons of the central nervous system (CNS) exhibit a variety of forms of synaptic plasticity, including associative long-term potentiation and depression (LTP/D), homeostatic activity-dependent scaling and distance-dependent scaling. Regulation of synaptic neurotransmitter receptors is currently thought to be a common mechanism amongst many of these forms of plasticity. In fact, glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1 or GluRA) subunits containing L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors have been shown to be required for several forms of hippocampal LTP and a particular hippocampal-dependent learning task. Because of this importance in associative plasticity, we sought to examine the role of these receptors in other forms of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. To do so, we recorded from the apical dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons in mice lacking the GluR1 subunit (GluR1 -/-). Here we report data from outside-out patches that indicate GluR1-containing receptors are essential to the extrasynaptic population of AMPA receptors, as this pool was nearly empty in the GluR1 -/- mice. Additionally, these receptors appear to be a significant component of the synaptic glutamate receptor pool because the amplitude of spontaneous synaptic currents recorded at the site of input and synaptic AMPA receptor currents evoked by focal glutamate uncaging were both substantially reduced in these mice. Interestingly, the impact on synaptic weight was greatest at distant synapses such that the normal distance-dependent synaptic scaling used by these cells to counter dendritic attenuation was lacking in GluR1 -/- mice. Together the data suggest that the highly regulated movement of GluR1-containing AMPA receptors between extrasynaptic and synaptic receptor pools is critically involved in establishing two functionally diverse forms of synaptic plasticity: LTP and distance-dependent scaling.
Several studies have demonstrated that norepinephrine (NE) is the critical neurotransmitter for the regulation of gene expression in the pineal gland. We studied the acute effect of NE stimulation in cultured rat pineal glands using Affymetrix rat genome microarray GeneChip probe arrays. Our data demonstrate that NE stimulation affects regulation of several genes; 44 and 29 genes were up- or down-regulated more than 2.5-fold, respectively. As shown in previous studies, arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase, cyclic AMP responsive element modulator, jun-B and c-fos mRNA levels were increased by NE stimulation. Genes that were not previously reported and increased by NE stimulation in the pineal gland were protein tyrosine phosphatase, nuclear receptors, and activity and neurotransmitter-induced early genes. Unlike up-regulated genes, most of the down-regulated genes were not reported previously. Genes encoding enzymes involved in metabolism and structural proteins were decreased following NE stimulation. Identification of genes affected by NE stimulation would provide valuable information to understanding pineal biology fully.


For the past 12 years the Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology at the University of Kentucky has run an interdisciplinary neuroscience research experience for undergraduates. Over the years the programs funding sources and participant numbers have steadily increased, to a total of 16 undergraduates in the summer of 2003, supported with internal funds, state funds, and a Research Experience for Undergraduates site grant from the National Science Foundation. The goals of the UK summer research program include: 1) provide an interactive environment for faculty, graduate students and postdoctoral scholars where undergraduates from non-tier one research universities are exposed to the many facets of a graduate career, 2) inform undergraduate students of the career opportunities available in the field of neuroscience, 3) increase the numbers of underrepresented minorities, first generation college students and students from non-tier-1 colleges and universities admitted to graduate programs in the biomedical sciences, and 4) immerse undergraduate students in a research project of their own choosing in departmental and non-departmental faculty laboratories that cover a wide range of neuroscience research. Student placement in academic medicine graduate programs, student satisfaction surveys, return students, high numbers of women and minority participants, and an ever-increasing national interest in the program are all indicators of the programs success.
The advance of web-based technology has stimulated innovation in education. This paper discusses the development and evaluation of an online multimedia resource for undergraduate-level behavioral neuroscience education. This resource surveys four major subject areas: language, attention and perception, thinking, and autism. It employs audio and video streaming, online demonstration experiments, computer simulation, and internet links. This online resource has two distinct advantages over a paper textbook. First, a considerable proportion of the content is conveyed using multimedia, thus making the learning experience more vivid and dynamic. Second, its interactive components provide opportunities for students to participate in the various experimental tasks introduced in the text and to compare their own performance with those of others. This hands-on experience not only enables students to gain in-depth procedural knowledge of the tasks but also has positive effects on their motivation. Feedback from three undergraduate classes that used this resource as supplementary material showed that students were highly positive about its pedagogical values. This free resource is available on the web at http://psych.rice.edu/mmtbn/.
We have developed and recently taught a 200 level undergraduate course entitled, 'Experimental Methods in Neuroscience'. This is a required course in an increasingly popular Neuroscience major at Smith College. Students are introduced initially to issues of animal ethics and experimentation, and are familiarized with our Animal Care Facility. Using an open field and rotarod apparatus, and the elevated plus and Barnes mazes, they conduct behavioral testing of two strains of mice, C57/BL/6J and 129S1/SvImJ, known to exhibit distinct behavioral traits. The group then employs histological techniques to prepare brain sections for observing neuroanatomical variation between strains (for example, 129S1/SvImJ mice are occasionally acallosal). In the final laboratory exercise, they assay the acetylcholinesterase activity in fore- and hindbrains from each strain. The experiments enable the students to gain confidence in collecting data, compiling large data sets, handling spreadsheets and graphing, applying appropriate statistics, and writing accurate and concise scientific reports in journal article format. The course concludes with pairs of students conducting self-designed independent projects using the acquired behavioral, histological or neurochemical techniques. Experimental Methods in Neuroscience is proving particularly successful as it is relatively straightforward for students to design interesting experiments, gain experience in neuroscience experimentation without excessive use of animals, gather substantial data sets, and develop skills in scientific report writing and presentation at an early stage in their neuroscience curricula. Furthermore, the course has emerged as a centralizing focus for our neuroscience program and is suitable for transfer to and adaptation by other institutions.
We showed that, unlike pathogenic rabies virus (RV) strain CVS, attenuated RV strain ERA triggers the caspase-dependent apoptosis of human cells. Furthermore, we observed that the induction of apoptosis is correlated with a particular virus antigen distribution: the overexpression of the viral G protein on the cell surface, with continuous localization on the cytoplasmic membrane, and large cytoplasmic inclusions of the N protein. To determine whether one of these two major RV proteins (G and N proteins) triggers apoptosis, we constructed transgenic Jurkat T-cell lines that drive tetracycline-inducible gene expression to produce the G and N proteins of ERA and CVS individually. The induction of ERA G protein (G-ERA) expression but not of ERA N protein expression resulted in apoptosis, and G-ERA was more efficient at triggering apoptosis than was CVS G protein. To test whether other viral proteins participated in the induction of apoptosis, human cells were infected with recombinant RV in which the G protein gene from the attenuated strain had been replaced by its virulent strain counterpart (CVS). Only RV containing the G protein from the nonpathogenic RV strain was able to trigger the apoptosis of human cells. Thus, the ability of RV strains to induce apoptosis is largely determined by the viral G protein.



Early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is needed to initiate symptomatic treatment with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, and will be of even greater significance if drugs aimed at slowing down the degenerative process, such as vaccination regimes and beta-secretase and gamma-secretase inhibitors, prove to affect AD pathology and to have clinical effect. However, there is no clinical method to determine in which patients mild cognitive impairment (MCI) will progress to AD with dementia, and in which patients MCI is benign. Hence, there is a great clinical need for biomarkers to identify incipient AD in patients with MCI. The CSF biomarkers total tau protein, phosphorylated tau protein, and the 42 amino-acid residue form of amyloid-beta may, if put in the right clinical context, prove to have high enough diagnostic accuracy to meet this challenge.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has become the method of choice in the study of system neuroscience, as evidenced by an explosion of such literature in the past decade. Contrast mechanisms based on the blood oxygenation level, volume, and flow changes have been used to non-invasively detect brain activation secondary to the neuronal activity. However, because of the hemodynamic modulations inherent in these signals, their spatial and temporal characteristics are influenced by the complex geometry and varying delivery speed of the brain vasculature. Consequently, spatial dispersions and temporal delays are commonly seen in the brain activity using fMRI. It is thus of critical importance to investigate alternative contrast mechanisms that may offer shorter temporal delays and more direct spatial localization. In light of a recent phantom study which demonstrated the possibility to detect the destructive phase addition from the spatially incoherent, yet temporally synchronized, displacements caused by the Lorentz force experienced during electrical conduction within a strong magnetic field, we seek to apply similar imaging technique to investigate the functional signal changes that may provide alternative temporal and spatial characteristics. It is found that by using heavy diffusion weighting, which is one form of displacement encoding strategies, to remove the vascular signal and sensitize the minute and incoherent displacement, one can detect fast dynamic signal changes synchronized to the task. This finding may help take an initial step toward direct non-invasive MRI detection of the neuronal activity with improved temporal accuracy.
In this short review, we hypothesize that the central renin-angiotensin system might participate to the initiation of compensatory responses to a stressor agent. Regulation of the expression of the brain angiotensin receptors might constitute a primary molecular mechanism by which this protecting action would take place. We illustrate this possibility by investigating the expression of the angiotensin type 1 receptor in the hypothalamus in response to systemic and neurogenic stressors.
Transcription does not always stall at base damage in DNA and can create mutated transcripts from miscoding lesions. In this issue of Molecular Cell, present genetic analysis of E. coli to indicate that the highly mutagenic purine modification, 8-oxoguanine, is subject to transcription-coupled repair despite transcriptional bypass and generation of mutant transcripts.
A growing body of evidence suggests that estrogen has beneficial effects on Alzheimer's disease. However, the mechanisms underlying estrogen's neuroprotective effects are not completely understood. In the present study, we analyzed first whether estrogen protects mature hippocampal neurons against fibrillar Abeta-induced neurotoxicity. 17alpha-Estradiol and 17beta-estradiol partially prevented neuronal death induced by fibrillar Abeta. Estrogen-induced neuroprotection correlated with the formation of a more dynamic microtubular system, including an increase in the pool of unstable microtubules and the expression of juvenile microtubule-associated proteins MAP2c and MAP1b. These results provide further evidence that experimental conditions capable of increasing the pool of unstable microtubules might render mature hippocampal neurons resistant to the degeneration caused by fibrillar Abeta deposits.
The stimulation of C-fiber sensory neurons is known to induce activation of the ERK MAP kinase signaling pathway in the spinal cord dorsal horn. In this study we have elucidated some of the signaling components of C-fiber transmission responsible for ERK activation. Using an in vitro slice preparation of the mouse spinal cord dorsal horn, we compared the release of substance P (SP) and BDNF with the activation of ERK in postsynaptic neurons. We observed that primary afferent stimulation recruiting C-fibers was required for both SP and BDNF release and ERK activation in post-synaptic dorsal horn neurons. Glutamate transmission via NMDA and mGluR1 but not AMPA receptors was critical to this ERK activation. BDNF signaling via TrkB receptors but not SP signaling via NK(1) were also involved in ERK recruitment. In conclusion, glutamate and BDNF are the important C-fiber signaling components for ERK activation in dorsal horn neurons.

It is generally accepted that the foremost mechanism for the buffering of K+ from the extracellular space ([K+]o) in the brain is &quot;K+ spatial buffering.&quot; This is the process by which glial cells dissipate local K+ gradients by transferring K+ ions from areas of high to low [K+]o. These glial K+ fluxes are mediated mainly by inwardly rectifying K+ (Kir) channels. The K+ spatial buffering hypothesis has been tested and confirmed in the retina, in which is has been termed as &quot;K+ siphoning&quot;. In Mller cells, the primary glial cells of the retina, Kir channels are distributed in a highly non-uniform manner, exhibiting high concentrations in membrane domains facing the vitreous humor (endfeet) and in proximity to the blood vessels (perivascular processes). Such nonuniform distribution of Kir channels facilitates directed K+ fluxes in the retina from the synaptic plexiform layers to the vitreous humor and blood vessels. Recent molecular and electrophysiological studies in Mller cells have revealed a high degree of complexity in terms of Kir channel subunit composition, mechanisms of subcellular localization, and regulation. How such complexity fits into their proposed role in buffering [K+]o in retina is the main topic of this article.
In the feline model, retinal detachment initiates a cascade of changes that include photoreceptor- cell &quot;deconstruction,&quot; apoptotic death of some photoreceptors, neurite outgrowth from second- and third-order neurons, remodeling of photoreceptor synaptic terminals, and Mller-cell gliosis. We have previously shown that reattachment within 24 h halts or reverses many of these presumed detrimental changes. However, in patients with retinal detachments, reattachment cannot always be performed within this 24-h window. Moreover, recovery of vision following successful reattachment surgery in the macula is often imperfect. Here, we examine the ability of relatively long-term reattachment (28 d) to stop or reverse several cellular events that occur at 3 d of detachment. In contrast to earlier studies of reattachment, which focused on the regeneration of outer segments, we focus our attention here on other cellular events such as neuronal remodeling and gliosis. Some of these changes are reversed by reattachment, but reattachment itself appears to stimulate other changes that are not associated with detachment. The implications of these events for the return of vision are unknown, but they do indicate that simply reattaching the retina does not return the retina to its pre-detachment state within 28 d.
Light triggers a sequence of events that damage photoreceptor cells within the superior central portion of the retina, resulting in apoptotic cell death. This damage is mediated by energy absorbed by rhodopsin and the intermediates of the rhodopsin-bleaching process. Furthermore, inhibition of the visual cycle and the re-isomerization of all-trans retinol preserve photoreceptors. We have recently shown light-induced DNA fragmentation to occur only within photoreceptors, and, in time-courses following light treatment, these cells exhibit two peaks of damage, approx 24 h apart. This was also observed by quantification of nucleosome-length DNA fragments and their multimers (DNA ladders) as well as by highly repetitive short interspersed nuclear element (SINE) analysis. This bimodal pattern of photoreceptor DNA fragmentation suggests two populations of cells, and each of these were affected by light at a different rate or time. However, the rat retina is composed of 500 nm-sensitive rods, and approx 2% cones, suggesting that a two-cell-type hypothesis is incorrect. Thus, there is a possibility that light-induced DNA fragmentation is triggered and that some photoreceptors are able to initiate a repair mechanism, resulting in a temporary decrease in DNA damage followed by another wave of fragmentation that ultimately leads to cell death. Subsequently, we observed that the repair enzyme DNA polymerase beta was upregulated following light treatment, again suggesting the presence of a repair mechanism. Our results suggest that a DNA-repair mechanism exists within photoreceptors, and indicate that manipulation of this process may provide additional protection and/or recovery from events that trigger DNA fragmentation and apoptotic cell death in photoreceptors.
The aim of this research was to examine the temporal limits of binocular and monocular integration useful for one-handed catching. Participants performed 20 one-handed catching trials in 12 conditions (N = 240) defined according to the type of viewing (binocular, monocular) and the manipulation of the visual sample (continuous, intermittent). Catching performance deteriorated significantly when there was no visual information available for 80 ms between 20-ms visual samples provided simultaneously to each eye. However, there was no change in catching performance when continuous monocular vision was available for 80 ms between the binocular samples. Performance under monocular viewing decreased significantly when intermittent samples were separated by less than 20 ms. These results confirm that the equivocality in previously reported temporal limits of binocular integration is due to the different arrangement of the intermittent vision conditions and hence the information available between intermittent samples.
We performed epidemiological studies of primary dystonia in the city of Kyoto. The prevalence was at least 10.1 per 100,000 persons, which was similar to that in Western countries. Facial dystonia was more common than other types, which contrasts with that reported in Europe. Age of onset for both genders was in agreement with that in other countries.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has virtually replaced thalamotomy for the treatment of essential tremor. It is thought that the site for DBS is the same as the optimal lesion site; however, this match has not been investigated previously. We sought to determine whether the location of thalamic DBS matched the site at which thalamotomy would be performed. Eleven patients who had detailed microelectrode recording and stimulation for placement of DBS electrodes and subsequent successful tremor control were analysed. An experienced surgeon, blinded to outcome and final electrode position, selected the ideal thalamotomy site based on the reconstructed maps obtained intraoperatively. When the site of long-term clinically used DBS and theoretical thalamotomy location was calculated in three-dimensional space and compared for each of the x, y, and z axes in stereotactic space, there was no significant difference in the mediolateral location of DBS and theoretical lesion site. There was also no difference between the theoretical lesion site and the placement of the tip of the electrode; however, the active electrodes used for chronic stimulation were significantly more anterior (P = 0.005) and dorsal (P = 0.034) to the ideal thalamotomy target. This mismatch may reflect the compromise required between adverse and beneficial effects with chronic stimulation, but it also suggests different mechanisms of effect of DBS and thalamotomy.
The plasma membrane dopamine transporter (DAT) is found exclusively in dopamine neurones and seems to be the defining molecule of the dopamine neurone. It provides effective control over the intensity of dopamine-mediated signalling by recapturing the neurotransmitter released by presynaptic neurones. Positron emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) represent unique techniques for assessing in vivo DAT distribution in humans and offer reliable methods for studying nigrostriatal dopaminergic function in health and disease. The characteristics of different DAT radiotracers, the modifying influences of factors such as age, gender, smoking habit, and dopaminergic drugs on DAT transporters as well as their implication in evaluation of neuroimaging studies are discussed.
The aims of this study of a cross-sectional multiple sclerosis (MS) population in Vsterbotten County, northern Sweden, were to estimate the prevalence of sick leave, professional assistance and housing; to study risk factors for sick leave; and to estimate the odds for sick leave in comparison with the general population of the county. The consequences of MS-related incapacity on the socioeconomic factors studied were considerable. Almost half (45%) of prevalent MS cases aged 18-64 years were fully sick listed and only one-third (35%) were not sick listed at all. Every fourth individual in the prevalence population received professional assistance, and 9% were living in care homes or special apartments for the disabled. Multiple logistic regression analysis identified the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) as the strongest predictor of sick leave. The time from symptom onset to full sick leave leading to temporary or permanent disability pension was significantly shorter for cases with progressive onset, higher age at onset and in males. The risk of full sick leave due to MS was six times higher than in the general population.
We amplified sequences of the Chlamydia pneumoniae (CP) major-outer membrane protein in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 23 of 107 (21.5%) relapsing-remitting or secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and two of 77 (2.6%) patients with other neurological diseases (OND) (P = 0.00022). CP+ patients showed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evidence of more active disease (P = 0.02) compared to CP- MS patients and tended to have an anticipation of age at disease onset (32.3 +/- 12 versus 28.5 +/- 10 years; P = ns) causing a longer disease duration (7.5 +/- 5 versus 4.4 +/- 4 years; P = 0.016) at the time of clinical evaluation. These findings, although indirectly, suggest that CP infection of the central nervous system (CNS) might affect disease course in a subgroup of MS patients.
A 41-year-old woman experienced a gunshot wound to the forearm with neurotmesis of the ulnar nerve. Surgery 9 months later revealed a neuroma-in-continuity in the midforearm. Intraoperative nerve stimulation failed to elicit direct nerve responses or motor responses from the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) and abductor digiti minimi (ADM) muscles. However, neurotonic discharges in response to mechanical irritation of the neuroma were recorded in the FDI, but not the ADM. Surprisingly, after resecting the ulnar nerve distal to the neuroma, neurotonic discharges were still elicited in the FDI following perturbation of the neuroma. Moreover, neurotonic discharges were elicited during ulnar nerve resection 2 cm proximal to the neuroma. No anastomoses or anomalous branches were noted. The findings suggest that regenerating fibers did not reach the FDI through the distal nerve segment. Rather, we speculate that nerve fibers regenerating at random, or impeded by scar tissue, contacted the proximal nerve portion, at which point growth became polarized in a retrograde direction. Retrograde regeneration may have proceeded to a branch point in the forearm (possibly an undetected anomalous branch or fibrous adhesion), where growth of regenerating fibers extended outward into surrounding damaged tissue planes before redirecting distally to reach the FDI.
Complex repetitive discharges (CRDs) are a striking, infrequent finding on needle electromyography (EMG), but their significance is debated. This retrospective case-control study of 486 patients evaluated in a general hospital-based EMG laboratory examined the association of CRDs with specific diagnostic categories, duration of symptoms, and comorbid diabetes mellitus. No CRDs were identified in patients without other evidence of neuromuscular disease. Myopathy was associated with an increased risk of CRDs (adjusted odds ratio, 5.98; 95% confidence interval, 2.38 to 14.99). In general, neuropathic conditions were not associated with either an increased or decreased risk of CRDs compared with other neuromuscular diseases, although confidence intervals were wide. Similarly, neither the chronicity of symptoms nor the presence of diabetes yielded odds ratios that differed significantly from unity. In clinical populations similar to the one we studied, the positive predictive value of CRDs for any of the diagnoses we evaluated is low. However, the absence of CRDs can be of diagnostic value in that it reduces the likelihood of myopathy or motor neuron disease. The likelihood of finding CRDs in acute conditions is the same as that in chronic conditions.
Although thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is a stroke therapy approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, its efficacy may be limited by neurotoxic side effects. Recently, proteolytic damage involving matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have been implicated. In experimental embolic stroke models, MMP inhibitors decreased cerebral hemorrhage and injury after treatment with tPA. MMPs comprise a family of zinc endopeptidases that can modify several components of the extracellular matrix. In particular, the gelatinases MMP-2 and MMP-9 can degrade neurovascular matrix integrity. MMP-9 promotes neuronal death by disrupting cell-matrix interactions, and MMP-9 knockout mice have reduced blood-brain barrier leakage and infarction after cerebral ischemia. Hence it is possible that tPA upregulates MMPs in the brain, and that subsequent matrix degradation causes brain injury. Here we show that tPA upregulates MMP-9 in cell culture and in vivo. MMP-9 levels were lower in tPA knockouts compared with wild-type mice after focal cerebral ischemia. In human cerebral microvascular endothelial cells, MMP-9 was upregulated when recombinant tPA was added. RNA interference (RNAi) suggested that this response was mediated by the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP), which avidly binds tPA and possesses signaling properties. Targeting the tPA-LRP signaling pathway in brain may offer new approaches for decreasing neurotoxicity and improving stroke therapy.
In mammals, the permanence of acquired hearing loss is mostly due to the incapacity of the cochlea to replace lost mechanoreceptor cells, or hair cells. In contrast, damaged vestibular organs can generate new hair cells, albeit in limited numbers. Here we show that the adult utricular sensory epithelium contains cells that display the characteristic features of stem cells. These inner ear stem cells have the capacity for self-renewal, and form spheres that express marker genes of the developing inner ear and the nervous system. Inner ear stem cells are pluripotent and can give rise to a variety of cell types in vitro and in vivo, including cells representative of ectodermal, endodermal and mesodermal lineages. Our observation that these stem cells are capable of differentiating into hair cell-like cells implies a possible use of such cells for the replacement of lost inner-ear sensory cells.
The mechanisms of neurodegeneration that result in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type 1 dementia have not yet been identified. Here, we report that HIV-infected macrophages secrete the zymogen matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), which is activated by exposure to MT1-MMP on neurons. Stromal cell-derived factor 1 alpha (SDF-1), a chemokine overexpressed by astrocytes during HIV infection, was converted to a highly neurotoxic protein after precise proteolytic processing by active MMP-2, which removed the N-terminal tetrapeptide. Implantation of cleaved SDF-1(5-67) into the basal ganglia of mice resulted in neuronal death and inflammation with ensuing neurobehavioral deficits that were abrogated by neutralizing antibodies to SDF-1 and an MMP inhibitor drug. Hence, this study identifies a new in vivo neurotoxic pathway in which cleavage of a chemokine by an induced metalloproteinase results in neuronal apoptosis that leads to neurodegeneration.
Mechanosensitive channels may act as osmosensory transducers because osmotically evoked changes in cell volume alter forces applied to the channel and affect opening probability. However, osmotically stimulated cells regulate volume normally, whereas systemic osmoregulatory responses are sustained. Here we report that osmosensory neurons of rat supraoptic nucleus expressed significant membrane reserves, and could not regulate volume or total membrane surface area during osmotic perturbations, which may allow mechanosensitive channels to encode the amplitude and time course of an osmotic stimulus.
Sensory transduction in hair cells requires assembly of membrane-bound transduction channels, extracellular tip-links and intracellular adaptation motors with sufficient precision to confer nanometer displacement sensitivity. Here we present evidence based on FM1-43 fluorescence, scanning electron microscopy and RT-PCR that these three essential elements are acquired concurrently between embryonic day 16 and 17, several days after the appearance of hair bundles, and that their acquisition coincides with the onset of mechanotransduction.
Hippocampal mossy fiber synapses show an unusual form of long-term potentiation (LTP) that is independent of NMDA receptor activation and is expressed presynaptically. Using receptor antagonists, as well as receptor knockout mice, we found that presynaptic kainate receptors facilitate the induction of mossy fiber long-term potentiation (LTP), although they are not required for this form of LTP. Most importantly, these receptors impart an associativity to mossy fiber LTP such that activity in neighboring mossy fiber synapses, or even associational/commissural synapses, influences the threshold for inducing mossy fiber LTP. Such a mechanism greatly increases the computational power of this form of plasticity.

In this letter, we extend our previous analytical results (Mikula &amp; Niebur, 2003) for the coincidence detector by taking into account probabilistic frequency-dependent synaptic depression. We present a solution for the steady-state output rate of an ideal coincidence detector receiving an arbitrary number of input spike trains with identical binomial count distributions (which includes Poisson statistics as a special case) and identical arbitrary pairwise cross-correlations, from zero correlation (independent processes) to perfect correlation (identical processes). Synapses vary their efficacy probabilistically according to the observed depression mechanisms. Our results show that synaptic depression, if made sufficiently strong, will result in an inverted U-shaped curve for the output rate of a coincidence detector as a function of input rate. This leads to the counterintuitive prediction that higher presynaptic (input) rates may lead to lower postsynaptic (output) rates where the output rate may fall faster than the inverse of the input rate.
The detection of patterned spiking activity is important in the study of neural coding. A pattern filtering approach is developed for pattern detection under the framework of point processes, which offers flexibility in combining temporal details and firing rates. The detection combines multiple steps of filtering in a coarse-to-fine manner. Under some conditional Poisson assumptions on the spiking activity, each filtering step is equivalent to classifying by likelihood ratios all the data segments as targets or as background sequences. Unlike previous studies, where global surrogate data were used to evaluate the statistical significance of the detected patterns, a localized p-test procedure is developed, which better accounts for firing modulation and nonstationarity in spiking activity. Common temporal structures of patterned activity are learned using an entropy-based alignment procedure, without relying on metrics or pair-wise alignment. Applications of pattern filtering to single, presumptive interneurons recorded in the nucleus HVc of zebra finch are illustrated. These demonstrate a match between the auditory-evoked response to playback of the individual bird's own song and spontaneous activity during sleep. Small temporal compression or expansion, or both, is required for optimal matching of spontaneous patterns to stimulus-evoked activity.
Perceptual inference fundamentally involves uncertainty, arising from noise in sensation and the ill-posed nature of many perceptual problems. Accurate perception requires that this uncertainty be correctly represented, manipulated, and learned about. The choices subjects make in various psychophysical experiments suggest that they do indeed take such uncertainty into account when making perceptual inferences, posing the question as to how uncertainty is represented in the activities of neuronal populations. Most theoretical investigations of population coding have ignored this issue altogether; the few existing proposals that address it do so in such a way that it is fatally conflated with another facet of perceptual problems that also needs correct handling: multiplicity (that is, the simultaneous presence of multiple distinct stimuli). We present and validate a more powerful proposal for the way that population activity may encode uncertainty, both distinctly from and simultaneously with multiplicity.
The role of microglia in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has come under intense scrutiny recently because microglia may clear amyloid beta (Abeta) by phagocytosis after immunization of transgenic mice. Increased expression of the macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor (M-CSFR) is an important feature of microglia in AD and transgenic mouse models for AD. Increased expression of M-CSFR on mouse and human microglia accelerates phagocytosis of aggregated Abeta in part through macrophage scavenger receptors. We now show that Abeta phagocytosis by microglia overexpressing M-CSFR is further enhanced by antibody opsonization of Abeta. M-CSFR overexpression increased microglial phagocytosis of opsonized aggregated Abeta in culture medium, and accelerated ingestion of native Abeta from AD brain sections. M-CSFR overexpression also increased microglial expression of Fcgamma receptors, and blocking Fcgamma receptors attenuated the enhanced Abeta uptake observed after M-CSFR overexpression and antibody opsonization. Microglia in AD and in AD mouse models with increased expression of M-CSFR are likely to rapidly ingest opsonized Abeta after immunization, making high intracerebral antibody titers unnecessary.
We recently detected cytomegalovirus (CMV) in brains of 83% of vascular dementia (VaD) patients and 34% of age-matched normal people. Since CMV and also Chlamydia pneumoniae (Cpn) have been found in some studies to be associated with coronary artery disease (which shares several risk factors with VaD), we sought Cpn DNA in VaD brain DNA. We examined brain specimens from 19 VaD patients, 16 elderly normal people and four Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients for the presence of a sequence in the Cpn gene for rRNA, using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and taking stringent precautions against contamination. We did not detect Cpn DNA in any of the brain specimens, the sensitivity of detection being 10 copies or fewer bacterial DNA sequences per tube or, in terms of infectious units (IFU), 0.025 IFU. Our results do not support a role for Cpn in the aetiology of VaD, either in the 83% of patients in whose brains we detected CMV, or in the remaining 17% without CMV in brain.
The accumulation of the amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides in amyloid plaques correlates with pathologic changes that occur in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The ability to directly target reagents to the amyloid form of the Abeta peptide may allow the delivery of neuroprotective agents to make amyloid plaques less toxic, the delivery of amyloid-destroying molecules to eliminate plaques, or the delivery of reagents to prevent amyloid plaque formation. In addition, such reagents may be useful as diagnostic tools to quantitate the extent of amyloid plaque formation in AD patients. As a step toward these goals, we have used phage peptide display technology to identify peptides that bind specifically to the amyloid form of the Abeta(1-40) peptide. Here we identify two 20-amino acid peptides with similar structural features that bind to the amyloid form of Abeta(1-40) but not to monomeric Abeta(1-40). A recombinant form of one of these peptides was produced in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein with thioredoxin. After purification, this reagent bound Abeta(1-40) amyloid in vitro with a K(d) of 60 nM and specifically labeled amyloid plaques in AD brains. A chemically synthesized version of this peptide also bound Abeta(1-40) amyloid and specifically stained amyloid plaques in AD brain. These peptide sequences represent new potential carrier molecules to deliver medicines to amyloid plaques in AD patients and to image plaques in AD brains.
Repeated intermittent administration of L-DOPA in rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway results in a progressive increase of contraversive circling behavior. In this study, we have investigated the effects of denervation and repeated L-DOPA administration on the expression of the nuclear receptor nerve growth factor inducible-B (NGFI-B) in striatal output pathways of unilaterally 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. The denervation process induced an increase of NGFI-B and enkephalin (ENK) mRNA levels and the increase of NGFI-B took place predominantly in ENK-containing cells. The percentage of cells colocalizing NGFI-B and dynorphin (DYN) was significantly reduced. Repeated L-DOPA treatment increased the striatal level of DYN mRNA but it further reduced the percentage of NGFI-B/DYN double-labeled cells. On the intact side, repeated L-DOPA treatment increased NGFI-B expression in both striatal subpopulations. Additional acute studies were performed in normal rats to determine the role of the denervation process in the coordinate expression of NGFI-B in striatal subpopulations. A combination of selective D(1) and D(2) agonists induced an important increase of striatal NGFI-B expression selectively in DYN-containing neurons. These results demonstrate that the denervation process causes a differential regulation of NGFI-B in the two striatal output pathways which is further exacerbated by L-DOPA treatment. These molecular changes in response to dopamine depletion and dopamine replacement therapy may contribute to the long-term effects of L-DOPA and to the development of behavioral sensitization.
Abstract We report a patient with visual hallucinations and illusions along with an associated visual field defect after bilateral ischemic damage to his occipital visual cortex. These hallucinations were long-standing and of both simple and complex (well-formed) type. Application of low frequency (1 Hz) repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) to the occipital cortex led to a complete cessation of visual hallucinatory symptoms. The use of TMS to probe the neurophysiology, and possibly alleviate, visual hallucinatory experiences is discussed.
This article reviews and develops some theories about the neurobiological basis of creative innovation (CI). CI is defined as the ability to understand and express novel orderly relationships. A high level of general intelligence, domain-specific knowledge and special skills are necessary components of creativity. Specialized knowledge is stored in specific portions of the temporal and parietal lobes. Some anatomic studies suggest that talented people might have alterations of specific regions of the posterior neocortical architecture, but further systematic studies are needed. Intelligence, knowledge and special skills, however, are not sufficient for CI. Developing alternative solutions or divergent thinking has been posited to be a critical element of CI, and clinical as well as functional imaging studies suggest that the frontal lobes are important for these activities. The frontal lobes have strong connections with the polymodal and supramodal regions of the temporal and parietal lobes where concepts and knowledge are stored. These connections might selectively inhibit and activate portions of posterior neocortex and thus be important for developing alternative solutions. Although extensive knowledge and divergent thinking together are critical for creativity they alone are insufficient for allowing a person to find the thread that unites. Finding this thread might require the binding of different forms of knowledge, stored in separate cortical modules that have not been previously associated. Thus, CI might require the co-activation and communication between regions of the brain that ordinarily are not strongly connected. The observations that CI often occurs during levels of low arousal and that many people with depression are creative suggests that alterations of neurotransmitters such as norepinephrine might be important in CI. High levels of norepinephrine, produced by high rates of locus coeruleus firing, restrict the breadth of concept representations and increase the signal to noise ratio, but low levels of norepinephrine shift the brain toward intrinsic neuronal activation with an increase in the size of distributed concept representations and co-activation across modular networks. In addition to being important in divergent thinking, the frontal lobes are also the primary cortical region that controls the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine system. Thus creative people may be endowed with brains that are capable of storing extensive specialized knowledge in their temporoparietal cortex, be capable of frontal mediated divergent thinking and have a special ability to modulate the frontal lobe-locus coeruleus (norepinephrine) system, such that during creative innovation cerebral levels of norepinephrine diminish, leading to the discovery of novel orderly relationships.

To evaluate if endogenous extracellular adenosine influences sodium channel activity in nerve terminals, we investigated how manipulations of extracellular adenosine levels influence 22Na uptake by rat brain synaptosomes stimulated with veratridine (VT). To decrease extracellular adenosine levels, adenosine deaminase (ADA) that converts adenosine into an inactive metabolite was used. To increase extracellular adenosine levels, we used the adenosine deaminase inhibitor erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl) adenine (EHNA), as well as the inhibitor of adenosine transport, nitrobenzylthioinosine (NBTI). ADA (0.1-5 U/ml) caused an excitatory effect on 22Na uptake stimulated by veratridine, which was abolished in the presence of the adenosine deaminase inhibitor erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl) adenine (EHNA, 25 microM). Both the adenosine uptake inhibitor nitrobenzylthioinosine (NBTI, 1-10 microM) and the adenosine deaminase inhibitor EHNA (10-25 microM) inhibited 22Na uptake by rat brain synaptosomes. It is suggested that adenosine is tonically inhibiting sodium uptake by rat brain synaptosomes.
In recent years we have witnessed a major interest in the study of the role of mitochondria, not only as ATP producers through oxidative phosphorylation but also as regulators of intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis and endogenous producers of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Interestingly, the mitochondria have been also implicated as central executioners of cell death. Increased mitochondrial Ca2+ overload as a result of excitotoxicity has been associated with the generation of superoxide and may induce the release of proapoptotic mitochondrial proteins, proceeding through DNA fragmentation/condensation and culminating in cell demise by apoptosis and/or necrosis. In addition, these processes have been implicated in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases, which share several features of cell death: selective brain areas undergo neurodegeneration, involving mitochondrial dysfunction (mitochondrial complexes are affected), loss of intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis, excitotoxicity, and the extracellular or intracellular accumulation of insoluble protein aggregates in the brain.
Based on the idea that seizures may arise from an overshoot of excitation over inhibition, all substances that may decrease glutamatergic function while having no effect or even increasing GABAergic neurotransmission are likely to be effective anticonvulsants. We now review the possible role of three such neuromodulators, kainate, adenosine, and neuropeptide Y receptors in controlling hyperexcitability and epileptogenesis. Particular emphasis is given on the robust neuromodulatory role of these three groups of receptors on the release of glutamate in the hippocampus, a main focus of epilepsy. Moreover, we also give special attention to the mechanisms of receptor activation and coupled signaling events that can be explored as attractive targets for the treatment of epilepsy and excitotoxicity. The present paper is a tribute to Arslio Pato de Carvalho who has been the main driving force for the development of Neuroscience in Portugal, notably with a particular emphasis on the presynaptic mechanisms of modulation of neurotransmitter release.
The alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors for the neurotransmitter glutamate are oligomeric structures responsible for most fast excitatory responses in the central nervous system. The activity of AMPA receptors can be directly regulated by protein phosphorylation, which may also affect the interaction with intracellular proteins and, consequently, their recycling and localization to defined postsynaptic sites. This review focuses on recent advances in understanding the dynamic regulation of AMPA receptors, on a short- and long-term basis, and its implications in synaptic plasticity.
The expression and localization of syntaxin isoforms 1A and 1B in adrenergic and noradrenergic chromaffin cells were examined by both immunoblot analysis and confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. Syntaxin 1A was found in higher levels in noradrenergic cells, whereas syntaxin 1B was similarly expressed in most noradrenergic and adrenergic cells. However, some heterogeneity was observed within each catecholaminergic phenotype. Although the majority of adrenergic cells appeared to express low levels of syntaxin 1A, about 7% was strongly stained for syntaxin 1A. A subpopulation of noradrenergic cells, about 17%, expressed greater levels of syntaxin 1B. Syntaxin 1B labeling showed a punctate appearance in the cytoplasm, whereas syntaxin 1A appeared predominantly localized to the plasma membrane. These data show differences in the exocytotic machinery of the two subtypes of chromaffin cells that may underlie some of the distinct characteristics of adrenaline and noradrenaline secretion.
In this overview current insights in the regulation of presynaptic transmitter release, mainly acquired in studies using isolated CNS nerve terminals are highlighted. The following aspects are described. (i) The usefulness of pinched-off nerve terminals, so-called synaptosomes, for biochemical and ultrastructural studies of presynaptic stimulus-secretion coupling. (ii) The regulation of neurotransmitter release by multiple Ca2+ channels, with special emphasis on the specificity of different classes of these channels with respect to the release of distinct types of neurotransmitters, that are often co-localized, such as amino acids and neuropeptides. (iii) Possible molecular mechanisms involved in targeting synaptic vesicle (SV) traffic toward the active zone. (iv) The role of presynaptic receptors in regulating transmitter release, with special emphasis on different glutamate subtype receptors. Isolated nerve terminals are of great value as model system in order to obtain a better understanding of the regulation of the release of distinct classes of neurotransmitters in tiny CNS nerve endings.
5-hydroxytryptamine (HT)4 receptor agonists stimulate gastrointestinal motility partly by facilitating acetylcholine release from myenteric neurones. However, the signalling mechanisms that couple 5-HT4 receptor activation to increased transmitter release in the myenteric plexus are unknown. We used conventional intracellular electrophysiological methods to record fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) from neurones in the guinea-pig ileum myenteric plexus preparation. The substituted benzamide, renzapride, acted at 5-HT4 receptors to facilitate fEPSPs. This response was mimicked by forskolin, an activator of adenylate cyclase. Facilitation of fEPSPs by renzapride and forskolin was not blocked by treating tissues with pertussis toxin (PTX) (2 h, 2 microg mL-1). Facilitation of fEPSPs caused by renzapride was blocked by the non-selective protein kinase inhibitors, staurosporine (1 micromol L-1) and H-8 (30 micromol L-1) and by the selective protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor, H-89 (10 micromol L-1). These data indicate that 5-HT4 receptors act via a PTX-resistant mechanism to activate PKA. Protein kinase A activation leads to an increase in transmitter release from myenteric nerve terminals and a facilitation of fast excitatory synaptic transmission.
We propose a new method for the second-level analysis of functional MRI data based on Bayesian statistics. Our method does not require a computationally costly Bayesian model on the first level of analysis. Rather, modeling for single subjects is realized by means of the commonly applied General Linear Model. On the basis of the resulting parameter estimates for single subjects we calculate posterior probability maps and maps of the effect size for effects of interest in groups of subjects. A comparison of this method with the conventional analysis based on t statistics shows that the new approach is more robust against outliers. Moreover, our method overcomes some of the severe problems of null hypothesis significance tests such as the need to correct for multiple comparisons and facilitates inferences which are hard to formulate in terms of classical inferences.
The effects of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) acoustic noise were investigated on the parameters of event-related responses (ERPs) elicited during auditory matching-to-sample location and pitch working memory tasks. Stimuli were tones with varying location (left or right) and frequency (high or low). Subjects were instructed to memorize and compare either the locations or frequencies of the stimuli with each other. Tape-recorded fMRI acoustic noise was presented in half of the experimental blocks. The fMRI noise considerably enhanced the P1 component, reduced the amplitude and increased the latency of the N1, shortened the latency of the N2, and enhanced the amplitude of the P3 in both tasks. The N1 amplitude was higher in the location than pitch task in both noise and no-noise blocks, whereas the task-related N1 latency difference was present in the no-noise blocks only. Although the task-related differences between spatial and nonspatial auditory responses were partially preserved in noise, the finding that the acoustic gradient noise accompanying functional MR imaging modulated the auditory ERPs implies that the noise may confound the results of auditory fMRI experiments especially when studying higher cognitive processing.
Attention switching between items being stored and manipulated in working memory (WM) is proposed to be an elementary executive function. Experiment 1 reveals a similar attentional limitation within and between verbal and visuospatial WM and identifies a supramodal switching process required for switching between WM items. By using functional magnetic resonance imaging, Experiment 2 investigated brain activation correlates of parametrically varied attention switching within and between these two WM modalities. Attention switching activation was broadly distributed, was quite similar across the three conditions, and, in almost all areas, increased with increasing switching demand, indicating that attention switching recruits and modulates the entire WM network. Dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was implicated in both within- and between-modality attention switching, but no significant activation was found in ventrolateral areas, supporting dorsal-ventral process models of prefrontal organization. A functional dissociation between anterior frontal and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was found with the former being more activated when switching attention between modalities was required. The data challenge the notion of an anatomically separate attention switching executive function, but suggest that anterior frontal areas are recruited for the additional demand of coordinating the verbal and visuospatial WM slave systems.
Cognitive complexity has been characterized by relations processed, rather than items stored. Separating these factors is difficult, because processing more complex relations often involves holding more items in memory. Previous research, NeuroImage, 17, 1031-1055) identified parietal lobes with more item relationships, but not more items by varying index length-fewest number of positions having a unique combination of items. For example, AB CD EF is a unary (length one) indexed list of three pairs, because all items are unique at the first (or second) position; AB AD CB is a binary indexed list, because only pairs of items are unique. But, these lists also differ in number of associates. In this experiment, index length was varied independently of the numbers of items and associates. Subjects were asked to make a recognition judgment for each three-pair list: Was the test pair in the previous list? Random effects analysis contrasting two binary indexed lists (AB AC CB and AB AD CB) minus two unary indexed lists (AB BC CA and AB BC CD) revealed increased occipital and parietal activity (bilaterally) during the retention period for both binary indexed list types. This result is explained by index length, but not by item load or item fan, because the numbers of items and item associates were the same for the corresponding unary and binary list types. For peak voxels in left and right precuneus, activity during retention for both binary list types was also greater than for a third unary indexed list (AB CD EF). Because binary indexes require more positions (roles) to individuate pairs, we suggest that the increased activity in precuneus relates to spatial rehearsal in that more attention is directed to both positions to maintain the integrity of the memory trace.
Results from several recent studies suggest that neuronal processing of sound content and its spatial location may be dissociated. The use of modern neuroimaging techniques has allowed for the determination that different brain structures may be specifically activated during working memory processing of pitch and location of sound. The time course of these task-related differences, however, remains uncertain. In the present study, we performed simultaneous whole-head electroencephalogram and magnetoencephalogram recordings, using a new behavioral paradigm, to investigate the dynamics of differences between &quot;what&quot; and &quot;where&quot; evoked responses in the auditory system as a function of memory load. In the location task the latency of the N1m was shorter and its generator was situated more inferiorly than in the pitch task. Working memory processing of the tonal frequency enhanced the amplitude of the N2 component, as well as the negative-going deflection at a latency around 400 ms. A memory-load-dependent task-related difference was found in the positive slow wave which was higher during the location than pitch task at the low load. Late slow waves were affected by memory load but not type of task. These results suggest that separate neuronal networks are involved in the attribute-specific analysis of auditory stimuli and their encoding into working memory, whereas the maintenance of auditory information is accomplished by a common, nonspecific neuronal network.
Midline brain activation subsequent to errors has been proposed to reflect error detection and, alternatively, conflict-monitoring processes. Adjudicating between these alternatives is challenging as both predict high activation on error trials. In an effort to resolve these interpretations, subjects completed a GO/NOGO task in which errors of commission were frequent and response conflict was independently varied by manipulating response speeds. A mixed-block and event-related fMRI design identified task-related, tonic activation and event-related activations for correct and incorrect trials. The anterior cingulate was the only area with error-related activation that was not modulated by the conflict manipulation and hence is implicated in specific error-related processes. Conversely, activation in the pre-SMA was not specific to errors but was sensitive to the conflict manipulation. A significant region by conflict interaction for tonic activation supported a functional dissociation between these two midline areas. Finally, an intermediate, caudal cingulate area was implicated in both error processing and conflict monitoring. The results suggest that these two action-monitoring processes are distinct and dissociable and are localised along the midline.
Event-related fMRI was used to evaluate the effect of printed word frequency on the subsequent recognition of words incidentally encoded while 16 healthy right-handed volunteers performed living/nonliving judgments. Semantic judgment took longer for low-frequency words. These words were more accurately recognized than high-frequency words at later testing. Low-frequency words were also associated with relatively greater left prefrontal, left fusiform gyrus, and anterior cingulate activation. Words that were subsequently recognized were associated with greater activation in the left prefrontal region compared to those that were forgotten. These findings suggest the specific brain regions where less commonly encountered words are processed in a manner that facilitates their subsequent recognition.
The ability to adapt our behavioral repertoire to different situations and tasks is crucial for our behavioral control. Since the same motor behavior can have different meanings in different task situations, we often have to change the meaning of our responses when we get into a different task context. In a functional MRI experiment we manipulated this response recoding process. Subjects were required to execute two simple spatial tasks in a task switching paradigm. In one condition both tasks required the same set of responses, hence each response had two different meanings depending on the relevant task (bivalent condition). In the other condition subjects used a separate set of responses for each task (univalent condition). While subjects were required to recode the meaning when switching from one task to the next in the bivalent condition, response recoding was not required in the univalent condition. We demonstrate that the lateral prefrontal cortex is involved in recoding of response meaning. These results extend previous assumptions on the role of the prefrontal cortex in behavioral control.
The brain plays a central role in sexual motivation. To identify cerebral areas whose activation was correlated with sexual desire, eight healthy male volunteers were studied with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Visual stimuli were sexually stimulating photographs (S condition) and emotionally neutral photographs (N condition). Subjective responses pertaining to sexual desire were recorded after each condition. To image the entire brain, separate runs focused on the upper and the lower parts of the brain. Statistical Parametric Mapping was used for data analysis. Subjective ratings confirmed that sexual pictures effectively induced sexual arousal. In the S condition compared to the N condition, a group analysis conducted on the upper part of the brain demonstrated an increased signal in the parietal lobes (superior parietal lobules, left intraparietal sulcus, left inferior parietal lobule, and right postcentral gyrus), the right parietooccipital sulcus, the left superior occipital gyrus, and the precentral gyri. In addition, a decreased signal was recorded in the right posterior cingulate gyrus and the left precuneus. In individual analyses conducted on the lower part of the brain, an increased signal was found in the right and/or left middle occipital gyrus in seven subjects, and in the right and/or left fusiform gyrus in six subjects. In conclusion, fMRI allows to identify brain responses to visual sexual stimuli. Among activated regions in the S condition, parietal areas are known to be involved in attentional processes directed toward motivationally relevant stimuli, while frontal premotor areas have been implicated in motor preparation and motor imagery. Further work is needed to identify those specific features of the neural responses that distinguish sexual desire from other emotional and motivational states.
Previous data have indicated that the left anterior temporal lobe contributes to the retrieval of familiar people's names, and that the extended network including the bilateral anterior temporal lobe plays an important role in the retrieval of newly learned people's names. However, there has been no direct evidence for time-dependent change in brain activation in face-name associations. In addition, previous studies have demonstrated that emotional information such as emotional faces may contribute to the organization of long-lasting episodic memory. In the present study, we investigated the activations related to the recognition of people's names in the context of emotional and neutral face-name associative learning. Before fMRI scanning, subjects learned face-name associations that included emotionally positive and neutral facial expressions. In immediate (5 min later) and delayed (2 weeks later) recognition with fMRI scanning, subjects were presented with studied faces with two names, and were asked to choose the correct associative name learned previously. Recognition-related activations were identified in the anterior part of bilateral temporal lobe for immediate recognition and only in the left temporal lobe for delayed recognition. Further analysis confirmed the time-dependent change in activation of the right anterior temporal lobe. Activation related to the processing of faces with positive expressions were observed in the left periamygdaloid area and temporal pole, although emotional information did not have an influence on task performance in this study. These findings suggest that the neural network involving the bilateral temporal lobe contributes to the retrieval of newly learned people's names, and that the left temporal lobe has a crucial and stable role in retrieval of people's names from faces, whereas the role of the right temporal lobe in retrieval of people's names may decrease with the time course.
Previous positron emission tomography studies of right-handed individuals show that the left orbitofrontal cortex is dominant during emotional processing of odors. We collected functional magnetic resonance imaging data from 28 subjects to study this network as a function of odor hedonic valence (pleasant vs. unpleasant), active hedonic judgments versus passive sensation of hedonically charged odors, handedness, and gender. Two functional runs were performed, with pleasant and unpleasant odors presented in different epochs. In the first run, subjects passively smelled odorants, whereas in the second run they rated degree of odor pleasantness or unpleasantness by using a &quot;finger-span&quot; technique that simulated a visual rating scale. Electrodermal and plethysmography responses were simultaneously recorded to control for covert, physiological manifestations of the emotional response. The piriform-amygdala area and ventral insula were activated more for unpleasant than pleasant odors. More extreme ratings were also associated with higher electrodermal amplitude, suggesting that activation stemmed more from emotional or hedonic intensity than valence, and that unpleasant odors induced more arousal than pleasant odors. Unpleasant odors activated the left ventral insula in right-handers and the right ventral insula in left-handers, suggesting lateralized processing of emotional odors as a function of handedness. Active decisions about odor pleasantness induced specific left orbitofrontal cortex activation, implicating the role of this area in the conscious assessment of the emotional quality of odors. Finally, left orbitofrontal cortex was more active in women than men, potentially in relation to women's well-documented advantage in odor identification.
In 22 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease we observed a sudden worsening of motor symptoms and severe akinesia during hospitalization because of infectious diseases, bone fractures, surgery for gastrointestinal tract diseases, and iatrogenic causes. Of these patients, 12 recovered completely, 6 had a partial recovery, and 4 died. Treatments included subcutaneous apomorphine/lisuride infusion and dantreolene (with a creatine phosphokinase level higher than 200 IU). In all patients a definite refractoriness to therapy was shown with a transient lack of response to apomorphine.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic, progressive, disabling movement disorder with a clear impact on Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL). We investigated the correlations between HRQoL and sleep disorders measured with the Parkinson's disease Sleep Scale (PDSS) and the motor and non-motor aspects of the disease. A correlation was found between HRQoL and the scores from PDSS, motor and depression scales. We conclude that more attention should be paid to the non-motor aspects of PD to attempt to improve HRQoL.
Measurement of total tau and amyloid beta1-42 (Ab42) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) improves diagnostic accuracy of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We examined a consecutive patient sample referred to our center for diagnostic assessment of cognitive decline. CSF tau and Abeta42 were assayed each week as routine neurochemical analyses. There were 119 patients investigated. These included 61 with probable AD (35 mild AD, 26 severe AD), 24 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 14 with vascular dementia, 11 with Lewy body dementia, and 9 with fronto-temporal dementia. Mild AD showed significantly lower CSF Abeta42 levels and significantly higher CSF tau levels than the other diagnostic groups; 79% of MCI patients had pathological values for both biomarkers. We confirm that these biomarkers have a role in the clinical work-up of patients with cognitive deficits.
The aim of this study was to assess whether patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) develop cognitive and psychiatric complications more frequently during prolonged therapy with continuous apomorphine infusion compared with standard oral treatment. Thirty consecutive PD patients with severe motor fluctuations were included in the study. Twelve patients accepted the treatment with subcutaneous continuous apomorphine infusion, while the remaining 18 preferred to continue with oral dopaminergic therapy. The two groups were evaluated with neuropsychological, psychiatric, and motor tests at baseline and after 1 year. The off daily duration and the levodopa dosage were significantly reduced in infused patients. The neuropsychiatric assessment did not change in both groups compared with baseline, except for a significant improvement of mood in the apomorphine group.
The clinical differentiation of Lewy body dementia (LBD) from Alzheimer's disease (AD) may be difficult. The aim of the present study was to assess the dopamine transporter function and the perfusional pattern in LBD and AD in vivo. Twenty patients with probable LBD and 24 with probable AD underwent on 2 separate days a brain perfusional SPECT with 99mTc-ECD and a SPECT with (123)I-FP-CIT, a ligand of dopamine transporter. In LBD a significantly ( p&lt;0.0005) lower ratio of specific (bilateral caudate nucleus, putamen) to non-specific (occipital cortex) (123)I-FP-CIT binding than in AD was reported. Perfusional data (SPM analysis) showed a significant ( p&lt;0.001) decrease of temporo-parietal blood flow in AD versus LBD, whereas in LBD a significant ( p&lt;0.001) occipital hypoperfusion with respect to AD was reported. Our findings confirm that dopaminergic nigrostriatal function is impaired in LBD. The selective occipital hypoperfusion in LBD needs to be further investigated.
Proteome analysis is a powerful methodology to investigate protein expression in tissues involved in diseases not linked to particular genetic defects. To date, this technique has a limited number of applications in the field of neurodegenerative disorders. We decided therefore to investigate by this approach autoptic mesencephalic tissues of patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease as well as control specimens from healthy subjects.
The Time and Weight Estimation test (STEP) and the Cognitive Estimation Task (CET) are two recently devised tests for the assessment of cognitive estimation. In the present study, we compared their performance in 30 non-demented idiopathic parkinsonian (PD) patients, also evaluated with the Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB) as an index of executive impairment, with the aim of verifying the putative frontal circuitry of cognitive estimation processes. Six patients (20%) showed a pathological performance on either or both tests. After division of the PD sample into tertiles based on the FAB score, no significant difference was detected by either estimation test. Furthermore, the two questionnaires were unrelated to each other. Thus, deficits of cognitive estimation ability appear to be mild in PD without dementia and do not correlate with executive impairment. Unexpectedly, the CET and the STEP seem to have no unique underlying construct.

The relationships between the degree of cortical prion protein (PrP) deposition, tissue vacuolation and astrocytosis were studied in the frontal cortex of 27 cases of human spongiform encephalopathy, encompassing 13 cases of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD), four cases of familial CJD (fCJD) (one owing to E200K mutation, one owing to 144 bp insertion, one owing to P102L mutation and one owing to A117V mutation), five cases of iatrogenic CJD (iCJD) owing to growth hormone therapy and five cases of variant CJD (vCJD). The size and number of tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) positive cells in the dorsal raphe were determined as an index of the function of the brain's serotonergic system. The amount of PrP deposited in frontal cortex in vCJD was significantly greater than that in both sCJD and iCJD, which did not differ significantly from each other. The extent of grey matter deposition of PrP correlated with that of white matter deposition. Deposition of PrP as plaques was greater in cases of sCJD bearing valine at codon 129 of PrP gene, especially when homozygous. However, all cases of vCJD displayed florid plaque formation yet these were homozygous for methionine at codon 129. Prion protein deposition as plaques was greater in cases of sCJD with 2A PrP isotype than those with 1 PrP isotype, similar to that seen in cases of vCJD all of which are 2B PrP isotype. There were no significant differences in the extent of astrocytosis between the different aetiological groups, in either grey or white matter, as visualized with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) or 5HT-2A receptor (5HT-2AR) immunostaining, although there was a strong correlation between the severity of 5HT-2AR and GFAP reactions within both grey and white matter. The extent of PrP deposition within the grey, but not white, matter correlated with the degree of astrocytosis for both GFAP and 5HT-2AR and the extent of tissue vacuolation in grey and white matter, although the latter did not correlate with degree of astrocytosis for either GFAP or 5HT-2AR. Astrocytes may be responding directly to the presence of PrP within the tissue, rather than the vacuolar damage to neurones. Although S100beta immunoreactivity was present in astrocytes in control cases, no S100beta staining was seen in astrocytes in either grey or white matter in most CJD cases. There were no differences in the number of TPH-positive cells between CJD and control cases, although the mean TPH-positive cell size was significantly greater, and cells were more intensely stained, in CJD compared to controls, suggesting a pathological overactivity of the brain's serotonergic system in CJD. This may result in excessive release of 5HT within the brain triggering increased 5HT-2AR expression within activated astrocytes leading to release and depletion of S100beta protein from such cells. The clinical symptoms of fluctuating attention and arousal could be mediated, at least in part, by such alterations in function of the serotonergic system.
This study was designed to examine the presence and role of the opioid growth factor (OGF, [Met(5)]-enkephalin) and the OGF receptor (OGFr) in COS-7 cells; these cells lack classical opioid receptors. Preproenkephalin mRNA, which encodes OGF, was detected by Northern blot analysis, and OGFr mRNA was recorded by RT-PCR. Receptor binding analysis showed specific and saturable binding (K(d)=3.5nm, B(max)=44fmol/mg protein) for OGFr in the nuclear fraction. Both OGF and OGFr were recorded in COS-7 cells by immunocytochemistry. Addition of OGF to log-phase COS-7 cultures depressed growth by 41.6% from control levels, whereas opioid-receptor blockade by the opioid antagonist, naltrexone, increased the number of cells by 29.8% from control values. The effect of OGF was receptor mediated. Exposure to a wide variety of synthetic and natural opioid peptides, including those selective for micro, delta, and kappa opioid receptors, showed that only OGF had an effect. Treatment with antisense OGFr oligonucleotides increased the number of cells by over 2-fold compared to wild-type cultures of COS-7 cells and preparations receiving scrambled oligonucleotides. These results indicate that the OGF-OGFr axis is present and functions in COS-7 cells, and in the absence of classical opioid receptors.
The analgesic potential of cannabinoids may be hampered by their ability to produce aversive emotion when administered systemically. We investigated the hypothesis that the midbrain periaqueductal grey (PAG) is a common substrate mediating the anti-nociceptive and potential aversive effects of cannabinoids. The rat formalin test was used to model nociceptive behaviour. Intra-PAG microinjection of the excitatory amino acid D,L-homocysteic acid (DLH) was used to induce an aversive, panic-like reaction characteristic of the defensive &quot;fight or flight&quot; response. Administration of the cannabinoid receptor agonist HU210 (5 microg/rat) into the dorsal PAG significantly reduced the second phase of formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour, an effect which was blocked by co-administration of the CB(1) receptor antagonist SR141716A (50 microg/rat). This anti-nociceptive effect was accompanied by an HU210-induced attenuation of the formalin-evoked increase in Fos protein expression in the caudal lateral PAG. Intra-dorsal PAG administration of HU210 (0.1, 1 or 5 microg/rat) significantly reduced the aversive DLH-induced explosive locomotor response. The anti-nociceptive effect of HU210 is likely to result from activation of the descending inhibitory pain pathway. Mechanisms mediating the anti-aversive effects of cannabinoids in the PAG remain to be elucidated. These data implicate a role for the PAG in both cannabinoid-mediated anti-nociceptive and anti-aversive responses.
In the central nervous system, re-uptake of the neurotransmitter glycine is mediated by two different glycine transporters, GlyT1 and GlyT2. GlyT2 is found in brainstem and spinal cord, whereas GlyT1 is expressed in rat forebrain regions where it is responsible for most glycine transport activity. Initially, GlyT1 and GlyT2 were pharmacologically differentiated by sarcosine, a weak selective inhibitor of GlyT1. The recently described selective and potent GlyT1 antagonist, NFPS/ALX-5407 provided an important additional tool to further characterize GlyT1 pharmacology. In the present study, we have radiolabeled the racemic form of NFPS (N-[3-(4'-fluorophenyl)-3-(4'-phenylphenoxy)propyl])sarcosine (also known as ALX-5407) to investigate its interaction with GlyT1, as well as define GlyT1 expression in the rat central nervous system. Kinetic studies indicated that [3H]NFPS binds rapidly to rat forebrain membranes and dissociates with a t(1/2) of 28 +/- 5 min. [3H]NFPS labeled a saturable population of sites in rat forebrain with a Kd of 7.1+/-1.3 nM and a B(max) of 3.14 +/- 0.26 pmol/mg protein. Bound [3H]NFPS was fully and potently displaced by unlabeled NFPS, whereas glycine and sarcosine were weak, Na+-dependent inhibitors with IC50 of 1,008 and 190 microM, respectively. Additional saturation experiments indicated that glycine and sarcosine were non-competitive antagonists of [3H]NFPS binding. Functional studies revealed that NFPS was a non-competitive inhibitor of [3H]glycine uptake and does not interact with Na+ and Cl- binding sites of GlyT1. Overall, this work shows that [3H]NFPS is a valuable tool in studying GlyT1 expression and pharmacology and that NFPS interacts with GlyT1 at a site different from the transporter translocation and ion binding sites.
Event-related magnetic fields were recorded using magnetoencephalography in children with (n=12) and without (n=11) dyslexia while they discriminated between pairs of syllables from a voice onset time series (/ga/-/ka/). Nonimpaired readers exhibited left-hemisphere predominance of activity after the resolution of the N1m, whereas children with dyslexia experienced a sharp peak of relative activation in right temporoparietal areas between 300 and 700 ms post-stimulus onset. Increased relative activation in right temporoparietal areas was correlated with reduced performance on phonological processing measures. Results are consistent with the notion that deficits in appreciating the sound structure of both written and spoken language are associated with abnormal neurophysiological activity in temporoparietal language areas in children with dyslexia.
Melissa officinalis (Lemon balm) is a herbal medicine that has traditionally been attributed with memory-enhancing properties, but which is currently more widely used as a mild sedative and sleep aid. In a previous study it was demonstrated that a commercial Melissa extract led to dose-specific increases in calmness, and dose-dependent decrements in timed memory task performance. However, the extract utilized in that study did not exhibit in vitro cholinergic receptor-binding properties. The current study involved an initial screening of samples of M. officinalis for human acetylcholinesterase inhibition and cholinergic receptor-binding properties. The cognitive and mood effects of single doses of the most cholinergically active dried leaf were then assessed in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, balanced crossover study. Following the in vitro analysis, 20 healthy, young participants received single doses of 600, 1000, and 1600 mg of encapsulated dried leaf, or a matching placebo, at 7-day intervals. Cognitive performance and mood were assessed predose and at 1, 3, and 6 h postdose using the Cognitive Drug Research computerized assessment battery and Bond-Lader visual analog scales, respectively. In vitro analysis of the chosen extract established IC(50) concentrations of 0.18 and 3.47 mg ml(-1), respectively, for the displacement of [(3)H]-(N)-nicotine and [(3)H]-(N)-scopolamine from nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in the human cerebral cortex tissue. However, no cholinesterase inhibitory properties were detected. The most notable cognitive and mood effects were improved memory performance and increased 'calmness' at all postdose time points for the highest (1600 mg) dose. However, while the profile of results was overwhelmingly favorable for the highest dose, decrements in the speed of timed memory task performance and on a rapid visual information-processing task increased with decreasing dose. These results suggest that doses of Melissa officinalis at or above the maximum employed here can improve cognitive performance and mood and may therefore be a valuable adjunct in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The results also suggest that different preparations derived from the same plant species may exhibit different properties depending on the process used for the sample preparation.
We compared the effects of manipulations during week 1 vs week 2 of life on the propensity to self-administer cocaine. Pups received daily subcutaneous saline injections, were handled briefly, or remained undisturbed during their respective treatment periods. Animals handled during the second week of life exhibited increased locomotor response to novelty when tested on postnatal day (PND) 48, compared to all other groups. Rats were implanted with jugular catheters on PND 70 and then given the opportunity to self-administer (0.125 mg/kg/infusion) cocaine for 5 consecutive days (1 h sessions). The dose was then raised to 0.25 mg/kg/infusion for 5 days and to 0.5 mg/kg/infusion for the final 5 days of testing. Only animals manipulated during the second week of life acquired drug-taking behavior. These effects were both stimulus- and gender-specific. Females handled during the second week of life acquired cocaine self-administration (SA) at the lowest dose, and females injected during the second week of life acquired at the intermediate dose. Males injected during the second week of life showed a similar, but more variable, drug-taking pattern. There were no group differences in serum corticosterone response to novelty, although relative to undisturbed animals and those manipulated in the first week of life, female animals manipulated during the second week of life had lower basal expression of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor mRNA in adulthood. We conclude that the second week of life in the rodent is a sensitive period during which manipulations result in a more vulnerable phenotype for the acquisition of cocaine SA.
Reinstatement of extinguished drug-seeking behavior following chronic drug self-administration has been demonstrated in rats in the presence of conditioned cues. This experimental model of cue-induced relapse can be used to assess the neural circuitry involved in relapse. We have previously shown that blockade of dopamine D1 receptors in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) abolishes conditioned cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. The present study tested the hypothesis that D-amphetamine-induced facilitation of monoamine neurotransmission in the BLA would potentiate conditioned cue-induced reinstatement of extinguished drug-seeking behavior. During daily self-administration sessions over 10 consecutive days, rats pressed a lever to receive cocaine infusions (0.2 mg/0.05 ml) paired with a light+tone compound stimulus. Following self-administration, rats underwent daily extinction sessions, during which no stimuli were presented. On the test days, rats received intra-BLA D-amphetamine (10 or 30 micro g/side) or vehicle infusions followed by extinction or conditioned cue-induced reinstatement testing. D-amphetamine infusions did not alter extinction responding relative to vehicle infusions. During reinstatement testing, conditioned cue presentation significantly increased responding over extinction levels, and intra-BLA D-amphetamine produced a dose-dependent increase in lever responding relative to vehicle infusions. These findings suggest that enhanced monoamine tone in the BLA potentiates the motivational effect and/or salience of cocaine-paired cues during reinstatement.
Psychopharmacological studies have implicated the dopaminergic innervation of the nucleus accumbens (NAC) in reward and reinforcement, in the actions of addictive drugs, and in the control of the symptoms of schizophrenia. Recent developments in in vivo dialysis, and other in vivo neurochemical techniques have permitted a more direct analysis of the behavioural correlates of increased dopamine release in rats, and have largely confirmed these findings in relation to reward, and drugs of abuse potential. However, dopamine release has also been found to be increased by many other stimuli/situations including aversive stimuli, stimuli conditioned to aversive stimuli, complex novel stimuli, and in the process of conditioning itself. These results contrast with electrophysiological data obtained in the behaving monkey, where rewarding stimuli, or stimuli predictive of reward are associated with increased firing of presumptive dopamine neurones projecting to the NAC (and indeed to the striatum), but mild aversive stimuli are not, leading to the suggestion that this system subserves a more purely reward function, or indeed that it provides a reward error signal. Further exploration of these issues will depend upon a comparison of increased dopamine cell firing and increased dopamine release, and an analysis of the behavioural effects of blocking these increases in dopamine transmission. One suggestion, deriving from work on latent inhibition, is that the significance of dopamine release by salient stimuli is to allow learning about stimuli which would otherwise be excluded on the basis of familiarity. This suggests that in addition to a role in some types of learning about salient stimuli, dopamine release in NAC may have a role in controlling the attention paid to familiar stimuli. Since it is difficult to see a connection between simple learning about rewards, and the symptoms of schizophrenia, this provides a more convincing link between the dopamine theory of schizophrenia, and the attentional difficulties held by many theorists to underlie schizophrenic symptoms.
The causal factor(s) responsible for sporadic neurological diseases are unknown and the stages of disease progression remain undefined and poorly understood. We have developed an animal model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-parkinsonism dementia complex which mimics all the essential features of the disease with the initial neurological insult arising from neurotoxins contained in washed cycad seeds. Animals fed washed cycad develop deficits in motor, cognitive, and sensory behaviors that correlate with the loss of neurons in specific regions of the central nervous system. The ability to recreate the disease by exposure to cycad allows us to extend the model in multiple dimensions by analyzing behavioral, cellular, and biochemical changes over time. In addition, the ability to induce toxin-based neurodegeneration allows us to probe the interactions between genetic and epigenetic factors. Our results show that the impact of both genetic causal and susceptibility factors with the cycad neurotoxins are complex. The article describes the features of the model and suggests ways that our understanding of cycad-induced neurodegeneration can be used to decipher and identify the early events in various human neurological diseases.
We studied the distribution of medullary glycinergic neurons in relation to GABAergic neurons, by using in situ hybridization method for mRNA encoding either glycine transporter 2 (GLYT2) or glutamic acid decarboxylase isoform 67 (GAD67). GLYT2 mRNA-positive (GLYT2+) neurons were distributed widely and clustered in (1). the respiration-related area of the ventrolateral medulla called the Btzinger complex, (2). the nucleus retroambiguus caudal to the obex or the caudal ventral respiratory group, (3). the spinal trigeminal nucleus, (4). a small area immediately dorsal to the inferior olivary nucleus, and (5). the border zone between the hypoglossal nucleus and the surrounding reticular formation. It was characteristic that in the dorsomedial medulla, GLYT2+ neurons were distributed only sparsely in contrast to dense GAD67+ neurons. Only few GLYT2+ neurons were distributed in the medial and interstitial subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarii. In particular virtually no GLYT2+ neurons were found in the area postrema. Furthermore, in the reticular formation and the spinal trigeminal nucleus, GAG67+ neurons tended to be distributed in the area where GLYT2+ neurons were sparse, and vice versa. These results provide useful information for the effort of determining neurotransmitters involved in the medullary neurons.




We report a case of ventriculus terminalis, presenting with specific neurological symptoms including low back pain and bilateral sciatica. Magnetic resonance images showed a cystic lesion with regular margins localized in the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord. The lesion was an oval shape with no internal septa. Its dimensions were 9.6 mm craniocaudally, 3.5 mm mediolaterally and 3.5 mm anteroposteriorly. Intralesional fluid had the same signal as cerebrospinal fluid in all magnetic resonance sequences. Pericystic spinal cord intensity was normal, and the cyst did not cause additional enlargement of the distal cord. During spinal cord evaluations, ventriculus terminalis should be kept in mind as a normal anatomic developmental phenomenon that can be seen on magnetic resonance images.






The Wada test was initially used to identify the hemisphere of language dominance prior to epilepsy surgery, but was subsequently applied to identify patients at risk of amnesia after temporal resection. The Wada test was later found useful in lateralizing the epileptogenic zone, predicting postoperative memory function, and predicting postoperative seizure control. The Wada test became more widely used, and in many centers became a standard component of the presurgical evaluation of epilepsy. Yet, several problems and disadvantages have surrounded the Wada test, including absence of standardized technique, overestimation of postoperative deficits, and risks and discomforts related to the invasive nature of the procedure. The Wada test may be omitted in patients who have excellent localization of the epileptogenic zone and who do not appear at risk for postoperative memory or language compromise. In addition, there is a promising alternative in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), which has already demonstrated excellent agreement with the Wada test for language dominance. Progress is being made in memory fMRI as well. The Wada test identifies the capacity of one hemisphere to sustain memory, and language functions while the other hemisphere is inactivated, while fMRI identifies regions activated by language or memory tasks. Some of these activated regions may not be essential for the activating tasks. Before fMRI can fully replace the Wada test it has to specifically identify those activated regions that are essential for memory or language function, and also measure the memory reserves of the hemisphere contralateral to surgery.

In the somatosensory system, P2X receptors are expressed on both peripheral and central terminals of primary afferent neurons. Those expressed on peripheral terminals are activated in response to both nociceptive and innocuous stimuli, whereas those at central terminals (&quot;central terminal P2X receptors&quot;) play an important role in modulating sensory transmission to the spinal cord dorsal horn. The author reviews recent studies on the central terminal P2X receptors. It is proposed that central terminal P2X receptors, once activated, may be involved in both central sensitization and initiation of pain. Thus, these receptors may represent a promising target for therapeutic management of pathological pain.
Modern study of the neurophysiology of the cerebral cortex began with Fritsch and Hitzig's discovery that electrical stimulation of the cortex produces movements. The importance of this discovery was threefold: it was the first demonstration of cortex devoted to motor function, the first indication that the cortex was electrically excitable, and the first evidence of a topographically organized representation in the brain. Fritsch and Hitzig's basic findings were soon replicated by Ferrier, but there were differences between the two studies in both method and interpretation. These different approaches have continued to reverberate in research on the function of motor cortex from the late 19th century to the present day.
In the early 1960s, Hubel and Wiesel reported the first physiological description of cells in cat primary visual cortex. They distinguished two main cell types: simple cells and complex cells. Based on their distinct response properties, they suggested that the two cell types could represent two consecutive stages in receptive-field construction. Since the 1960s, new experimental and computational evidence provided serious alternatives to this hierarchical model. Parallel models put forward the idea that both simple and complex receptive fields could be built in parallel by direct geniculate inputs. Recurrent models suggested that simple cells and complex cells may not be different cell types after all. To this day, a consensus among hierarchical, parallel, and recurrent models has been difficult to attain; however, the circuitry used by all models is becoming increasingly similar. The authors review theoretical and experimental evidence for each line of models emphasizing their strengths and weaknesses.
The mammalian cochlea is exquisitely designed to decompose complex sounds into their component frequencies, accounting in part for the superb auditory discrimination displayed by many species. To perform this task, numerous mechanical and electrical specializations are graded along the length of the cochlea that create a tonotopic map in which sounds of different frequencies produce maximal responses at different cochlear locations. Graded mechanical features include structural changes in the vibratory basilar membrane, on which the hair cell sensory receptors sit, to systematic changes in receptor cell size and stereociliary length. Furthermore, there is growing evidence that frequency specificity does not stop at mechanical and morphological elements in the cochlea, but also extends to the intrinsic electrical profile of the hair cell sensory receptors and the first neural element in the auditory system--the spiral ganglion neurons.
Gliomas are the most common primary brain tumor in adults, and those within or relating to the ventricular surface represent a less common but important subcategory. The most common intraventricular gliomas include ependymomas, SEs, and SEGAs. Other less common varieties have been reported, including chordoid gliomas, glioblastoma multiforme, and mixed glial-neuronal tumors. Each type of intraventricular glioma is associated with its own unique constellation of epidemiologic, clinical, radiologic, and pathologic defining characteristics. Each tumor type has its own management considerations and nuances with unique prognostic indicators and outcomes. The outcome for certain intraventricular gliomas (especially ependymomas) remains relatively poor. Future advancements in surgical technique are likely to have only a modest impact on improvement of outcome. Translational research aiming to advance the knowledge of tumor biology into new targeted cellular and molecular therapies holds tremendous promise to improve the overall outcome. Additionally, more thorough delineation of prognostic factors as well as modifications and refinements to radiation and chemotherapy may help to improve the still significantly poor outcomes for patients harboring these lesions. Future cooperative intra- and interinstitutional efforts between scientists and clinicians will hopefully culminate in an improved outlook and eventual cure for patients with gliomas.
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMRS) has been used extensively for several decades to elucidate metabolic pathways in biological systems and has led to new insights into cerebral metabolism. Many of these insights have been gained by NMRS using in vitro models, such as tissue extracts, cell cultures or brain slices. Extracts of cells or tissue provide an excellent basis for metabolic studies and facilitate the interpretation of in vivo spectra. (13)C NMRS is at present mostly used for in vitro or animal studies. Conclusions from the epilepsy models presented in this review are that turnover of metabolites is time-dependent in kainate-injected rats with limbic seizures. Early and only temporarily enhanced astrocytic activity is followed by altered metabolism in neurons with an increased turnover of important amino acids such as GABA and glutamate. However, pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) kindling affects astrocytes in younger and glutamatergic neurons in older animals. In the presence of PTZ, phenobarbital decreases labeling of most metabolites in all cell types, except GABAergic neurons, from both labeled precursors in the younger animals. However, in older animals only GABAergic neurons are affected by phenobarbital, as indicated by an increase in GABA labeling. In kaolin-induced hydrocephalus it was shown that astrocyte metabolism is disturbed in the early phase, particularly in the cerebrum. These alterations continue into the chronic period. Only then do the first signs of neuronal metabolic impairment appear, which might explain why dementia is a prominent clinical feature in patients with chronic hydrocephalus.


(S,S)-2-(alpha-(2-Methoxyphenoxy)benzyl)morpholine (MeNER), an O-methyl analog of the selective and potent norepinephrine transporter (NET) inhibitor, (S,S)-reboxetine, and its less active enantiomer, (R,R)-MeNER, have each been radiolabeled by O-methylation of their corresponding phenolic precursors in good yields from [(11)C]methyl iodide or [(11)C]methyl triflate. Radiochemical purities were &gt;99% and specific radioactivity at time of injection was about 74 GBq/micromol. Autoradiographic examination of (S,S)-[(11)C]MeNER binding to human brain slices post mortem indicated specific binding in a brain region including the locus coeruleus. PET examination of both [(11)C]MeNER enantiomers in a cynomolgus monkey demonstrated a higher specific binding of the (S,S)-enantiomer with ratios of 1.4-1.6 in the lower brainstem, mesencephalon and thalamus to striatum. Pretreatment with the NET ligand, desipramine, decreased the specific binding of (S,S)-[(11)C]MeNER. Labeled metabolites of [(11)C]MeNER were all more polar. (S,S)-[(11)C]MeNER is a good lead compound in the search for a selective radioligand for quantitation of NET in the human brain in vivo.


In addition to their traditional role in centrally mediated analgesia, opiate compounds produce significant effects when administered peripherally. Using a recently characterized model of acute chemical injury to the rat cornea, we assessed the effects of morphine sulphate eye drops on corneal inflammation and hyperalgesia. Topical application of a 5 microM morphine sulphate eye drop preparation attenuated capsaicin-induced blinking in a concentration-dependent manner. However, morphine had no effect on capsaicin-induced blinking when applied to healthy, non-inflamed rat cornea. In addition, 5 microM morphine given every 2 h following cauterization retarded the development of both stromal edema and the infiltration of immune cells. Both the analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects of morphine were prevented by the opioid receptor antagonists naloxone, CTAP, and naltrindole. We conclude that morphine acts on mu and delta opioid receptors located in the rat cornea to attenuate inflammation and hyperalgesia.
Chemical cauterization of the central cornea with silver nitrate was assessed as a superficial injury model of tissue sensitization accompanying acute inflammation. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with halothane gas, and the centers of their right corneas treated with a silver nitrate applicator stick (75% silver nitrate, 25% potassium nitrate) to produce a discrete lesion 1 mm in diameter. Edema of the corneal stroma and elevated immune cell counts became significant 4 h after cauterization, and were still evident after 48 h. Behavioral sensitization to chemical stimuli was determined by counting the number of blinks following application of 1 microM capsaicin directly to the corneal surface. A significant increase in stimulus-induced blinking was evident 2 h after cauterization. Chemical sensitization peaked at 6 h, and was no longer significant at 12 h. We conclude that silver nitrate cauterization produces acute corneal inflammation and hyperalgesia, and may prove a useful model for the study of primary afferent nociceptors.
The morbidity and immunological response to naturally acquired Schistosoma mansoni infection in a population of wild baboons ( n=28) was investigated. Serum obtained from the baboons was assayed for adult worm (SWAP) and schistosome egg (SEA)-specific immunoglobulin (Ig)G and IgM antibodies. The animals were euthanised, perfused to recover adult schistosome worms and schistosome-related pathology was assessed. Nineteen animals (68%) had high serum levels of SWAP-specific IgG antibodies and 15 (54%) had high levels of SEA-specific IgG antibodies. Nine animals (32%) had high levels of SWAP-specific IgM antibodies and six (21%) had high levels of SEA-specific IgM antibodies. Mild schistosome-related pathology was noted in 18 animals (64%). However, adult schistosome worms were recovered from only three animals (10%). The results indicate a high exposure to schistosomiasis for free-ranging baboons inhabiting an endemic area, as evidenced by the high prevalence of parasite-specific humoral antibody response. However, this high exposure is associated with low worm recovery and mild pathology. In addition, parasite-specific IgM antibodies provided a good indicator of an active schistosome infection.
Cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction can occur in Parkinson's disease (PD) and intracranial vascular modifications following orthostatism may be relevant to diagnostic and therapeutic decision-making. We performed transcranial Doppler monitoring of right middle cerebral artery (MCA) at rest and during passive 70 degrees tilt in 19 patients with idiopathic PD and in 19 age-matched normal controls. Brachial arterial blood pressure (systolic, diastolic and mean), cardiac frequency (CF), respiratory frequency and mean velocity (MV) of the MCA were recorded after 10 min of rest in supine position, and each minute during 9 min of tilting and 5 min of restored clinostatic position. The pulsatility and cerebrovascular resistances (CVR) indexes were calculated. At rest there was no significant difference in blood pressure, CF, respiratory frequency and MCA mean velocity between patients and controls. During tilt test, PD patients showed a trend to higher pulsatility index values (p=0.09) and significant lower diastolic blood pressure (p=0.001), while there was no significant difference in CVR index. In conclusion, PD patients showed mild hypotensive response to orthostatic stress, with intracranial compensatory vasodilation. Our findings suggest a preserved intracerebral autoregulation in PD without symptoms of orthostatic intolerance.
A door-to-door survey was carried out in rural areas of the Cordillera Province, Bolivia, to determine the prevalence of Parkinson's diseases (PD) in a sample of 9955 subjects. We found five cases of PD on prevalence day, November 1, 1994. The crude prevalence was 50.2/100,000 (95% CI 18.5-124.5) and 286/100,000 (95% CI 28-543) in subjects aged 40 years or more. Our prevalence is close to rates found in other in developing countries.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder is the most common neurobehavioral disorder of childhood, with most children maintaining symptoms of ADHD as adolescents and as adults. It is among the most common chronic conditions that primary care pediatricians see. Progress in brain imaging, genetics, neuropsychology, and molecular biology of ADHD reveals complex interactions between neurologic mechanisms, genetics, and environmental influences. Core behaviors seen in children with ADHD include hyperactivity, impulsivity, and inattention. The DSM-IV standard for diagnosis emphasized the importance of documenting that these behaviors occur at school and in the home, the chronicity of symptoms, and the connection between the behaviors and impairments in educational achievement or social development. The complex nature of this disorder is indicated by the observation that children and adolescents with ADHD have associated conditions, such as learning disorders, anxiety, oppositional behaviors, and depression. The AAP practice guideline on the evaluation and diagnosis of school-aged children with ADHD provides primary care pediatricians with a scientific foundation for assessing children with behavior and learning problems. Attention to accurate documentation of behaviors, coexisting learning disorders and mental health conditions, and the development of office practices that support the diagnostic process will ensure that children receive an appropriate and comprehensive assessment.


The effect of mirtazapine on steady-state plasma concentrations of the newer atypical antipsychotics clozapine, risperidone and olanzapine was investigated in 24 patients with chronic schizophrenia. In order to treat residual negative symptoms, additional mirtazapine (30 mg per day) was administered for six consecutive weeks to nine patients stabilized on clozapine therapy (200-650 mg per day), eight on risperidone (3-8 mg per day) and seven on olanzapine (10-20mg per day). There were only minimal and statistically insignificant changes in mean plasma concentrations of clozapine and its metabolite norclozapine, risperidone and its metabolite 9-hydroxyrisperidone, and olanzapine during the study period. Mirtazapine co-administration with either clozapine, risperidone or olanzapine was well tolerated. In the overall sample, a slight improvement in negative symptomatology, as assessed by the Scale for Assessment of Negative Symptoms, was observed at final evaluation (P&lt;0.01) and six patients (two in each treatment group) were classified as responders. While double-blind, controlled studies are needed to evaluate the potential clinical benefits of mirtazapine in chronic schizophrenia, our findings indicate that mirtazapine has a negligible effect on the metabolism of clozapine, risperidone and olanzapine and can be added safely to an existing treatment with these antipsychotics.
Recent advances in experimental genomics and proteomics, coupled with the wealth of sequence information available for a variety of organisms, have tremendous implications for how biomedical research is performed. Genomic techniques, such as complementary DNA (cDNA) microarrays, currently allow researchers to quickly and accurately quantify vast numbers of potential gene expression changes simultaneously. Modern proteomic techniques allow for the detection and elucidation of protein-protein interactions on a scale and at a speed never before possible. Although hurdles remain, together, these tools open the possibility of enormous change in our ability to analyze and interpret complex biological processes. The field of neuroscience is particularly well suited to analysis with these new techniques, given the complexity of neuronal signaling and the diversity of cellular responses. This review summarizes the major cDNA microarray and proteomic findings of relevance to schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease (AD) as 2 representative areas of neuroscience research. The potential for these techniques to help unravel the underlying pathology of complex neurological and neuropsychiatric conditions is considerable and warrants continued investigation.
Activation of cholinergic receptors in the spinal cord increases the intraspinal release of acetylcholine (ACh) and produces potent analgesia. The mechanisms that regulate the release of spinal ACh are not fully known. In the present study, we investigated the role of nicotinic ACh receptors in the regulation of intraspinal ACh release. Using an in vivo intraspinal microdialysis technique, nicotine was administered alone and in combination with the nicotinic antagonists mecamylamine (50 microM), dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DbetaE) (500 microM) and methyllycaconitine (MLA) (40 nM). Administration of nicotine (1 microM-1 mM) produced a dose dependent increase of intraspinal ACh release, while 10 mM nicotine resulted in dramatic increase in ACh release followed by a decrease to baseline. Administration of mecamylamine or DbetaE also induced an increased ACh release while MLA caused a decreased release. Mecamylamine and DbetaE, but not MLA pretreatment attenuated the stimulatory effect of 100 microM nicotine on intraspinal ACh release. It is suggested that spinal ACh release is regulated by different nicotinic ACh receptors. These receptors may tonically regulate spinal ACh release either directly or indirectly via inhibitory interneurones. Some of these receptors may be desensitised by high nicotine concentrations leading to a reduction of ACh release.
Several studies have demonstrated that the nonselective opioid receptor antagonist naloxone produces a paradoxical antinociception in the formalin test. The opioid system is related to the serotonergic system for producing antinociception at the spinal level. Here we also asked whether systemic (i.p.) and intrathecal (i.t.) administrations of a nonselective serotonergic antagonist, methysergide, might produce paradoxical antinociception similar to naloxone in the mouse formalin test. A diluted formalin solution was injected into the mouse plantar region of the hind paw and the duration of licking responses was measured at periods of 0-5 min (1st phase) and 20-40 min (2nd phase) after formalin injection. Methysergide administered i.p. and i.t. showed an attenuated licking duration only in the 2nd phase. The effect observed in the 2nd phase was reversed in the 5,7-dihydroxytriptamine, but not N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine pretreated group of mice, suggesting that descending serotonergic, but not noradrenergic, systems are involved in the methysergide antinociception. To further investigate the mechanism by which methysergide inhibited the nociceptive behaviors induced by formalin, the antinociceptive effect of methysergide was also tested in substance P (i.t.) and excitatory amino acids (i.t.), such as glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartic acid, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid, and kainic acid, which are major components in the formalin-induced nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord pain models. The duration of nociceptive behaviors shown in these models was significantly shortened by i.p. and i.t. administration of methysergide. These results suggest that methysergide also produces a paradoxical antinociception in various pain models including the formalin test, similar to the results of naloxone.
Repeated mating over a period of 6 h facilitates pair-bond formation in monogamous prairie voles. Using this paradigm, we examined fos expression in brain areas implicated in social behavior in voles. We hypothesized that the presence of the fos protein after a period of time sufficient for pair bonding to occur may indicate brain areas that are especially important in pair bond formation. We found elevated levels of fos immunoreactivity in the medial and cortical amygdala, medial preoptic area (MPOA), and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) in females that mated several times over a 6-h period as compared to a variety of unmated controls. No treatment effects were found in the central amygdala, nucleus accumbens (NAcc), or lateral septum (LS). We suggest that areas that show evidence of fos expression after sufficient time for pair bonding to occur may be important in the formation of associations between the partner and mating stimuli.
Basal forebrain cholinergic neurons are important for spatial learning in rodents. Spatial learning ability is reportedly better in males than females, and declines with age. To examine the role of cholinergic function in sex- or age-related differences in spatial learning, we compared the size of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCN) of young and aged male and female Fischer 344 (F344) rats that had been trained in the Morris water maze. Young male and female rats were equally proficient in finding the platform during training trials, but probe tests revealed that young male rats had better knowledge of the platform's precise location. Impairments in spatial learning were observed in aged rats, and the advantage of males over females was lost. BFCN were significantly larger in young male than young female rats, and were correlated with spatial memory performance for both groups. BFCN were smaller in aged than young males; no change was seen between young and aged females. In the groups of aged rats the correlation between neuron size and spatial memory was lost. The present findings provide further evidence of a role for the basal forebrain cholinergic system in spatial learning, but reveal a complex interaction between sex, age and behavioral performance.
Neurons of the central nervous system display a broad spectrum of intrinsic electrophysiological properties that are absent in the traditional &quot;integrate-and-fire&quot; model. A network of neurons with these properties interacting through synaptic receptors with many time scales can produce complex patterns of activity that cannot be intuitively predicted. Computational methods, tightly linked to experimental data, provide insights into the dynamics of neural networks. We review this approach for the case of bursting neurons of the thalamus, with a focus on thalamic and thalamocortical slow-wave oscillations. At the single-cell level, intrinsic bursting or oscillations can be explained by interactions between calcium- and voltage-dependent channels. At the network level, the genesis of oscillations, their initiation, propagation, termination, and large-scale synchrony can be explained by interactions between neurons with a variety of intrinsic cellular properties through different types of synaptic receptors. These interactions can be altered by neuromodulators, which can dramatically shift the large-scale behavior of the network, and can also be disrupted in many ways, resulting in pathological patterns of activity, such as seizures. We suggest a coherent framework that accounts for a large body of experimental data at the ion-channel, single-cell, and network levels. This framework suggests physiological roles for the highly synchronized oscillations of slow-wave sleep.
The regulation of pH is a vital homeostatic function shared by all tissues. Mechanisms that govern H+ in the intracellular and extracellular fluid are especially important in the brain, because electrical activity can elicit rapid pH changes in both compartments. These acid-base transients may in turn influence neural activity by affecting a variety of ion channels. The mechanisms responsible for the regulation of intracellular pH in brain are similar to those of other tissues and are comprised principally of forms of Na+/H+ exchange, Na+-driven Cl-/HCO3- exchange, Na+-HCO3- cotransport, and passive Cl-/HCO3- exchange. Differences in the expression or efficacy of these mechanisms have been noted among the functionally and morphologically diverse neurons and glial cells that have been studied. Molecular identification of transporter isoforms has revealed heterogeneity among brain regions and cell types. Neural activity gives rise to an assortment of extracellular and intracellular pH shifts that originate from a variety of mechanisms. Intracellular pH shifts in neurons and glia have been linked to Ca2+ transport, activation of acid extrusion systems, and the accumulation of metabolic products. Extracellular pH shifts can occur within milliseconds of neural activity, arise from an assortment of mechanisms, and are governed by the activity of extracellular carbonic anhydrase. The functional significance of these compartmental, activity-dependent pH shifts is discussed.
The tyrosinase family of genes in vertebrates consists of three related members encoding melanogenic enzymes, tyrosinase (Tyr), tyrosinase-related protein-1 (TRP-1, Tyrp1) and tyrosinase-related protein-2 (Dct, TRP-2, Tyrp2). These proteins catalyze melanin production in pigment cells and play important roles in determining vertebrate coloration. This is the first report examining melanogenic gene expression in pigment cells during embryonic development of amphibians. Xenopus provides a useful experimental system for analyzing molecular mechanisms of pigment cells. However, in this animal little information is available not only about the developmental expression but also about the isolation of pigmentation genes. In this study, we isolated homologues of Tyr, Tyrp1 and Dct in Xenopus laevis (XlTyr, XlTyrp1, and XlDct). We studied their expression during development using in situ hybridization and found that all of them are expressed in neural crest-derived melanophores, most of which migrate through the medial pathway, and in the developing diencephalon-derived retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). Further, XlDct was expressed earlier than XlTyr and XlTyrp1, which suggests that XlDct is the most suitable marker gene for melanin-producing cells among them. XlDct expression was detected in migratory melanoblasts and in the unpigmented RPE. In addition, the expression of XlDct was detected in the pineal organ. The sum of these studies suggests that expression of the tyrosinase family of genes is conserved in pigment cells of amphibians and that using XlDct as a marker gene for pigment cells will allow further study of the developmental mechanisms of pigment cell differentiation using Xenopus.

In the developing nervous system, extending axons are directed towards their appropriate targets by a myriad of attractive and repulsive guidance cues. Work in the past decade has significantly advanced our understanding of these molecules and has made it increasingly clear that their function is not limited to the guidance of growing axons during embryogenesis. Axon guidance cues fulfill additional roles in angiogenesis, cell migration and the immune system, and often display sustained expression in adulthood. Here we focus on the semaphorin (Sema) family and review their proposed functions in the adult nervous system. Several semaphorin family members continue to be expressed in the adult brain and spinal cord, and increasing evidence indicates that their expression is regulated upon nervous system injury in rodents and in neuropathology in humans. The available evidence suggests that semaphorins might significantly contribute to the maintenance and stability of neuronal networks. Furthermore, semaphorins could play important roles in the regeneration, or failure thereof, of neuronal connections. In the future, genetic manipulation of semaphorins and their receptors in the adult intact and injured nervous system should provide a deeper insight into the mechanisms by which semaphorin signaling contributes to structural plasticity and regeneration in the adult brain.
The interactions of the atypical antipsychotic drugs (APD) clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone, quetiapine and ziprasidone with muscarinic receptors were reviewed. Only clozapine and olanzapine have marked affinity for muscarinic receptors in radioligand binding studies; however, the affinity of these compounds is considerably lower than classical muscarinic antagonists. Although functional assays in cell lines transfected with muscarinic receptors suggest that olanzapine and clozapine have weak partial agonist activity at muscarinic receptors, particularly M4 receptors, studies in vitro and in vivo indicate that the compounds function as antagonists. In animal studies and in humans, clozapine has pronounced antimuscarinic effects whereas olanzapine has weak antimuscarinic effects. However, olanzapine significantly occupies central muscarinic receptors in humans. Overall, the role of muscarinic receptors in the antipsychotic effects of clozapine and olanzapine is controversial and complex.
The dopamine D4 receptor (D4) is a target for most common neuroleptic medications. After its initial discovery, it was found to possess the highest affinity of all dopamine receptor subtypes for the archetypical, atypical, antipsychotic clozapine. Nevertheless, initial clinical trials have not provided evidence that this receptor is a primary target for antipsychotic drugs. Considering the accumulated in vivo evidence that at least a subgroup of psychotic patients have altered dopamine signaling, all dopamine receptor subtypes likely contribute to the phenotypic expression of schizophrenia. New insights into the function of this receptor and its role in the modulation of excitatory signaling support the view that this dopamine receptor may affect attention and cognition. In this review, the authors outline some recent developments that provide insight into D4 receptor physiology, function and its possible relationship to schizophrenia treatment.
This manuscript describes the between-gel reproducibility of the two-dimensional gel electrophoresis analysis of the human lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteome. This reproducibility study is a necessary component for our long-term research program that uses comparative proteomics to analyze lumbar CSF samples in a study of human idiopathic low back pain. A Protein-Plus Dodeca Cell electrophoresis apparatus and PDQuest software were used to measure the level of between-gel reproducibility of the CSF proteome. One pooled CSF sample was used to evaluate the level of within-sample, between-gel reproducibility, and a set of seven different CSF samples (CSF-1 to 7) was used to test the level of within-group and between-group variability. Differentially expressed proteins (six CSF samples versus the designated control, CSF-3) were characterized with mass spectrometry. The number of spots found in the pooled CSF sample was 490 +/- 30 (n = 10 gels); the percentage of protein spots found in those 10 gels was 92 +/- 6%, with a coefficient of variation of 6%; and a positive coefficient of correlation (r = 0.82) was found. In order to test the proof-of-principle, that set of seven CSF samples served as a test of our ability to perform reproducibility comparative proteomics, and to detect differentially expressed proteins within that set of test samples. One sample (CSF-3) served as the control for the other six to locate the differentially expressed proteins. A comparison of fifteen differentially expressed proteins found in that set of test CSF samples correlated with pathology. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flight and electrospray ionization quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometry were used to characterize thirteen of those fifteen differentially expressed proteins. These results (reproducibility, protein characterization, set of test samples, and proof-of-principle) suggest that the analysis of human CSF two-dimensional gels can achieve a high level of within-sample and between-sample reproducibility, and that PDQuest software can measure the relative protein abundance in the human CSF proteome.
The author presents the analysis of a 23-year-old, obese, psychotic man who was dominated by sensations and unable to work through the different levels of psychic elaboration. He could not discriminate between words and concrete objects or between the perceptual functions of sense organs and the oral-cannibalistic level of instinct. Following the working through of these inabilities, it became possible to understand the patient's use of sensation and to make him aware of his emotions and conflicts. The author's discussion of this material emphasizes the role of the body-mind conflict and how this can be confronted in the analytic relationship. Possible links with neuroscience are also indicated.
Heightened cortisol levels due to stress or acute administration seem to enhance memory for emotional material, independently of emotional valence. An arousal-driven neurobiological mechanism involving the amygdala has been proposed. The relation between pre-task salivary measures of cortisol (by convention named 'basal levels') and emotionally modulated memory has not been investigated yet. Given the association between higher basal levels of cortisol and indices of low mood, valence-specific effects on emotionally modulated memory could be expected (e.g. mood-congruent or stimulus-specific forms of processing). This study was designed to investigate the relationship between basal levels of salivary cortisol, self-reported mood and spatial memory for neutral, happy and angry facial expressions in healthy young volunteers (N=31). Memory performance was indexed using a modified version of a computerized object-relocation task, using emotional facial expressions as stimuli. Results showed a significant relation between cortisol and depressive mood. More importantly, both the levels of cortisol and depressive mood were inversely related to the memory performance for the happy facial expressions, while a similar relationship between cortisol and memory performance on angry faces neared significance. An explanation in terms of the down-regulation of social behavior by elevated basal cortisol levels is postulated.
Study protocols in endocrinological research and the neurosciences often employ repeated measurements over time to record changes in physiological or endocrinological variables. While it is desirable to acquire repeated measurements for finding individual and group differences with regard to response time and duration, the amount of data gathered often represents a problem for the statistical analysis. When trying to detect possible associations between repeated measures and other variables, the area under the curve (AUC) is routinely used to incorporate multiple time points. However, formulas for computation of the AUC are not standardized across laboratories, and existing differences are usually not presented when discussing results, thus causing possible variability, or incompatibility of findings between research groups. In this paper, two formulas for calculation of the area under the curve are presented, which are derived from the trapezoid formula. These formulas are termed 'Area under the curve with respect to increase' (AUCI) and 'Area under the curve with respect to ground' (AUCG). The different information that can be derived from repeated measurements with these two formulas is exemplified using artificial and real data from recent studies of the authors. It is shown that depending on which formula is used, different associations with other variables may emerge. Consequently, it is recommended to employ both formulas when analyzing data sets with repeated measures.
Estrogen deficiency following ovariectomy or menopause increases the risk of developing diseases such as osteoporosis and may also lead to memory impairment. Although estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) alleviates many symptoms associated with estrogen loss, it is not clear whether it also benefits cognitive function. The effect of estrogens upon cognition can best be studied in an animal model of human menopause, in which estrogen levels can be experimentally manipulated. Six young ovariectomized female rhesus monkeys (6-9 years old) were tested on a battery of touchscreen-based cognitive tasks, including the Matching-to-Sample (MTS) task with mixed delays and the spatial, object, and face conditions of the Delayed Recognition Span Test (DRST). Monkeys were tested 5 days a week, one task per week, for a total of 8 months, while undergoing treatments with placebo and ethinyl estradiol (EE2) in alternating 28-days blocks. Blood samples were collected to verify EE2 levels. We also observed the monkeys by video monitor during test sessions and recorded locomotor activity and response topology. Performance on the face-DRST, a task that involved selecting the new face in an increasing array of rhesus monkey faces, was impaired by EE2 treatment, as compared to placebo. Other tasks were unaffected by EE2. There was no clear evidence of EE2 effects upon motor activity or anxiety. In order to test the reliability of our findings, we conducted an additional experiment in which the monkeys were again given the face-DRST with different categories of face stimuli for 4 months, while receiving placebo and EE2 in alternating 7-days blocks. They performed each task 4-5 days/week for 4 weeks with (1) the same rhesus monkey faces as in the first experiment, (2) human faces, (3) chimpanzee faces, and (4) novel rhesus monkey faces. Face-DRST performance did not vary as a function of treatment when human or chimpanzee faces were used as stimuli. In contrast, periods of EE2 treatment were associated with a lower performance for both sets of rhesus monkey faces. These findings suggest that EE2 treatment has a detrimental effect on processing faces of conspecifics by female rhesus monkeys. We speculate that estrogens may produce this effect by enhancing emotional reactivity to socially relevant stimuli.
The Escherichia coli AlkB protein is an iron- and 2-oxoglutarate-dependent oxygenase, repairing 1-methyladenine and 3-methylcytosine lesions in DNA. AlkB homologues are present in a number of bacterial species, and some bacteria have two different AlkB proteins. AlkB also repairs lesions in RNA, and the biological significance of RNA repair is discussed.

Dystonias are frequently observed in Parkinson's disease or other parkinsonian syndromes. They can occur during off-periods, either in the morning (early morning dystonia) or during daily off-periods, and during on-periods. Dystonia involves more frequently the upper and lower limbs, the neck or the face. Dystonia can be painful in particular off-period feet dystonia. The mechanisms underlying dystonia are not fully understood, basal ganglia activity and levodopa levels seems to play an important role. There are several medical options to try and improve those dystonias, adjustment of levodopa doses, adding a dopamine agonist drug, anticholinergics, lithium, baclofene or clonazepam. Those options are not always very effective. Botulinum toxin injections are an alternative treatment for focal dystonia. Muscles have to be selected by observation of the dystonia. Deep muscles in particular in the legs can be injected under EMG guidance. Botulinum toxin injections are particularly helpful and safe for lower limb dystonia. They can be used also for other forms of dystonia. Upper limb dystonia can be injected, allowing more comfort and easier hygiene but not necessarily better function, weakness is the main side effect. Cervical dystonia, blepharospam and oromandibular dystonia can be managed the same way as idiopathic dystonia. The dose might be lower since the muscles are usually not as hypertrophic. Side effects are as expected dysphagia and neck weakness in case of cervical dystonia, ptosis, inocclusion and diplopia in case of blepharospasm, jaw opening difficulty with oromandibular dystonia. Basal ganglia surgery can also help dystonia in a selected population of parkinsonian patients.
Case series report of presence of pruritus in five patients taking topiramate for treatment of epilepsy. This is a benign side effect of topiramate not previously reported that interfered with seizure treatment. Four out of five patients have previous history of antiepileptic drug (AED) allergy. Only one patient improved with a very slow titration, three of them discontinued treatment and one remained on a sub-therapeutic dose.
The impact of some commonly prescribed anti-epilepsy drugs (AEDs) on female health is well documented. Yet many women continue to experience side effects such as menstrual irregularities, interactions with hormonal contraception/HRT and teratogenicity [Seizure 8 (1999) 201] through lack of awareness or opportunity to discuss problems with a health professional on a regular basis. The 'Ideal World' survey aimed to: (a) assess quality of current treatment information provision to women with epilepsy at different life stages (childbearing age, pre-conception/pregnancy, menopause); (b) identify information needs and wants with a view to ensuring that all women with epilepsy are counselled appropriately, in a timely manner and able to make informed choices about their treatment. The survey content was developed with a steering group of epilepsy specialists during 2001 (see 'ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS') and mailed to Epilepsy Action (formerly the British Epilepsy Association) UK female membership aged 19+ (approximately 12,000) during the period of January 2002. A sample of 2000 randomly selected responses was analysed by the Planning Shop International. The survey shows that women are not receiving important information about their condition and possible adverse effects of treatment, which could have profound implications for their health and the health of their unborn child. One third (33%) of women of childbearing age were not considering having children because of their epilepsy. Women with epilepsy need regular review and should receive appropriate information about the impact of their treatment in a timely manner.
The factual knowledge of epilepsy is often insufficient among patients with this disorder. Compliance problems due to ignorance are common, and counselling is extremely important. We have developed a simple 1-day, low-cost group education programme for patients with epilepsy, intended to be suitable in routine care. The programme aims to help patients to achieve an improved understanding of the disorder and was carried out for a total of 54 consecutive patients with at least one seizure during the last year. This hospital-based 6-hour interactive course is organised by an epilepsy nurse and contains the following elements: basic knowledge about epilepsy, living with epilepsy, visit to the EEG lab, social security system and medical treatment. It was evaluated by means of a semi-structured interview and was found generally useful by all the participants. Sixty-five percent considered the sharing of experience with other patients to be the most valuable element. The ideal group size was found to be six to eight. Heterogeneity concerning age, sex and competence seemed to increase the interaction within the groups. This pilot study indicates that group education may be a useful approach in the clinic.


This paper presents a mixed-effects model, region-of-interest analysis of a longitudinal functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study of drug effects on human memory function. A key region of interest is the human hippocampus, affected by brain disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. A brief section on human hippocampal cell microscopy complements the discussion of the macroscopic fMRI study. Statistical issues confronted in these two applications are then placed in a broader context for further discussion of the future roles of biostatisticians and our methods in the fertile intersection of applied mathematical abstraction and imaging neuroscience. Neuroscientific and fMRI background is provided for readers new to either area.



Selegiline (L-deprenyl) is believed to render protection against l-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-neurotoxicity to a significant extent via a free radical scavenging mechanism, which is independent of its ability to inhibit monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) in the brain. We investigated the hydroxyl radical (.OH) scavenging action and neuroprotective effect of D-deprenyl, its less active isomer, in MPTP-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity in mice to test whether the chemical structure of the molecule or its biological effects contribute to this property. To achieve this goal we studied the effects of D-deprenyl on: (1).OH production in a Fenton reaction; (2) MPTP-induced.OH generation and dopamine (DA) depletion in vivo, employing a sensitive HPLC-electrochemical procedure; and (3) formation of MPP(+) in vivo in the striatum following systemic administration of MPTP, employing an HPLC-photodiode array detection system. D-deprenyl inhibited ferrous citrate-induced.OH in vitro (0.45 microM) and MPTP-induced.OH in vivo in substantia nigra (SN) and in the striatum (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.). D-deprenyl did not, but L-deprenyl (0.5 mg/kg dose) did significantly inhibit formation of MPP(+) in the striatum 90 min following systemic MPTP injection. It failed to affect MAO-B activity at 0.5 mg/kg in the striatum, but effectively blocked MPTP-induced striatal DA depletion. The potency of D-deprenyl to scavenge MPTP-induced.OH in vivo and to render protection against the dopaminergic neurotoxicity without affecting dopamine turnover, MAO-B activity, or formation of MPP(+) in the brain indicates a direct involvement of.OH in the neurotoxic action of MPTP and antioxidant effect in the neuroprotective action of deprenyl.
Evidence recently provided has suggested a specific involvement of the GABAergic system in modulating positive reinforcing properties of several drugs of abuse through an action on mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons. The GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen has been proposed as a potential therapeutic agent for the clinical treatment of several forms of drug addiction. In the present study, using the in vivo microdialysis technique, we investigated the effect of baclofen on nicotine, cocaine, and morphine-induced increase in extracellular dopamine (DA) levels in the shell of the nucleus accumbens, a brain area supposedly involved in the modulation of the central effects of several drugs of abuse, of freely moving rats. As expected, nicotine (0.6 mg/kg s.c.), morphine (5 mg/kg s.c.), and cocaine (7.5 mg/kg i.p.) administration in rats induced a marked increase in extracellular DA concentrations in the nucleus accumbens, reaching a maximum value of +205 +/- 8.4%, +300 +/- 22.2%, and +370 +/- 30.7%, respectively. Pretreatment with baclofen (1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg i.p.) dose-dependently reduced the nicotine-, morphine-, and cocaine-evoked DA release in the shell of the nucleus accumbens. Furthermore, baclofen alone did not elicit changes in basal DA extracellular levels up to 180 min. Taken together, our data are in line with previous reports demonstrating the ability of baclofen to modulate the mesolimbic DAergic transmission and indicate baclofen as a putative candidate in the pharmacotherapy of polydrug abuse.
In this paper, the central neuronal activities elicited by BmK I, a specific voltage-gated Na+ channel modulator, were examined by monitoring the c-Fos expression pattern of rat spinal cord. c-Fos protein in laminae I-II, V-VI, and VII-X could be detected at 0.5 h, increased steadily at 1 h, reached a peak at 2 h, and then decreased rapidly from 4 to 24 h after Bmk I was subcutaneously injected into the rat hind paw. However, c-Fos expression in laminae III-IV was activated to a peak at 0.5 h and then declined gradually from 0.5 to 24 h. Furthermore, c-Fos expression could be induced by BmK I in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, the increase of c-Fos expression in laminae I-II, V-VI, and VII-X induced by BmK I, and not in laminae III-IV, could be partially inhibited by systemic morphine in a dose-dependent manner. The results suggested that peripheral administration of BmK I could evoke a profound change of spinal neuronal activities manifested as specific patterns of c-Fos expression, which may be partially attributed to the selective modulation of BmK I on voltage-gated Na+ channels located in peripheral nociceptors.
Sidestream cigarette smoke solution was previously screened to identify the groups of chemicals in smoke that inhibit growth and angiogenesis in the chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM). Pyrazine and several pyrazine derivatives were identified as a major chemical group in this screen. In the current study, purified pyrazine and six pyrazine derivatives identified in the screen were tested in dose response experiments to measure their effects on CAM growth, embryo growth, and angiogenesis. Chemicals or control medium were placed on CAMs in ovo on day 5 of development, and results were evaluated on day 6. Of the chemicals tested, pyrazine was the most potent and inhibited both CAM and embryo growth at picomolar doses. 2-Ethylpyrazine and 2,3-dimethylpyrazine were inhibitory at nanomolar doses. Inhibition of growth by pyrazine was correlated with inhibition of DNA synthesis. The pattern of blood vessel development in CAMs was disturbed by micromolar doses of pyrazine and 2,3-dimethylpyrazine. Migration of mesodermal blood vessels to the ectoderm of CAMs and their subsequent differentiation into the capillary plexus was impaired by nanomolar doses of pyrazine. In summary, these data show that pyrazine and some of its derivatives inhibit growth and certain processes important in angiogenesis at very low doses. Since pyrazine and some of its derivatives are considered safe food additives, further toxicological testing of pyrazine, in particular on developing tissues, should be done to fully evaluate its safety as a consumer product additive.
Studies of multimodal integration have relied to a large extent on conflict situations, in which two sensory modalities receive incongruent data concerning one aspect of the source. Exposure to such situations produces immediate crossmodal biases as well as longer lasting aftereffects, revealing recalibrations of data-to-percept matches. In the natural environment, such phenomena might be adaptive, by reducing the perturbing effects of factors like noise or growth-induced changes in receptor organs, and by enriching the percept. However, experimental results generalize to real life only when they reflect automatic perceptual processes, and not response strategies adopted to satisfy the particular demands of laboratory tasks. Here, we focus on this issue and review ways of addressing it that have been developed recently.
For a stable visual world, the colours of objects should appear the same under different lights. This property of colour constancy has been assumed to be fundamental to vision, and many experimental attempts have been made to quantify it. I contend here, however, that the usual methods of measurement are either too coarse or concentrate not on colour constancy itself, but on other, complementary aspects of scene perception. Whether colour constancy exists other than in nominal terms remains unclear.
Have you ever noticed that when you are in a bad mood the whole world seems to be against you? More negative things seem to happen, and you even remember past episodes of your life in a more negative way than usual. Most of us have experienced this phenomenon, but few will have thought about how this mood might interact with our ability to remember. In a recent paper, Susanne Erk et al. shed light on a possible neural basis for this phenomena.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by a polyglutamine expansion in the protein huntingtin. In its terminal stage, HD is characterized by widespread neuronal death in the neocortex and the striatum. Classically, this neuronal death has been thought to underlie most of the symptoms of the disease. Accumulating evidence suggests, however, that cellular dysfunction is important in the pathogenesis of HD. We propose that specific impairment of the exocytosis and endocytosis machinery contributes to the development of HD. We also suggest that abnormal synaptic transmission underlies the early symptoms of HD and can contribute to the triggering of cell death in later stages of the disease.
Abstract Although glia often envelop synapses, they have traditionally been viewed as passive participants in synaptic function. Recent evidence has demonstrated, however, that there is a dynamic two-way communication between glia and neurons at the synapse. Neurotransmitters released from presynaptic neurons evoke Ca2+ concentration increases in adjacent glia. Activated glia, in turn, release transmitters, including glutamate and ATP. These gliotransmitters feed back onto the presynaptic terminal either to enhance or to depress further release of neurotransmitter. Transmitters released from glia can also directly stimulate postsynaptic neurons, producing either excitatory or inhibitory responses. Based on these new findings, glia should be considered an active partner at the synapse, dynamically regulating synaptic transmission.


Interpretation of transcranial Doppler (TCD) recordings requires assumptions about flow or diameter of the insonated vessel. This study aimed at assessing if activation of the sympathetic system could affect blood velocity (bv) in basal cerebral arteries. In anaesthetized rabbits, stimulation of cervical sympathetic nerve (cervSN) was used selectively to activate the sympathetic pathway to the head while monitoring bv in all major cerebral arteries. cervSN stimulation at 10 Hz produced: 1. in internal carotid artery (ICA) and ICA-supplied arteries (ICA-s), a consistent bv increase ranging between 20 and 70%, 2. in the basilar artery, a transient decrease by 15-30%. These effects were mimicked, in both territories, by injection of phenylephrine into the ICA. Because cerebral blood flow is known to be reduced by cervSN stimulation, the increase in bv in ICA and ICA-s must be ascribed to constriction of the insonated vessels. These effects should be considered when monitoring bv during sympathetic activation tests or exercise.
The paper gives analytical consideration of what, as to how evolved current notions of the new branch of neurobiology, the neuroimmunoendocrinology, dealing with integration of the main physiological regulatory systems--netvous, endocrine and immune, with special reference paid to the developmental likeness of their controlling mechanisms, letting to assume their cooperative action. Taking the latter into consideration the opportunity is discussed, suggesting that breakage of those would result in various kinds of disregulatory pathology including autoimmune one.

Microdysgenesis is a microscopic malformation of cortical development (MCD) associated with epilepsy, but its significance in epileptogenesis is debated. This is partly since the histopathological aberrations associated with microdysgenesis can also be found in normal brains. We here report a method for objective analysis of one criterion for microdysgenesis, irregular cortical nerve cell distribution. Tissue from the lateral temporal lobe from two epilepsy patients was compared with tissue from two post-mortem controls. An expansion/shrinkage factor was calculated to determine the change in tissue size during cutting and mounting. Neurons were identified and the positions of their nucleoli were marked and stored. The spatial distribution of neurons was analysed using distance to nearest neighbouring neuron and Voronoi tessellation. Specimens from the epilepsy patients expanded markedly during mounting compared with controls. Epilepsy specimens had shorter mean distances to nearest neighbour than controls and smaller Voronoi tessellation areas than controls. Both measurements suggest more densely packed neurons in epilepsy specimens. This pilot study describes a new objective method for identification of cortical neurons and their spatial distribution. Voronoi tessellation and distance to nearest neighbouring neuron might provide robust methods for objective analysis of cortical nerve cell distribution. The yield of such comparisons might be improved if each cortical layer is analysed separately.
The axons of neurons in the CNS with their delicate ramification patterns and terminal boutons can be visualized with conventional neuroanatomical techniques with a high degree of accuracy. Whether identified terminal boutons form synaptic contacts with target neurons identified by a second and different marker needs resolution beyond that offered by conventional light microscopy. The morphological elements associated with synaptic connectivity consist of specialized pre- and post-synaptic junctional complexes known as the pre- and post-synaptic densities. Electron microscopy of these junctional complexes consumes much time and resources. In an attempt to increase the speed with which we can analyze networks of neurons we developed a high-resolution triple-fluorescence approach including neuroanatomical tracing, immunofluorescence, confocal laserscanning and 3D-computer reconstruction to pinpoint at the light microscopic level the three elements involved in synaptic connectivity: afferent fibers and their terminal boutons, close apposition with neurons identified by the presence of a fluorescent marker, and sandwiched in between a post-synaptic density marker. We used morphological criteria for the detection of axon terminals (swellings on fibers). Antibodies against ProSAP2/Shank3, a post-synaptic density-associated scaffolding protein, were used to pinpoint the location of the synaptic junctions. The results show the existence of sandwich-like configurations: pre-synaptic fiber, ProSAP2/Shank3, post-synaptic neuron. Thus we feel that we can minimize (and perhaps completely eliminate) the need for electron microscopy and hence dramatically increase the overall efficiency of neuroanatomical tracing and network analysis.
Slice cultures on biomembrane are the method of choice for studying Ca2+-dependent plastic changes occurring over several days to weeks. Using IR-differential interference contrast, good visualization of neurons in biomembrane slice cultures has been achieved despite a negative optical effect of the biomembrane, but epifluorescence imaging requires removal of a Wollaston prism and the analyzer. Here, we describe a novel illumination method to overcome this problem. Using optic fiber illumination at a shallow angle from the top of the slice culture, with or without additional illumination from the bottom, we obtained good cellular resolution of neurons in biomembrane slice cultures as well as in acute slices with an infrared-video camera. With this technique, we demonstrate visually guided whole-cell patch-clamp recording of Na+- and K+-currents as well as combination of whole-cell recording with fluorescence imaging of hippocampal and entorhinal cortex neurons in biomembrane slice cultures. Our inexpensive method should prove very useful for studying in vitro effects of long-term manipulations on membrane currents and intracellular Ca2+-signaling.
The organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT), the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and the supraoptic nucleus (SON) are three hypothalamic structures involved in the osmotic and circadian control of neurohypophysial secretion. Recent experiments have suggested that interactions between osmotic and circadian factors may be important for homeostasis. The existence of an in vitro slice preparation retaining these nuclei and their interconnections would therefore be useful for the analysis of synaptic interactions. In the rat, the OVLT, SCN and SON are found at increasingly ventral and lateral positions along the rostro-caudal axis, such that conventional 400 microm slices taken in the pure coronal or horizontal planes do not retain all three nuclei. Here we show that horizontal slices cut at angles of 38-42 degrees relative to the dorsal surface of the cortex retain large fractions of the three nuclei. Intracellular recordings revealed membrane properties consistent with those previously published for OVLT, SCN and SON neurons. Moreover, antidromic and synaptic responses evoked by electrical stimulation revealed that extensive axonal projections are retained between these nuclei. Finally, chemical and osmotic stimulation of the OVLT exerted powerful influences on the rate of spontaneous synaptic events in SON neurons. We therefore conclude that angled horizontal hypothalamic slices represent a useful preparation for the analysis of physiological interactions between the OVLT, SCN and SON.
The recording capability of a microelectrode array in the cat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) was studied in 11 acute experiments, 373 single, discriminable sensory units were recorded on 587 electrodes (0.64 units/electrode). Sensory action potentials as large as 1750 microV were obtained (mean=132 microV). These were comparable to literature reports of the best DRG extracellular recordings made with conventional electrodes. We were able simultaneously to activate and record over 50 discriminable, time-varying units from L6 and L7 DRGs during a cyclic ankle displacement. We also successfully recorded stable, phase dependent multiple sensory units with very little artifact or electromyographic (EMG) contamination during decerebrate walking. Thus, the array is capable of recording more effectively from more DRGs neurons than has been achieved by conventional recording techniques. The recording selectivity and stability of the array, coupled with the large number of neurons that can be recorded simultaneously, provide attractive features for better understanding sensorimotor control principles.
Protein kinase B/Akt possesses prosurvival and antiapoptotic activities and is involved in growth factor-mediated neuronal protection. In this study we establish Akt deactivation as a causal mediator of cell death. Akt deactivation occurs in multiple models of cell death including N-methyl-d-aspartate excitotoxicity, vascular stroke, and nitric oxide (NO)- and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-elicited death of HeLa, PC12, and Jurkat T cells. Akt deactivation characterizes both caspase-dependent and -independent cell death. Conditions rescuing cell death, such as treatment with poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase or NO synthase inhibitors and preconditioning with sublethal concentrations of N-methyl-d-aspartate, restore Akt activity. Infection of neurons with adenovirus expressing constitutively active Akt prevents excitotoxicity, whereas phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitors or infection with dominant negative Akt induce death of untreated neuronal cells.
Does the neonate's brain have left hemisphere (LH) dominance for speech? Twelve full-term neonates participated in an optical topography study designed to assess whether the neonate brain responds specifically to linguistic stimuli. Participants were tested with normal infant-directed speech, with the same utterances played in reverse and without auditory stimulation. We used a 24-channel optical topography device to assess changes in the concentration of total hemoglobin in response to auditory stimulation in 12 areas of the right hemisphere and 12 areas of the LH. We found that LH temporal areas showed significantly more activation when infants were exposed to normal speech than to backward speech or silence. We conclude that neonates are born with an LH superiority to process specific properties of speech.
Connexin 43 (Cx43) nonjunctional or &quot;unapposed&quot; hemichannels can open under physiological or pathological conditions. We characterize hemichannels comprised of Cx43 or Cx43-EGFP (Cx43 with enhanced GFP fused to the C terminus) expressed in HeLa cells. Channel opening was induced at potentials greater than +60 mV. Open probability appeared to be very low. No comparable opening was detected in the parental, nontransfected HeLa cells. Conductance of fully open single hemichannels was approximately 220 pS, which is approximately double that of Cx43 cell-cell channels. Cx43 hemichannels exhibited two types of gating: fast transitions (&lt;1 ms) between the fully open state and a substate of approximately 75 pS and slow transitions (&gt;5 ms) between either open state and the fully closed state. Cx43-EGFP hemichannels exhibited only slow transitions (&gt;5 ms) between closed and fully open states. These properties resemble those of the corresponding Cx43 and Cx43-EGFP cell-cell channels. Cx43 with EGFP on the N terminus (EGFP-Cx43) inserted into the surface and formed plaques but did not form hemichannels or cell-cell channels. Hemichannel blockers, 18beta-glycyrrhetinic acid or La3+, blocked depolarization-induced currents. Uptake of ethidium bromide (i) was faster in Cx43 and Cx43-EGFP than parental and EGFP-Cx43 cells, (ii) was directly correlated with Cx43-EGFP expression, (iii) was reduced by hemichannel blockers, and (iv) occurred at the same low rate in EGFP-Cx43 and parental cells. Although hemichannel opening was not detected electrophysiologically at the resting potential, infrequent or brief opening could account for ethidium bromide uptake. Opening of Cx43 hemichannels may mediate normal signaling or be deleterious.
The effects of adrenal corticosteroids on subsequent adrenocorticotropin secretion are complex. Acutely (within hours), glucocorticoids (GCs) directly inhibit further activity in the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, but the chronic actions (across days) of these steroids on brain are directly excitatory. Chronically high concentrations of GCs act in three ways that are functionally congruent. (i) GCs increase the expression of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) mRNA in the central nucleus of the amygdala, a critical node in the emotional brain. CRF enables recruitment of a chronic stress-response network. (ii) GCs increase the salience of pleasurable or compulsive activities (ingesting sucrose, fat, and drugs, or wheel-running). This motivates ingestion of &quot;comfort food.&quot; (iii) GCs act systemically to increase abdominal fat depots. This allows an increased signal of abdominal energy stores to inhibit catecholamines in the brainstem and CRF expression in hypothalamic neurons regulating adrenocorticotropin. Chronic stress, together with high GC concentrations, usually decreases body weight gain in rats; by contrast, in stressed or depressed humans chronic stress induces either increased comfort food intake and body weight gain or decreased intake and body weight loss. Comfort food ingestion that produces abdominal obesity, decreases CRF mRNA in the hypothalamus of rats. Depressed people who overeat have decreased cerebrospinal CRF, catecholamine concentrations, and hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal activity. We propose that people eat comfort food in an attempt to reduce the activity in the chronic stress-response network with its attendant anxiety. These mechanisms, determined in rats, may explain some of the epidemic of obesity occurring in our society.
The hypothesis that normal brain torque (i.e. rightward frontal and leftward occipital asymmetry) is anomalous in schizophrenia (Crow, 1997. Trends in Neuroscience, 20, 339-343) was tested by application of a novel image analysis technique on three-dimensional magnetic resonance images obtained in 26 adult patients with chronic schizophrenia (18 males, 8 females) and 24 controls (14 males, 10 females). Right and left cerebral hemisphere tissue was extracted via non-linear co-registration with a mask image, and maps were computed of inter-hemispheric differences in tissue volume in an array of columns of voxels orthogonal to the mid-plane (2D), and profiles of coronal slice volumes (1D). Furthermore, integration of two-dimensional column maps gave approximate lobar asymmetries, and occipital and frontal asymmetries were combined to give a volumetric measure of brain torque. Significant brain torque was revealed in male and female control and patient groups, and did not correlate with brain size. Frontal and occipital asymmetries were significantly correlated in all groups. Both frontal and occipital components of torque were significantly increased in males than females. Patients tended to have reduced torque, particularly the leftward occipital component. Furthermore, 3/26 patients (but no controls) had reversed torque (leftward frontal and rightward occipital asymmetry). Contrary to Crow's hypothesis, brain torque was not significantly reduced in patients with schizophrenia relative to controls, although reversal of torque was found in three cases. Future studies with larger sample sizes should consider sexual dimorphism and specific symptoms in relation to asymmetry.
Arousal can be described as an endogenously generated or exogenously induced change in behavioral responsiveness. Changes in levels of arousal, such as occur during sleep or attention, most likely accomplish adaptive functions common to most animals. Recent evidence demonstrating changing arousal states in Drosophila melanogaster complements other behavioral research in this model organism. Herein we review the methodology related to the study of circadian rhythms, sleep and anesthesia where arousal, or lack of it, plays an essential role. We end this review by discussing a new method that allows for the first time to correlate changes in brain electrophysiology to changes in behavioral arousal in the fruit fly.
The superior colliculus (or optic tectum in nonmammals) plays a critical role in the visual system and is essential for integrating sensory inputs to guide eye and head movements. However, what is the role of the superior colliculus (SC) in species that depend almost exclusively on touch? In this study we examined the SC of the star-nosed mole, a subterranean mammal that, instead of using vision, explores its environment using its tactile star. The star acts like a mechanosensory eye with a central tactile fovea that is constantly shifted in a saccadic manner. Multiunit microelectrode recordings were used to determine the topography and receptive field organization of somatosensory inputs to the SC and to test for visual and auditory responses. Here we report an SC dominated by somatosensory inputs in which neurons in all layers responded to mechanosensory stimulation, forming a topographic representation of contralateral body dominated by the mechanosensory star. Receptive fields were large, and appendage representations overlapped, suggesting that the SC may use a distributed, population code to guide the saccadic movements of the mole's touch fovea. No auditory or visual responses were recorded from the SC, although neurons in the neighboring inferior colliculus responded to auditory stimuli. Layers IVb-VII were identified, and a layer superficial to IVb contained neurons that responded to somatosensory stimulation, suggesting that there are unique patterns of afferents in the star-nosed mole's SC.
Nutrient selection emerges as a result of both genetic and environmental factors and may be further modified by stressors. The impact of this complex interrelationship on pathological outcomes is poorly understood. In the present investigation the stressor-reactive BALB/cByJ and the relatively stressor resilient C57BL/6ByJ mice were maintained on a macronutrient selection protocol or given free access to chow for 20 months. The C57BL/6ByJ mice exhibited a marked preference for fat over carbohydrates, whereas BALB/cByJ mice preferred carbohydrates over fat. Cognitive testing in a Morris water maze indicated that while BALB/cByJ mice were clearly more impaired in this task relative to their C57BL/6ByJ counterparts, there was no substantial effect of the diet at either 13 or 19 months of age. Furthermore, despite their stressor resiliency, at 19 months of age, C57BL/6ByJ mice who invariably consumed fat, exhibited greater plasma corticosterone responses to a 20-min period of restraint than chow fed animals. Indeed, the corticosterone rise was as pronounced as in the more reactive BALB/cByJ strain. Furthermore, the C57BL/6ByJ diet-fed mice showed features of insulin insensitivity and increased adiposity. These data suggest that the adverse effects of fat consumption need to be considered in the context of genetically determined vulnerability/resilience factors.
DNA damage is a key initiator of neuronal death. We have previously shown that the tumor suppressor p53, in conjunction with cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), regulates the mitochondrial pathway of death in neurons exposed to genotoxic agents. However, the mechanisms by which p53 is regulated is unclear. Presently, we show that p53 is phosphorylated on Ser-15 following DNA damage and this occurs independently of the CDK pathway. Instead, we show that p53 phosphorylation, stability, as well as neuronal death is regulated, in part, by the ataxia telangiectasia-mutated (ATM) protein. Previous reports have suggested that ATM regulation of p53 occurs through Chk2. However, in our present paradigms, we show that ATM functions separately from Chk2 to regulate p53 stability and neuronal death. Chk2 deficiency does not affect p53 stability or neuronal death induced by Topoisomerase I or II inhibition. Taken together, our results provide a model by which DNA damage can activate an ATM-dependent, Chk2-independent pathway of p53-mediated neuronal death.
Opioid growth factor (OGF) interacts with the OGF receptor (OGFr) and serves as a native inhibitory growth factor. OGF and OGFr are present in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN), and OGF represses the replication of SCCHN in tissue culture. In this study, OGF-treated nude mice with xenografts of SCCHN displayed delays in tumor appearance and had reduced tumor size compared to controls. OGF activity was receptor-mediated. Opioid-receptor blockade by the potent opioid antagonist, naltrexone, stimulated tumorigenic processes. Both OGF and OGFr were detected in the tumors by immunohistochemistry, and OGFr was characterized by receptor binding analysis. These results indicate that the OGF-OGFr axis functions in vivo, OGF is a constitutively active molecule, and OGF modulation of SCCHN may have clinical application.
Some neurons (delay cells) in the prefrontal cortex elevate their activities throughout the time period during which the animal is required to remember past events and prepare future behavior, suggesting that working memory is mediated by continuous neural activity. It is unknown, however, how working memory is represented within a population of prefrontal cortical neurons. We recorded from neuronal ensembles in the prefrontal cortex as rats learned a new delayed alternation task. Ensemble activities changed in parallel with behavioral learning so that they increasingly allowed correct decoding of previous and future goal choices. In well-trained rats, considerable decoding was possible based on only a few neurons and after removing continuously active delay cells. These results show that neural activity in the prefrontal cortex changes dynamically during new task learning so that working memory is robustly represented and that working memory can be mediated by sequential activation of different neural populations.
The functional organization of adult cerebral cortex is characterized by the presence of highly ordered sensory and motor maps. Despite their archetypical organization, the maps maintain the capacity to rapidly reorganize, suggesting that the neural circuitry underlying cortical representations is inherently plastic. Here we show that the circuitry supporting motor maps is dependent upon continued protein synthesis. Injections of two different protein synthesis inhibitors into adult rat forelimb motor cortex caused an immediate and enduring loss of movement representations. The disappearance of the motor map was accompanied by a significant reduction in synapse number, synapse size, and cortical field potentials and caused skilled forelimb movement impairments. Further, motor skill training led to a reappearance of movement representations. We propose that the circuitry of adult motor cortex is perpetually labile and requires continued protein synthesis in order to maintain its functional organization.
Carbon monoxide (CO) is a putative gaseous neurotransmitter that lacks vesicular storage and must be synthesized rapidly following neuronal depolarization. We show that the biosynthetic enzyme for CO, heme oxygenase-2 (HO2), is activated during neuronal stimulation by phosphorylation by CK2 (formerly casein kinase 2). Phorbol ester treatment of hippocampal cultures results in the phosphorylation and activation of HO2 by CK2, implicating protein kinase C (PKC) in CK2 stimulation. Odorant treatment of olfactory receptor neurons augments HO2 phosphorylation and activity as well as cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) levels, with all of these effects selectively blocked by CK2 inhibitors. Likewise, CO-mediated nonadrenergic, noncholinergic (NANC) relaxation of the internal anal sphincter requires CK2 activity. Our findings provide a molecular mechanism for the rapid neuronal activation of CO biosynthesis, as required for a gaseous neurotransmitter.
Drosophila Roundabout (Robo) is the founding member of a conserved family of repulsive axon guidance receptors that respond to secreted Slit proteins. Here we present evidence that the SH3-SH2 adaptor protein Dreadlocks (Dock), the p21-activated serine-threonine kinase (Pak), and the Rac1/Rac2/Mtl small GTPases can function during Robo repulsion. Loss-of-function and genetic interaction experiments suggest that limiting the function of Dock, Pak, or Rac partially disrupts Robo repulsion. In addition, Dock can directly bind to Robo's cytoplasmic domain, and the association of Dock and Robo is enhanced by stimulation with Slit. Furthermore, Slit stimulation can recruit a complex of Dock and Pak to the Robo receptor and trigger an increase in Rac1 activity. These results provide a direct physical link between the Robo receptor and an important cytoskeletal regulatory protein complex and suggest that Rac can function in both attractive and repulsive axon guidance.
The mechanisms of Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores in CNS white matter remain undefined. In rat dorsal columns, electrophysiological recordings showed that in vitro ischemia caused severe injury, which persisted after removal of extracellular Ca(2+); Ca(2+) imaging confirmed that an axoplasmic Ca(2+) rise persisted in Ca(2+)-free perfusate. However, depletion of Ca(2+) stores or reduction of ischemic depolarization (low Na(+), TTX) were protective, but only in Ca(2+)-free bath. Ryanodine or blockers of L-type Ca(2+) channel voltage sensors (nimodipine, diltiazem, but not Cd(2+)) were also protective in zero Ca(2+), but their effects were not additive with ryanodine. Immunoprecipitation revealed an association between L-type Ca(2+) channels and RyRs, and immunohistochemistry confirmed colocalization of Ca(2+) channels and RyR clusters on axons. Similar to &quot;excitation-contraction coupling&quot; in skeletal muscle, these results indicate a functional coupling whereby depolarization sensed by L-type Ca(2+) channels activates RyRs, thus releasing damaging amounts of Ca(2+) under pathological conditions in white matter.
Inhibition of serotonergic raphe neurons is mediated by somatodendritic 5-HT1A autoreceptors, which may be increased in depressed patients. We report an association of the C(-1019)G 5-HT1A promoter polymorphism with major depression and suicide in separate cohorts. In depressed patients, the homozygous G(-1019) allele was enriched twofold versus controls (p = 0.0017 and 0.0006 for G/G genotype and G allele distribution, respectively), and in completed suicide cases the G(-1019) allele was enriched fourfold (p = 0.002 and 0.00008 for G/G genotype and G allele distribution, respectively). The C(-1019) allele was part of a 26 bp imperfect palindrome that bound transcription factors nuclear NUDR [nuclear deformed epidermal autoregulatory factor (DEAF-1)]/suppressin and Hairy/Enhancer-of-split-5 (Drosophila) (Hes5) to repress 5-HT1A or heterologous promoters, whereas the G(-1019) allele abolished repression by NUDR, but only partially impaired Hes5-mediated repression. Recombinant NUDR bound specifically to the 26 bp palindrome, and endogenous NUDR was present in the major protein-DNA complex from raphe nuclear extracts. Stable expression of NUDR in raphe cells reduced levels of endogenous 5-HT1A protein and binding. NUDR protein was colocalized with 5-HT1A receptors in serotonergic raphe cells, hippocampal and cortical neurons, and adult brain regions including raphe nuclei, indicating a role in regulating 5-HT1A autoreceptor expression. Our data indicate that NUDR is a repressor of the 5-HT1A receptor in raphe cells the function of which is abrogated by a promoter polymorphism. We suggest a novel transcriptional model in which the G(-1019) allele derepresses 5-HT1A autoreceptor expression to reduce serotonergic neurotransmission, predisposing to depression and suicide.
Blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction is a potential mechanism involved in progressive striatal damage induced by the mitochondrial excitotoxin, 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP). After activation by proteases and free radicals, matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), particularly MMP-9 and -2, can digest the endothelial basal lamina leading to BBB opening. Using CD-1 mice, we show that MMP-9 expression by zymography is increased in the injured striatum compared with the contralateral striatum 2 hr after 3-NP injection [133.50 +/- 57.17 vs 50.25 +/- 13.56; mean +/- SD of optical densities in arbitrary units (A.U.); p &lt; 0.005] and remains elevated until 24 hr (179.33 +/- 78.24 A.U.). After 4 hr, MMP-9 expression and activation are accompanied by an increase in BBB permeability. MMP inhibition attenuates BBB disruption, swelling, and lesion volume compared with vehicle-treated controls. There is a clear spatial relationship between MMP-9 expression and oxidized hydroethidine, indicating reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Furthermore, transgenic mice that overexpress copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) show decreased lesion size and edema along with decreased immunoreactivity for MMP-9, compared with wild-type littermates (lesion: 38.8 +/- 15.1 and 53.3 +/- 10.3, respectively, p &lt; or = 0.05; edema: 21.8 +/- 11.2 and 35.28 +/- 11, respectively, p &lt; or = 0.05; MMP-9-positive cells: 352 +/- 57 and 510 +/- 45, respectively, p &lt; or = 0.005), whereas knock-out mice deficient in SOD1 display significantly greater swelling (48.65 +/- 17; p &lt; or = 0.05). We conclude that early expression and activation of MMP-9 by ROS may be involved in early BBB disruption and progressive striatal damage after 3-NP treatment.
Previous work has identified a role for synaptic activity in the development of excitable properties of motoneurons in the Drosophila embryo. In this study the underlying mechanism that enables two such neurons, termed aCC and RP2, to respond to increased exposure to synaptic excitation is characterized. Synaptic excitation is increased in genetic backgrounds that lack either a cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase (EC:3.1.4, dunce) or acetylcholinesterase (EC:3.1.1.7, ace), the enzyme that terminates the endogenous cholinergic excitation of these motoneurons. Analysis of membrane excitability in aCC/RP2, in either background, shows that these neurons have a significantly reduced capability to fire action potentials (APs) in response to injection of depolarizing current. Analysis of underlying voltage-gated currents show that this effect is associated with a marked reduction in magnitude of the voltage-dependent inward Na+ current (INa). Partially blocking INa in these motoneurons, using low concentrations of TTX, demonstrates that a reduction of INa is, by itself, sufficient to reduce membrane excitability. An analysis of firing implicates an increased AP threshold to underlie the reduction in membrane excitability observed because of heightened exposure to synaptic excitation. Genetic or pharmacological manipulations that either elevate cAMP or increase protein kinase A (PKA) activity in wild-type aCC/RP2 mimic both the reductions in membrane excitability and INa. In comparison, increasing cAMP catabolism or inhibition of PKA activity is sufficient to block the induction of these activity-dependent changes. The induced changes in excitability can be rapid, occurring within 5 min of exposure to a membrane-permeable cAMP analog, indicative that threshold can be regulated in these neurons by a post-translational mechanism that is dependent on phosphorylation.

Constraint-induced movement therapy can improve chronic hemiparesis, but this technique has proven difficult to transfer into clinical practice. The authors studied the benefits of a modified regimen designed to be applicable in the clinical environment. Affected arm movements were trained for 90 min/d for 3 weeks using the learning principle &quot;shaping.&quot; The outcome measures indicated a significant increase in performance after the intervention compared with the performance during the 3-week baseline interval.
In this paper we study the responses of small populations of neurons in layer II/III near the forepaw/lower jaw border in rat somatosensory cortex, comparing cross border (CB) stimuli to non-cross border stimuli (NCB). We found the excitatory component of the population response to CB stimuli was significantly less than the response to NCB stimuli. Thus, at the representational border there are significant changes in the population response of the horizontal circuitry.
Receptor signaling at the plasma membrane often releases calcium from intracellular stores. For example, inositol triphosphate (IP3) produced by receptor-coupled phospholipase C activates an intracellular store calcium channel, the IP(3)R. Conversely, stores can induce extracellular calcium to enter the cell through plasma membrane channels, too. How this &quot;reverse&quot; coupling works was unclear, but store IP(3)Rs were proposed to bind and regulate plasma membrane TRP cation channels. Here, we demonstrate that the adaptor protein, termed Homer, facilitates a physical association between TRPC1 and the IP(3)R that is required for the TRP channel to respond to signals. The TRPC1-Homer-IP(3)R complex is dynamic and its disassembly parallels TRPC1 channel activation. Homer's action depends on its ability to crosslink and is blocked by the dominant-negative immediate early gene form, H1a. Since H1a is transcriptionally regulated by cellular activity, this mechanism can affect both short and long-term regulation of TRPC1 function.
Forkhead transcription factors of the FoxO-group are associated with cellular processes like cell cycle progression and DNA-repair. FoxO function is regulated by protein kinase B (PKB) via the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/PKB survival pathway. Phosphorylation of serine and threonine residues in specific PKB phosphorylation motifs leads to exclusion of FoxO-proteins from the nucleus, which excludes them from exerting transactivating activity. Members of the FoxO-group have three highly conserved regions containing a PKB phosphorylation motif. This study describes the cloning and characterization of a novel forkhead domain gene from mouse that appeared to be highly related to the FoxO group of transcription factors and was therefore designated FoxO6. The FoxO6 gene was mapped in region D1 on mouse chromosome 4. In humans, FOXO6 is located on chromosomal region 1p34.1. Embryonic expression of FoxO6 is most apparent in the developing brain, and FoxO6 is expressed in a specific temporal and spatial pattern. Therefore it is probably involved in regulation of specific cellular differentiation. In the adult animal FoxO6 expression is maintained in areas of the nucleus accumbens, cingulate cortex, parts of the amygdala, and in the hippocampus. Structure function analysis of FoxO6 compared with its group members shows that the overall homology is high, but surprisingly a highly conserved region containing multiple phosphorylation sites is lacking. In transfection studies, FoxO6 coupled to GFP showed an unexpected high nuclear localization after stimulation with growth factors, in contrast to the predominant cytosolic localization of FoxO1 and FoxO3. We also show that nuclear export of FoxO6 is mediated through the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/PKB pathway. Furthermore, we show using a chimeric approach that we can fully restore the ability of FoxO6 to shuttle between nucleus and cytosol. In conclusion, the data presented here gives a new view on regulation of FoxO-function through multiple phosphorylation events and other mechanisms involved in the nuclear exclusion of FoxO-proteins.
Werner syndrome (WS) is a premature aging disorder that predisposes affected individuals to cancer development. The affected gene, WRN, encodes an RecQ homologue whose precise biological function remains elusive. Altered DNA recombination is a hallmark of WS cells suggesting that WRN plays an important role in these pathways. Here we report a novel physical and functional interaction between WRN and the homologous recombination mediator protein RAD52. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) analyses show that WRN and RAD52 form a complex in vivo that co-localizes in foci associated with arrested replication forks. Biochemical studies demonstrate that RAD52 both inhibits and enhances WRN helicase activity in a DNA structure-dependent manner, whereas WRN increases the efficiency of RAD52-mediated strand annealing between non-duplex DNA and homologous sequences contained within a double-stranded plasmid. These results suggest that coordinated WRN and RAD52 activities are involved in replication fork rescue after DNA damage.
Mammals can be trained to make a conditioned movement at a precise time, which is correlated to the interval between the conditioned stimulus and unconditioned stimulus during the learning. This learning-dependent timing has been shown to depend on an intact cerebellar cortex, but which cellular process is responsible for this form of learning remains to be demonstrated. Here, we show that protein kinase C-dependent long-term depression in Purkinje cells is necessary for learning-dependent timing of Pavlovian-conditioned eyeblink responses.
Neuroscientists have long sought to elucidate the molecular underpinnings of the memories needed to learn, for example, a motor task. In his Perspective, Linden discusses new work (Koekkoek et al.) suggesting that long-term depression in Purkinje cells mediated by protein kinase C signaling is responsible for motor memory in a task called associative eyelid conditioning.


Recent evidence suggests a role of prepronociceptin/orphanin FQ (preproN/OFQ) derived neuropeptides in nociceptive signaling. Here, we examined the expression of preproN/OFQ and the nociceptin receptor ORL1 (opioid receptor like receptor 1) in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of the rat in relation to that of substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Double labeling in situ hybridization revealed a constitutive expression of preproN/OFQ in a distinct minor subpopulation of very small DRG neurons with no evidence for coexpression with either SP or CGRP. However, a major subpopulation of the preproN/OFQ-positive neurons showed direct juxtaposition to SP and CGRP containing neurons. ORL1 was abundantly expressed with a high degree of coexpression with SP (72%) and CGRP (82%) suggesting that N/OFQ may presynaptically modulate primary sensory nociceptive signaling. The DRG cell line F11 was found to express preproN/OFQ, but not ORL1, and, therefore, is well suited to study the mechanisms of N/OFQ gene regulation in vitro.
Fluorescent markers of cell death offer superior selectivity and sensitivity, although their applicability in detecting tissue injury under in vivo conditions remains uncertain. Here we examined whether ethidium bromide and Hoechst 33342, two widely used markers for cell necrosis and apoptosis, can be used in vivo to detect different types of cell death induced by Na,K-ATPase inhibition. Microinfusion of fluorescent markers and ouabain was made unilaterally into adult rat dentate gyrus. It was found that, at different time points post-injury, dentate cells that were exposed to ouabain but not to vehicle control showed marked loss of membrane integrity and exhibited nuclear condensation, as revealed by ethidium bromide and Hoechst 33342 staining, respectively. However, this pattern of cell death was not associated with DNA fragmentation and formation of apoptotic bodies, suggesting involvement of atypical cell apoptosis.
The specific mechanisms underlying general anesthesia are primarily unknown. The intravenous general anesthetic etomidate acts by potentiating GABA(A) receptors, with selectivity for beta2 and beta3 subunit-containing receptors determined by a single asparagine residue. We generated a genetically modified mouse containing an etomidate-insensitive beta2 subunit (beta2 N265S) to determine the role of beta2 and beta3 subunits in etomidate-induced anesthesia. Loss of pedal withdrawal reflex and burst suppression in the electroencephalogram were still observed in the mutant mouse, indicating that loss of consciousness can be mediated purely through beta3-containing receptors. The sedation produced by subanesthetic doses of etomidate and during recovery from anesthesia was present only in wild-type mice, indicating that the beta2 subunit mediates the sedative properties of anesthetics. These findings show that anesthesia and sedation are mediated by distinct GABA(A) receptor subtypes.
Direct immunization with amyloid beta protein (Abeta) and passive transfer of anti-Abeta antibodies reduce Abeta accumulation and attenuate cognitive deficits in transgenic models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The reduction in Abeta deposition has been proposed to involve microglial phagocytosis of Abeta immune complexes via Fc receptors (FcRs). We have examined the efficacy of Abeta immunization in amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice crossed into FcR-gamma chain knock-out mice (FcRgamma-/-). As might be expected from previous studies on macrophages, phagocytosis of Abeta immune complexes via FcR was completely impaired in microglia cells isolated from FcRgamma-/- mice. Thus, we immunized APP Tg2576 transgenic mice that were crossed in the FcRgamma-/- background with Abeta1-42 and then analyzed the effect on Abeta accumulation. In APP Tg2576 transgenic mice crossed to FcRgamma-/-, Abeta1-42 immunization significantly attenuated Abeta deposition, as assessed by both biochemical and immunohistological methods. The reduction in Abeta accumulation was equivalent to the reduction in deposition seen in Abeta1-42 immunized, age-matched, FcR-sufficient Tg2576 mice. We conclude that after Abeta immunization, the effects of anti-Abeta antibodies on Abeta deposition in APP Tg2576 transgenic mice are not dependent on FcR-mediated phagocytic events.
The striatum is involved in the control of appetitively motivated behavior. We found previously that tonically active neurons (TANs) in the monkey striatum show discriminative responses to different stimuli that are appetitive or aversive. However, these differential responses may reflect the sensory qualities of the stimulus rather than its motivational value. In the present study, we sought to define more precisely the relationship between the particular aspect of the response of TANs and the motivational value of stimuli. For this purpose, three monkeys were presented with two types of aversive stimuli (loud sound and air puff) and one appetitive stimulus (fruit juice). In most instances, the TAN responses to the loud sound and the air puff were similar, in terms of response pattern and duration, whereas responses to the liquid reward showed distinct features. Using classical appetitive conditioning, we reversed the motivational value of a stimulus so that a previously aversive stimulus was now associatively paired with a reward and found that this manipulation selectively modifies the expression of TAN responses to the stimulus. These data indicate that the characteristics of neuronal responses undergo modifications when the valence of the stimulus is changed from aversive to appetitive during associative learning, suggesting that TANs may contribute to a form of stimulus encoding that is dependent on motivational attributes. The adaptation of TAN responses such as observed in the present study likewise reflects a neuronal system that adjusts to the motivational information about environmental events.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) regulates the clearance of dopamine (DA) released into the extracellular space and is an important site on which psychostimulants act to produce their effects. Here, we show that mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) regulates the transport capacity and intracellular trafficking of DAT. Incubation of striatal synaptosomes or epitope-tagged human DAT (hDAT) human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells with the MAPK kinase (MEK) inhibitors 1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis(o-aminophenylmercapto) butadiene and 2-(2-amino-3-methoxyphenyl)-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one decreased DA uptake in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Kinetic studies revealed a decrease in the capacity of transport (Vmax) but no change in Km. Immunoblotting confirmed labeling of p42 and p44 MAPK in untreated striatal synaptosomes and HEK 293 cells, consistent with constitutive MAPK activation, and the inhibitors used decreased MAPK phosphorylation. Biotinylation and confocal imaging studies showed that MAPK inhibition promoted the clathrin-associated redistribution of hDAT from the plasma membrane to the cytosol. In contrast, transient transfection of hDAT-expressing cells with constitutively active MEK increased the Vmax of DA transport without altering Km. However, only a small increase in hDAT cell surface expression was seen. These data demonstrate an involvement of the MAPK cascade in regulating DAT transport capacity in striatum and that inhibition of this cascade decreases DAT cell surface expression in HEK 293 cells. Furthermore, they highlight the potential role of MAPK as a presynaptic mechanism that regulates DA signaling.
A 14-residue fragment of the C-terminal oligomerization domain, or T-peptide, of human acetylcholinesterase (AChE) shares sequence homology with the amyloid-beta peptide implicated in Alzheimer's disease and can spontaneously self-assemble into classical amyloid fibrils under physiological conditions [Greenfield, S. A., and Vaux, D. J. (2002) Neuroscience 113, 485-492; Cottingham, M. G., Hollinshead, M. S., and Vaux, D. J. (2002) Biochemistry 41, 13539-13547]. Here we demonstrate that the conformation of this AChE(586-599) peptide, both before and after fibril formation, is different from that of a longer peptide, T(40), corresponding to the entire 40-amino acid T-peptide (residues 575-614 of AChE). This peptide is prone to homomeric hydrophobic interactions, consistent with its role in AChE subunit assembly, and possesses an alpha-helical structure which protects against the development of the beta-sheet-rich amyloidogenic conformation favored by the shorter constituent AChE(586-599) fragment. Using a conformation-sensitive monoclonal antibody raised against the alpha-helical T(40) peptide, we demonstrate that the conformation of the T-peptide domain within intact AChE is antigenically indistinguishable from that of the synthetic T(40) peptide. A second monoclonal antibody raised against the fibrillogenic AChE(586-599) fragment recognizes not only beta-sheet amyloid aggregates but also SDS-resistant protofibrillar oligomers. A single-antibody sandwich ELISA confirms that such oligomers exist at micromolar peptide concentrations, well below that required for formation of classical amyloid fibrils. Epitope mapping with this monoclonal antibody identifies a region near the N-terminus of the peptide that remains accessible in oligomer and fibril alike, suggesting a model for the arrangement of subunits within AChE(586-599) protofibrils and fibrils.


Considerable evidence exists to support an association between psychological states and immune function. However, the mechanisms by which such states are instantiated in the brain and influence the immune system are poorly understood. The present study investigated relations among physiological measures of affective style, psychological well being, and immune function. Negative and positive affect were elicited by using an autobiographical writing task. Electroencephalography and affect-modulated eye-blink startle were used to measure trait and state negative affect. Participants were vaccinated for influenza, and antibody titers after the vaccine were assayed to provide an in vivo measure of immune function. Higher levels of right-prefrontal electroencephalographic activation and greater magnitude of the startle reflex reliably predicted poorer immune response. These data support the hypothesis that individuals characterized by a more negative affective style mount a weaker immune response and therefore may be at greater risk for illness than those with a more positive affective style.
Adult owl monkeys were trained to detect an increase in the envelope frequency of a sinusoidally modulated 1-kHz tone. Detection was positively correlated with the magnitude of the change in the envelope frequency. Surprisingly, neuronal responses recorded in the primary auditory cortex of trained monkeys were globally suppressed by the modulated tone. However, the contrast in neuronal responsiveness to small increases versus large increases in envelope frequencies was actually enhanced in the trained animals. The results suggest behaviorally contingent inhibitory and excitatory processes that are modulated by the probability that a particular signal predicts a reward.
In vitro quantification of the catalytic activity of an enzyme isoform requires the availability of selective agents that allow for either measurements in the presence of the other enzyme isoforms or purification of the isoform and subsequent performance of these measurements on the purified enzyme. Isozyme-specific antibodies are useful tools for these types of analyses. In the present report, we detail a method for the measurement of phospholipase C-gamma1 enzyme activity employing native enzyme that is immobilized on microtiter plates. The method uses biotinylated antiglobulin bound to streptavidin-coated microtiter plates to immobilize antiphospholipase C-gamma1 antibody and subsequently capture phospholipase C-gamma1 from brain tissue lysates. This method avoids biotinylation of the primary (antiphospholipase C-gamma1) antibody, making it less labor intensive than previously described methods for using streptavidin-coated plates; in addition, it is highly reproducible and sensitive and allows for quantification of enzyme activity. We employ the technique to show that one or more tyrosine kinases copurify with rat brain phospholipase C-gamma1. The method is applicable to the study of any enzyme isoform for which antibodies that capture the native form of the enzyme are available and could easily be employed in high-throughput procedures.
Locomotor and/or sensory behaviour is commonly evaluated in laboratory rats in the field of neuroscience. Many strains of rats, however, have been propagated through intensive breeding programs. With any breeding program, traits are selected purposefully or inadvertently. We set out to investigate whether differences in morphology, sensory or motor behaviours exist using five age-matched strains of laboratory rats. Personal observations of morphological differences between different strains of rats led us to hypothesize that Fischer rats were dissimilar to the other strains in each of the parameters investigated. Evaluation of morphology involved measuring long-bone lengths and body weights of each strain. Motor skills were evaluated by measuring paw preferences while rearing, abduction of the distal portion of hindlimbs during locomotion, footfalls through a horizontal ladder during locomotion, and ground reaction forces generated during trotting. Sensory ability was assessed by von Frey testing. Fischer rats had shorter long-bone lengths, weighed less, and had significantly abducted distal portion of their hindlimbs during locomotion compared to the other strains. Lewis and Sprague-Dawley rats were less sensitive to mechanical pedal stimulation compared to Fischer rats. While rearing, all strains of rats tended to use individual forelimbs 25% of the time for each right and left limbs, and both forelimbs together 50% of the time. There were no significant differences in the number of footfalls during the ladder task. Ground reaction force determination revealed that Fischer and Sprague-Dawley rats bore more weight on their hindlimbs compared to forelimbs during locomotion, Long-Evans and Lewis rats bore more weight on their forelimbs compared to their hindlimbs, while Wistar rats distributed weight evenly between forelimbs and hindlimbs during trotting. We conclude that morphologic, sensory and motor differences exist between the five strains of laboratory rats examined and several of these differences are most pronounced in the Fischer strain.
Electrical or chemical stimulation of the superior colliculus (SC) in rats produces orienting and defensive responses. Defensive behaviors are modulated by serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), and serotonergic fibers provide a dense innervation of the SC. Here, we examined the role of 5-HT in modulating the behavioral responses of rats elicited by electrical SC stimulation. Low-intensity (107+/-12 microA) stimulation of the SC elicited orienting head movements, while higher intensities (204+/-20 microA) produced running and jumping responses. Treatment with the 5-HT depletor p-chlorophenylalanine (300 mg/kg/day x 3, i.p.) lowered current thresholds to elicit orienting and running by 40 and 21%, respectively. Conversely, concurrent administration of the 5-HT uptake inhibitor fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) and the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY 100635 (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) increased threshold currents to produce head and running movements by 41 and 18%, respectively. We investigated the anatomical substrate of this inhibitory effect of 5-HT with intracerebral 5-HT application by means of reverse microdialysis. Application of 5-HT (1-50 mM) into the midbrain immediately adjacent to the SC stimulation electrode resulted in a pronounced (approximately four-fold for 50 mM 5-HT) dose- and time-dependent increase in stimulation thresholds to elicit head movements. Application of 5-HT into the frontal cortex (up to 100 mM) had no significant effect on SC-evoked behavioral responses. These results show that 5-HT exerts an inhibitory influence over orienting and defensive behaviors initiated in the mammalian SC. It appears that this inhibitory effect is mediated, to a large extent, by a direct action of 5-HT at the level of the midbrain.
Rats were given lesions of the temporal association cortex on postnatal day 4 or 10, or in adulthood. Ninety days later they were trained on two visual tasks (visual-spatial navigation; horizontal-vertical stripes discrimination). Lesion animals were compared behaviorally and neuroanatomically to littermate sham control rats. The day 4 lesions produced a larger deficit in the navigation task than day 10 or adult lesions. There were no deficits in the discrimination task. Analysis of the brains showed that the day 4 lesions produced a smaller brain and thinner cortex than day 10 lesions. The day 10 lesions produced hypertrophy in the dendritic arborization of pyramidal cells in parietal cortex. The results are consistent with the general findings that perinatal cortical injury in rats produces more severe behavioral and morphological effects than similar lesions in the second week of life and that cortical lesions around day 10 lead to an increase in cortical synaptogenesis.
We have discovered that polar 7-substituents of pyridopyrimidine derivatives affect not only whole cell AK inhibitory potency, but also selectivity in causing locomotor side effects in vivo animal models. We have identified compound, 1o, which has potent whole cell AK inhibitory potency, analgesic activity and minimal reduction of locomotor activity.
The epothilones are a group of novel microtubule-targeted, antimitotic compounds that have a paclitaxel-like, assembly enhancing effect on tubulin in vitro as well as in cultured cells. We hypothesize that epothilones induce mitotic arrest by suppressing microtubule dynamics. To test this hypothesis, we used MCF7 cells stably transfected with GFP-alpha-tubulin to analyze microtubule dynamics at three concentrations of epothilone B, one that induced no mitotic arrest (0.2 nM, 20 h), one that induced one-third maximal mitotic arrest (IC(33,) 2 nM, 20 h), and one that induced half-maximal mitotic arrest (IC(50,) 3.5 nM, 20 h). We found that epothilone B suppressed microtubule dynamics in a concentration-dependent manner coincident with mitotic block. At 0.2 nM epothilone B, dynamics were not significantly altered. At 2 nM epothilone B (IC(33)), the mean growth and shortening rates were decreased by 38 and 27%, respectively. Dynamicity was decreased by 47%. At the IC(50), 80% of the cells had nearly complete stabilization of microtubule dynamics, and no anaphase or telophase figures were observed. Comparison of the effects of epothilone B on microtubule dynamics with those of paclitaxel indicated that both drugs alter the same microtubule dynamic parameters to a similar extent. At the IC(50) for mitotic arrest, dynamicity was reduced by 54% by paclitaxel compared with 62% for epothilone B. In 65% of the cells treated with paclitaxel, the microtubules were completely stabilized. Thus, the effects of epothilone B on microtubule dynamics are remarkably similar to those of paclitaxel, suggesting that both drugs induce mitotic block by a similar mechanism.
The present study describes by means of immunohistochemistry the comparative distribution of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells in the forebrain and midbrain of three species of lizards: Eumeces algeriensis, Scincoidae; Agama impalearis, Agamidae; Tarentola mauritanica, Gekkonidae. In the species studied, the different types and proportions of glial cells expressing GFAP showed considerable variation. These cells include radial glia, oval cells, tanycytes, ependymocytes, glia limitans, and astrocytes. In Eumeces, astrocytes are particularly abundant and their processes form numerous perivascular end-feet; in addition well-differentiated ependymal cells and glia limitans express GFAP. These mature glial features are concordant with the relatively advanced phylogenetic level of Eumeces. In Tarentola, relatively few GFAP-expressing glial cells are observed, consisting mainly of radial glia and tanycytes. These features indicate a relatively immature state of the glial cell populations in this species. In Agama, GFAP-immunostained cells are confined to the periventricular and subpial brain areas; the ventricular lining contains numerous GFAP-immunopositive tanycytes and well-differentiated glia limitans. This pattern indicates that the glial cell profile in Agama exhibits characteristics intermediate between Eumeces and Tarentola, a feature which is discordant with the relatively primitive phylogenetic level of Agamidae compared to Gekkonidae. Together, the results of the present study provide novel data on the characterization of GFAP-expressing cell populations in different species of lizards. We suggest that the different glial patterns observed in the lizard brain correlates with developmental and functional aspects.
Aluminum is environmentally abundant but not an essential trace element. Although there is increasing evidence suggesting the implication of aluminum in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, it is still controversial. We found and report here that aluminum maltolate, a stable and hydrophilic aluminum complex, causes death of primary cultured rat hippocampal neurons in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Degenerated neurons were TUNEL-positive. Immunohistochemical detection of synapsin I and microtubule associated protein 2 revealed the synapse loss between neurons intoxicated by aluminum maltolate. To explore the mechanism underlying its neurotoxicity, we administered various pharmacological compounds prior to the application of aluminum maltolate, and found that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) markedly attenuated the neurotoxicity. Furthermore, aluminum maltolate inhibited the elevation of intracellular calcium levels caused by BDNF. Our results suggest the involvement of BDNF in the molecular mechanism underlying neurotoxicity induced by aluminum maltolate.
Differential display RT-PCR was used on RNA isolated from the zebra finch telencephalon to identify gene products potentially involved in its development, including the sexually dimorphic nuclei responsible for song learning and production. A cDNA identified only in juvenile females was cloned and sequenced. It shares homology with neurocalcin, a calcium binding protein. Northern blots indicated three neurocalcin species. A 10.6 kb transcript was present in males and most females throughout development and in adulthood. Smaller 6.2 and 3.3 kb species were detected almost exclusively in females and primarily between posthatching days 18-25. In situ hybridization, using a probe that identified all three mRNA species, indicated a broad distribution in the telencephalon of both sexes, with particularly high levels in the song nucleus RA. Across regions examined, neurocalcin expression was enhanced in females compared to males, probably reflecting the presence of the two smaller transcripts. However, within RA, neurocalcin expression was statistically equivalent between the sexes. These data indicate that calcium signaling via neurocalcin may be involved in telencephalic development, but suggest that sexually dimorphic expression of this gene exists on a level too general to specifically regulate masculine or feminine development of song control regions. Neurocalcin might: broadly influence functional differentiation, including areas that are not morphologically distinct between the sexes; be a benign consequence of general dimorphisms, such as those due to sex chromosomes; or involve a compensatory mechanism, which allows function of the juvenile female telencephalon to equal that of males, despite fundamental physiological differences.
The prevalence of multiple sclerosis (MS) in Newcastle, Australia increased significantly between 1961 and 1981 and the incidence of the disease also increased between the decades 1950-1959 and 1971-1981. The present study sought to determine whether there has been a further increase in the frequency of MS in the subsequent 15 years, and to examine the potential factors underlying this change. The incidence, prevalence and clinical profile of multiple sclerosis were therefore re-examined in Newcastle, Australia in 1996 using comparable diagnostic criteria and methods to those employed in studies in the same region in 1961 and 1981. There has been a significant progressive increase in prevalence from 19.6 to 59.1 per 100,000 population and a significant increase in incidence from 1.2 to 2.4 per 100,000 population from 1961 to 1996. The most pronounced increase in prevalence was in females and in the age-group over 60 years, and there was also an increased incidence in females aged 20-29 years. There was little change in the age of disease onset, but duration of disease in females had increased substantially. The significant increase in prevalence is attributed to increased incidence, particularly in females; and to increased survival. Although such trends in prevalence have been observed in the Northern Hemisphere, this is the first such study in the Southern Hemisphere to show a longitudinal increase in prevalence and incidence over a period of this duration.
Direct gene transfer to the adult brain is dependent on vectors that transduce non-dividing cells, such as lentiviral vectors. Another aspect of the development of gene therapy to the brain is the need for cell-specific transgene expression. Expression from vesicular stomatitis virus G-protein (VSV-G) pseudotyped lentiviral vectors has been reported to be mainly neuron specific in the brain. We constructed cell-specific lentiviral vectors using the neuron-specific enolase (rNSE) or the glial fibrillary acidic protein (hGFAP) promoters and compared them to the ubiquitous human cytomegalovirus promoter (hCMV), a hybrid CMV/beta-actin promoter (CAG) and the promoter for human elongation factor 1 alpha (EF1 alpha). Our results showed that the hGFAP promoter was expressed only in glial cells, whereas rNSE was purely neuron specific, showing that VSV-G is pantropic in the rat striatum. We conclude that the VSV-G allows transduction of both glial and neuronal cells and the promoter dictates in what cell type the transgene will be expressed. The expression of transgenes exclusively in astrocytes would allow for local delivery of secreted transgene products, such as glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), circumventing the anterograde transport that may induce unwanted side effects.
It has been suggested that excitotoxicity could be contributing to dopamine cell loss after methylphenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) exposure, although the literature regarding this is contradictory. Given that in cell culture excitotoxicity has been reported to be dependent on culture age, we postulated that these discrepant results might be explained by a difference in developmental expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. To test this, mesencephalic cells were cultured and the number of dopaminergic neurons (tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells [TH-IR] cells) expressing the NMDA R1 subunit (NR1) was determined using double-label immunofluorescence microscopy. An increase in the percentage of TH-IR cells expressing NR1 occurred over time in culture and this correlated with the toxicity of NMDA. At 7 days in vitro (DIV 7), only 17% (n=167 cells/4 experiments) of TH-IR cells expressed NR1 and these cells were insensitive to NMDA toxicity. This increased to 80% (n=254 cells/6 experiments) by DIV 11 and cultures were now susceptible to NMDA-induced injury. Cultures grown for either 7 or 11 days were treated for 48 hr with increasing concentrations of MPP= (0.5-20 microM) and the loss of dopaminergic neurons was determined by cell counting. Cultures at DIV 7 were more sensitive to MPP= than 11-day-old cultures (LD50= approximately 0.75 microM vs. 15 microM, respectively). Co-exposure to MK-801 (5 microM) did not protect against MPP+ toxicity in young cultures, but attenuated MPP+ toxicity in the older cultures, becoming statistically significant at 20 microM MPP+. These data indicate that the activation of NMDA receptors is not required for, but can contribute to, MPP(+)-induced neurodegeneration of dopaminergic cells in culture.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases (TIMPs) play major roles in physiological extracellular matrix turnover during normal development and in pathological processes. In brain, increases in MMP activity occur, for example, in multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and after head trauma. We examined MMP-9 and TIMP-1, -2, and -3 in events after head trauma. A time-course study was carried out using two different rat injury models, cerebral contusion and depolarisation. Brains were analysed by RT-PCR and in situ hybridisation. We observed a distinct and time-dependent upregulation of MMP-9 and TIMP-1 mRNA in ipsilateral cortical areas. MMP-9 mRNA levels were upregulated 1 day after cerebral contusion with a peak at Day 4. Depolarisation per se, which also occurs after traumatic brain injury, lead to delayed increase of MMP-9 mRNA, 4 days post application. At Day 14, MMP-9 mRNA levels were indistinguishable from controls in both models. TIMP-1 mRNA increases were observed in both models 4 hr after injury, and increased further at Days 1 and 4. At Day 14, mRNA levels declined and were no higher than control levels. No alterations in mRNA levels were noted for TIMP-2 or -3. Our results support earlier reports on MMP-9 involvement in brain injury. It also shows a role for TIMP-1 in the mechanisms of trauma, where depolarisation could be the mechanism responsible for this upregulation.
We have recently described a subgroup of isolated glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive (GFAP+) hippocampal astrocytes that predominantly express outwardly rectifying currents (which we term &quot;ORAs&quot; for outwardly rectifying astrocytes), which are similar to the currents already described for hippocampal GFAP- &quot;complex glia.&quot; We now report that post-recording staining of cells that were first selected as &quot;complex&quot; by morphology and then confirmed by their electrophysiological characteristics were NG2+ approximately 90% of the time. Also, the morphology of freshly isolated NG2+ cells differs from that of isolated GFAP+ ORAs in having a smaller and round cell body with thinner processes, which usually are collapsed back onto the soma. Upon detailed examination, NG2+ cells were found to differ quantitatively in some electrophysiological characteristics from GFAP+ ORAs. The outward, transient K+ currents (IKa) in the NG2+ cells showed a slower decay than the IKa in ORAs, and their density decreased in NG2+ cells from older animals. The other two major cation currents, the voltage-activated Na+ and outwardly delayed rectifier K+ currents, were similar in NG2+ cells and ORAs. To further distinguish isolated complex cells from outwardly rectifying GFAP+ astrocytes, we performed immunocytochemistry for glial markers in fixed, freshly isolated rat hippocampal glia. NG2+ cells were negative for GFAP and also for the astrocytic glutamate transporters GLT-1 and GLAST. Thus the isolated hippocampal NG2+ glial cells, though having an electrophysiological phenotype similar to that of ORAs, are an immunologically and morphologically distinct glial cell population and most likely represent NG2+ cells in situ.
While large, myelinated dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons are capable of firing at high frequencies, small unmyelinated DRG neurons typically display much lower maximum firing frequencies. However, the molecular basis for this difference has not been delineated. Because the sodium currents in large DRG neurons exhibit rapid repriming (recovery from inactivation) kinetics and the sodium currents in small DRG neurons exhibit predominantly slow repriming kinetics, it has been proposed that differences in sodium channels might contribute to the determination of repetitive firing properties in DRG neurons. A recent study demonstrated that Nav1.7 expression is negatively correlated with conduction velocity and DRG cell size, while the Nav1.6 voltage-gated sodium channel has been implicated as the predominant isoform present at nodes of Ranvier of myelinated fibres. Therefore we characterized and compared the functional properties, including repriming, of recombinant Nav1.6 and Nav1.7 channels expressed in mouse DRG neurons. Both Nav1.6 and Nav1.7 channels generated fast-activating and fast-inactivating currents. However recovery from inactivation was significantly faster (approximately 5-fold at -70 mV) for Nav1.6 currents than for Nav1.7 currents. The recovery from inactivation of Nav1.6 channels was also much faster than that of native tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium currents recorded from small spinal sensory neurons, but similar to that of tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium currents recorded from large spinal sensory neurons. Development of closed-state inactivation was also much faster for Nav1.6 currents than for Nav1.7 currents. Our results indicate that the firing properties of DRG neurons can be tuned by regulating expression of different sodium channel isoforms that have distinct repriming and closed-state inactivation kinetics.
Previous studies have disagreed about whether prostaglandin EP1 or EP3 receptors are critical for producing febrile responses. We therefore injected lipopolysaccharide (LPS) at a variety doses (1 microg kg(-1)-1 mg kg(-1)) intraperitoneally (i.p.) into wild-type (WT) mice and mice lacking the EP1 or the EP3 receptors and measured changes in core temperature (Tc) by using telemetry. In WT mice, i.p. injection of LPS at 10 microg kg(-1) increased Tc about 1 degrees C, peaking 2 h after injection. At 100 microg kg(-1), LPS increased Tc, peaking 5-8 h after injection. LPS at 1 mg kg(-1) decreased Tc, reaching a nadir at 5-8 h after injection. In EP1 receptor knockout (KO) mice injected with 10 microg kg(-1) LPS, only the initial (&lt; 40 min) increase in Tc was lacking; with 100 microg kg(-1) LPS the mice showed no febrile response. In EP3 receptor KO mice, LPS decreased Tc in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Furthermore, in EP3 receptor KO mice subcutaneous injection of turpentine did not induce fever. Both EP1 and EP3 receptor KO mice showed a normal circadian cycle of Tc and brief hyperthermia following psychological stress (cage-exchange stress and buddy-removal stress). The present study suggests that both the EP1 and the EP3 receptors play a role in fever induced by systemic inflammation but neither EP receptor is involved in the circadian rise in Tc or psychological stress-induced hyperthermia in mice.
Chronic dehydration induces structural changes in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus (SON), including increased glutamate synapses and retraction of astroglial processes. We performed whole-cell recordings in acute hypothalamic slices to determine whether these changes increase tonic activation of presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) by increasing ambient glutamate in the SON. Activation of presynaptic group III mGluRs caused a decrease in the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) in SON neurones that was significantly attenuated in slices from dehydrated rats (-27.8 %) compared with untreated rats (-41.7 %), suggesting a higher basal occupancy of mGluRs by ambient glutamate during dehydration. Blocking group III mGluRs caused an increase in the frequency of mEPSCs that was significantly higher in slices from dehydrated rats (+42.8 %) than untreated rats (+31.4 %), suggesting greater tonic activation of presynaptic mGluRs by ambient glutamate during dehydration. Increasing ambient glutamate levels by inhibiting astrocyte glutamate uptake resulted in a decrease in mEPSC frequency due to increased activation of presynaptic mGluRs. This was attenuated in slices from dehydrated rats (-35.4 %) compared with slices from untreated rats (-48.8 %), suggesting diminished astrocytic glutamate uptake during dehydration. Immunochemical analyses revealed a robust expression of the GLT-1 transporter protein in the SON, which was diminished in SON punches from dehydrated rats compared with untreated controls. Thus, dehydration leads to increased tonic activation of presynaptic mGluRs on glutamate terminals, consistent with a decrease in glutamate buffering capacity. The resulting reduction in glutamate release probability may compensate for the increase in glutamate release sites that occurs during dehydration.
We investigated the influence of gravity on the maturation of electrical properties of lumbar motoneurons and the development of their inputs from ventral descending pathways, which are important for the control of posture and locomotion. Using electrophysiological approaches in the in vitro brain stem-spinal cord preparation of neonatal rats born and reared in hypergravity field we demonstrate that: (1) the postnatal development of descending inputs to lumbar enlargement was reduced in animals submitted to hypergravity; (2) similar developmental pattern of basic electrical properties observed between motoneurons of hypergravity and control animals could not account for the changes in descending inputs. We concluded that gravity was critical to shape development of the supraspinal afferents in the lumbar spinal cord throughout the postnatal period.
Chiari malformations comprise four different hindbrain anomalies originally described by Hans Chiari, a professor of pathology at the German University in Prague. There are four basic Chiari malformations. The reasons for revision of Chiari malformation decompression may be for conservative or inadequate initial decompression or the development of postoperative complications. Another reason involves cases of both hindbrain herniation and syringomyelia in patients who have undergone adequate posterior fossa decompression without resolution of symptoms, signs, or radiological appearance of their syrinx cavity. Additionally, symptom recurrence has been reported in association with various types of dural grafts. Reoperation or revision surgery for patients with Chiari malformations is common and may not be due to technical error or inadequate decompression. The types of revision surgeries, their indications, and initial presentations will be reviewed.
Previous findings have suggested a critical role for hippocampal-lateral septal (HPC-LS) synaptic transmission in the modulation of elemental vs. contextual fear conditioning. Pharmacologically- or electrophysiologically-induced increases in HPC-LS neurotransmission were shown to be associated with both an increase in elemental and a decrease in contextual fear conditioning. However, elemental conditioning, induced by an unconditional stimulus (US) that was explicitly paired with a simple conditional stimulus (CS), did not result in any change in this neurotransmission when two tone CS-footshock US pairings were provided. The present experiment was thus designed to investigate directly, in mice, whether extensive elemental conditioning (repeated CS-US pairings) could induce an increase in HPC-LS neurotransmission. For that purpose, over 8 days, an elemental conditioning group was repeatedly submitted to CS-US pairings in either one context (A) or another (B) depending on the training day. Hence, whichever the context, the tone CS was the relevant predictive stimulus for the occurrence of the footshock US. In contrast, a contextual conditioning group was submitted to the same regimen except that the US was delivered only in context A and was never paired with the CS, making, thereby, the context A the relevant predictor for the US regardless of the occurrence of the tone CS. Results show that during re-exposure of the animals to either context A or B, a significant increase in HPC-LS neurotransmission was selectively associated with the repeated elemental conditioning. This study supports the idea that changes in HPC-LS neurotransmission may modulate the strength of simple CS-US associations, and suggests that alterations of hippocampal functioning might be involved.
We previously reported a brain-specific 40 kDa catecholamine-regulated protein (CRP40) that binds dopamine (DA) and related catecholamines. CPR40 shares significant sequence homology with human heat shock protein (Hsp70), GRP78/BIP, and human #BQ24193 protein. Recent studies with the DA D(2) receptor antagonist, haloperidol, demonstrated a significant increase in expression of CRP40 in the striatum (STR). The objective of the present study was to investigate CRP40 expression in various brain regions following treatments with the DA D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist quinpirole (QNP) in rats and examine possible relationships between neurochemical parameters and locomotor activity. Rats received injections of either QNP (0.5 mg/kg, for 27 days every third day) or saline (SAL) and their locomotor activities were measured for 90 min after each injection. At injection 9, QNP-treated rats showed locomotor activity that was significantly greater than SAL controls (F(2,28) = 3.88, P &lt; 0.05, Duncan's multiple range test, P &lt; 0.05). Neurochemically, acute QNP-treated rats demonstrated significant differential expression of CRP40 in the left/right prefrontal cortex (PFC) relative to SAL-treated rats (-17.76 +/- 2.10%, -10.35 +/- 1.23%, P &lt; 0.001). Chronic QNP significantly decreased CRP40 expression in the STR, ventral tegmental area (VTA), and left/right PFC (-24.85+/- 2.10%, -18.15 +/- 5.64%, -49.13 +/- 7.05%, -25 +/- 3.63%, P &lt; 0.001). Finally, chronic QNP treatment resulted in a significant increase in CRP40 levels in the nucleus accumbens (NA) (+39.32 +/- 7.00%, P &lt; 0.001). Heat shock protein (i.e., Hsp70 or Hsc70) expression remained unaltered following QNP treatment. Since QNP is a DA D(2)/D(3) agonist, alterations in CRP40 expression following QNP treatment suggest the protein's function in dopaminergic neurotransmission.


Ecm10p was initially identified as a cell wall synthesis-related gene product [Genetics 147 (1997) 435] and also reported as a mitochondrial protein which was partially capable of compensating the phenotypic defect by SSC1 gene mutation [FEBS Lett. 487 (2000) 307]. Here we report that ecm10p is localized in mitochondrial nucleoids as its major component and the targeting signal resides between amino acid residues 161 and 240. Overexpression of ecm10p induces extensive mitochondrial DNA aggregations, which might be due to aberrant mitochondrial DNA cleavages through an altered endonuclease activity in mitochondrial nucleoids.
Recent years' research has revealed a specific, neuroprotective erythropoietin (EPO) system in the central nervous system (CNS) that is upregulated by hypoxia. The presence and dynamics of EPO in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) has not been investigated. We collected a total of 83 corresponding serum and CSF samples from 18 patients with aneurysmal SAH and compared the concentrations of EPO with those of blood-derived markers of blood-brain barrier function (albumin, transferrin, alpha(2)-macroglobulin) and with those of proteins with well-known CNS synthesis (prealbumin, apolipoprotein E). The EPO concentration in CSF was 0.93 (0.82) mU/ml (median and inter-quartile range). Nine patients presented CSF-EPO values above 1 mU/ml. CSF levels did not correlate with serum concentrations and were independent of blood-brain barrier integrity suggesting a synthesis in CNS rather than a blood-derived origin. Furthermore, the median CSF:serum ratio (Q(protein)) of EPO was similar to those of prealbumin and apolipoprotein E, and much higher than those of albumin, transferrin and alpha(2)-macroglobulin. When the Q(protein) of all proteins were plotted against Q(albumin), EPO showed dynamics similar to CNS-derived proteins. Our data indicate that EPO in the CSF of patients with aneurysmal SAH originates mainly from the CNS.
Activation of the neuropeptide Y (NPY) neuronal system in the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (DMH) during lactation in the rat is in part due to neural impulses arising from the suckling stimulus. However, the afferent neuronal input to the DMH that is activated during lactation and is responsible for activation of NPY neurons is currently unknown. Previously, using cFos as a marker for neuronal activation, we identified several brain areas in the lactating animals that were activated by the suckling stimulus. Thus, the objective of the present study was to determine if any of these suckling activated areas project directly to the DMH. The retrograde tracer, fluorogold (FG), was injected into the DMH on day 4 postpartum. FG-injected lactating rats were then deprived of their eight-pup litters on day 9 postpartum, and 48 h later, the pups were returned to the females to reinitiate the suckling stimulus for 90 min and induce cFos expression. The animals were then perfused and the brains were subjected to double-label immunohistochemistry to visualize both FG- and cFos-positive cells. Substantial numbers of FG/cFos double-labeled cells were found in forebrain regions, including the preoptic area, lateral septal nucleus, ventral subiculum, and supramammillary nucleus, and in brainstem regions, including the lateral parabrachial nucleus, periaqeductal gray, and ventrolateral medulla. In conclusion, these areas are potentially important candidates for mediating the activation of the NPY neuronal system in the DMH during lactation.
PTP zeta is a receptor-type protein-tyrosine phosphatase that is synthesized as a chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan and uses pleiotrophin as a ligand. The chondroitin sulfate portion of this receptor is essential for high affinity binding to pleiotrophin. Here, we purified phosphacan, which corresponds to the extracellular domain of PTP zeta, from postnatal day 7 (P7) and P12 rat cerebral cortex (PG-P7 and PG-P12, respectively) and from P20 rat whole brain (PG-P20). The chondroitin sulfate of these preparations displayed immunologically and compositionally different structures. In particular, only PG-P20 reacted with the monoclonal antibody MO-225, which recognizes chondroitin sulfate containing the GlcA(2S)beta 1-3GalNAc(6S) disaccharide unit (D unit). Analysis of the chondroitinase digestion products revealed that GlcA beta 1-3GalNAc(4S) disaccharide unit (A unit) was the major component in these preparations and that PG-P20 contained 1.3% D unit, which was not detected in PG-P7 and PG-P12. Interaction analysis using a surface plasmon resonance biosensor indicated that PG-P20 had approximately 5-fold stronger affinity for pleiotrophin (dissociation constant (KD) = 0.14 nM) than PG-P7 and PG-P12, although all these preparations showed similar low affinity binding to pleiotrophin after chondroitinase ABC digestion (KD = 1.4 approximately 1.6 nM). We also found that shark cartilage chondroitin sulfate D containing approximately 20% D unit bound to pleiotrophin with moderate affinity (KD = 2.7 nM), whereas whale cartilage chondroitin sulfate A showed no binding to this growth factor. These results suggest that variation of chondroitin sulfate plays important roles in the regulation of signal transduction in the brain.
Dynamic interactions between the actin cytoskeleton and specific proteins are crucial for changes in cell shape and motility. Here we describe a novel protein MSAP (MIR-interacting saposin-like protein) that is a positive regulator of neurite outgrowth. MSAP is expressed in different tissues, including brain, and has an apparent molecular weight of 21 kDa. MSAP interacts with the ezrin-radixin-moesin (ERM)-like myosin regulatory light chain-interacting protein (MIR), and the two proteins are co-localized in cell lines and in primary neurons. Overexpression of MSAP enhances neurite out-growth in neuroblastoma and PC12 cells, whereas down-regulation of MSAP using RNA silencing led to inhibition of neurite formation. The stimulation of neurite outgrowth by MSAP was abrogated by the overexpression of MIR, which induced a decrease in the levels of myosin regulatory light chain (MRLC). This reduction in MRLC by MIR was inhibited by blocking the activity of proteasome and by overexpression of MSAP, suggesting an effect on protein stability. Evidence was obtained that MIR decreases MRLC by inducing its ubiquitination. The results show that the levels of MRLC are controlled by MIR via ubiquitination and that the effect of MIR on MRLC is counteracted in the presence of MSAP. MSAP can stabilize MRLC and thus bring about an increase in neurite outgrowth.
Intermittent hypoxia (IH) adaptation has been shown to exert beneficial effects on the functions of hearts that had been subjected to insult by ischemia or ischemia/reperfusion. To understand whether calcium release channels/ryanodine receptors (RyRs) were involved, the effects of IH and continuous hypoxia (CH) on [3H]ryanodine binding to homogenates of rat hearts were investigated. Similar studies were performed on rat skeletal muscle. The main results on cardiac muscle were as follows: 1) Ischemia for up to 45 min in normal rat hearts had no obvious effect on the equilibrium ryanodine binding constant (K(d)), while the maximum number of ryanodine binding sites (B(max)) was affected in a time-dependent manner. B(max) was significantly increased with 15 min ischemia, which then returned to control levels upon prolonging the ischemia to 30 min. After 45 min ischemia, a small decrease of B(max) was observed. 2) IH adaptation for up to 28 days did not change B(max), but a significant decrease of B(max) was apparent after longer IH adaptation or after CH exposure. Although B(max) was not altered by 30 min ischemia, 30 min reperfusion following 30 min ischemia induced an evident decrease of B(max). After either IH or CH adaptation, the ischemia/reperfusion- induced decrease of B(max) was abolished. 3) Several effects on K(d) of ischemia and ischemia/reperfusion, with and without IH or CH adaptation, were observed. The most distinct and consistent finding was that a clear increase of K(d) was induced by ischemia or ischemia/reperfusion in CH adapted rats. [3H]Ryanodine binding to homogenates of rat skeletal muscle was also affected by IH and CH adaptation. In contrast to that found in cardiac muscle, a decrease of B(max) in skeletal muscle appeared only after CH adaptation. The physiological significance of these effects is discussed.
Borders defined by small changes in brightness (luminance contrast) or by differences in colour (chromatic contrast) appear to move more slowly than those defined by strong luminance contrast. As spatial coding is influenced by motion, if placed in close proximity, the different types of moving border might appear to drift apart. Using this configuration, we show here that observers instead report a clear illusory spatial jitter of the low-luminance-contrast boundary. This visible interaction between motion and spatial-position coding occurred at a characteristic rate (approximately 22.3 Hz), although the stimulus motion was continuous and invariant. The jitter rate did not vary with the speed of movement. The jitter was not due to small involuntary movements of the eyes, because it only occurred at a specific point within the stimulus, the low-luminance-contrast boundary. These findings show that the human visual system contains a neural mechanism that periodically resolves the spatial conflict created by adjacent moving borders that have the same physical but different perceptual speeds.
Cells in macaque ventral premotor cortex (area F5c) respond to observation or production of specific hand-object interactions. Studies in humans associate the left inferior frontal gyrus, including putative F5 homolog pars opercularis, with observing hand actions. Are these responses related to the realized goal of a prehensile action or to the observation of dynamic hand movements? Rapid, event-related fMRI was used to address this question. Subjects watched static pictures of the same objects being grasped or touched while performing a 1-back orienting task. In all 17 subjects, bilateral inferior frontal cortex was differentially activated in response to realized goals of observed prehensile actions. Bilaterally, precentral gyrus was most frequently activated (82%) followed by pars triangularis (73%) and pars opercularis (65%).
L-type (CaV1.2) and P/Q-type (CaV2.1) calcium channels possess lobe-specific CaM regulation, where Ca2+ binding to one or the other lobe of CaM triggers regulation, even with inverted polarity of modulation between channels. Other major members of the CaV1-2 channel family, R-type (CaV2.3) and N-type (CaV2.2), have appeared to lack such CaM regulation. We report here that R- and N-type channels undergo Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation, which is mediated by the CaM N-terminal lobe and present only with mild Ca2+ buffering (0.5 mM EGTA) characteristic of many neurons. These features, together with the CaM regulatory profiles of L- and P/Q-type channels, are consistent with a simplifying principle for CaM signal detection in CaV1-2 channels-independent of channel context, the N- and C-terminal lobes of CaM appear invariably specialized for decoding local versus global Ca2+ activity, respectively.
FERM domain including Rho GEF (FIR) is one of the guanine nucleotide exchange factors for Rac1. FIR, expressed in hippocampal and cortical neurons in vitro, is suggested to be involved in neurite remodeling. We examine developmental regulation of FIR mRNA expression in the mouse brain using in situ hybridization to get insight into its function. FIR mRNA is expressed in the ventricular zone and the intermediate zone as well as the cortical plate and the preplate in the brain from mice during the embryonic stages 12.5 to 14.5. In the brain during the later embryonic stages and the postnatal stages, the expression was restricted to the cortical plate. These results suggest that FIR may play a role not only in neurogenesis, but also in the asymmetrical cell division and migration of neurons.
We demonstrate the presence of reticuline, an isoquinoline alkaloid that was purified and identified in the rat brain. This was achieved by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection. This material was finally identified by nano-electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry. The expression of this tetrahydroisoquinoline alkaloid in rat brain is at 12.7+/-5.4 ng/g wet tissue. Furthermore, rat chow, rat small and large intestine and bacteria cultured from these tissues did not contain either morphine or reticuline, eliminating the possibility of contamination or an exogenous source of these compounds. This finding adds information which suggests that morphine biosynthesis may occur in rat neural tissues, and that its biosynthesis pathway may be similar to that reported in the poppy plant.
Replication of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is dependent on nuclear-encoded factors. It has been proposed that this reliance may exert spatial restrictions on the sites of mtDNA replication within the cytoplasm, as a previous study only detected mtDNA synthesis in perinuclear mitochondria. We have studied mtDNA replication in situ in a variety of human cell cultures labeled with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine. In contrast to what has been reported, mtDNA synthesis was detected at multiple sites throughout the mitochondrial network following short pulses with bromodeoxyuridine. Although no bromodeoxyuridine incorporation was observed in anuclear platelets, incorporation into mtDNA of fibroblasts that had been enucleated 2 h prior to labeling was readily detectable. Blotting experiments indicated that the bromodeoxyuridine incorporation into mtDNA observed in situ represents replication of the entire mtDNA molecule. The studies also showed that replication of mtDNA occurred at any stage of the cell cycle in proliferating cells and continued in postmitotic cells, although at a lower level. These results demonstrate that mtDNA replication is not restricted to mitochondria in the proximity of the nucleus and imply that all components of the replication machinery are available at sufficient levels throughout the mitochondrial network to permit mtDNA replication throughout the cytoplasm.
The context in which fear memories are extinguished has important implications for treating human fear and anxiety disorders. Extinction of Pavlovian fear conditioning is context specific; after extinction, fear responses are reduced only in the extinction context and remain elevated in every other context. Contextual modulation of spike firing in the amygdala is a putative mechanism for the context-specific expression of extinguished fear. To test this possibility, we conditioned rats to fear two auditory conditional stimuli (CSs) and then extinguished each CS in separate and distinct contexts. Thereafter, single-unit activity in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) and freezing behavior were recorded during tests in which each CS was presented in each extinction context. Hence, each CS was tested in its own extinction context and in the context of the other CS. Conditional freezing was context dependent; fear to an extinguished CS was low in its own extinction context and high in the other test context. Similarly, the majority of LA neurons exhibited context-dependent spike firing; short-latency spike firing was greater to both CSs when they were presented outside of their own extinction context. In contrast, behavioral and neuronal responses to either non-extinguished CSs or habituated auditory stimuli were not contextually modulated. Context-dependent neuronal activity in the LA may be an important mechanism for disambiguating the meaning of fear signals, thereby enabling appropriate behavioral responses to such stimuli.
During ischemia, the transport of molecules in the extracellular space (ECS) is obstructed in comparison with healthy brain tissue, but the cause is unknown. Extracellular tortuosity (lambda), normally 1.6, increases to 1.9 in ischemic thick brain slices (1000 microm), but drops to 1.5 when 70,000 Mr dextran (dex70) is added to the tissue as a background macromolecule. We hypothesized that the ischemic increase in lambda arises from diffusion delays in newly formed dead-space microdomains of the ECS. Accordingly, lambda decreases when dead-space diffusion is eliminated by trapping dex70 in these microdomains. We tested our hypothesis by analyzing the diffusion of several molecules in neocortical slices. First we showed that diffusion of fluorescent dex70 in thick slices declined over time, indicating the entrapment of background macromolecules. Next, we measured diffusion of tetramethylammonium (TMA+) (74 Mr) to show that the reduction of lambda depended on the size of the background macromolecule. The synthetic polymer, 40,000 Mr polyvinylpyrrolidone, reduced lambda in thick slices, whereas 10,000 Mr dextran did not. The dex70 was also effective in normoxic slices (400 microm) after hypoosmotic stress altered the ECS to mimic ischemia. Finally, the dex70 effect was confirmed independently of TMA+ using fluorescent 3000 Mr dextran as a diffusion marker in thick slices: lambda decreased from 3.29 to 2.44. Taken together, these data support our hypothesis and offer a novel explanation for the origin of the large lambda observed in ischemic brain. A semiquantitative model of dead-space diffusion corroborates this new interpretation of lambda.
Modulation of voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSC) can have a major impact on cell excitability. Analysis of calmodulin (CaM) binding to GST-fusion proteins containing the C-terminal domains of Nav1.1-Nav1.9 indicates that some of the tetrodotoxin-sensitive VGSC isoforms, including NaV1.4 and NaV1.6, are able to bind CaM in a calcium-independent manner. Here we demonstrate that association with CaM is important for functional expression of NaV1.4 and NaV1.6 VGSCs. Disrupting the interaction between CaM and the C terminus of NaV1.4 and NaV1.6 channels reduced current amplitude by 99 and 62%, respectively. Overexpression of CaM increased the current generated by Nav1.4 and Nav1.6 C-terminal mutant constructs that exhibited intermediate current densities and intermediate binding affinities for CaM, demonstrating that this effect on current density was directly dependent on the ability of the C terminus to bind CaM. In addition to the effects on current density, calmodulin also was able to modulate the inactivation kinetics of Nav1.6, but not Nav1.4, currents in a calcium-dependent manner. Our data demonstrate that CaM can regulate the properties of VGSCs via calcium-dependent and calcium-independent mechanisms and suggest that modulation of neuronal sodium channels may play a role in calcium-dependent neuronal plasticity.
As a postdoc in cognitive neuroscience who's also a neurology fellow, Adam Gazzaley is a meld of basic science expertise and clinical experience: He studies brain aging in people by using functional magnetic resonance imaging at the University of California (UC), Berkeley, and he also sees patients at UC San Francisco's Memory and Aging Center. The 34-year-old native New Yorker dives with equal fervor into scientific research and nature photography, two lenses for viewing a single world of discovery. Growing up in Queens, Gazzaley knew from age 7 that he wanted to become a scientist, and as a teenager, he commuted long hours to attend the Bronx High School of Science. He earned an M.D.-Ph.D. from the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City. Gazzaley's hobby as a shutterbug periodically takes him on backpacking trips to document the beauty of the great outdoors. He sells fine-art prints of his photographs to individuals, hospitals, and clinics through his company, Wanderings Inc.
Mutacin 1140 is a member of a family of ribosomally synthesized peptide bacteriocins called lantibiotics (lanthionine-containing antibiotics) and is produced by the Gram-positive bacterium Streptococcus mutans. Mutacin 1140 has been shown to be effective against a broad array of Gram-positive bacteria. Chromatography and mass spectroscopy data suggested that mutacin 1140 forms a small compact structure. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) data and restrained molecular dynamics simulations showed that mutacin 1140 interconverts between multiple structures. Calculations of scalar (J) coupling constants showed the best agreement with experimental values when the entire population-weighted ensemble of structures was used, providing independent support for the ensemble. Representative structures from each major group in the ensemble had a common feature in which they are all kinked around the hinge region forming a horseshoe-like shape, and the regions of flexibility of the molecule were limited and well-defined. The structures determined in this study provide a starting point for modeling the mutacin 1140-membrane interactions and pore formation.


The authors investigated whether T cells have a role in the pathogenesis of axonal polyneuropathy and monoclonal gammopathy by comparing the presence of T cells in sural nerves of 23 patients with axonal polyneuropathy and monoclonal gammopathy (12 IgM, 11 IgG), of 15 patients with chronic idiopathic axonal polyneuropathy, and of 10 autopsy cases. Seven patients with an increased T-cell density had a progressive disease course, and four of these patients were treated with prednisone with a good response, suggesting that vasculitis plays a role in the pathogenesis.
Microglia, the brain's intrinsic macrophages, bind (R)-PK11195 when activated by neuronal injury. The authors used [11C](R)-PK11195 PET to localize in vivo microglial activation in patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA). Increased [11C](R)-PK11195 binding was primarily found in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, putamen, pallidum, pons, and substantia nigra, reflecting the known distribution of neuropathologic changes in MSA. Providing an indicator of disease activity, [11C](R)-PK11195 PET can thus be used to characterize the in vivo neuropathology of MSA.
Parry-Romberg syndrome (PRS) is a rare neurocutaneous disorder characterized by progressive facial hemiatrophy. In this study, 205 patients with PRS were surveyed using the Internet. Estimates of the frequency of limb involvement (19%), epilepsy (11%), and other clinical and etiologic features were obtained. There was a wide range of age at onset and considerable diagnostic overlap with scleroderma &quot;en coup de sabre.&quot;




Familial dysautonomia (FD) is the best-known and most common member of a group of congenital sensory/autonomic neuropathies characterized by widespread sensory and variable autonomic dysfunction. As opposed to the sensory/motor neuropathies, little is known about the causes of neuronal dysfunction and loss in the sensory/autonomic neuropathies. FD involves progressive neuronal degeneration, has a broad impact on the operation of many of the body's systems, and leads to a markedly reduced quality of life and premature death. In 2001, we identified two mutations in the IKBKAP gene that result in FD. IKBKAP encodes IKAP, a member of the putative human holo-Elongator complex, which may facilitate transcription by RNA polymerase II. Whether or not the Elongator plays this role is moot. The FD mutation found on &gt;99.5% of FD chromosomes does not cause complete loss of function. Instead, it results in a tissue-specific decrease in splicing efficiency of the IKBKAP transcript; cells from patients retain some capacity to produce normal mRNA and protein. To better understand the relationship between the genotype of FD patients and their phenotype, we have used in situ hybridization histochemistry to map the IKAP mRNA in sections of whole rat embryos. The mRNA is widely distributed. Highest levels are in the nervous system, but substantial amounts are also present in peripheral organs.
Somatic evoked potentials (SEPs) from three brain sites elicited by electrical stimulation in 10 rats were recorded throughout wake-sleep states with intrinsic changes in temporal architectures under different vigilance states. Based on the patterns of spontaneous brain and muscle activities, three characteristic vigilance states could be classified: awake, slow-wave sleep (SWS), and paradoxical sleep (PS). Spontaneous gamma activities prominently appeared under awake and PS states, but less under SWS. SEP was filtered out via a zero-phase highpass filter (20 Hz) to extract the gamma activity of the SEP (gammaSEP). Gamma oscillations of SEPs were clearly observed and were reset by extrinsic electrical stimulation under awake and PS, but not under SWS state. Dynamic changes of gammaSEPs during wake-sleep states were also confirmed by multiple single-trial spectral analyses. Moreover, gamma oscillations were initiated at the parietal site, and the speed of its propagation in both frontal and occipital directions was significantly different. In addition, a clear two-component architecture of SEPs was observed under awake and PS states, and the gamma rhythmic activity was associated with the second component. Because gamma oscillations are related to feature binding in the waking state, evoked gammaSEPs in PS may be related to sensory integration analogous to the awake ones. By contrast, a long-lasting biphasic component of SEPs, which might be associated with augmenting response, was observed during SWS. Based on these results, the sleeping brain continuously monitors and selectively processes incoming flow. Our results also strongly support a two-stage information processing taking place in the cortex during sleep.
Inositol phosphates are well-known signaling molecules, whereas the inositol pyrophosphates, such as diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (InsP7/IP7) and bis-diphosphoinositol tetrakisphosphate (InsP8/IP8), are less well characterized. We demonstrate physiologic regulation of Dictyostelium chemotaxis by InsP7 mediated by its competition with PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 for binding pleckstrin homology (PH) domain-containing proteins. Chemoattractant stimulation triggers rapid and sustained elevations in InsP7/InsP8 levels. Depletion of InsP7 and InsP8 by deleting the gene for InsP6 kinase (InsP6K/IP6K), which converts inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP6/IP6) to InsP7, causes rapid aggregation of mutant cells and increased sensitivity to cAMP. Chemotaxis is mediated by membrane translocation of certain PH domain-containing proteins via specific binding to PtdIns(3,4,5)P3. InsP7 competes for PH domain binding with PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 both in vitro and in vivo. InsP7 depletion enhances PH domain membrane translocation and augments downstream chemotactic signaling activity.
Ligand-gated ion channels (LGICs) mediate rapid chemical neurotransmission. This gene superfamily includes the nicotinic acetylcholine, GABAA/C, 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3, and glycine receptors. A signature disulfide loop (Cys loop) in the extracellular domain is a structural motif common to all LGIC member subunits. Here we report that a highly conserved aspartic acid residue within the Cys loop at position 148 (Asp-148) of the glycine receptor alpha1 subunit is critical in the process of receptor activation. Mutation of this acidic residue to the basic amino acid lysine produces a large decrease in the potency of glycine, produces a decrease in the Hill slope, and converts taurine from a full agonist to a partial agonist; these data are consistent with a molecular defect in the receptor gating mechanism. Additional mutation of Asp-148 shows that alterations in the EC50 for agonists are dependent upon the charge of the side chain at this position and not molecular volume, polarity, or hydropathy. This study implicates negative charge at position Asp-148 as a critical component of the process in which agonist binding is coupled to channel gating. This finding adds to an emerging body of evidence supporting the involvement of the Cys loop in the gating mechanism of the LGICs.
beta subunits of voltage-gated calcium channels influence channel behavior in numerous ways, including enhancing the targeting of alpha1 subunits to the plasma membrane and shifting the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation. Of the four beta subunits that have been identified, beta 4 is of particular interest because mutation of its alpha1 subunit interaction domain produces severe neurological defects. Its differential distribution in the hippocampus prompted us to examine whether this subunit was responsible for the heterogeneity of hippocampal L-type calcium channels. To study the functional effects of the beta 4 subunit on native L-type calcium channels, we transfected beta 4 cDNA subcloned out of embryonic hippocampal neurons into PC12 cells, a cell line that contains the beta 1, beta 2, and beta 3 subunits but not the beta 4 subunit. Cell-attached single-channel recordings of L-type channel activity from untransfected and transfected PC12 cells compared with recordings obtained from hippocampal neurons revealed an effect of the beta 4 subunit on single-channel conductance. L-type channels in untransfected PC12 cells had a significantly smaller conductance (19.8 picosiemens (pS)) than L-type channels in hippocampal neurons (22 pS). After transfection of beta 4, however, L-type single-channel conductance was indistinguishable between the two cell types. Our data suggest that calcium channel beta 4 subunits affect the conductance of L-type calcium channels and that native hippocampal L-type channels contain the beta 4 subunit.
Cone photoreceptor cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels are thought to form by assembly of two different subunit types, CNGA3 and CNGB3. Recently, mutations in the gene encoding the CNGB3 subunit have been linked to achromatopsia in humans. Here we describe the functional consequences of two achromatopsia-associated mutations in human CNGB3 (hCNGB3). Co-expression in Xenopus oocytes of human CNGA3 (hCNGA3) subunits with hCNGB3 subunits containing an achromatopsia-associated mutation in the S6 transmembrane domain (S435F) generated functional heteromeric channels that exhibited an increase in apparent affinity for both cAMP and cGMP compared with wild type heteromeric channels. In contrast, co-expression of a presumptive null mutation of hCNGB3 (T383f.s.Delta C) with hCNGA3 produced channels with properties indistinguishable from homomeric hCNGA3 channels. The effect of hCNGB3 S435F subunits on cell-surface expression of green fluorescent protein-tagged hCNGA3 subunits and of non-tagged hCNGA3 subunits on surface expression of green fluorescent protein-hCNGB3 S435F subunits were similar to those observed for wild type hCNGB3 subunits, suggesting that the mutation does not grossly disturb subunit assembly or plasma membrane targeting. The S435F mutation was also found to produce changes in the pore properties of the channel, including decreased single channel conductance and decreased sensitivity to block by l-cis-diltiazem. Overall, these results suggest that the functional properties of cone CNG channels may be altered in patients with the S435F mutation, providing evidence supporting the pathogenicity of this mutation in humans. Thus, achromatopsia may arise from a disturbance of cone CNG channel gating and permeation or from the absence of functional CNGB3 subunits.
Gonadal steroid hormones are known to influence the development of the cerebral cortex of mammals. Steroid hormone action involves hormone binding to cytoplasmic or nuclear receptors, followed by DNA binding and gene transcription. The goals of the present study were twofold: to determine whether androgen receptors are present during development in two known androgen sensitive regions of the rat cerebral cortex, the primary visual cortex (Oc1) and the anterior cingulate/frontal cortex (Cg1/Fr2); and to determine whether androgen receptor (AR) expression in these regions differs between developing males and females. We used immunocytochemistry to detect AR protein on postnatal days 0, 4, and 10, and in situ hybridization to detect AR mRNA on postnatal day 10 in male and female rats. The level of AR expression was specific to the cortical region, with higher AR immunoreactive cell density and more AR mRNA in Oc1 than in Cg1/Fr2. AR immunoreactive cell density increased with age in both regions. Finally, on postnatal day 10, males had a higher AR immunoreactive cell density and more AR mRNA in Oc1 than did females. Thus, the presence of ARs may allow androgens to directly influence the development the cerebral cortex.
In this article, we provide direct evidence for injection of venom by a wasp into the central nervous system of its cockroach prey. Venomous predators use neurotoxins that generally act at the neuromuscular junction, resulting in different types of prey paralysis. The sting of the parasitoid wasp Ampulex compressa is unusual, as it induces grooming behavior, followed by a long-term lethargic state of its insect prey, thus ultimately providing a living meal for the newborn wasp larvae. These behavioral modifications are induced only when a sting is inflicted into the head. These unique effects of the wasp venom on prey behavior suggest that the venom targets the insect's central nervous system. The mechanism by which behavior modifying compounds in the venom transverse the blood-brain barrier to induce these central and long-lasting effects has been the subject of debate. In this article, we demonstrate that the wasp stings directly into the target ganglia in the head of its prey. To prove this assertion, we produced &quot;hot&quot; wasps by injecting them with (14)C radiolabeled amino acids and used a combination of liquid scintillation and light microscopy autoradiography to trace radiolabeled venom in the prey. To our knowledge, this is the first direct evidence documenting targeted delivery of venom by a predator into the brain of its prey.
A notable consequence of CB1 cannabinoid receptor activation in vertebrates is an impairment of cognitive function related to learning and short-term memory. The mechanisms of this impairment remain unclear, but one possibility is that cannabinoids influence encoding of stimuli at sensory and/or perceptual levels. Here, by treating zebra finches with the cannabinoid agonist WIN55212-2 and then measuring expression of the transcription factor zenk following presentation of novel zebra finch song, we show that cannabinoid receptor activation differentially influences zenk expression in sensory versus perceptual regions of the songbird auditory telencephalon. That is, WIN55212-2 dose-dependently inhibited zenk expression in a region for auditory perception (NCM, the caudomedial neostriatum), but had no effect on zenk expression in the primary auditory area, the Field L complex. The inhibitory effects of WIN55212-2 on zenk expression in NCM were reversed by coadministration of the CB1-selective antagonist SR141716A. Moreover, we found that the habituation of the NCM zenk response to repeated presentation of the same song, a well-established neural correlate of song recognition, was blocked when birds were treated with WIN55212-2 during habituation trials. Our data suggest that activation of CB1 cannabinoid receptors can selectively influence perceptual and mnemonic aspects of auditory experience.
Motion signals are subject to spatio-temporal filtering at early stages of processing. In general, motion can be characterized by two parameters: speed and direction. This study sought to determine the time constants for the filtering of the directional component of the motion signal. In a forced-choice discrimination task, subjects were asked to choose the more abrupt change in direction of a target that moved through two 90 degrees corners. At each corner, direction of motion was low-pass filtered. Subjects were able to reliably perform this task if the filter time constants differed by &gt;20 ms.
This study aims at investigating how do anticipatory postural adjustments develop in children with autism, during a bimanual load-lifting task that required maintaining the stabilisation of the forearm despite imposed or voluntary unloading. Elbow angle and electromyographic were recorded on the child forearm supporting the load. The forearm stabilisation was as good in children with autism as in the control group. However, in children with autism, the latencies for both kinematics and muscular events indicated an increase of the duration of unloading. These results indicate the use of a feedback rather than a feed-forward mode of control. Impairments in both the building of internal representations and the mastering of timing parameters, could explain the deficient postural anticipation reported in children with autism.
In an attempt to identify voice-specific neural activities in auditory cortex in humans, we recorded cortical magnetic responses. Volunteers were instructed to listen to vocal and instrumental sounds matched in fundamental-frequency, duration, temporal envelope and average root mean square power. The stimuli were sounds produced by four singers and four musical instruments at each of two fundamental frequencies: 220 Hz (musical note A3) and 261.9 Hz (C3). Two components of the evoked responses were analyzed, one at approximately 100 ms (N1m) and the other 400 ms after the stimulus onset (sustained field, SF). The source locations of equivalent current dipoles for both components were estimated around the Heschl's gyrus in both hemispheres. Compared with the instrumental sound, the source strength of the SF component for the voice was significantly larger.
We have recently shown that oxytocin inhibits cell proliferation when the vast majority of oxytocin receptors are excluded from caveolin-1-enriched microdomains, and that, on the contrary, it has a mitogenic effect when the receptors are targeted to these plasma membrane domains. In this study, we investigated whether the receptors located inside and outside caveolar microdomains initiate different signalling pathways and how this may lead to opposite effects on cell proliferation. Our data indicate that, depending on their localization, oxytocin receptors transactivate EGFR and activate ERK1/2 using different signalling intermediates. The final outcome is a different temporal pattern of EGFR and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, which is more persistent when the receptors are located outside caveolar microdomains and inhibit cell growth, and very transient when they are located in caveolar microdomains and stimulate cell growth. Finally, only the activation of receptors located outside caveolar microdomains correlates with the activation of the cell cycle inhibitor p21(WAF1/CIP1), thus suggesting that the antiproliferative OTR effects may, in this case, be achieved by a sustained activation of EGFR and MAPK leading to the induction of this cell cycle regulator.
A member of the neurotrophin family, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) regulates neuronal survival and differentiation during development. Within the adult brain, BDNF is also important in neuronal adaptive processes, such as the activity-dependent plasticity that underlies learning and memory. These long-term changes in synaptic strength are mediated through alterations in gene expression. However, many of the mechanisms by which BDNF is linked to transcriptional and translational regulation remain unknown. Recently, the transcription factor NFATc4 (nuclear factor of activated T-cells isoform 4) was discovered in neurons, where it is believed to play an important role in long-term changes in neuronal function. Interestingly, NFATc4 is particularly sensitive to the second messenger systems activated by BDNF. Thus, we hypothesized that NFAT-dependent transcription may be an important mediator of BDNF-induced plasticity. In cultured rat CA3-CA1 hippocampal neurons, BDNF activated NFAT-dependent transcription via TrkB receptors. Inhibition of calcineurin blocked BDNF-induced nuclear translocation of NFATc4, thus preventing transcription. Further, phospholipase C was a critical signaling intermediate between BDNF activation of TrkB and the initiation of NFAT-dependent transcription. Both inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3)-mediated release of calcium from intracellular stores and activation of protein kinase C were required for BDNF-induced NFAT-dependent transcription. Finally, increased expression of IP3 receptor 1 and BDNF after neuronal exposure to BDNF was linked to NFAT-dependent transcription. These results suggest that NFATc4 plays a crucial role in neurotrophin-mediated synaptic plasticity.
Extinction is a unique learning process that requires the alteration of stimulus-response associations such that the organism ceases to respond to a previously rewarded stimulus. Extinction is mostly studied with fear conditioning and is impaired by lesions of the prefrontal cortex as well as by blockade of NMDA receptors in the amygdala. Because previous tasks could not clearly disambiguate extinction from behavioral disinhibition, the underlying process was difficult to define. In this study, we examined the possible role of NMDA receptors and the pigeon &quot;prefrontal cortex,&quot; the neostriatum caudolaterale (NCL), for extinction of appetitive instrumental conditioning. We used a new design that discerns extinction from behavioral disinhibition. Our results demonstrate that NCL lesions cause deficits neither in extinction learning nor in extinction recall. However, blockade of NMDA receptors in the pigeon NCL by DL-AP-5 drastically impairs extinction learning without producing behavioral disinhibition or deficits in extinction recall. We suggest that NMDA receptors in the NCL contribute to the establishment of a learning process that selectively signals the change in value of the instrumental stimulus. Although NCL plays a key role for extinction learning, other structures can subsume similar functions after postlesional regeneration.
Noninvasive imaging techniques showed that the anterior cingulate cortex is related to higher-order cognitive and motor-related functions in humans. To elucidate the cellular mechanism of such cingulate functions, single-unit activity was recorded from three cingulate motor areas of macaque monkeys performing delayed conditional Go/No-go discrimination tasks using spatial (location) and nonspatial (color) visual cues. Unlike prefrontal neurons, only a few neurons coded the visual information on individual features (e.g., &quot;left&quot; or &quot;red&quot;) in all of the rostral (CMAr), dorsal (CMAd), and ventral (CMAv) cingulate motor areas. Instead, many neurons in the CMAr exhibited the attention-like activity anticipating the second (conditioned) visual cues, with the specificity to visual category (&quot;location&quot; or &quot;color&quot;). In addition, there were a number of CMAr neurons specific to motor response (Go or No-go) in relation to the second visual cues. Some of the visual category-specific neurons in the CMAr further displayed the motor response-specific activity. On the other hand, many of the task-related CMAd and CMAv neurons seemed to be implicated directly in motor functions, such as preparation and execution of movements in Go trials. The present results suggest that the CMAr neurons may participate in cognitive and motor functions of &quot;attention for action&quot; and &quot;response selection&quot; for an appropriate action according to an intention, whereas the CMAd and CMAv neurons may be involved in &quot;motor preparation and execution&quot;.
While there are many examples of people who live for 100 years or more with little evidence of a decline in brain function, many others are not so fortunate and experience a neurodegenerative disorder, such as Alzheimer disease or Parkinson disease. Although an increasing number of genetic factors that may affect the risk for neurodegenerative disorders are being identified, emerging findings suggest that dietary factors play major roles in determining whether the brain ages successfully or experiences a neurodegenerative disorder. Dietary factors may interact with disease-causing or predisposing genes in molecular cascades that either promote or prevent the degeneration of neurons. Epidemiologic findings suggest that high-calorie diets and folic acid deficiency increase the risk for Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease; studies of animal models of these disorders have shown that dietary restriction (reduced calorie intake or intermittent fasting) and dietary supplementation with folic acid can reduce neuronal damage and improve behavioral outcome. Animal studies have shown that the beneficial effects of dietary restriction on the brain result in part from increased production of neurotrophic factors and cytoprotective protein chaperones in neurons. By keeping homocysteine levels low, folic acid can protect cerebral vessels and prevent the accumulation of DNA damage in neurons caused by oxidative stress and facilitated by homocysteine. Although additional studies are required in humans, the emerging data suggest that high-calorie diets and elevated homocysteine levels may render the brain vulnerable to age-related neurodegenerative disorders, particularly in persons with a genetic predisposition to such disorders.
Drugs of abuse and many other kinds of experiences share the ability to alter the morphology of neuronal dendrites and spines, the primary site of excitatory synapses in the brain. We hypothesized, therefore, that exposure to psychostimulant drugs might influence later experience-dependent structural plasticity. We tested this hypothesis by treating rats repeatedly with amphetamine or cocaine and then housing them in either a complex environment or standard laboratory cages for 3-3.5 mo. The brains were processed for Golgi-Cox staining, and the number of dendritic branches and the density of dendritic spines on medium spiny neurons in the nucleus accumbens and pyramidal cells in the parietal cortex were quantified. On most measures, prior treatment with amphetamine or cocaine interfered with the ability of experience in a complex environment to increase dendritic arborization and spine density. We conclude that in some brain regions, repeated exposure to psychomotor-stimulant drugs limits the ability of later experience to produce this form of synaptic plasticity, which may contribute to the persistent behavioral and cognitive deficits associated with drug abuse.
The impact of progestins on estrogen-inducible mechanisms of neuroprotection was investigated. Previously, we showed that estrogen and progesterone are neuroprotective against excitotoxicity, whereas the synthetic progestin medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA; Provera) is not. Here, we demonstrate that 17beta-estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P4) treatment of hippocampal neurons attenuated the excitotoxic glutamate-induced rise in intracellular calcium concentration. Although MPA had no effect alone, MPA completely antagonized E2-induced attenuation of intracellular calcium concentration. Activation of extracellular receptor kinase (ERK) is required for estrogen-induced neuroprotection and calcium regulation. Paradoxically, E2, P4, and MPA all elicited similar rapid and transient activation of ERK, presenting a contradiction between the dependence on ERK for gonadal hormone-induced neuroprotection and the lack of neuroprotection induced by MPA. Subcellular analysis of ERK demonstrated that the phospho-ERK signal is transduced to the nucleus only by E2 and P4, not by MPA. These results indicate that the profile of nuclear translocation of ERK is consistent with the neuroprotective profile. Further, the E2-induced nuclear translocation of ERK was blocked by coadministration of MPA. Results of this study reveal that nuclear ERK induction by ovarian steroids is predictive of the neuroprotective effects of estrogen and progestin treatments, revealing a hitherto unrecognized divergence of progestin signaling through the src/MAPK pathway. These results have much broader implications encompassing the impact of progestins on estrogen-mediated effects in multiple tissues. The recent results from the Women's Health Initiative trial, which used MPA as the progestinal agent, indicate that differences between progestin formulations are crucial to health outcomes in women.

We describe a penumbra zone with increased biochemical vulnerability in cerebral cortex underlying an evacuated acute subdural haematoma. Two microdialysis catheters were placed in this zone and one catheter was placed in the opposite, less injured hemisphere. The microdialysis perfusates were analysed bedside for glucose, pyruvate, lactate, glutamate, and glycerol. In the penumbra zone, but not in the opposite hemisphere, energy metabolism was seriously disturbed with signs of cell membrane degradation. During an adverse event (decrease in haemoglobin level, systemic blood pressure and cerebral perfusion pressure) the perturbation of energy metabolism increased in this zone. Energy metabolism recovered and the signs of cell membrane degradation disappeared after normalization of the physiological parameters. We use the term biochemical penumbra zone to describe an area with signs of energy failure and cell membrane degradation, which has a capacity to regain a normal metabolic pattern but also an increased vulnerability to secondary insults.
In a letter to Robert Hooke, written on 5 February, 1675, Isaac Newton wrote &quot;If I have seen further than certain other men it is by standing upon the shoulders of giants.&quot; In his context, Newton was referring to the work of Galileo and Kepler, who preceded him. However, every field has its own giants, those men and women who went before us and, often with few tools at their disposal, uncovered the facts that enabled later researchers to advance knowledge in a particular area. This review traces the history of the evolution of views from early giants in the field of vestibular research to modern concepts of vestibular organ organization and function. Emphasis will be placed on the mammalian maculae as peripheral processors of linear accelerations acting on the head. This review shows that early, correct findings were sometimes unfortunately disregarded, impeding later investigations into the structure and function of the vestibular organs. The central themes are that the macular organs are highly complex, dynamic, adaptive, distributed parallel processors of information, and that historical references can help us to understand our own place in advancing knowledge about their complicated structure and functions.
The aim of this study was to investigate the association between prior exposure to naltrexone and increased risk of fatal heroin overdose using a review of toxicology reports for heroin-related fatalities between July 1997 to August 1999 for two groups: those treated with oral naltrexone and those who were not treated. Additional information for the oral naltrexone group was obtained from clinic files. Naltrexone-treated deaths were identified from the patient database at the Australian Medical Procedures Research Foundation (AMPRF), Perth, Western Australia (WA) through the Western Australian Department of Health, Data Linkage Project. Non-treated cases were identified from the database at the Forensic Science Laboratory, State Chemistry Centre (WA). We identified and investigated blood morphine concentrations following 21 fatal heroin overdoses with prior exposure to naltrexone and in 71 non-naltrexone-exposed cases over the same time period. The proportion of deaths where heroin use was a major contributing factor was little different in the non-naltrexone compared to the naltrexone-exposed group. Furthermore, in 'acute opiate toxicity' deaths, blood morphine levels were lower in non-naltrexone-exposed compared with naltrexone-exposed cases. Although there was a higher number of deaths designated as rapid (i.e. occurring within 20 minutes) in the naltrexone-exposed (89%) compared with the non-exposed group (72%) this was not statistically significant. Other drug use in relation to heroin-related fatalities is discussed. Findings do not support the hypothesis that prior exposure to naltrexone increases sensitivity to heroin toxicity.
Morbidity and mortality rates for regular heroin users are much greater than those observed in the general population. In 'high-risk' heroin users implantable naltrexone has been used under Commonwealth Therapeutic Goods Administration Compassionate guidelines in Western Australia since August 2000. This pilot study compared the frequency of accidental opiate overdose and other morbidity resulting in hospital presentations in eight 'high-risk' dependent heroin using adolescents pre- and post-naltrexone implant treatment. We reviewed the hospital medical records retrospectively for t he participants across the four public hospitals in Perth. The review period was September 1999-October 2002. The eight adolescents (aged 15-19 years) initially underwent naltrexone implant treatment between September 2000 and September 2001. The data indicated a dramatic reduction in opiate overdose post-implantable naltrexone treatment, with a smaller reduction in opiate overdose during oral naltrexone treatment compared to the pre-oral/implant period. Implant treatment in the high-risk heroin user may provide an important prophylaxis against mortality associated with accidental opiate overdose. These encouraging findings now require validation using a larger cohort over an extended period

Prion diseases, or transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, include Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) in humans and scrapie and bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in animals. These neurodegenerative diseases are invariably fatal and can be transmitted by inoculation or dietary exposure. They are associated with the accumulation of an altered, disease-associated form of the normal prion protein. Pathologically, prion diseases result in neuronal cell death and a characteristic spongiform appearance of the brain tissue. The emergence of a variant form of CJD (vCJD) in the United Kingdom in 1996 has been causally and experimentally linked to the UK BSE epidemic in the 1980s and early 1990s. The finding that BSE is transmissible to different animal species, unlike previously characterized prion diseases such as sheep scrapie, has raised enormous public health concerns worldwide. Although it is not yet possible to gauge the size of a potential vCJD epidemic, preliminary data indicate a significant dietary exposure to BSE-infected material in Britain and wider implications of the transmissibility of prion diseases. The threat to public health has intensified research efforts to understand the molecular basis of prion diseases, understand their transmission between species, improve methods of diagnosis, and develop therapeutic strategies for treatment and prevention of disease. In this review, we summarize current data on the pathology of BSE and vCJD and the epidemiology of vCJD, and we outline public health implications based on these data, emphasizing preventative measures and areas of research for screening and diagnosis.

Joubert syndrome (JS) is an autosomal recessive developmental brain condition characterized by hypoplasia/dysplasia of the cerebellar vermis and by ataxia, hypotonia, oculomotor apraxia, and neonatal breathing dysregulation. A form of JS that includes retinal dysplasia and cystic dysplastic kidneys has been differentiated from other forms of JS, called either &quot;JS type B&quot; or &quot;cerebello-oculo-renal syndrome&quot; (CORS), but the genetic basis of this condition is unknown. Here, we describe three consanguineous families that display CORS. Linkage analysis defines a novel locus on chromosome 11p12-q13.3, with a maximum two-point LOD score of Z=5.2 at the marker D11S1915. Therefore, the cerebello-oculo-renal form of JS is a distinct genetic entity from the Joubert syndrome 1 (JBTS1) locus described elsewhere, in which there is minimal involvement of retina or kidney. We suggest the term &quot;CORS2&quot; for this new locus.

Transgenic mice expressing human tau with P301L missense mutation (JNPL3) develop progressive amyotrophy, neurofibrillary degeneration, and neuronal loss. Mating of JNPL3 with transgenic mice expressing mutant amyloid precursor protein (Tg2576) leads to bigenic (TAPP) mice with enhanced neurofibrillary pathology. TAPP and JNPL3 mice were studied with immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting with antibodies to glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GKS3) to determine whether the development of tauopathy is associated with activation or increased expression of GSK3, and when the observed changes occur with respect to neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) formation. Accumulation of GSK3alpha/beta phosphorylated at Y279/216 was observed in neurons containing NFTs and granulovacuolar degeneration (GVD), but not in normal neurons or neurons with pretangles. More GSK3 immunoreactive NFTs were detected in TAPP than JNPL3 mice, especially in the amygdala. These differences were notable only in old animals. There was no significant difference between animals with and without NFTs in the level of total, inactive, or Y216-phosphorylated (pY216)GSK3beta. No apparent GSK3 accumulation was detected in neurons in Tg2576 mice. There was also no significant difference in the distribution of GSK3 in lysates fractionated based on their solubility in various reagents, including the sarkosyl-insoluble fraction. The results suggest that the pY216 GSK3beta accumulates in NFT and GVD due to redistribution rather than increased expression or activation, and that pre-existence of tau abnormalities is required for APP/Abeta to exert their effects on tau pathology in TAPP mice.
Trichromatic color vision is routine among catarrhine primates, but occurs only as a variant form of color vision in some individuals in most platyrrhine genera. This arises from a fundamental difference in the organization of X-chromosome cone opsin genes in these two lineages: catarrhines have two opsin genes specifying middle- and long-wavelength-sensitive cone pigments, while platyrrhines have only a single gene. Some female platyrrhine monkeys achieve trichromacy because of a species polymorphism that allows the possibility of different opsin gene alleles on the two X-chromosomes. Recently, a similar opsin gene polymorphism was detected in some diurnal strepsirrhines, while at the same time appearing to be absent in any nocturnal genera. The aim of this study was to assess whether cone pigment polymorphism is inevitably linked to diurnality in strepsirrhines. Cone photopigments were measured in a species usually classified as diurnal, the ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta), using electroretinogram flicker photometry, a noninvasive electrophysiological procedure. Each of 12 animals studied was found to have the same middle-wavelength cone pigment, with peak sensitivity at about 547 nm. In conjunction with earlier results, this implies that cone pigment polymorphism is unlikely to exist in this species and that, accordingly, such variation is not a consistently predictable feature of vision in diurnal strepsirrhines.
We sought to define the contribution of the climbing fibers (CF), one of the major inputs to Purkinje neurons, to the increase in cerebellar blood flow (BFcrb) produced by activation of the cerebellar cortex. The neurotoxin 3-acetylpyridine was used to lesion the inferior olive, the site from which the CF originate. Crus II, an area of the cerebellar cortex that receives sensory afferents from the perioral region, was activated by low-intensity stimulation of the upper lip (5-25 V and 4-16 Hz) in sham-lesioned and lesioned mice. BFcrb was recorded in crus II using a laser-Doppler flow probe. The increase in BFcrb produced by harmaline, an alkaloid that activates the CF, was abolished in lesioned mice (P &gt; 0.05 vs. BFcrb before harmaline, n = 6), attesting to the effectiveness of the lesion. In sham-lesioned animals, upper lip stimulation increased BFcrb in crus II by 25 +/- 2% (25 V and 10 Hz, n = 6). The rise in BFcrb was attenuated by 63 +/- 7% (25 V and 10 Hz) in lesioned mice (P &lt; 0.05, n = 6). In contrast, the increase in BFcrb produced by hypercapnia was not affected (P &gt; 0.05). These data suggest that CF are responsible for a substantial portion of the increase in BFcrb produced by crus II activation. Thus the hemodynamic response evoked by functional activation of the cerebellar cortex reflects, in large part, CF activity.
During exercise, the sympathetic nervous system is activated, which causes vasoconstriction. The autonomic mechanisms responsible for this vasoconstriction vary based on the particular tissue being studied. Attempts to examine reflex control of the human renal circulation have been difficult because of technical limitations. In this report, the Doppler technique was used to examine renal flow velocity during four muscle contraction paradigms in conscious humans. Flow velocity was divided by mean arterial blood pressure to yield an index of renal vascular resistance (RVR). Fatiguing static handgrip (40% of maximal voluntary contraction) increased RVR by 76%. During posthandgrip circulatory arrest, RVR remained above baseline (2.1 +/- 0.2 vs. 2.8 +/- 0.2 arbitrary units; P &lt; 0.017) but was only 40% of the end-grip RVR value. Voluntary biceps contraction increased RVR within 10 s of initiation of contraction. This effect was not associated with an increase in blood pressure. Finally, involuntary biceps contraction also raised RVR. We conclude that muscle contraction evokes renal vasoconstriction in conscious humans. The characteristic of this response is consistent with a primary role for mechanically sensitive afferents. This statement is based on the small posthandgrip circulatory arrest response and the vasoconstriction that was observed with involuntary biceps contraction.
Circadian rhythms are generated by the oscillating expression of the Per1 and Per2 genes, which are expressed not only in the central brain pacemaker but also in peripheral tissues. Hormones are likely to coordinate physiological function in time. We performed in situ hybridization to localize mPer1 and mPer2 mRNA to particular cell types and tissue compartments in adrenal, thyroid, and testis. BALB/c mice maintained in a 12:12-h light-dark cycle expressed mPer1 in adrenal medulla, particularly in late afternoon and early night. mPer2 mRNA was more intensely expressed in adrenal cortex, especially in afternoon and evening. mPer1 mRNA was detected in thyroid. mPer1 was found in some but not all seminiferous tubules of each mouse at all times of day. Quantitation in C57BL/6 mice revealed a significant increase in the number of heavily labeled seminiferous tubules early in the night. Consistent with in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry showed PER1 protein in spermatocytes and spermatids (spermatogenic stages VII-XII). Staining in spermatogonia and interstitial cells was inconsistent. Double labeling with 5'-bromodeoxyuridine showed PER1 expression first occurring 5 days after DNA replication. We conclude that mPeriod genes are expressed in peripheral endocrine glands. Central regulation, adenohypophyseal control, and functional importance of expression and phase remain to be elucidated.
The circadian clock of mammals, located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus, has been demonstrated to integrate day length change from long (LP) to short photoperiod (SP). This photoperiodic change induces in Syrian hamsters a testicular regression through melatonin action, a phenomenon that is inhibited when hamsters have free access to a wheel. The intergeniculate leaflets (IGL), which modulate the integration of photoperiod by the SCN, are a key structure in the circadian system, conveying nonphotic information such as those induced by novelty-induced wheel running activity. We tested in hamsters transferred from LP to a cold SP the effects of wheel running activity on a photoperiod-dependent behavior, hibernation. Lesions of the IGL were done to test the role of this structure in the inhibition induced by exercise of photoperiod integration by the clock. We show that wheel running activity actually inhibits hibernation not only in sham-operated animals, but also in hamsters with a bilateral IGL lesion (IGLX). In contrast, IGL-X hamsters without a wheel integrate slower to the SP but hibernate earlier compared with sham-operated animals. Moreover, some hibernation characteristics are affected by IGL lesion. Throughout the experiment at 7 degrees C, IGL-X hamsters were in hypothermia during 18% of the experiment vs. 32% for sham-operated hamsters. Taken together, these data show that the IGL play a modulatory role in the integration of photoperiodic cues and modulate hibernation, but they are not implicated in the inhibition of hibernation induced by wheel running activity.



Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), once thought to be a rare neurodegenerative disease, affects between 1.2 and 1.8/100,000 individuals. This age-dependent disorder, similar to other major neurological disorders of the aging population (Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease) is increasing in incidence at a rate which cannot be accounted for by population aging alone. Multiple clinical variants of ALS are now recognized which are associated with a spectrum of clinical outcomes from aggressive to rather indolent. Three variants of ALS are generally accepted, including the western Pacific type (often associated with dementia), familial (the majority of which are autosomal dominant in their inheritance) and classic sporadic ALS. Considerable biological heterogeneity underlies the disease process of ALS. By the time ALS is clinically evident, derangements at the cellular level in ALS are extensive and include alterations in the cytoskeleton, mitochondrial function, microglial activation, and the metabolism of reactive oxygenating species and glutamate. Our understanding of the genetic aspects of the disease continues to expand. These observations have led to the suggestion that multiple distinct etiologies may be responsible. Recent advances have also included the observation that cognitive decline may be present in a population of patients not previously recognised. Significant advances in both symptomatic and adjunctive therapy have resulted in prolonged quality and duration of life.
Midbrain projections of the pretectal olivary nucleus (PON) were studied in the marmoset, a New World primate. The fluorescent retrograde tracers Fluoro-Gold (FG) and Fast Blue (FB) were injected into the Edinger-Westphal (EW) nucleus and the lateral terminal nucleus (LTN), respectively. EW nucleus injections resulted in retrograde labeling of significant numbers of FG-positive neurons of the PON as well as a small number of cells in the LTN. LTN injections led to labeling of a population of singly-labeled cells seen dispersed through the larger population of FG-labeled somata within the contralateral PON. The ipsilateral PON was devoid of FB-labeled somata, whereas the adjacent nucleus of the optic tract (NOT) contained FB-labeled cells. These findings show that a large number of PON neurons project directly to the oculomotor complex. Additionally, the study shows the presence of a separate population of PON neurons projecting to the contralateral LTN. This, combined with our earlier observation that LTN neurons project to the EW nucleus in the marmoset (see main text for reference), lends support to the presence of separate direct and indirect pupillary light reflex pathways from the PON to the nucleus of EW.
We report the results of a 4-year-long study of capuchin monkeys ( Cebus apella ) on concurrent three-way classification and linear size seriation tasks using explicit ordering procedures, requiring subjects to select icons displayed on touch screens rather than manipulate and sort actual objects into groups. The results indicate that C. apella is competent to classify nine items concurrently, first into three disjoint classes where class exemplars are identical to one another, then into three reciprocal classes which share common exemplar (size) features. In the final phase we compare the relative efficiency of executive control under conditions where both hierarchical and/or linear organization can be utilized. Whilst this shows a superiority of categorical based size seriation for a nine item test set suggesting an adaptive advantage for hierarchical over linear organization, Cebus nevertheless achieved high levels of principled linear size seriation with sequence lengths not normally achieved by children below the age of six years.




Acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibodies are present in around 85% of patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) as measured by the conventional radioimmunoprecipitation assay. Antibodies that block the fetal form of the AChR are occasionally present in mothers who develop MG after pregnancy, especially in those whose babies are born with arthrogryposis multiplex congenita. The antibodies cross the placenta and block neuromuscular transmission, leading to joint deformities and often stillbirth. In these mothers, antibodies made in the thymus are mainly specific for fetal AChR and show restricted germline origins, suggesting a highly mutated clonal response; subsequent spread to involve adult AChR could explain development of maternal MG in those cases who first present after pregnancy. In the 15% of &quot;seronegative&quot; MG patients without AChR antibodies (SNMG), there are serum factors that increase AChR phosphorylation and reduce AChR function, probably acting via a different membrane receptor. These factors are not IgG and could be IgM or even non-Ig serum proteins. In a proportion of SNMG patients, however, IgG antibodies to the muscle-specific kinase, MuSK, are present. These antibodies are not found in AChR antibody-positive MG and are predominantly IgG4. MuSK antibody positivity appears to be associated with more severe bulbar disease that can be difficult to treat effectively.
We have studied responses in thymoma patients to interferon-alpha and to the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) in early-onset myasthenia gravis (EOMG), seeking clues to autoimmunizing mechanisms. Our new evidence implicates a two-step process: (step 1) professional antigen-presenting cells and thymic epithelial cells prime AChR-specific T cells; then (step 2) thymic myoid cells subsequently provoke germinal center formation in EOMG. Our unifying hypothesis proposes that AChR epitopes expressed by neoplastic or hyperplastic thymic epithelial cells aberrantly prime helper T cells, whether generated locally or infiltrating from the circulation. These helper T cells then induce antibody responses against linear epitopes that cross-react with whole AChR and attack myoid cells in the EOMG thymus. The resulting antigen-antibody complexes and the recruitment of professional antigen-presenting cells increase the exposure of thymic cells to the infiltrates and provoke local germinal center formation and determinant spreading. Both these and the consequently enhanced heterogeneity and pathogenicity of the autoantibodies should be minimized by early thymectomy.
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is an autoimmune disorder of neuromuscular transmission in which antibodies are directed against voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs). We studied the action of LEMS immunoglobulin G (IgG) on cloned human VGCCs stably transfected into human embryonic kidney cells (HEK293). All LEMS IgGs tested bound to the surface of the P/Q-type VGCC cell line and caused a significant reduction in whole-cell calcium currents in these cells. By contrast, only 2 out of 6 IgGs bound extracellularly to the N-type VGCC cell line, and none of the LEMS IgGs tested was able to reduce whole-cell calcium currents in these cells. We used this apparent specificity of LEMS IgG for the P/Q-type VGCC to investigate the action of these IgGs on model systems where a number of different VGCC populations exist in equilibrium. LEMS IgG caused a significant downregulation in the omega-agatoxin IVA-sensitive P/Q-type VGCCs of cultured rat cerebellar neurons, but this was accompanied by a concomitant rise in the &quot;resistant&quot; R-type VGCCs. By using the passive transfer model of LEMS, similar results were observed at the mouse neuromuscular junction, where a significant reduction in P/Q-type VGCCs was paralleled by an increase in L- and R-type VGCCs. These results demonstrate an unexpected plasticity in the expression of VGCCs in mammalian neurons and may represent a mechanism by which the pathogenic effects of LEMS IgG are reduced.
The objective was to define the molecular mechanisms underlying congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) by studying mutations within genes encoding the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) and related proteins at the neuromuscular junction. It was found that mutations within muscle AChRs are the most common cause of CMS. The majority are located within the epsilon-subunit gene and result in AChR deficiency.
Acetylcholine-binding protein (AChBP) is a novel protein with high similarity to the extracellular domain of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. AChBP lacks the transmembrane domains and intracellular loops typical for the nAChRs. AChBP is secreted from glia cells in the central nervous system of the freshwater snail, Lymnaea stagnalis, where it modulates synaptic transmission. AChBP forms homopentamers with pharmacology that resembles the alpha(7)-type of nicotinic receptors. As such, AChBP is a good model for the ligand-binding domain of the nAChRs. In the crystal structure of AChBP at 2.7 A, each protomer has a modified immunoglobulin fold. Almost all residues previously shown to be involved in ligand binding in the nicotinic receptor are found in a pocket at the subunit interface, which is lined with aromatic residues. The AChBP crystal structure explains many of the biochemical studies on the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Surprisingly, the interface between protomers is relatively weakly conserved between families in the superfamily of pentameric ligand-gated ion channels. The lack of conservation has implications for the mechanism of gating of the ion channels.
Mutations in DJ-1 (PARK7) have been reported in two consanguineous families with young-onset Parkinson's disease (YOPD). This study aims to confirm the presence of pathogenic DJ-1 mutations and determine their contribution in young-onset and more typical later onset Parkinson's disease (PD). The entire open reading frame of the DJ-1 gene was screened by direct sequencing in 185 unrelated YOPD patients and a separate cohort of 190 pathologically proven cases of PD. Ethnically matched controls were screened for all mutations identified. We report a low frequency of pathogenic DJ-1 mutations in our cohort of patients. One homozygous missense mutation and one heterozygous mutation were found in two YOPD samples. In addition, several variants were found in the coding sequence of the gene, which are likely to represent polymorphisms. In one case, the polymorphism was population specific. The reported 14Kbp deletion was not found in any of our samples or controls. We confirm the presence of pathogenic DJ-1 mutations in YOPD and estimate their frequency at approximately 1%. No mutations were found in our cohort of later onset sporadic pathologically confirmed cases, suggesting that DJ-1 mutations may only rarely contribute to the cause of this more typical sporadic form of the disease.
Sulfatide (3'-sulfogalactosyl-ceramide) is a glycosphingolipid mainly located in the nervous system, but has also been found in the islets of Langerhans. Previous studies have suggested that sulfatide is involved in insulin processing and secretion. In this study, sulfatide expression and metabolism in pancreas and isolated islets of the type II diabetes models, ob/ob- and db/db mouse, was investigated using TLC-ELISA, metabolic labelling and electron microscopy. As in non-diabetic Lewis rat and human pancreas, sulfatide was located in secretory granules of the beta cells. However, the type II diabetic animal models and their background strains had an altered sulfatide expression, involving the lack of the C16:0 sulfatide fatty acid isoform, compared to non-diabetic Lewis rat, BALB/c mouse and human pancreatic tissue, in which the two dominating pancreatic sulfatide isoforms C16:0 and C24:0 are expressed. Correspondingly, in isolated ob/ob islets, sulfatide synthesis excluded the production of C16:0 sulfatide. Insulin administration to ob/ob mouse, which lowers beta cell activity, resulted in significantly increased sulfatide expression in pancreas (p=0.0003), but still no expression of the C16:0 sulfatide isoform. In vitro, the C16:0 sulfatide was shown to be the isomer involved in the preservation of insulin crystals. Thus, it is hypothesized that the selection of sulfatide isomers in pancreas might be a genetic factor contributing to disease development in type II diabetic animal models.






Investigation of the antidepressant-like actions of substance P (NK1 receptor) antagonists has been hindered by the few available compounds that bind with high affinity to the rat and mouse NK1 receptor, as these are the most commonly used preclinical species. The best available compounds for such studies are SR140333 and GR205171. However, SR140333 does not penetrate the central nervous system (CNS) after systemic administration, and GR205171 is active only at high doses, where unspecific pharmacological effects occur, so that changes in behaviour cannot be attributed to selective NK1 receptor blockade. These compounds may be substrates for P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and hence are actively excluded from the brain. The present studies used mdr1a-/- mice, a spontaneously occurring mutant that is deficient in P-gp, to examine the CNS penetration of SR140333 and GR205171. Following systemic administration of SR140333 and GR205171 (0.01-10 mg/kg i.v.), considerably higher drug concentrations were achieved in the brains of mdr1a-/- than in mdr1a+/+ mice, and this corresponded with a greater ability to inhibit NK1-agonist-induced behaviours in the mdr1a-/- mutants. Moreover, an NK1-receptor-specific inhibition of aggressive behaviour by GR205171 (10 mg/kg) could be demonstrated in mdr1a-/-, but not mdr1a+/+, mice. These findings suggest that P-gp deficient mice may have useful applications in behavioural pharmacology studies, especially when highly brain-penetrant compounds are not yet available.
Clinically effective antidepressant drugs have been available for many years but our understanding of how these drugs bring about their therapeutic effects, and how to develop more diverse, better treatments has progressed little. At a time when informed choices need to be taken early on in drug development programs in order to exploit the opportunities for innovation created through genomics, this article considers the strengths and weaknesses of behavioral pharmacology assays and their various roles in the drug discovery process. In the past, a widespread lack of confidence in animal models of depression, combined with the high failure rate of clinical trials and escalating costs of drug development, has stifled a more entrepreneurial approach to drug discovery. In order to encourage greater confidence in discovery programs, the gap between exploratory preclinical and clinical studies needs to be bridged. Functional pharmacology markers need to be developed in patient populations, and in normal volunteers and preclinical species, so that selection of new drug targets can be made with greater confidence at earlier stages of discovery programs. The use of functional brain imaging to quantify drug actions in the human CNS is developing rapidly and may provide powerful new techniques to filter active new drugs of the future from those that are less promising.
VCP (valosin-containing protein) or p97 is a member of the AAA family (ATPases associated with a variety of cellular activities family), a diverse group of proteins sharing a key conserved AAA module containing duplicate putative ATP-binding sites. Although the functions of the AAA family are related to their putative ATP-binding sites, the binding of ATP to these sites has not yet been demonstrated. In the present study, the ATP-binding site(s) of brain VCP was characterized using the photoreactive ATP analogue, BzATP [3'- O -(4-benzoylbenzoyl)ATP]. Photo-activation of Bz-[alpha-(32)P]ATP resulted in its covalent binding to a 97-kDa purified soluble or membrane-associated protein, identified by amino acid sequencing as VCP. Bz-[alpha-(32)P]ATP covalently bound to the purified homo-hexameric VCP with an apparent high affinity (74-111 nM). A molar stoichiometry of 2.23+/-0.14 BzATP bound per homo-hexameric VCP (n =6) was determined using different methods for analysis of radiolabelling and protein determination. Nucleotides inhibited the binding of Bz-[alpha-(32)P]ATP to VCP with the following efficiency: BzATP&gt;ATP&gt;ADP&gt;adenosine 5'-[beta,gamma-imido]triphosphate&gt;or=adenosine 5'-[beta,gamma-methylene]triphosphate, whereas AMP, GTP and CTP were ineffective. VCP was observed to possess very low ATPase activity, with nucleotide specificity similar to that for BzATP binding. Conformational changes induced by an alternating site mechanism for ATP binding are suggested as a molecular mechanism for coupling ATP binding to the diverse activities of the AAA family.
The objective of the current study was to facilitate functional calcium assays, compatible with the fluorometric imaging plate reader platform, for the human metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) subtypes 2 and 4, by co-expressing each receptor with a G-protein chimera comprising Galphaq with the C-terminal five amino acids replaced with those from Galphai3 (GqGi3). Transfection of GqGi3 into previously validated stable CHO cell lines expressing mGluR2 or mGluR4 allowed for the selection of new double transfectants in which application of L-glutamate and other mGluR agonists resulted in calcium coupling with a high signal:noise ratio (maximal changes in relative fluorescence units up to 20,000). The rank order of agonist potency for the stimulation of calcium mobilization in the mGluR2/GqGi3 stable cell line was LY354740&gt;L-CCG-I=DCG-IV&gt;L-glutamate&gt;/=(2R,4R)-APDC&gt;/=(1S,3R)-ACPD. In the mGluR4/GqGi3 stable cell line the rank order of agonist potency was L-AP4&gt;L-SOP&gt;/=ACPT-I=L-CCG-I&gt;/=L-glutamate=(R,S)-PPG. By comparison, equivalent potency orders and a significant correlation in functional activities were observed when the same compounds were profiled in [35S]GTPgammaS binding assays for each mGluR subtype. These results validate the use of functional calcium assays, amenable to high-throughput applications on the fluorometric imaging plate reader, for the mGluR2 and mGluR4 subtypes when co-expressed in stable cell lines with the GqGi3 chimera.
It has previously been shown that the endocannabinoids anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) inhibit the proliferation of C6 glioma cells in a manner that can be prevented by a combination of capsazepine (Caps) and cannabinoid (CB) receptor antagonists. It is not clear whether the effect of 2-AG is due to the compound itself, due to the rearrangement to form 1-arachidonoylglycerol (1-AG) or due to a metabolite. Here, it was found that the effects of 2-AG can be mimicked with 1-AG, both in terms of its potency and sensitivity to antagonism by Caps and CB receptor antagonists. In order to determine whether the effect of Caps could be ascribed to actions upon vanilloid receptors, the effect of a more selective vanilloid receptor antagonist, SB366791 was investigated. This compound inhibited capsaicin-induced Ca(2+) influx into rVR1-HEK293 cells with a pK(B) value of 6.8+/-0.3. The combination of SB366791 and CB receptor antagonists reduced the antiproliferative effect of 1-AG, confirming a vanilloid receptor component in its action. 1-AG, however, showed no direct effect on Ca(2+) influx into rVR1-HEK293 cells indicative of an indirect effect upon vanilloid receptors. Identification of the mechanism involved was hampered by a large inter-experimental variation in the sensitivity of the cells to the antiproliferative effects of 1-AG. A variation was also seen with anandamide, which was not a solubility issue, since its water soluble phosphate ester showed the same variability. In contrast, the sensitivity to methanandamide, which was not sensitive to antagonism by the combination of Caps and CB receptor antagonists, but has similar physicochemical properties to anandamide, did not vary between experiments. This variation greatly reduces the utility of these cells as a model system for the study of the antiproliferative effects of anandamide. Nevertheless, it was possible to conclude that the antiproliferative effects of anandamide were not solely mediated by either its hydrolysis to produce arachidonic acid or its CB receptor-mediated activation of phospholipase A(2) since palmitoyltrifluoromethyl ketone did not prevent the response to anandamide. The same result was seen with the fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitor palmitoylethylamide. Increasing intracellular arachidonic acid by administration of arachidonic acid methyl ester did not affect cell proliferation, and the modest antiproliferative effect of umbelliferyl arachidonate was not prevented by a combination of Caps and CB receptor antagonists.
Nicotinic and serotoninergic 5HT3 receptors share important sequence identities except for their cytoplasmic loop. Both ends of this loop display conserved 3D helical structures with distinct primary sequences. We decided to check whether these two helices named F and G play a role in the sub-cellular distribution of different nicotinic receptors. We systematically exchanged each helix with the equivalent sequence of neuronal nicotinic and alpha4, beta2 and alpha7 subunits in the functional chimeric alpha7-5HT3 receptor used as a model system. The new chimeras were expressed in vitro in polarized epithelial cells from pig kidney. We quantified synthesis and export of the receptors to the cell surface by measuring alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites. Immunogold labelling was used, at the electron microscope level, to determine the amount of each chimera present at either domain, apical and/or basolateral, of these cells. We noticed that in epithelial cells the majority of alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites remained sequestered in the cytoplasm as already observed in neurons in vivo. The majority of the pentamers present at the cell surface were located at the apical domain. Our results suggest that helix F and G differently regulate assembly and export to the cell surface of alpha-bungarotoxin binding receptors.
The NRV project (Neuroinformatics Research for Vision Science) is the first project in Japan started in 1999 under the Science and Technology Agency of Japan, aimed at building the foundation of neuroinformatics research. Because of the wealth of data on the visual system, the NRV project will use vision research to promote experimental, theoretical and technical research as a pilot study on neuroinformatics. Details can be found at: http://www.neuroinformatics.gr.jp/.
The in vitro assembly of neuronal networks with control over cell position and connectivity is a fascinating approach not only for topics in basic neuroscience research but also in diverse applications such as biosensors and tissue engineering. We grew rat embryonic cortical neurons on patterned substrates created by microcontact printing. Polystyrene was used as a cell repellent background, onto which a grid pattern of physiological proteins was applied. We printed laminin and a mixture of extracellular matrix proteins and additionally both systems mixed with polylysine. Attachment of cells to the pattern with high fidelity as well as the formation of chemical synapses between neighboring cells on the pattern could be observed in all four cases, but cell attachment was strongly increased on samples containing polylysine. Neurons grown on patterned substrates had a membrane capacity smaller than that of neurons on homogeneously coated controls, which we attributed to the geometrical restrictions, but did not differ either in resting membrane potential or in the quality of synapses they formed. We therefore believe that the cells attach and differentiate normally on the pattern and form functional, mature synapses following the predefined geometry.
Oxytocin receptors (OTR) have been described in a number of tumours of different origin, and represent a new target for specific radiolabelled oxytocin (OT) analogues in cancer diagnosis and therapy. By linking the DOTA chelating agent to position 8 of the deamino derivative of Lys(8)-vasotocin (dLVT), we obtained a new compound (DOTA-dLVT) with the following characteristics: (1) it forms a monomeric and stable compound that binds to OTR with an affinity comparable to that of the endogenous OT ligand; (2) it is characterised by a very good selectivity profile for the human OTR, with a low affinity binding to the closely related V1a, V1b and V2 vasopressin receptor subtypes; (3) it induces rapid and persistent receptor internalisation and (4) when radiolabelled, [(111)In]-DOTA-dLVT is efficiently and selectively taken up by OTR-positive tumours grown in mice. These features makes radiolabelled DOTA-dLVT a very good candidate for the radiotargeting of OTR-expressing tumours.
(1) Rapid desensitization of ligand-gated ion channel receptors can alter the apparent activity of receptor modulators, as well as make detection of fast-channel activation difficult. Investigation of the antagonist pharmacology of ATP-sensitive homomeric P2X3 receptors is limited by agonist-evoked fast-desensitization kinetics. (2) In the present studies, chimeric receptors were created using the coding sequence for the N-terminus and the first transmembrane domain of either the nondesensitizing human P2X2a or fast-desensitizing P2X3 receptor joined to the sequence encoding the extracellular loop, second transmembrane domain, and C-terminus of the other receptor (designated P2X2-3 and P2X3-2, respectively). These clones were stably transfected into 1321N1 astrocytoma cells for biophysical and pharmacological experiments using both electrophysiological and calcium-imaging methods. (3) Chimeric P2X2-3 and P2X3-2 receptors were inwardly rectifying and agonist responses showed desensitization properties similar to the wild-type human P2X2a and P2X3 receptors, respectively. (4) The P2X2-3 chimera displayed an agonist pharmacological profile similar to the P2X3 wild-type receptor being activated by low concentrations of both ATP and alpha,beta-meATP. In contrast, the P2X3-2 chimera had markedly reduced sensitivity to both agonists. (5) The P2X3 receptor antagonists TNP-ATP and A-317491 were shown to be potent, competitive antagonists of the P2X2-3 chimera (Ki=2.2 and 52.1 nm, respectively), supporting the hypothesis that rapid receptor desensitization can mask the competitive antagonism of wild-type homomeric P2X3 receptors.
The speed with which one reacts to an imperative signal depends on the extent to which preceding cues predict that command. When reliable warning cues are available, the processing of the imperative stimulus can be favoured and responses partially pre-prepared, leading to shorter reaction times. Here we seek evidence for involvement of the human basal ganglia in the exploitation of behaviourally relevant predictive cues. To this end, local field potentials (LFPs) were recorded in the region of the subthalamic nuclei of parkinsonian patients during the performance of a pre-cued reaction task in which the cue either predicted or failed to predict the demands of the imperative signal. We demonstrate that LFP activity in the beta frequency band ( approximately 20 Hz) is modulated by the behavioural relevance of the external cue. The findings suggest that, first, the subthalamic nucleus is involved in mediating or facilitating the response advantage derived from predictive cues in humans and, secondly, variations in synchronous neuronal activity in the beta band may contribute to this function in the subthalamic nucleus.
The brain regions that are critically associated with visual neglect have become intensely disputed. In particular, one study of middle cerebral artery (MCA) stroke patients has claimed that the key brain region associated with neglect is the mid portion of the superior temporal gyrus (STG), on the lateral surface of the right hemisphere, rather than the posterior parietal lobe. Such a result has wide-ranging implications for both our understanding of the normal function these cortical areas and the potential mechanisms underlying neglect. Here, we use novel high resolution MRI protocols to map the lesions of 35 right-hemisphere patients who had suffered either MCA or posterior cerebral artery (PCA) territory stroke. For patients with MCA territory strokes, the critical area involved in all neglect patients was the angular gyrus of the inferior parietal lobe (IPL). Although the STG was damaged in half of our MCA neglect patients, it was spared in the rest. For PCA territory strokes, all patients with neglect had lesions involving the parahippocampal region, on the medial surface of the temporal lobe. PCA patients without neglect did not have damage to this area. We conclude that damage to two posterior regions, one in the IPL and the other in the medial temporal lobe, is associated with neglect. Although some neglect patients do have damage to the STG, our findings challenge the recent influential proposal that lesions of this area are critically associated with neglect. Instead, our results implicate the angular gyrus and parahippocampal region in this role.
A mutation in the DYT1 gene on chromosome 9q34 causes early-onset primary torsion dystonia with autosomal dominant inheritance but low phenotypic penetrance. The aim of the present study was to assess the functional consequences of the DYT1 gene, by comparing the electrophysiology of cortical and spinal circuits in clinically affected and unaffected carriers of the DYT1 gene mutation. We assessed intracortical inhibition (ICI), intracortical facilitation (ICF), the cortical silent period (SP) and spinal reciprocal inhibition (RI) in 10 manifesting DYT1 gene carriers (MDYT1), seven non-manifesting DYT1 gene carriers (NMDYT1) and 13 healthy controls. The MDYT1 subjects had abnormalities similar to those seen in previous studies of non-genetically characterized individuals with primary dystonia. They had reduced ICI, shorter SP and absent presynaptic phase of RI compared with the healthy controls. NMDYT1 subjects also had a significant reduction in cortical inhibition (ICI and SP), but their spinal RI was not different from controls. We conclude that clinical expression of dystonia depends on widespread electrophysiological deficits, and the presence of the DYT1 gene mutation itself leads only to a subset of these changes. This is consistent with the hypothesis that additional environmental/genetic insults may be needed to reveal clinical symptoms in DYT1 gene carriers.
The aim of this study was to determine whether partial epilepsy is associated with abnormalities in hippocampi that are not the primary seizure focus. As hippocampal T2 relaxometry is useful for identifying abnormalities that are not obvious on visual assessment of MRI, this was the method employed. Of 457 consecutive children and young adults from whom T2 relaxometry data were obtained, 96 had well characterized partial epilepsy and were enrolled, along with 27 control subjects. The patients were divided on the basis of clinical, video-EEG and visual MRI assessment into three groups: (i) those with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) (MTS-TLE); (ii) lesional TLE (l-TLE); or (iii) extratemporal epilepsy (ETE). There was a significant and similar prolongation of T2 relaxation time identified in hippocampi remote from the seizure focus in all patient groups when compared with control subjects. In the non-sclerotic hippocampus of patients with MTS, T2 relaxation time was prolonged by a mean of 3.3 ms [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.8-5.9 ms; P = 0.01], patients with l-TLE had prolongation of T2 relaxation time by a mean of 4.3 ms (95% CI, 1.8-7.1 ms; P = 0.001) and those with ETE had prolongation of T2 relaxation time by a mean of 3.7 ms (95% CI, 1.6-6.6 ms; P = 0.006) compared with control subjects after adjustment for age. Unsurprisingly, in patients with MTS-TLE, T2 relaxation time in the sclerotic hippocampus was prolonged by a mean of 19 ms (95% CI = 14.6-22.4 ms; P &lt; 0.001). The similarity in the extent of prolongation of T2 relaxation time in hippocampi that are not the primary epileptogenic focus, the wide variety of structural associations and the varied sites of epileptogenic foci, considered together, suggest that the abnormalities are likely to be caused by ongoing seizure activity rather than by underlying aetiology or site of epileptogenic focus.

In order to investigate the lateralization of emotional speech we recorded the brain responses to three emotional intonations in two conditions, i.e., &quot;normal&quot; speech and &quot;prosodic&quot; speech (i.e., speech with no linguistic meaning, but retaining the 'slow prosodic modulations' of speech). Participants listened to semantically neutral sentences spoken with a positive, neutral, or negative intonation in both conditions and judged how positive, negative, or neutral the intonation was on a five-point scale. Core peri-sylvian language areas, as well as some frontal and subcortical areas were activated bilaterally in the normal speech condition. In contrast, a bilateral fronto-opercular region was active when participants listened to prosodic speech. Positive and negative intonations elicited a bilateral fronto-temporal and subcortical pattern in the normal speech condition, and more frontal activation in the prosodic speech condition. The current results call into question an exclusive right hemisphere lateralization of emotional prosody and expand patient data on the functional role of the basal ganglia during the perception of emotional prosody.
Recently, a multidisciplinary approach has provided new insights into the mechanisms of category learning. In this article, results from theoretical modeling, experimental psychology, clinical neuropsychology, functional neuroimaging, and single-cell studies are reviewed. Although the results are not conclusive, some general principles have emerged. Areas localized in the sensory neocortex are responsible for the perceptual representation of category exemplars, whereas lateral and anterior prefrontal structures are necessary for the encoding of category boundaries and abstract rules. The prefrontal cortex may influence categorical representation in the sensory neocortex via top-down control. The neostriatum is important in stimulus-response mapping, and the orbitofrontal cortex/ventral striatum are related to stimulus-reward associations accompanying category learning. Many category learning tasks can be performed implicitly. In conclusion, category learning paradigms provide a unique opportunity to investigate cognitive processes such as perception, memory, and attention in a systematic and interactive manner. Category learning tasks are suitable for mapping damaged brain systems in clinical populations.
The present paper demonstrates a remarkable pervasiveness of underlying Ca(2+) signaling motifs among the available biochemical findings in schizophrenic patients and among the major molecular hypotheses of this disease. In addition, the paper reviews the findings suggesting that Ca(2+) is capable of inducing structural and cognitive deficits seen in schizophrenia. The evidence of the ability of antipsychotic drugs to affect Ca(2+) signaling is also presented. Based on these data, it is proposed that altered Ca(2+) signaling may constitute the central unifying molecular pathology in schizophrenia. According to this hypothesis schizophrenia can result from alterations in multiple proteins and other molecules as long as these alterations lead to abnormalities in certain key aspects of intracellular Ca(2+) signaling cascades.
The morbid consequences of central nervous system (CNS) infections are often overlooked in the face of high mortality rates. However, neurological impairments not only affect the child's development and future prospects but also place an economic and social burden on communities and countries that often have few resources to deal with such problems. We conducted a systematic review to investigate the occurrence and pattern of persisting neurological impairment after common CNS infections. A comprehensive search of MEDLINE, EMBASE and PsycINFO databases, supplemented by hand-searches of key journals, resulted in forty-six eligible studies, five of which gave information on the spectrum of developmental domains. Despite the lack of comprehensive, methodologically-sound studies, the results show that postinfectious neurological impairment persists, most commonly in cognition and motor functions. Deficits include more subtle problems, which can be difficult to detect on gross neurological assessment but may still be deleterious to the child's social and educational functioning. Higher morbidity for similar mortality in acute bacterial meningitis compared with cerebral malaria in the epidemiological data may suggest future research directions for clinical research to devise more effective interventions.
The search for chaotic patterns has occupied numerous investigators in neuroscience, as in many other fields of science. Their results and main conclusions are reviewed in the light of the most recent criteria that need to be satisfied since the first descriptions of the surrogate strategy. The methods used in each of these studies have almost invariably combined the analysis of experimental data with simulations using formal models, often based on modified Huxley and Hodgkin equations and/or of the Hindmarsh and Rose models of bursting neurons. Due to technical limitations, the results of these simulations have prevailed over experimental ones in studies on the nonlinear properties of large cortical networks and higher brain functions. Yet, and although a convincing proof of chaos (as defined mathematically) has only been obtained at the level of axons, of single and coupled cells, convergent results can be interpreted as compatible with the notion that signals in the brain are distributed according to chaotic patterns at all levels of its various forms of hierarchy. This chronological account of the main landmarks of nonlinear neurosciences follows an earlier publication [Faure, Korn, C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris, Ser. III 324 (2001) 773-793] that was focused on the basic concepts of nonlinear dynamics and methods of investigations which allow chaotic processes to be distinguished from stochastic ones and on the rationale for envisioning their control using external perturbations. Here we present the data and main arguments that support the existence of chaos at all levels from the simplest to the most complex forms of organization of the nervous system. We first provide a short mathematical description of the models of excitable cells and of the different modes of firing of bursting neurons (Section 1). The deterministic behavior reported in giant axons (principally squid), in pacemaker cells, in isolated or in paired neurons of Invertebrates acting as coupled oscillators is then described (Section 2). We also consider chaotic processes exhibited by coupled Vertebrate neurons and of several components of Central Pattern Generators (Section 3). It is then shown that as indicated by studies of synaptic noise, deterministic patterns of firing in presynaptic interneurons are reliably transmitted, to their postsynaptic targets, via probabilistic synapses (Section 4). This raises the more general issue of chaos as a possible neuronal code and of the emerging concept of stochastic resonance Considerations on cortical dynamics and of EEGs are divided in two parts. The first concerns the early attempts by several pioneer authors to demonstrate chaos in experimental material such as the olfactory system or in human recordings during various forms of epilepsies, and the belief in 'dynamical diseases' (Section 5). The second part explores the more recent period during which surrogate-testing, definition of unstable periodic orbits and period-doubling bifurcations have been used to establish more firmly the nonlinear features of retinal and cortical activities and to define predictors of epileptic seizures (Section 6). Finally studies of multidimensional systems have founded radical hypothesis on the role of neuronal attractors in information processing, perception and memory and two elaborate models of the internal states of the brain (i.e. 'winnerless competition' and 'chaotic itinerancy'). Their modifications during cognitive functions are given special attention due to their functional and adaptive capabilities (Section 7) and despite the difficulties that still exist in the practical use of topological profiles in a state space to identify the physical underlying correlates. The reality of 'neurochaos' and its relations with information theory are discussed in the conclusion (Section 8) where are also emphasized the similarities between the theory of chaos and that of dynamical systems. Both theories strongly challenge computationalism and suggest that new models are needed to describe how the external world is represented in the brain.
Many research designs in experimental psychology generate data that are fundamentally discrete or categorical in nature, and produce multiway tables of frequencies. Despite an extensive and, more recently, accessible literature on the topic, multiway frequency analysis is rarely used in experimental psychology. A reason may be the form of exposition in the literature, with emphases and concerns far removed from those of the typical experimental psychologist. An approach to multiway frequency analysis for experimental psychologists is described that has the features we want: asymmetrical designs, factors assessed for their respective main and interactive effects in a manner analogous to ANOVA, and the ability to handle within-subject designs.
Postischemic temperature, which modulates brain injury, is commonly determined via a rectal temperature (Trec) probe. This procedure causes a stress-induced fever (SIF) in rodents that may aggravate injury or diminish the efficacy of a neuroprotectant. We continually measured core temperature (Tcore) via an implanted telemetry probe and made 16 Trec measurements over 4 days in sham and ischemic gerbils (5 min bilateral carotid artery occlusion). Controls did not have Trec sampled, but Tcore was measured. Rectal temperature measurements predicted Tcore in sham and ischemic gerbils. The Trec measurements caused a SIF (1 degrees C peak) in shams that did not habituate, whereas the SIF was initially absent and then increased over days in ischemic gerbils. Ischemic groups had similar CA1 injury (approximately 32% remaining), presumably because Trec measurements only resulted in a significant SIF starting on day 2 postischemia, when cell death is less sensitive to hyperthermia. Caution is warranted with Trec measurements, since the resultant SIF occurs to different extents in normal and ischemic rodents. Furthermore, the SIF could vary according to many other factors, such as the type and severity of insult, the time and frequency of measurement, and drug treatment. Accordingly, postischemic Trec measurements should be replaced with telemetry probes.
Cellular signaling proteins such as metabotropic glutamate receptors, Shank, and different types of ion channels are physically linked by Vesl (VASP/Ena-related gene up-regulated during seizure and LTP)/Homer proteins [Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 10 (2000) 370; Trends Neurosci. 23 (2000) 80; J. Cell Sci. 113 (2000) 1851]. Vesl/Homer proteins have also been implicated in differentiation and physiological adaptation processes [Nat. Neurosci. 4 (2001) 499; Nature 411 (2001) 962; Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 279 (2000) 348]. Here we provide evidence that a Vesl/Homer subtype, Vesl-1L/Homer-1c (V-1L), reduces the function of the intracellular calcium channel ryanodine receptor type 2 (RyR2). In contrast, Vesl-1S/Homer-1a (V-1S) had no effect on RyR2 function but reversed the effects of V-1L. In live cells, in calcium release studies and in single-channel electrophysiological recordings of RyR2, V-1L reduced RyR2 activity. Important physiological functions and pharmacological properties of RyR2 are preserved in the presence of V-1L. Our findings demonstrate that a protein-protein interaction between V-1L and RyR2 is not only necessary for organizing the structure of intracellular calcium signaling proteins [Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 10 (2000) 370; Trends Neurosci. 23(2000)80; J. Cell Sci. 113 (2000) 1851; Nat Neurosci. 4 (2001) 499; Nature 411 (2001) 962; Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 279 (2000) 348; Nature 386 (1997) 284], but that V-1L also directly regulates RyR2 channel activity by changing its biophysical properties. Thereby it may control cellular calcium homeostasis. These observations suggest a novel mechanism for the regulation of RyR2 and calcium-dependent cellular functions.
The Sir2 histone deacetylase gene family consists of seven mammalian sirtuins (SIRTs) which are NAD-dependent histone/protein deacetylases. Sir2 proteins regulate, for instance, genome stability by chromatin silencing in yeast. In mammals, their function is still largely unknown. Due to the NAD+ dependency, Sir2 might be the link between metabolic activity and histone/protein acetylation. Regulation of gene expression also seems to play an important role in Sir2 functions, since increasing the dosage of Sir2 genes increases genome stability in yeast and Caenorhabditis elegans. We observed that the modification of histone/protein acetylation status by several class I and II histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors induces differential changes in gene expression profiles of seven SIRT mRNAs in cultured neuronal cells. SIRT2, SIRT4 and SIRT7 were upregulated, whereas SIRT1, SIRT5 and SIRT6 were downregulated by trichostatin A (TSA) and n-butyrate. The upregulation of SIRT mRNAs was inhibited by actinomycin D. Interestingly, the regulation of SIRT mRNAs was highly similar both in mouse Neuro-2a neuroblastoma cells and post-mitotic rat primary hippocampal and cerebellar granule neurons. Using a chromatin immunoprecipitation technique, we showed that the upregulation of SIRT2 expression with TSA is related to the hyperacetylation of DNA-bound histone H4 within the first 500 bp upstream of the transcription start site of the SIRT2 gene. Chemically different types of HDAC inhibitors, such as TSA, apicidin, SAHA, M344 and n-butyrate induced remarkably similar responses in SIRT1-7 mRNA expression patterns. Differential responses in SIRT mRNA expression profiles indicate that the expression of the Sir2 family of genes is selectively regulated and dependent on histone/protein acetylation status.

A 26-year-old man with Marfan's syndrome had postural headache. Brain MRI with gadolinium showed diffuse pachymeningeal enhancement. MRI myelography revealed bilateral multiple large meningeal diverticula at sacral nerve roots level. He was suspected to have spontaneous intracranial hypotension syndrome. Eight days later headache improved with bed rest and hydration. One month after the onset he was asymptomatic and 3 months later brain MRI showed no evidence of diffuse pachymeningeal enhancement. The 1-year follow-up revealed no neurological abnormalities. The intracranial hypotension syndrome likely resulted from a CSF leak from one of the meningeal diverticula. In conclusion patients with spinal meningeal diverticula (frequently seen in Marfan's syndrome) might be at increased risk of developing CSF leaks, possibly secondary to Valsalva maneuver or minor unrecognized trauma.
This study estimates the 1-year prevalence of migraine in adults in England in relation to the major demographic variables of age, gender and ethnicity, and describes some of its features, including aspects of consequential disability. A telephone survey was conducted of a random sample (n = 4007) of the population aged 16-65 years of mainland England using a previously validated diagnostic interview. The response rate was 76.5%. Overall, 7.6% of males and 18.3% of females reported migraine with or without aura within the last year meeting diagnostic criteria closely approximate to those of the International Headache Society. Prevalence of migraine varied with age, rising through early adult life and declining in the late 40s and early 50s. Prevalence was higher in Caucasians than in other races. Attack rates were &gt; or = 1/month in most migraineurs, and most experienced interference with daily activities in &gt; or = 50% of their attacks. On average, an estimated 5.7 working days were lost per year for every working or student migraineur, although the most disabled 10% accounted for 85% of the total. Results were in keeping with those from surveys in other countries. If these findings in mainland England are projected to the entire UK population, we estimate that 5.85 million people aged 16-65 years experience 190 000 migraine attacks every day and lose 25 million days from work or school each year because of them. Migraine is an important public health problem in the UK, associated with very substantial costs.
Randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials have been the 'golden standard' during the last decades in the development of new drug therapies. This scientifically valid approach has recently been questioned in the fifth revised version of the Declaration of Helsinki, which states that the use of placebo-controlled clinical trials is only acceptable when no proven treatment exists for the studied disease. The World Medical Association further claims that no national ethical, legal or regulatory requirements should be allowed to reduce or eliminate any of the statements in the declaration. In spite of this, the document is not generally accepted as the world ethical standard, as demonstrated by its lack of adoption by many professional associations. In the evaluation process for a drug to be approved in many countries today, clinical investigators at the hospitals and researchers at the pharmaceutical companies are obliged to use study protocols that would be rejected if the new declaration were to be fully adopted. Adherence to the clinical trial guidelines of the International Headache Society could also mean violation of the new Helsinki declaration of ethics. Some ethics committees have already adopted the new declaration, which has caused concern among clinical investigators, who find this document to be vastly out of the line with common practice. At the moment, the situation is unclear and debated with increasing polarity concerning the scientific and ethical issues regarding the use of placebo in clinical trials.
The aim of this study was to validate a low-density DNA microarray &quot;Rat HepatoChip&quot;, which contains 59 genes from a range of potential toxic markers and drug metabolism-related genes. Liver mRNA was isolated from rats dosed with six different chemicals, dexamethasone, troleandomycin, miconazole, clotrimazole, and methylclofanapate, which are all known to induce different cytochrome P450 genes, and isoniazid, which does not cause histopathological changes. Replicate microarrays were used to measure the variability in the chips and in the process. The average variability in signal between different chips observed in triplicate experiments was 33% ranging from 21 to 39% depending on genes. We also demonstrated a strong correlation between the liver histopathology and the gene expression profiles indicating that the gene expression profile reflects histopathological changes. These results suggest that the Rat HepatoChip microarray may provide a fast and effective tool for assessing the toxicity profile of developmental drug candidates during the drug discovery process.
Even though monosodium glutamate (MSG) is a prototypical umami substance, previous studies reported that a conditioned taste aversion (CTA) to MSG, mixed with amiloride to block the taste of sodium, generalizes to sucrose. These findings suggest that the taste of glutamate mimics the taste of sucrose and raise the question of whether glutamate has a broadly tuned sweet taste component. To test this hypothesis, CTA experiments were conducted to test for generalization between MSG and several sweet stimuli: sucrose, glucose, maltose, saccharin and SC-45647. Strong bidirectional generalization was seen between MSG mixed with amiloride and sucrose, glucose, saccharin and SC-45647. Weak generalization was seen between MSG and maltose, and sucrose and maltose. None of the CTAs generalized to NMDA. These findings support the hypothesis that the taste of MSG has broadly tuned, sweet-like characteristics, possibly due to the convergence of afferent signals for MSG, natural sugars and artificial sweeteners.

Eclosion is the stage in development when the adult insect emerges from the shell of its old cuticle. The sequence of behaviors necessary for eclosion is coordinated by an integrated system of hormones and is activated by hormones that relay developmental readiness. The circadian clock, which controls the timing of behaviors such as the rest: activity rhythm of adult insects, also controls eclosion timing. A number of groups are actively investigating the mechanisms by which the circadian clock restricts or gates eclosion to a particular time of day. Data from these studies are beginning to reveal details of the molecular and physiological basis of the eclosion rhythm.

Pharmacokinetics of dexamphetamine was studied in 26 patients with cerebral infarct, aged 37 to 84 years. Capsules were administered orally twice daily (at 8 am and 12 am) in three doses (2.5 mg, 5 mg, and 10 mg) for 5 consecutive days (day 1 to day 5). Blood samples were collected immediately before and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 hours after first administration on day 1 and before, and 4 and 8 hours after administration on days 2 through 5. The dose normalized area under the plasma concentration time curve, AUC/mg/kg, was only correlated with s-creatinine (P = 0.013) but not with age, sex, body mass index, neurologic prognosis, or dose (mg/kg), as established by multiple stepwise linear regression. The median terminal half life time was 14.3 hours (inter quartile range, IQR: 11.9-6.9), 13.1 (IQR: 10.8-15.9) and 14.0 (IQR: 7.4-16.4) in the 2.5 mg, 5 mg, and 10 mg groups, respectively. The median maximal plasma concentration (Cmax) was 6.6 ng/mL (IQR: 5.1-7.0), 11.6 (IQR: 7.8-12.8), and 16.9 (IQR: 14.9-20.2) in the 2.5 mg, 5 mg, and the 10 mg groups, respectively. Differences in Cmax between the 2.5 mg and 10 mg group were significant (P &lt; 0.001). The median time to Cmax (Tmax) was 1.83 hours (IQR: 1.79-3.94), 2.59 (IQR: 1.32-3.83), and 3.86 (IQR: 1.82-5.77) in the 2.5, 5, and 10 mg groups, respectively. In the present patient population, a predetermined AUC value can be obtained by a dosing regimen of dexamphetamine based on body weight (ie, mg/kg), with precautions for patients with elevated s-creatinine.
Fluctuating cognition is evidenced in different forms of dementia and is accompanied by electroencephalographic (EEG) abnormalities. The authors hypothesize that cholinesterase inhibitors are effective mostly in patients with fluctuating cognition. Twenty-three patients affected by mild dementia with similar scores on Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog), and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale evaluation were classified in a group with fluctuating cognition (n = 11) and a group of nonfluctuators (n = 12). All patients were assigned randomly to the branches of a double-blind crossover study of donepezil (DPZ), a 5 to 10-mg dose, versus vitamin E, a 2000 IU dose, for 30 days. MMSE, ADAS-cog, University of California at Los Angeles Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), quantitative EEG, P3 event-related potentials, choice reaction time variability (CRTV) were assessed at baseline and at the end of treatments. At the end of the crossover study all patients received DPZ for 6 months. The dominant EEG frequency variability, low EEG frequencies amplitude, the P3 latency and jitter, CRTV, and NPI was significantly different in the fluctuating cognition group than the nonfluctuating group at baseline (P &lt; 0.001). Short-term DPZ administration induced a significant increase in MMSE scores, reduction of ADAS-cog and of NPI scores (P &lt; 0.003-0.001), increase of EEG alpha activity and reductions of P3 latency and jitter, dominant frequency variability and CRTV (P &lt; 0.009-0.001) in the fluctuating cognition group, and significant increases of MMSE scores (P = 0.03) and a decrease of P3 jitter and dominant frequency variability (P &lt; 0.034-0.041) in the nonfluctuating group. Short-term DPZ effects differed significantly between fluctuating cognition and nonfluctuating patients (0.001). Significant effects of the 6-month observation were observed only in fluctuating cognition patients. Logistic analysis showed that P3 latency predicts the effect of DPZ (P = 0.04, P &lt; 0.01) in the crossover study, and CRTV predicts the effect at the 6-month follow-up.
Pseudotumor Cerebri (PTC) is an uncommon disorder whose etiology is largely unknown, although its association with steroid withdrawal, hypervitaminosis A, and the use of the tetracycline group of drugs has been well documented. We report here a case in which a patient on chronic divalproex therapy for a seizure disorder developed PTC. Changing his antiepileptic medication from divalproate to topiramate effected a remission of PTC symptoms while maintaining his seizure-free status. It is recommended that physicians treating epilepsy, vascular headaches, or mood disorders with divalproate consider the diagnosis of PTC when their patients complain of new onset of headaches or an increase in frequency or severity of existing headaches--especially those associated with a visual disturbance--to prevent permanent visual loss.
Studies assessing the effect of transdermal nicotine in Parkinson's disease (PD) have generated mixed results regarding its efficacy to treat motor and cognitive deficits. These studies generally reported good tolerability in nonsmoking PD patients. The authors report the tolerability data of an open trial with transdermal nicotine in PD. Twenty-two therapeutically well-controlled nonsmoking PD patients received a transdermal nicotine treatment over 25 days according to the following fixed titration schedule: 7 mg for the first 11 days, 14 mg for the next 11 days, and 21 mg for the last 3 days. Fourteen PD patients (64%) had side effects such as nausea, vomiting, and dizziness, and 10 of them withdrew from the study. Factors such as age, body mass index, disease duration, and motor disability were not related to this intolerance. Transdermal nicotine can produce unpleasant adverse effects in patients with PD. Given that similar doses of nicotine were better tolerated in previous studies, the authors suspect the pharmacokinetic profile of the transdermal delivery system to be a determining factor in the effect of nicotine treatment in PD.
The application of functional neuroimaging to the study of human emotion has yielded valuable data; however, the conclusions that may be drawn from any one study are limited. We applied novel statistical techniques to the meta-analysis of 106 PET and fMRI studies of human emotion and tested predictions made by key neuroscientific models. The results demonstrated partial support for asymmetry accounts. Greater left-sided activity was observed for approach emotions, whereas neural activity associated with negative/withdrawal emotions was symmetrical. Support was also found for affect program emotion accounts. The activation distributions associated with fear, disgust, and anger differed significantly. These emotions were most consistently associated in activity in regions associated with selective processing deficits when damaged: the amygdala, the insula and globus pallidus, and the lateral orbitofrontal cortex, respectively. In contrast, the distributions for happiness and sadness did not differ. These findings are considered in the context of conceptualizations of the neural correlates of human emotion.
This article presents a critical evaluation of the logic and nature of the neuropsychological dissociation evidence that has provided one of the essential lines of support for claims of multiple memory systems--specifically, suggesting that amnesia selectively compromises, and an intact hippocampal system selectively supports, a particular form of memory. An analysis of the existing neuropsychological dissociation evidence is offered in which different classes of evidence--different dissociation approaches-are identified and characterized. The logic of these neuropsychological dissociation approaches is evaluated critically in terms of their ability to distinguish among alternative theoretical views. We conclude that although they support a multiple memory systems account, the findings from these types of neuropsychological dissociation, taken individually and without support from other converging lines of cognitive neuroscience evidence, cannot definitively rule out alternative formulations. A more powerful neuropsychological dissociation approach is then outlined, involving dissociation within condition, that, by more effectively limiting the critical domains of difference between the dissociated performances, can successfully rule out alternative accounts. Its application in Ryan, Althoff, Whitlow, and Cohen (2000) is described, providing strong support for the power of the dissociation within condition approach.

The hippocampus has been proposed as a key component of a &quot;behavioural inhibition system&quot;. We explore the implications of this idea for the nature of associative memory--i.e. learning that is distinct from the moulding of response sequences by error correction and reinforcement. It leads to the view that all associative memory depends on purely Hebbian mechanisms. Memories involve acquisition of new goals not the strengthening of new stimulus-response links. Critically, memories will consist of affectively positive and affectively negative associations as well &quot;purely cognitive&quot; information. The hippocampus is seen as a supervisor that is normally &quot;just checking&quot; information about current available goals. When one available goal is pre-eminent there is no hippocampal output and the goal controls the response system. When two or more goals are similarly and highly primed there is conflict. This is detected by the hippocampus which sends output that increases the valence of affectively negative perceptions and so resolves the conflict by suppressing more aversive goals. Such conflict resolution occurs with innate as well as acquired goals and is fundamentally non-memorial. But, in memory paradigms, it can often act to suppress interference on the current trial and, through Hebbian association of the increase in negative affect, decrease the probability of interference on later trials and during consolidation. Both memory-driven and innate behaviour is made hippocampal-dependent by innate and acquired conflicting tendencies and not the class of stimulus presented.
Much research about memory in autism concerns the hypothesis that autism is similar to adult-onset amnesia. Initial support for the hypothesis came from post-mortem studies of individuals with autism showing abnormalities in the hippocampus and related brain structures, as well as behavioral studies finding contrasts between intact cued recall and impaired free recall and recognition in autism. The hypothesis was later brought into question by the finding of intact performance in individuals with autism on explicit memory tasks typically impaired in adult-onset amnesia. The present paper proposes a possible reconciliation of these contradictory findings, suggesting that there is selective damage to the limbic-prefrontal episodic memory system, sparing the limbic-only perceptual representation system, and the semantic memory system. This view is consistent with other evidence for early selective damage to other systems involving cooperation between the limbic system and the medial prefrontal cortex in autism.
In spite of the acknowledged role that the thalamus plays in declarative memory, details about the precise memory processes it is involved in and which are the structures of the thalamus that contribute to these processes remain unknown. An overview is presented of human clinical and animal experimental findings showing the involvement of the thalamus, at the level of white matter tracts and separate nuclei, in aspects of memory functioning. The region in the thalamus that contributes to declarative memory is the anterior and medial division, containing the anterior nuclei, the medial dorsal nucleus and the intralaminar and midline nuclei. A lesion to the anterior nuclei or their afferent white matter tract, the mammillothalamic tract, results in deficits of encoding of new stimuli. Lesions to the medial dorsal nucleus affect executive processes pertaining to declarative memory, such as the use of memory strategies for retrieval; damage to the intralaminar and midline nuclei results in decreased arousal and thus affects the declarative memory process. Based on anatomical and functional data, a theory is proposed of how the thalamus might play a role at different levels of declarative memory functioning. Firstly, the anterior and mediodorsal nucleus are involved in processing the contents of the stimuli for storage and recall. The anterior nuclei influence the selection of material to be stored and remembered, whereas the mediodorsal nucleus is involved in the coordination and selection of the strategies used to retrieve material. Secondly, the intralaminar and midline nuclei and specifically the lateral and ventral components, maintain a necessary state of the cortical regions involved in the ongoing memory processes. The two types of function subserved by these groups of thalamic nuclei, focussing on contents vs. state, need to work in parallel to mediate and allow memory functioning, respectively.
It is well established that the occurrence of theta rhythm in the hippocampus is important in a variety of mnemonic tasks. However, in this review it will be argued that theta-rhythmic activity occurs across distributed networks within the diencephalon and neocortex as well as the hippocampus, and functions to temporally coordinate activity in distributed systems within these regions during mnemonic processes. Recent evidence strongly suggests that theta-range cellular activity occurs in the supramammillary nucleus (SuM) of the hypothalamus, and that this activity is independent of that occurring in the hippocampus. We have previously proposed in fact, that the frequency of theta activity in the hippocampus is determined in the SuM, rather than in the medial septum as previously assumed. The frequency-coded information from the SuM is then fed into at least two recurrent networks proposed by Aggleton and Brown (1999). Theta activity in these networks (the hippocampo-anterior thalamic system and the perirhinal-mediodorsal thalamic system) could potentially occur independently, but when simultaneously occurring in both may function to coordinate the integration of information in the two systems. Finally, we suggest that as the two systems include temporal and frontal neocortical areas that contribute to surface EEG, scalp recording of theta EEG activity from these regions may provide a &quot;window&quot; through which to assess the relative involvement of different cortico-limbic circuits in different mnemonic processes. The potential utility of this technique will be increased greatly by the use of high-density EEG and algorithms to more precisely map the topography of cortical sources of EEG activity.
For historical reasons (Bianchi, 1895; Harlow, 1968; Luria, 1966; Shallice, 1982), a specific link between the central executive of working memory and the frontal cortex was originally suggested by Baddeley (1986). This review discusses the evidence against such a univocal link. Two executive processes investigated in neuropsychology are discussed: inhibition (WCST, Stroop, proactive interference, go-no go, Stop signal and the Hayling test) and dual-task management. The evidence reviewed demonstrates (i) that executive processes involve links between different brain areas, not exclusively with the frontal cortex, (ii) that patients with no evidence of frontal damage present with executive deficits, and (iii) that patients with frontal lesions do not always show executive deficits. In conclusion, this review suggests that it is time for a more dynamic and flexible view of the neural substrate of executive processes to be considered. It also confirms, as recently suggested by Baddeley (1996, 1998a, 1998b), that the study of frontal patients cannot be used as a primary source of evidence to understand CE functions.
This paper presents the case of BB, an individual with an atypical posterior cortical presentation of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The severity of BB's visuo-spatial impairment far outweighed impairment of other cognitive functions. BB's case is also unusual in that despite a long history of progressive impairment, his cognitive symptoms remain relatively circumscribed. More specifically, BB's pattern of memory impairment was striking, since his impairment on formal psychometric tests of memory contrasted with his performance at clinical interview, where he talked lucidly about events in his past, and displayed remarkably well-preserved general semantic knowledge. On the basis of BB's clinical profile, it was hypothesised that his pattern of cognitive performance reflected an impairment of anterograde memory in the context of relative preservation of remote memory. Further investigations revealed that while BB's anterograde memory function was comparable to that of other AD patients, his remote memory was well preserved relative to other AD 'controls'. These findings are discussed in terms of typical and atypical presentations of Alzheimer's disease, and in terms of the possible fractionation of different aspects of long-term memory. The implications of these findings for our understanding of the neural bases of different types of retrograde memory (i.e. 'old' versus 'recent') are considered, with particular reference to the contrasting theoretical frameworks that have recently been advanced by Squire and Moscovitch.

gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA), which is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain, exerts its effects through the activation of a ligand-gated ion channel, the GABAA receptor, leading to the inhibition of the activity of neurons. A family of GABAA receptors has been identified, some of which are targets for therapeutic agents such as benzodiazepines, barbiturates and general anesthetics. Recently, novel transgenic approaches have been used to understand the function of receptor subtypes and, thereby, their therapeutic utility. Additionally, progress has been made in the development of novel receptor subtype-selective compounds. In this review, we will primarily focus on progress achieved in the understanding of the function of this receptor family, and potential exploitation for drug development.
Hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide precursor protein (HCNP-pp) is a unique multifunctional protein, being not only the precursor of HCNP, which promotes the phenotype development of septo-hippocampal cholinergic neurons, but also the binding protein of phosphatidylethanolamine, ATP, Raf-1 kinase (known as &quot;Raf-1 kinase inhibitory factor&quot; in peripheral organs), and serine protease. We obtained a high-titer retroviral vector harboring HCNP-pp cDNA by the use of a modified packaging cell line and centrifugation, and by injecting it into embryonic mouse ventricles, we investigated the function of its gene product within the central nervous system (CNS). We found that efficient transduction into hippocampal pyramidal neurons can be achieved by injecting the vector into embryonic brain ventricles on embryonic day 14 (E14). Three days after receiving the intraventricular injection of the high-titer HCNP-pp retrovirus vector on E14, the tissues around the ventricles showed an overexpression of HCNP-pp. This was accompanied by a reduced amount of activated MEK and Erk (as analyzed by histochemical and Western blot methods), suggesting that HCNP-pp also regulates the MAP-kinase cascade within the CNS. Surprisingly, mouse brains that received the HCNP-pp retroviral vector showed massive malformation of the hippocampus and cerebellum when examined 30 days after birth. This shows that strictly regulated HCNP-pp gene expression is necessary for the normal development of the mouse brain, and that the moderate overexpression achieved by retroviral vector-mediated gene transfer is sufficient to cause severe abnormality of entire brain structures.
The interaction between testosterone and pubertal development on aggression in the male Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) was examined in two experiments. First, gonad-intact prepubertal and adult male hamsters were tested for aggression using the resident-intruder paradigm with an age- and weight-matched intruder. Prepubertal males engaged in a greater number of attacks and had longer attack durations than adults. In the second experiment, prepubertal and adult males were castrated and treated with either a 0-, 2.5-, or 5-mg pellet of testosterone, and their aggression was assessed using the resident-intruder paradigm. Prepubertal males again showed shorter attack latencies and greater attack durations compared to adult males across all levels of testosterone. Testosterone treatment did not significantly affect these behaviors before or after pubertal development. We conclude that (a) pubertal development is associated with a decline in aggression in the male Syrian hamster, and (b) a developmental shift in behavioral sensitivity or responsiveness to testosterone does not underlie the pubertal decrease in aggression.
Are spatial proximity (0.10-12.5 cm), temporal proximity (0-, 2-, and 5-s gaps), and/or perceived connectedness of stimulus and reward key to infants' ability to deduce an abstract nonmatching rule from reward feedback? In this investigation, 3 conditions of the delayed nonmatching to sample task were administered to infants 9, 12, and 15 months old, and 5 more conditions were administered just to 12-month-olds. Results showed that connectedness is key. In its presence, neither close spatial or temporal proximity was needed. In the absence of the perception that stimulus and reward were components of a single thing, even close spatial and temporal proximity were insufficient for infants in the 1st year to grasp the rule-based association between stimuli and rewards.
The study of achaete-scute (ac/sc) genes has recently become a paradigm to understand the evolution and development of the arthropod nervous system. We describe the identification and characterization of the ac/sc genes in the coleopteran insect species Tribolium castaneum. We have identified two Tribolium ac/sc genes - achaete-scute homolog (Tc-ASH) a proneural gene and asense (Tc-ase) a neural precursor gene that reside in a gene complex. Focusing on the embryonic central nervous system we find that Tc-ASH is expressed in all neural precursors and the proneural clusters from which they segregate. Through RNAi and misexpression studies we show that Tc-ASH is necessary for neural precursor formation in Tribolium and sufficient for neural precursor formation in Drosophila. Comparison of the function of the Drosophila and Tribolium proneural ac/sc genes suggests that in the Drosophila lineage these genes have maintained their ancestral function in neural precursor formation and have acquired a new role in the fate specification of individual neural precursors. Furthermore, we find that Tc-ase is expressed in all neural precursors suggesting an important and conserved role for asense genes in insect nervous system development. Our analysis of the Tribolium ac/sc genes indicates significant plasticity in gene number, expression and function, and implicates these modifications in the evolution of arthropod neural development.

Hypoglycemia is a profound threat to the brain since glucose is its preferred fuel. Thus, decreases in plasma glucose must be sensed and appropriate hormonal and neuroendocrine responses generated to restore glucose to safe levels (i.e. counterregulatory responses (CRR) to hypoglycemia). Recurrent hypoglycemia impairs these protective mechanisms, resulting in a potentially life-threatening condition known as hypoglycemia-associated autonomic failure (HAAF). During HAAF, the glycemic threshold is reset so that glucose levels must fall further before the CRR is initiated. The brain plays a critical role in sensing hypoglycemia and initiating the CRR. Additionally, many neurons may sense changes in plasma and extracellular glucose. However, the way in which central glucose sensing is integrated to lead to effective initiation of the CRR is unknown. Furthermore, the mechanisms by which this system becomes impaired during HAAF are also unknown. Glucosensing neurons in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMN) are poised to serve an integrative function in glucose homeostasis. First, they sense glucose. Second, the VMN receives input from other glucose-sensing areas. Finally, the VMN projects to areas linked to the regulation of the sympathoadrenal system that mediates the CRR. This review discusses VMN glucosensing neurons relative to their capacity to play a role in the regulation of the CRR and the generation of HAAF. Glucosensing neurons in the hindbrain as well as peripheral glucosensors are also considered.

The aim of this paper is to evaluate the effectiveness of brief interventions (BI) with adolescents (mean age &lt;20) in reducing alcohol, tobacco or other drug (ATOD) use by means of a systematic review of BI for adolescent substance use in the English language literature up to 2002. We identified 11 studies involving 3734 adolescents. Follow-up ranged from 6 weeks to 24 months. Motivational interviewing was the predominant approach, underpinning eight studies: the remaining three provided personalized health information. Seven papers reported outcomes for alcohol interventions and four involved other substances (including one with separate alcohol outcomes). The overall effect size was d=0.126 with borderline homogeneity (Q=14.9, df=9, p=0.09). The effect size from the eight alcohol interventions (n=1,075) was classified as significant but &quot;small&quot; (d=0.275). The remaining non-alcohol studies were considered separately as interventions involving tobacco or multiple substance use. The two interventions with tobacco involved a substantial sample (n=2,626) but had a very small effect (d=0.037), while the two interventions addressing multiple substances involved few participants (n=110) but had a medium-large effect (d=0.78). Across a diverse range of settings (dental clinic, schools, universities, substance treatment centres) and, therefore, probably diverse clients, BI conferred benefits to adolescent substance users. BI had a small effect on alcohol consumption and related measures. The data for tobacco interventions suggested a very small reduction, particularly with general community interventions. The effect of BI with multiple substances appears substantial but the small sample cautions against expansive generalization.
The aim of this longitudinal study was to investigate the problematic use of alcohol, cannabis or both in adolescence, identifying various risk factors for adult alcohol and drug abuse. The study included 7,577 18-year-old men conscripted in 1969-70. At enrollment, they completed two questionnaires about alcohol and drug use, social background, behavioural factors and health conditions. Data on adult alcohol and substance abuse were obtained from official registers up to 1996. A combination of problematic alcohol use and cannabis use in adolescence (&gt;10 times) was associated more strongly with both adult alcohol abuse (RR=6.56, 95% CI 4.24-9.83) and drug abuse (RR=19.37, 95% CI 11.16-32.30) than adolescent use of cannabis or alcohol alone. When stratifying for different risk factors, the combination of both problematic alcohol use and cannabis use had higher relative risks of both outcomes than alcohol or cannabis use alone. In multivariate analyses, tobacco smoking was associated most strongly (RR=2.26, 1.58-3.24) with adult alcohol abuse, and a combination of problematic alcohol use and cannabis use (&lt;10 times) in adolescence was associated most strongly with adult drug abuse (RR=5.60, 95% CI 2.92-10.75). Adolescent use of both cannabis and alcohol seems to be a more serious problem than adolescent use of either alcohol or cannabis alone with regard to escalation to adult alcohol and drug abuse. This is important knowledge for prevention of adult abuse. Special effort should be made to reach those who mix risky alcohol use and cannabis use in late adolescence.
L-Glutamic acid acts as the major excitatory neurotransmitter and, at the same time, represents a potential neurotoxin for the mammalian central nervous system (CNS). The termination of excitatory transmission and the maintenance of physiologic levels of extracellular glutamate, which is necessary to prevent excitotoxicity, are prominently mediated by a family of high-affinity sodium-dependent excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs). Five subtypes of EAATs have been cloned, possessing distinct pharmacology, localization, sensitivity to transport inhibitors and modulatory mechanisms. Expression and activity of EAATs have been shown to be amenable to fine endogenous and, potentially, pharmacological regulation by substrate itself, growth factors, second messengers, hormones, biological oxidants, inflammatory mediators and pathological conditions. The present review describes basic pharmacological studies, mostly performed on animal models or cell preparations, in order to obtain an updated picture of the known regulatory mechanisms of single EAAT expression and activity. New insight into molecular pathways involved in EAAT regulation will allow pharmacological manipulation of excitatory CNS activity, possibly avoiding adverse effects of glutamate receptor blockade.
Exposure of the skin to sunlight results in an increase of the content of epidermal trans-urocanic acid, a key metabolite of L-histidine, and also in occurrence of the isomerization of trans-urocanic acid to the cis isomer. S-[2-Carboxy-1-(1H-imidazol-4-yl)ethyl]glutathione (GS(CIE)), an adduct of urocanic acid and glutathione, is a presumed origin of a urinary compound S-[2-carboxy-1-(1H-imidazol-4-yl)ethyl]-L-cysteine (Cys(CIE)). The formation of GS(CIE) is stimulated by exposing the skin to sunlight irradiation. In this study we investigated an enzymatic formation of GS(CIE) from glutathione and cis-urocanic acid by incubation with rat liver extract that contained glutathione S-transferase (GST) at high activity. The formation of GS(CIE) was suppressed significantly when a liver extract depleted of GST activity was used. Enzymatic degradation of GS(CIE) with gamma -glutamyl transpeptidase resulted in the formation of N-[S-[2-carboxy-1-(1H-imidazol-4-yl)ethyl]-L-cysteinyl]glycine, a metabolic intermediate between the glutathione adduct and Cys(CIE). A hydrolyzed product of GS(CIE) by HCl was identical with the urinary Cys(CIE). Compounds were analyzed by high-voltage paper electrophoresis, capillary electrophoresis, and fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry. From these results, we suggest that GS(CIE) formed from cis-urocanic acid and glutathione is an origin of the urinary compound Cys(CIE) and that the formation reaction is catalyzed mostly by the action of GST.
Emotion has been shown to have a modulatory effect on declarative memory. Normal aging is associated with a decline in declarative memory, but whether aging might affect the influence of emotion on memory has not been established. To investigate this, we administered a task that provides a detailed assessment of emotional memory to 80 neurologically normal adults ranging in age from 35 to 85 years. Across ages, memory performance was found to be modulated by the emotional significance of stimuli in a comparable manner (improved memory for gist, compromised memory for visual detail), despite an overall decline in memory performance with increasing age. The results raise the interesting possibility that aging has a differential effect on hippocampal versus amygdala function.
Estradiol (E(2)) regulates female reproductive behavior (lordosis) by acting on estrogen-sensitive neurons. We recently showed that E(2) facilitation of lordosis behavior requires concurrent activation of brain IGF-I receptors. The present study confirmed this finding and sought to identify the downstream signaling pathways involved in estrogen/IGF-I priming of lordosis. Intracerebroventricular infusions of a selective IGF-I receptor antagonist were administered to ovariectomized rats every 12 h beginning 1 h before the first of two daily E(2) injections. IGF-I receptor blockade partially inhibits lordosis if the antagonist is infused throughout the 2-d estrogen treatment period but not if it is administered only during the first or last 12 h of estrogen treatment. Because E(2) and IGF-I can activate phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) and MAPK, we infused agents that block PI3K and/or MAPK activity as described above. Both PI3K inhibitors (wortmannin and LY294002) and MAPK inhibitors (PD98059 and U0126) partially attenuate lordosis when administered during estrogen priming. None of these drugs modifies lordosis if they are infused only once, during the last 12 h of estrogen treatment. When both wortmannin and PD98059 are infused during E(2) priming, lordosis behavior is completely abolished. These data suggest that activation of both PI3K and MAPK by E(2) and IGF-I mediates hormonal facilitation of lordosis behavior.

Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) regulate neuronal excitability within the CNS. To assess the possible modulatory influence of nAChRs on epileptiform activity, a range of nAChR ligands were applied during experimentally induced epileptiform activity in rat hippocampal slices. Bath application of the potassium channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4AP; 10-50 microM) resulted in the development of spontaneous epileptiform bursting activity in area CA3 that consisted of short duration (257+/-15 ms) field events occurring regularly at a frequency of 0.4+/-0.02 Hz. Subsequent co-application of the selective nAChR agonists 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenyl-piperazinium iodide (DMPP; 0.3-300 microM), choline (0.01-3mM) and lobeline (3-30 microM) produced sustained and concentration-dependent increases in burst frequency with maximal frequency potentiation of 37+/-5%, 27+/-5% and 24+/-11%, respectively. DMPP (10-30 microM; n=31) also potentiated epileptiform bursting induced by reducing GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission using 20 microM bicuculline or enhancing NMDA receptor-mediated excitation by lowering extracellular Mg(2+). Irrespective of the epileptiform model studied all nAChR agonist induced frequency potentiation was reversed upon washout of the agonist or co-application of one of the selective nAChR antagonists dihydro-beta-erythroidine (10-30 microM), mecamylamine (50-200 microM) or alpha-bungarotoxin (100 nM). These results provide compelling evidence that activation of nAChRs exacerbate epileptiform activity in the rat hippocampus.
Glutamatergic ionotropic and metabotropic receptor modulators have been shown to produce anticonvulsant activity in a number of animal seizure models, e.g. maximal electroshock (MES) and DBA/2 sensory-induced seizures. The 6 Hz model of partial seizures is an alternative low frequency, long duration stimulation paradigm resulting in a seizure characterized by jaw and forelimb clonus, immobility, and an elevated tail (Straub-tail). A unique aspect of this model is that it is the only acute electrically-induced seizure model in which levetiracetam has displayed anticonvulsant activity, suggesting that the 6 Hz seizure model may be useful in identifying compounds with unique anticonvulsant profiles. The purpose of the present study was to examine the role of glutamate receptors in the MES and 6 Hz seizure models using a number of NMDA, AMPA/KA, and mGlu receptor modulators. The pharmacological profile of the 6 Hz seizure model was compared to that of the MES model using eight ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists and eight mGlu receptor modulators. The ionotropic receptor antagonists MK-801, LY235959, NBQX, LY293558, GYKI 52466, LY300168, and LY377770 produced complete protection from tonic extension in the MES model. Furthermore, the noncompetitive mGlu1 (LY456236) and mGlu5 (MPEP) metabotropic receptor antagonists and the mGlu8 metabotropic receptor agonist (PPG) were also effective in the MES model whereas the competitive mGlu1 (LY367385) receptor antagonist, the mGlu2/3 (LY379268 and LY389795) and Group III (L-AP4) metabotropic receptor agonists were ineffective. In contrast, all of the compounds tested, produced dose-dependent protection in the 6 Hz model with an increase in potency as compared to the MES model. The largest protective indices (P.I.=TD50/ED50) observed were associated with the iGlu5 antagonist LY382884 and the mGlu2/3 receptor agonists LY379268 and LY389795 (P.I.=&gt;14, 14, and 4.9, respectively) in the 6 Hz model. The results from the present study support the continued search for glutamate receptor modulators as potential antiepileptic agents. Furthermore these results illustrate the importance of using several different animal seizure models in the search for novel AEDs and the potential utility of the 6 Hz seizure model in identifying novel AEDs.
The authors report a 51-year-old women with pharmacoresistant partial epilepsy who tolerated well valproate monotherapy and in combination with several other antiepileptic drugs, but developed symptoms and signs of reversible hepatic failure under a combination of valproate and topiramate. Symptoms resolved after discontinuation of VPA. This case provides further anecdotal evidence that topiramate may increase the risk of liver failure when given in combination with other potentially hepatotoxic antiepileptic drugs.

Functional neuroimaging over the past 10 years has led to greater insights into the pathophysiology underlying symptomatic epilepsy. Such imaging has been used to localize cerebral dysfunction, predominantly through disturbances in metabolism or blood flow. Techniques available include single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Although the use of these diagnostic techniques is widely reported for presurgical evaluation, there has been little work with specific reference to malformations of cortical development.
The latest generation of lentiviral vectors based on HIV-1 is one of the most efficient tools for gene transduction of mammalian cells. However, the possible employment of HIV-based vectors in clinical trials is a very controversial issue, mainly due to safety and ethical concerns. HIV-1 is a lethal pathogenic agent, which induces AIDS. Genetic vectors must derive either from viruses that are not pathogenic in humans, or that eventually just cause mild illnesses. Patients exposed to HIV-based vectors will test seropositive to certain components of HIV-1. In addition, there might be other possible adverse effects in patients that cannot be predicted, as many aspects of the pathogenesis of AIDS have not been completely understood yet. On these grounds, it seems necessary to improve the design of other lentiviral vectors, which derive from viruses that are not pathogenic in humans and are distantly related to primate retroviridae.
Mutations in spastin cause the most common form of pure autosomal dominant hereditary spastic paraparesis (SPG4). Here, we report two Italian families affected with SPG4-linked HSP harboring two novel spastin mutations. SSCP/sequencing analysis of the spastin gene showed a single base pair deletion causing a frame-shift in one family (1442delT) and a missense mutation (1726T&gt;C) resulting in a leucine to proline amino-acid change (L534P) in the other family. Total RNA from the mutant and the wild-type spastin allele in muscle biopsies from patients from the two affected families was quantitated. RNA expression was almost absent from the spastin allele harboring the single base pair deletion, while it was nearly normal for the spastin allele harboring the missense mutation. These data suggest that varying spastin RNA levels are found in out-of-frame and missense spastin mutations and imply different mechanisms involved in the molecular pathology of SPG4 linked HSP.
In a prospective open label add-on study on 95 patients (age 1-63 years, mean 17.76 +/- 13.83 years) with seizures refractory to conventional antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and other new AEDs, the addition of Topiramate (TPM) resulted in seizure worsening in 18 patients (19%) necessitating drug withdrawal over an average follow-up period of 4.94 +/- 1.69 months. Patients who had seizure worsening were older (P = 0.02), were more likely to have had a history of status epilepticus in the past (P = 0.03), were on three conventional AEDs (P = 0.027) or had tried one of the other new AEDs in the past with poor response (P = 0.04). Seven of 18 patients who had seizure worsening with TPM (7.4%) experienced initial seizure worsening, probably representing the subgroup with 'true' seizure worsening whilst 11 (11.6%) had initial improvement followed by 'apparent' seizure worsening. Initial seizure worsening was noted to be significantly more in females when compared with males who worsened after initial improvement (P = 0.05).
The burden [as defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO)] of brain diseases (neurological, neurosurgical and psychiatric diseases together) is very high and yet resources spent on these diseases are not necessarily commensurate with the extent of this burden. However, hard data on the burden of brain diseases in Europe have not previously been easily accessible. The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 1990 study conducted jointly by the WHO, Harvard University and the World Bank provided new measures that are now becoming universally accepted and have been used also in a repeat study: The GBD 2000. The key parameter of the study is disability adjusted life years (DALY), which is the sum of years of life lost (YLL) caused by premature death and years of life lived with disability (YLD). In the present report, data from the GBD 2000 study and from the World Health Report 2001 on brain diseases is extracted for the territory of Europe. This territory corresponds roughly to the membership countries of the European Federation of Neurological Societies. The WHO's Report has a category called neuropsychiatric diseases, which comprises the majority but not all the brain diseases. In order to gather all brain diseases, stroke, meningitis, half of the burden of injuries and half of the burden of congenital abnormalities are added. Throughout Europe, 23% of the years of healthy life is lost and 50% of YLD are caused by brain diseases. Regarding the key summary measure of lost health, DALY, 35% are because of brain diseases. The fact that approximately one-third of all burden of disease is caused by brain diseases should have an impact on resource allocation to teaching, reasearch, health care and prevention. Although other factors are also of importance, it seems reasonable that one-third of the curriculum at medical school should deal with the brain and that one-third of life science funding should go to basic and clinical neuroscience. In addition, resource allocation to prevention, diagnosis and treatment of brain diseases should be increased to approach, at least, one-third of health care expenditure. With the present data on hand, neurologists, neurosurgeons, psychiatrists, patient organizations and basic neuroscientists have a better possibility to increase the focus on the brain.

Brief N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blockade in neonatal rats has been reported to increase neuronal apoptosis. We replicated this finding using MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg) administered twice on postnatal day 7, and then studied the long-term consequences. In adulthood, treated rats showed reduced volume and neuronal number within the hippocampus, and altered hippocampal NMDA receptor (NR1 subunit) expression. Synaptophysin mRNA was decreased in the thalamus (laterodorsal nucleus). Adult MK-801-treated females had prepulse inhibition deficits and increased locomotor activity. The data show that a transient and limited glutamatergic intervention during development can have chronic behavioural, structural and molecular effects. The effects are reminiscent of alterations reported in schizophrenia and, as such, are consistent with hypotheses advocating a role for NMDA receptor hypofunction, and aberrant apoptosis, in the neurodevelopmental pathogenesis of the disorder.
Homer proteins form functional assemblies in the excitatory postsynaptic density, and withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration reduces the expression of Homer1b/c in the nucleus accumbens. To determine if the reduction in Homer1b/c may be contributing to cocaine-induced behavioural sensitization, antisense oligonucleotides were infused over two weeks into the nucleus accumbens of rats to reduce Homer1 gene expression by approximately 35%. Infusion of antisense sequences (AS1 and AS2) caused a sensitization-like augmentation in the motor response to acute cocaine administration in naive rats. One of the sequences (AS1) also prevented the development of sensitization to repeated cocaine treatment, while AS2 was without effect. A panel of immunoblots for other proteins in the excitatory postsynaptic density revealed that AS1, but not AS2 reduced the level of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunit GluR1 protein. This posed the possibility that altered AMPA signalling may mediate the inhibitory effect of AS1 on the development of sensitization. To examine this possibility, rats were pretreated in the accumbens with drugs to block AMPA/kainate, N-methyl-d-aspartate, group 1 metabotropic glutamate or dopamine receptors prior to each daily injection of cocaine. Only AMPA/kainate receptor blockade prevented the development of behavioural sensitization to cocaine. These data indicate that the expression of behavioural sensitization arises in part from a reduction in Homer1 gene products in the accumbens, while the development of sensitization requires stimulation of AMPA/kainate receptors.
We recently determined in rats that iontophoretic application of bicuculline or gabazine [two GABAa antagonists] and kainic acid (a glutamate agonist) in the sublaterodorsal nucleus (SLD) induces with a very short latency a paradoxical sleep-like state. From these results, we proposed that GABAergic and glutamatergic inputs to the SLD paradoxical sleep (PS)-executive neurons gate the onset of PS [R. Boissard et al. (2002) Eur. J. Neurosci., 16, 1959-1973]. We therefore decided to determine the origin of the GABAergic and non-GABAergic inputs to the SLD combining ejection of a retrograde tracer [cholera-toxin B subunit (CTb)] with glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) immunohistochemistry. The presence of GAD-immunoreactive neurons in the SLD was confirmed. Then, following CTb ejections centred on the SLD, combined with GAD and CTb immunohistochemistry, double-labelled cells were observed in the mesencephalic and pontine reticular nuclei and to a lesser extent the parvicellular reticular nucleus. A large number of GAD-negative retrogradely labelled cells was also seen in these structures as well as in the primary motor area of the frontal cortex, the central nucleus of the amygdala, the ventral and lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the lateral hypothalamic area, the lateral and ventrolateral periaqueductal grey and the lateral paragigantocellular reticular nucleus. From these results, we propose that the activation of PS-executive neurons from the SLD is due to the removal of a tonic inhibition from GABAergic neurons localized in the SLD, and the mesencephalic and pontine reticular nuclei. Strong non-GABAergic inputs to the SLD could be excitatory and responsible for the tonic glutamatergic input on the PS-on neurons we have previously described. They could also terminate on SLD GABAergic interneurons and be indirectly responsible for the inhibition of the PS-on neurons during waking and slow-wave sleep.
Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) binds to multiple trks, not only its initially identified receptor trkC. Recent studies in our laboratory show that NT-3 negatively regulates nociceptive phenotype associated with the trkA subpopulation. Due to the extensive overlap in trkA and trkC expression it is uncertain whether there is a direct influence of NT-3 on trkA in adult sensory neurons. Thus, the aim of this study was to examine whether NT-3 might alter trkA and associated neuronal phenotype outside of the trkC subpopulation. The effect of a seven-day intrathecal infusion of NT-3 on intact, uninjured adult rat dorsal root ganglion neurons was investigated. Serial sections were processed for receptor radioautography or in situ hybridization to identify and colocalize neurons expressing high-affinity nerve growth factor (NGF) binding sites, substance P (SP), trkC, or trkA mRNAs and to examine the influence of NT-3 on these populations. NT-3 does not appear to alter trkC expression, but evokes a notable reduction in trkA, high-affinity NGF binding sites, and SP levels. It is unlikely that signalling by trkC greatly influences this response because the down-regulation of SP occurs most notably in trkA neurons that lack trkC. Moreover, we have shown here that message levels of two trkA isoforms are differentially modulated by NT-3; infusion results in greater down-regulation of the noninsert containing isoform. These findings suggest a clinically relevant role for NT-3 as an antagonist to NGF, but also raise the caution that not just trkC-positive neurons are influenced following exposure to the neurotrophin.
To investigate the roles of the GABAergic inhibitory system of accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) in pheromonal memory formation, we have developed a primary culture system of AOB neurons, which had numerous excitatory and inhibitory synapses. Using this culture system of AOB neurons, we examined the correlation in rats between neuronal excitation and synaptic morphology by bicuculline-induced disinhibition of cultured AOB neurons. The exposure to bicuculline induced long-lasting oscillatory changes in the intracellular calcium level ([Ca2+]in) of cultured non-GABAergic multipolar neurons, which were identified as mitral/tufted cells (MT cells). These MT cells exhibited the appearance of dendritic filopodia structures after a 10-min treatment with bicuculline. By labelling presynaptic terminals with FM4-64, the appearance of new presynaptic terminals was clearly observed on newly formed filopodia after 120 min treatment with bicuculline. These results suggest that bicuculline-induced [Ca2+]in oscillation of MT cells induces the growth of filopodia and subsequently the formation of new presynaptic terminals. Furthermore, tetrodotoxin or the deprivation of extracellular calcium blocked bicuculline-induced synapse formation. The present results indicate that the long-lasting [Ca2+]in oscillation caused by bicuculline-induced disinhibition of cultured MT cells is significantly implicated in the mechanism underlying synapse formation on cultured AOB neurons. Our established culture system of AOB neurons will aid in clarifying the mechanism of synapse formation between AOB neurons and the molecular mechanism of pheromonal memory formation.
After synaptic release, glutamate is taken up by the nerve terminal via a plasma membrane-associated protein termed excitatory amino acid transporter 3 (EAAT3). Following entry into the nerve terminal, glutamate is pumped into synaptic vesicles by a vesicular transport system. Three different vesicular glutamate transporter proteins (VGLUT1-3) representing unique markers for glutamatergic neurons were recently characterized. The presence of EAAT3, glutaminase and VGLUT1-3 was examined in mouse, rat and rabbit species at mRNA and protein levels in hypothalamic neurons which are involved in the regulation of body weight using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. EAAT3 and glutaminase mRNAs were demonstrated in all parts of the arcuate nucleus in the dorsomedial and ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei and lateral hypothalamic area. VGLUT1 mRNA was present in the magnocellular lateral hypothalamic nucleus. VGLUT2 mRNA was demonstrated in a subpopulation of neurons in the arcuate nucleus and in the ventromedial and dorsomedial hypothalamic nuclei and lateral hypothalamic area. Few VGLUT3 mRNA expressing neurons were scattered throughout the medial and lateral hypothalamus. EAAT3-like immunoreactivity (-li) was demonstrated in glutamate, neuropeptide Y (NPY), agouti-related peptide (AGRP), pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), melanin-concentrating hormone and orexin-immunoreactive (-ir) neurons. VGLUT2-li could only be demonstrated in POMC- and CART-ir neurons of the ventrolateral arcuate nucleus. The results show that key neurons involved in regulation of energy balance are glutamatergic and/or densely innervated by glutamatergic nerve terminals. Whereas orexigenic NPY/AGRP neurons situated in the ventromedial part of the arcuate nucleus are mainly GABAergic, it is shown that several anorexigenic POMC/CART neurons of the ventromedial arcuate nucleus are most likely glutamatergic [corrected].
The phosphorylation and the binding to DNA of the nuclear transcription factor, cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) response element-binding protein (CREB) are conserved key steps in the molecular cascade leading to the formation of long-term memory (LTM). Here, we characterize, for the first time, a CREB1-like protein in the central nervous system (CNS) of Lymnaea, a model system used widely for the study of the fundamental mechanisms of learning and memory. We demonstrate cAMP response element (CRE)-binding activity in CNS protein extracts and show that one of the CRE-binding proteins is recognized by a polyclonal antibody raised to mammalian (human) CREB1. The same antibody detects specific CREB1 immunoreactivity in CNS extracts and in the nuclei of most neurons in the brain. Moreover, phospho-CREB1-specific immunoreactivity is increased significantly in protein extracts of the CNS by forskolin, an activator of adenylate cyclase. The forskolin-induced increase in phospho-CREB1 immunoreactivity is localized to the nuclei of CNS neurons, some of which have an important role in the formation of LTM. Significantly, classical food-reward conditioning increases phospho-CREB1 immunoreactivity in Lymnaea CNS protein extracts. This increase in immunoreactivity is specific to the ganglia that contain the feeding circuitry, which undergoes cellular changes after classical conditioning. This work establishes the expression of a highly conserved functional CREB1-like protein in the CNS of Lymnaea and opens the way for a detailed analysis of the role of CREB proteins in LTM formation in this model system.
The N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor plays a critical role in the formation and maintenance of synapses during brain development. In the rodent, changes in subunit expression and assembly of the heteromeric receptor complex accompany these maturational processes. However, little is known about N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit expression during human brain development. We used in situ hybridization to examine the distribution and relative abundance of NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunit messenger ribonucleic acids in the hippocampal formation and adjacent cortex of 34 human subjects at five stages of life (neonate, infant, adolescent, young adult and adult). At all ages, the three messenger ribonucleic acids were expressed in all subfields, predominantly by pyramidal neurons, granule cells and polymorphic hilar cells. However, their abundance varied across ontogeny. Levels of NR1 messenger ribonucleic acid in CA4, CA3 and CA2 subfields were significantly lower in the neonate than all other age groups. In the dentate gyrus, subiculum and parahippocampal gyrus, NR2B messenger ribonucleic acid levels were higher in the neonate than in older age groups. NR2A messenger ribonucleic acid levels remained constant, leading to an age-related increase in NR2A/2B transcript ratio. We conclude that N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit messenger ribonucleic acids are differentially expressed during postnatal development of the human hippocampus, with a pattern similar but not identical to that seen in the rodent. Changes in subunit composition may thus contribute to maturational differences in human hippocampal N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor function, and to their role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and other neurodevelopmental disorders.
Damage to peripheral nerves is associated with changes in excitability and/or phenotype of primary afferent neurons as well as increased neuronal excitability (central sensitization) and reduced inhibitory tone in the dorsal horn. For instance, in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is down-regulated in small cells whilst de novo expressed in large diameter cells. In the dorsal horn, GABA content is decreased. In this study, in a dorsal horn, 'with dorsal roots attached' preparation obtained from spinal nerve lesioned Wistar rats, stimulation of ipsilateral dorsal roots at either A fibre or A + C fibre strength did not evoke release of BDNF. In separate experiments, activity-induced release of GABA in the isolated dorsal horn of neuropathic rats was significantly reduced compared to release in sham operated rats. GABA release could be significantly restored following topical application of BDNF through the dorsal horn preparation. Finally, neuropathic rats developed thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity and thermal hyperalgesia was reduced by intrathecal injection of BDNF. We concluded that BDNF-induced release of GABA could be a mechanism to explain the antinociceptive action of intrathecal BDNF in neuropathic animals. Furthermore, reduced availability of sensory neuron-derived BDNF might contribute to the reduced GABAergic tone in the dorsal horn of neuropathic rats.
Kainic acid induces excitotoxicity and nerve cell degeneration in vulnerable regions of rat brain, most markedly in hippocampus and amygdala. Part of the cell death following kainic acid is apoptotic as shown by caspase 3 activation and chromatin condensation. Here we have studied the regulation of pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins belonging to the Bcl-2 family in rat hippocampus and amygdala by kainic acid in relationship to ensuing neuronal death. The pro-apoptotic protein Bax was up-regulated in hippocampus 6 h after kainic acid administration. The increase in Bax was followed by the appearance of TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labelling-positive cells which were prominent at 24 h. Immunohistochemistry for active Bax revealed a punctuated labelling of neurons in the CA3 and hilar regions of hippocampus as well as in amygdala. Double staining for NeuN, a marker for nerve cells, and TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labelling showed that mainly neurons undergo degeneration after kainic acid treatment. In contrast to Bax, the pro-apoptotic BH3-only Bcl-2 proteins Bim and Harakiri/DP5 were down-regulated by kainic acid. This was also observed for the anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-x and Bcl-w. Immunoreactive Bcl-2 was up-regulated in hippocampus after kainic acid together with an increase in the phosphorylation of serine-87 in Bcl-2, suggesting a post-transcriptional modification of the protein. This was confirmed using immunoprecipitation of total Bcl-2 from hippocampus and amygdala which revealed an increase in serine-87 phospho-Bcl-2 after kainic acid. Inhibition of the c-jun N-terminal protein kinase pathway reduced both serine-87 phosphorylation and cell death after kainic acid. This indicates an important role of Bcl-2 phosphorylation in controlling neuronal death after kainic acid. In contrast to the situation in trophic factor-deprived neurons, no up-regulation of Bim or Harakiri/DP5 proteins occurred after kainic acid, suggesting alternative pathways for regulation of cell death in excitotoxicity. The results indicate that not only the relative levels of Bcl-2 family proteins but also conformation changes and post-translational modifications contribute to neuronal death following kainic acid.
The retinal rod bipolar cell type is involved in the sign-inverting depolarizing ON-type response to light. This response is mediated by the metabotropic glutamate receptor type 6 (mGluR6) expressed on the rod bipolar dendrites. In a previous immunocytochemical study, an unexpected colocalization was reported [W. Kamphuis et al. (2003) J. Comp. Neurol., 455, 172-186] of mGluR6 with the ionotropic AMPA-type glutamate receptor subunit GluR2 in rod bipolar cells of rat retina. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether expression of both genes could be found at the single-cell level. Two approaches were followed. (i). Retinal cells were isolated by enzymatic and mechanical treatment. Single cells with a bipolar morphology were harvested, subjected to multiplex PCR with protein kinase C (PKC)-, mGluR6- and GluR1-4-specific primers, followed by a real-time quantitative PCR assay. Of 23 studied cells, 74% expressed PKC and 87% expressed mGluR6. Using the presence of both transcripts as the criterion for a rod bipolar cell signature (n = 15), 73% of these cells expressed GluR2, with a minor contribution of GluR1 (20%), GluR3 (7%), and GluR4 (20%). Quantification of the transcript levels demonstrated that mGluR6 and GluR2 genes are expressed at similar levels in rod ON-type bipolar cells. (ii). Rod bipolar cells were identified in retinal sections by immunolabelling with a protein kinase C antibody and isolated using laser pressure catapulting (LPC). Quantitative PCR was employed to assess gene expression levels of reference genes, PKCalpha, mGluR6 and the GluR subunits. However, in samples from PKCalpha-immunopositive somata no significant enrichment of PKCalpha transcript levels was observed when compared with control samples from immunonegative somata. We conclude that this approach lacks sufficient spatial specificity. In conclusion, the results show coexpression of mGluR6 and GluR2 in rod bipolar cells; this is in good agreement with the results of previous immunocytochemical studies. The functional implications of AMPA-type glutamate receptors for ON-type rod bipolar-mediated signal transduction remains to be elucidated.
Metalloproteinase activity at the cell surface influences cellular sensitivity to extrinsic death vs. survival signals in a variety of cell types, through proteolytic shedding of cell surface signalling molecules. Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-3 (TIMP-3) is a unique natural metalloproteinase inhibitor that plays a pro-apoptotic role through its ability to inhibit metalloproteinases that proteolytically cleave death receptors and their ligands from the cell surface. To study the convergence of metalloproteinase activity and death receptor signalling in neurons, we established an in vitro model of neuronal apoptosis utilizing the chemotherapeutic drug, doxorubicin (Dox). Primary cultures established from embryonic rat cerebral cortices displayed robust and selective neuronal apoptosis in response to Dox, an effect that was dependent on the activation of the death receptor, Fas. We demonstrate that both TIMP-3 and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3) are constitutively expressed by primary cortical neurons in culture, and selectively modulated Fas-mediated neuronal apoptosis induced by Dox. Metalloproteinase inhibition by TIMP-3 was found to be necessary for Dox-induced neuronal death, whereas addition of active MMP-3 markedly attenuated apoptosis and diminished Fas-Fas ligand interaction at the cell surface. These observations implicate a physiological role for the balance of TIMP-3 and MMP-3 activity at the neuronal surface in regulating death receptor sensitivity. The convergence of metalloproteinase activity and death receptor signalling at the cell surface may influence neuronal cell death vs. survival decisions.
The aim of this study was to explore the potential of a new selective dopamine transporter (DAT) compound as a radioligand for positron emission tomography (PET) examination of DAT in the human brain. The high affinity DAT compound N-(3-iodoprop-2 E-enyl)-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-methylphenyl)nortropane (PE2I) was radiolabelled by the O-methylation approach and the binding was characterised by PET in cynomolgus monkeys and a healthy man. Metabolite levels in plasma were measured by gradient high-performance liquid chromatography. O-methylation of the corresponding free acid precursor with [(11)C]methyl triflate gave high radiochemical yield (80%) and specific radioactivity (55 GBq/ microM). [(11)C]PE2I binding in cynomolgus monkeys was nine times higher in the striatum than in the cerebellum at peak equilibrium, which appeared 55-65 min after injection. Displacement and pretreatment measurements using unlabelled beta-CIT, GBR 12909, cocaine, citalopram and maprotiline confirmed that [(11)C]PE2I binds selectively to DAT. In a preliminary study in one human subject the radioactivity ratios of the striatum and substantia nigra to the cerebellum were 10 and 1.8, respectively, at peak equilibrium, which appeared at 40-50 min and 20 min, respectively, after injection. The fraction of the total radioactivity in monkey and human plasma representing unchanged [(11)C]PE2I was 15-20% at 40 min after injection. The present characterisation of binding in monkey and man suggests that [(11)C]PE2I is a suitable PET radioligand for quantitative regional examination of DAT in man.

The attentional blink paradigm tests attention by overloading it: a list of stimuli is presented very rapidly one after another at the same location on a computer screen, each item overwriting the last, and participants monitor the list using two criteria [e.g. detect the target (red letter) and identify the probe (letter p)]. If the interval between the target and the probe is greater than about 500 ms, both are usually reported correctly, but, when the interval between the target and the probe is within 200-500 ms, report of the probe declines. This decline is the attentional blink, an interval of time when attention is supposedly switching from the first criterion to the second. The attentional blink paradigm should be difficult to perform correctly without vigilantly attending to the rapidly presented list. Vigilance tasks are often used to assess attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Symptoms of the disorder include hyperactivity and attentional dysfunction; however, some people with ADHD also have difficulty maintaining gaze at a fixed location. We tested 15 adults with ADHD and their age- and sex-matched controls, measuring accuracy and gaze stability during the attentional blink task. ADHD participants reported fewer targets and probes, took longer to recover from the attentional blink, made more eye movements, and made identification errors consistent with non-perception of the letter list. In contrast, errors made by control participants were consistent with guessing (i.e., report of a letter immediately preceding or succeeding the correct letter). Excessive eye movements result in poorer performance for all participants; however, error patterns confirm that the weak performance of ADHD participants may be related to gaze instability as well as to attentional dysfunction.
The issue of whether severe close-head injury (CHI) patients suffer from disproportionate dual-task deficits compared with matched controls was investigated in two experiments. In the first experiment, either one or three masked letters were presented at the center of a monitor, followed by a pure tone at variable stimulus-onset asynchronies (SOAs). In half of the blocks of trials, the task on the letters required a delayed report of the letters at the end of each trial; in the other half of the blocks, the letters had to be ignored. The tone task always required an immediate manual response based on the tone pitch. In the second experiment, either three masked letters or three masked digits were presented with equal probability in each trial, followed by a tone at variable SOAs. The task required the delayed report of the characters only if they were letters, or ignoring the characters if they were digits. In both experiments, CHI patients and matched controls both exhibited an SOA-locked slowing of the reaction time (RT) to the tone: When characters had to be encoded for delayed report, tone RT increased progressively as SOA was decreased. The SOA effect on tone RT was more pronounced for CHI patients than for controls, suggesting that a substantial component of the slower processing time for CHI patients was related to a selective increase at a central stage of processing shared by the two tasks. Implications for models of the CHI effects on human performance are discussed.
Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive (NPY-I) interneurons in the dentate gyrus are vulnerable to various insults, including septohippocampal cholinergic deafferentation. The present study examined whether a loss of NPY-I neurons occurs during aging, when the functional integrity of the septohippocampal pathway is thought to be compromised. Sets of male Long Evans rats (consisting of young and aged rats, with and without spatial learning impairments assessed by the Morris water maze) were examined. Light microscopic analysis revealed that hilar NPY-I neuronal number in matched dorsal sections was significantly decreased in aged compared to young rats. Ultrastructural analysis disclosed that the microenvironment (the types of processes apposed to the plasmalemmal surface) of NPY-I neurons also differed significantly between young and aged rats. In particular, a subgroup of NPY-I neurons, distinguished by a higher percentage of unmyelinated axon coverage of the plasmalemmal surface, was present in young, but not aged, rats. Neither the number nor the microenvironment of NPY-I neurons significantly differed between aged animals that were impaired versus unimpaired in spatial learning performance. To our knowledge these findings represent the first report of an age-associated decline in the number of a specific, neurochemically identified neuronal subpopulation within the hippocampal formation. Additionally, they closely parallel observations in 192 IgG-saporin-lesioned animals, suggesting that a distinct subgroup of NPY-I interneurons is particularly dependent on the viability of septohippocampal cholinergic innervation for its survival. Since neuronal loss was not correlated with performance, this alteration by itself does not appear to be sufficient to produce learning impairment.
To study plasticity of central autonomic circuits that develops after spinal cord injury (SCI), we have characterized a mouse model of autonomic dysreflexia. Autonomic dysreflexia is a condition in which episodic hypertension occurs after injuries above the midthoracic segments of the spinal cord. As synaptic plasticity may be triggered by axonal degeneration, we investigated whether autonomic dysreflexia is reduced in mice when axonal degeneration is delayed after SCI. We subjected three strains of mice, Wld(S), C57BL, and 129Sv, to either spinal cord transection (SCT) or severe clip-compression injury (CCI). The Wld(S) mouse is a well-characterized mutant that exhibits delayed Wallerian degeneration. The CCI model is an injury paradigm in which significant the axonal degeneration is due to secondary events and therefore delayed relative to the time of the initial injury. We herein demonstrate that the incidence of autonomic dysreflexia is reduced in Wld(S) mice after SCT and in all mice after CCI. To determine if differences in afferent arbor sprouting could explain our observations, we assessed changes in the afferent arbor in each mouse strain after both SCT and CCI. We show that independent of the type of injury, 129Sv mice but not C57BL or Wld(S) mice demonstrated an increased small-diameter CGRP-immunoreactive afferent arbor after SCI. Our work thus suggests a role for Wallerian degeneration in the development of autonomic dysreflexia and demonstrates that the choice of mouse strain and injury model has important consequences to the generalizations that may be drawn from studies of SCI in mice.
Arcuate nucleus neuropeptide Y (NPY) neurons project within the hypothalamus and to several extrahypothalamic brain areas. Plasticity in the formation of arcuate NPY projections established postnatally may underlie the phenotypic characteristics of food intake and body weight. In this work we determined if directional cues for axonal outgrowth of NPY arcuate neurons exist in the adult brain. For this purpose, an embryonic (E15) arcuate nucleus of WT mice was grafted into the third ventricle of 2-week- and 2-month-old NPY knockout (KO) mice. One month after the transplantation, the distribution of NPY-positive terminals in the brains of NPY-KO mice was studied using immunohistochemistry. NPY-positive terminals were found inside of the grafted tissue as well as in the host hypothalamus, including the arcuate nucleus, the paraventricular and periventricular nuclei, the lateral hypothalamic and preoptic areas, and in extrahypothalamic areas such as the amygdala and the thalamic paraventricular nucleus. This pattern of distribution of NPY fibers was found in both groups of grafted mice. The brain areas reinnervated by NPY-positive terminals in the NPY-KO mice closely corresponded to the normal targets for the arcuate NPY neurons as revealed by the distribution of agouti gene-related protein immunoreactivity. Our data show that directional cues for NPY arcuate nucleus projections are present in the adult brain, suggesting their involvement in the formation of normal arcuate NPY connections and a possibility for their functional reconstruction.
The neuronal-specific RNA-binding protein, HuD, binds to a U-rich regulatory element of the 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) of the GAP-43 mRNA and delays the onset of its degradation. We have recently shown that overexpression of HuD in embryonic rat cortical cells accelerated the time course of normal neurite outgrowth and resulted in a twofold increase in GAP-43 mRNA levels. Given this evidence, we sought to investigate the involvement of HuD during nerve regeneration. It is known that HuD protein and GAP-43 mRNA are expressed in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of adult rat and that GAP-43 is upregulated in DRG neurons during regeneration. In this study, we examined the expression patterns and levels of HuD and GAP-43 mRNA in DRG neurons following sciatic nerve injury using a combination of in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry, and quantitative RT-PCR. GAP-43 and HuD expression increased in the ipsilateral DRG during the first 3 weeks of regeneration, with peak values seen at 7 days postcrush. At this time point, the levels of HuD and GAP-43 mRNAs in the ipsilateral DRG increased by twofold and sixfold, respectively, relative to the contralateral DRG. Not only were the temporal patterns of expression of HuD protein and GAP-43 mRNA similar, but also they were found to colocalize in the cytoplasm of DRG neurons. Moreover, both molecules were distributed in cytoplasmic granules containing ribosomal RNA. In conclusion, our results suggest that HuD is involved in the upregulation of GAP-43 expression observed at early stages of peripheral nerve regeneration.
There is controversy over potential effects of dopaminergic replacement therapies on the partially lesioned nigrostriatal dopaminergic projection. We evaluated indirect (levodopa, L-DOPA) versus direct (pramipexole, PRA) dopaminergic treatment effects on nigrostriatal lesion severity as measured with vesicular monoamine transporter type-2 (VMAT2) binding. Prior studies have shown that striatal VMAT2 density provides an objective estimate of dopaminergic neuronal integrity, without confounding effects of compensatory regulation. Partial unilateral median forebrain bundle lesions were made by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Lesion severity was estimated using rotational behavior after injections of apomorphine and amphetamine. Rats were ranked and matched in pairs by rotation and assigned to receive either PRA (1 mg/kg/day) or L-DOPA/benserazide (100/25 mg/kg/day) ip via osmotic pump. After 4 weeks of drug treatment, in vitro autoradiography was performed with [(3)H]methoxytetrabenazine to measure striatal VMAT2 binding density. Lesion-to-intact VMAT2 density correlated with rotation in both treatment groups. There was no treatment effect on VMAT2 expression in the partially lesioned striatum and thus no differential effect of indirect versus direct dopamimetic treatment on nigrostriatal integrity.
One of the major histopathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is redundant senile plaques mainly composed of beta-amyloid (Abeta) aggregates. Alternative cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), occurring in both normal and AD subjects, results in the generation and secretion of soluble APP (sAPP) and Abeta. We examined the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for alpha- and beta-secretase cleaved sAPP (alpha-sAPP and beta-sAPP) in 81 sporadic AD patients, 19 patients with mild cognitive impairment, and 42 healthy controls by using newly developed sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay methods. We found that neither the level of CSF-alpha-sAPP nor CSF-beta-sAPP differed between sporadic AD patients and healthy controls. These findings further support the conclusion that there is no change in APP expression in sporadic AD. However, the level of CSF-beta-sAPP was significantly increased in patients with mild cognitive impairment compared to controls. We also investigated the relationship between the CSF level of alpha/beta-sAPP and Abeta(42) and the apoE epsilon 4 (apoE4) allele. Significantly lower levels of CSF-alpha-sAPP were found in AD patients possessing one or two apoE4 alleles than in those not possessing the apoE4 allele. Neither the levels of CSF-beta-sAPP nor CSF-Abeta(42) differed when comparing ApoE4 allele-positive with allele-negative individuals.


A direct association between aging and drug-induced dyskinesia has been reported by several investigators. Iminiodipropionitrile (IDPN), a prototype nitrile compound produces a motor syndrome in rodents, which resembles neuroleptic drug induced dyskinesia. In this investigation attempt has been made to study the effect of age on IDPN induced vestibular hair cell degeneration and resulting dyskinetic syndrome. Male Wistar rats aged 3, 6 and 12 weeks received IDPN in the doses of 0, 200 and 400 mg/kg, intraperitoneally for 3 consecutive days. IDPN-induced dyskinesia was assessed using a behavioral testing battery on days 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 14, 21 and 28. The rats were sacrificed on day 28; temporal bones were excised for vestibular histopathology and sera were collected for measuring the indices of oxidative stress (glutathione and conjugated dienes). IDPN in the dose of 200 mg/kg produced dyskinesia in 12 weeks old rats, but failed to do so in 3 and 6 weeks old rats. The high dose of IDPN (400 mg/kg) caused dyskinesia in all age groups, however, its onset and severity were age-dependent. Older rats showed an early onset and significantly high incidence of dyskinesia as compared to younger rats. The susceptibility of rats to IDPN-induced behavioral deficits was proportional to oxidative stress and degeneration of sensory hair cells in the crista ampullaris.
This new conference on Psychiatric Drug Research was organised by the Strategic Research Institute and was chaired by P McGonigle (Wyeth Research, USA) and D Schoepp (Eli Lilly, USA). The 2-day meeting featured presentations from an international assembly of industrial and academic experts who have significantly contributed to the current body of knowledge in the field of psychotherapeutics. D Weinberger (NIMH, USA) gave an elegant keynote lecture on the application of genomics in psychopharmacology. Other presentations covered the latest technological advances, animal models and mechanistic approaches utilised in drug discovery for neuropsychiatric disorders and reviewed the current status of numerous novel targets resulting from these strategies.
One of the mechanisms leading to neurodegeneration during Alzheimer's disease (AD) is amyloid beta peptide neurotoxicity. In response to a variety of stress insults, namely oxidative stress, the transcription factor NF-kB can be activated. We have previously shown that amyloid beta peptides 25-35 and 1-40 (A beta 25-35 and A beta 1-40) induces cell death. In response to A beta 25-35 or 1-40 treatment, we observed an increase in superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in NT2 cells. Amyloid beta peptides also induced an increase in SOD expression levels. This could result from NF-kB activation, as determined by the expression of p65. We observed that the NF-kB inhibitor, PDTC, prevented SOD overexpression after A beta treatment. Previously we have shown that A beta peptides could activate caspases-mediated apoptotic cell death. In this study, we analyzed if NF-kB activation prevented cells from caspases-activation and we also observed that inhibition of NF-kB by PDTC induced an increase in caspase-3 and caspase-6 activation. Taken together, these data suggest that pharmacological induction of NF-kB can be a potential target in Alzheimer's disease treatment.
Monkeys treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) have been widely used as animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Depending on the method of administration different PD models can be developed. Systemic (iv, sc.) MPTP administration can induce an advanced parkinsonian syndrome. However, systemic administration may require intensive animal care after neurotoxin administration, as well as repeated high doses of MPTP to avoid spontaneous recovery. Unilateral intracarotid artery (ICA) MPTP administration induces a stable hemiparkinsonian syndrome, with the advantage of allowing the animal to groom and feed itself and having a control side in the same animal. However, this unilateral syndrome lacks the bilateral characteristics of advanced PD. Bilateral ICA administration can induce a reliable bilateral syndrome but inherent is the risk of severely impairing the animals and leaving them unable to maintain themselves. This report analyzed the PD model induced by administration of unilateral ICA and subsequent intravenous injections of MPTP in rhesus monkeys. The combined method of MPTP administration induces an advanced stable parkinsonian syndrome, in which the ICA injection of MPTP initiates the parkinsonian syndrome primarily in one hemisphere and the subsequent iv. doses (administered as needed) further deplete the dopamine (DA) system to induce a bilateral lesion in a shorter period of time, with fewer side effects. We studied the relationships between the behavioral, biochemical and histochemical changes related to the combined MPTP treatments to further characterize this model. The monkeys were categorized as presenting mild (stage 2) or moderate (stage 3) parkinsonism based on a parkinsonian rating scale. Postmortem biochemical analysis showed massive DA reduction equally in the caudate nucleus and putamen ipsilateral to ICA MPTP infusion, with varying degrees of DA preservation in the contralateral striatum. Differences between stage 2 and stage 3 were attributed to DA concentrations in the caudate nucleus and putamen of the contralateral hemisphere. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry revealed that the midbrain DA neurons of the group A8, A9, and A10 showed differential vulnerability for MPTP. This finding was similar to that observed in idiopathic PD with significant relationships between the clinical stages and cell losses in the group A9 (substantia nigra pars compacta). Positron emission tomography (PET) using [18F] 6-fluoro-L-m- tyrosine (FMT) showed that uptake (Ki) values correlated well with the biochemical data and are good predictors of DA levels in the contralateral striatal regions. Consistent with the immunohistochemical analysis, PET data also showed significant correlations with all groups of the DA cells. Here we describe an animal model that can play an important role in understanding the symptoms and therapeutic basis of PD since different severities of parkinsonian symptoms can be mimicked.
L1CAM is a neural cell adhesion molecule (CAM) that is critical for proper CNS development in humans. It mediates a myriad of activities important to CNS maturation, including neurite outgrowth, adhesion, fasciculation, migration, myelination and axon guidance. L1CAM promotes these cellular activities by interacting with a diverse group of CAMs, extracellular matrix molecules and signaling receptors through interactions involving its extracellular region. This region is composed of 11 tandem immunoglobulin-like (Ig) domains. This review focuses on the L1CAM extracellular region, and how recent work has clarified important aspects of its structure and function. These studies have provided new insights into how L1CAM binds to several different extracellular molecules, how these binding activities are regulated, and how L1CAM initially folds. Furthermore, these studies suggest that the extracellular region is a dynamic, integrated structure that depends on cooperative interactions among its Ig-like domains for proper functioning.
The seminal studies by von Economo in humans (1) and by Nauta (2) in rats implicated specific basal forebrain areas at the preoptic level as important in sleep regulation. In the last two decades, studies employing recording of single neurons and monitoring of sleep parameters with subsequent chemical and electron microscopic identification of the synaptic input-output relations of these recorded neurons, provided an increasingly detailed understanding of the function of specific neurotransmitters and corresponding chemically specific neuronal circuits in the forebrain in relation to sleep-wake states. In this review, first the electrophysiology of cholinergic and parvalbumin-containing GABAergic basalo-cortical projection neurons is described, followed by an examination of possible functional interconnections between basal forebrain neuropeptide Y- (NPY) and somatostatin-containing putative interneurons and cholinergic projection neurons. A survey of various inputs to basal forebrain neurons that show state-related changes is then discussed in relation to their possible effects via basal forebrain circuitry on cortical activity. This treatise suggests that cholinergic and GABAergic projection neurons of the basal forebrain are anatomically in a unique position to enable the channeling of specific cellular and homeostatic states from different subcortical systems to the cortical mantle to modulate behavioral adaptation and cognitive functions.


The aims of the study were to: 1) assess the validity of the mood and anxiety modules of the PRIME-MD Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ) in otorhinolaryngology outpatients consulting with dizziness; and, 2) the prevalence of anxiety and mood disorders in these patients and in 3 subgroups based on of the cause of dizziness (Functional group, with psychogenic or hyperventilation factor; Organic group with an organic cause; Unspecified group without indication of organic or psychogenic cause). The PRIME-MD PHQ was completed by 268 consecutive outpatients. In 97 patients a psychiatric interview was performed. Operating characteristics indicated good criterion validity for the assessed modules of the PRIME-MD PHQ. Thirty five percent of the patients were diagnosed with &quot;Any Anxiety or Depressive Disorder&quot;. In the Functional group, the prevalence of &quot;Any Anxiety or Depressive Disorder&quot; was significantly higher than in the Organic group (P&lt;.0001) and than in the Unspecified group (P&lt;.0001). In the Unspecified group, the prevalence of &quot;Any Anxiety or Depressive Disorder&quot; was significantly lower than in the Organic group (P =.007). Our findings support the criterion validity of the PRIME-MD PHQ for anxiety and depressive disorders in otorhinolaryngology outpatients with dizziness. Psychiatric disorders were highly prevalent and differences in psychiatric status between the different subgroups were demonstrated.
The cholinergic gene locus (CGL) consists of the genes encoding the choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). To establish a cholinergic-specific Cre-expressing mouse, we constructed a transgene expression vector (VAChT-Cre) with 11.3 kb human CGL in which a Cre-IRES-EGFP unit was inserted in the VAChT open reading frame. The activity of Cre, whose expression was driven by the VAChT promoter, was examined by crossing a reporter mouse (CAG-CAT-Z) in which expression of LacZ is activated upon Cre-mediated recombination. Transgenic lines with the VAChT-Cre construct displayed the restricted Cre expression in a subset of cholinergic neurons in the somatomotor nuclei and medial habenular nucleus, but absent in visceromotor and other central and peripheral cholinergic neurons. Cre expression was first observed at postnatal day 7 and later detected in approximately 40-60% of somatomotor neurons. Based on the onset of Cre expression, we generated two mouse lines (two alleles; VAChT-Cre. Fast and VAChT-Cre.Slow) in which Cre expression reaches maximal levels fast and slow, respectively. The use of VAChT-Cre mice should allow us to deliver Cre to a subset of postnatal motor neurons, thereby bypassing lethality and facilitating analysis of gene function in adult motor neurons.

The Neurodevelopmental Hypothesis of the etiology of schizophrenia suggests that interaction between genetic and environmental events occurring during critical early periods in neuronal growth may negatively influence the way by which nerve cells are laid down, differentiated and selectively culled by apoptosis. Recent advances toward understanding the regulation of brain development offer insights into possible mechanisms of developmental brain changes. One such factor is the Wnt family of genes, which plays a central role in normal brain development. Activation of the Wnt cascade leads to inactivation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3 beta), accumulation and activation of beta-catenin and expression of genes involved in neuronal development. It has been proposed that alteration in the transduction cascade of the Wnt signaling pathway represents an aberrant neurodevelopment in schizophrenia. The role of GSK-3 in developmental brain changes in schizophrenia may not be restricted to the Wnt signaling cascade. GSK-3 alpha, reported to be 80% lower in lymphocytes of schizophrenic patients is a regulatory enzyme of some neuronal proteins implicated to be aberrant in schizophrenia. Programmed cell death is an essential component of normal brain development. Spatial or temporal errors in the stimuli that initiate this pathway or processes within it can result in pathological neuronal development. Increased density of neuronal population in the cortical subplate, found in postmortem brains of schizophrenic patients may imply reduced programmed cell death. The possible role of GSK-3 beta, a pro-apoptotic factor participating in signal transduction involved in cell survival, is discussed in relation to schizophrenia.
Changes in spontaneous activity, recorded over 15-min periods before, immediately after and within hours after an acute acoustic trauma, were studied in primary auditory cortex of ketamine-anesthetized cats. We focused on the spontaneous firing rate (SFR), the peak cross-correlation coefficient (rho) and burst-firing activity. Multi-units (MUs) were grouped according to characteristic frequency (CF): MUs with a CF below the trauma-tone frequency (TF) were labeled as Be, those with a CF within 1 octave above the TF were labeled as Ab1 and those with a CF more than 1 octave above the TF were labeled as Ab2. Immediately after the trauma, the SFR was not significantly changed. The percentage of time that neurons were bursting, the mean burst duration, the number of spikes per burst and the mean inter-spike interval in a burst were enhanced. rho was locally increased in the Ab1-Ab2 and Ab2-Ab2 groups. A few hours post trauma, the SFR was increased in the Be and Ab2 groups, whereas burst-firing returned to pre-exposure levels. Moreover, rho was elevated in the Be-Ab2, Ab1-Ab2 and Ab2-Ab2 groups; this increase was significantly correlated to the changes in SFR. The results are discussed in the context of a neural correlate of tinnitus.
Aggressive encounters are accompanied by a release of stress hormone, and this corticosterone (CORT) secretion could influence aggressive behavior in subsequent encounters. We investigated the modulating effects of CORT on aggressive behavior in the context of a 5-day social experience in male green anole lizards. In Experiment 1, we measured plasma CORT levels in animals that were exposed for different times to aggressive males. In Experiment 2, using metyrapone, a CORT synthesis blocker, we tested whether CORT secretion in response to the aggressive stimulus plays a role in experience-dependent facilitation of aggressive behavior. We hypothesized that aggressive encounters would increase plasma CORT levels, and that blocking CORT synthesis with metyrapone treatment during the aggressive encounter would cause an animal to become more aggressive. We also tested whether blocking CORT would interfere with the influence of 5-day social experience on animals' behavior in a subsequent aggressive encounter. Animals that were exposed to another male showed higher plasma CORT levels immediately after the 10 min encounter than animals exposed to the non-social video, and this high level was maintained through day 5. Within the aggressive video groups, in Experiment 2, there was a distinctly different pattern in displays depending on drug condition: vehicle-injected animals showed gradual increases followed by decreases in aggressive behavioral responses to the video as the five days proceeded (habituation), while animals injected with metyrapone started out with high aggressive behavior and did not decrease behavioral responses at later trials (no habituation). Finally, when tested with a novel conspecific on day 6, animals previously injected with metyrapone showed no higher aggression than did animals previously injected with vehicle and exposed to the aggressive video. These results suggest that blocking CORT synthesis during the exposure to the aggressive video induced animals to remain aggressive toward the repetitive stimulus without habituating, while not becoming more aggressive than controls toward a novel challenger.
Chronic anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) treatment during adolescence facilitates offensive aggression in male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). The current study assessed whether adolescent AAS exposure influenced the immunohistochemical localization of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65), the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), in areas of hamster brain implicated in aggressive behavior. Hamsters were administered high dose AAS throughout adolescence, scored for offensive aggression, and then examined for differences in GAD65 puncta to regions of the hamster brain important for aggression. When compared with control animals, aggressive AAS-treated hamsters showed significant increases in the area covered by GAD65 immunoreactive puncta in several of these aggression regions, including the anterior hypothalamus, ventrolateral hypothalamus, and medial amygdala. Conversely, aggressive AAS-treated hamsters showed a significant decrease in GAD65-ir puncta in the lateral septum when compared with oil-treated controls. However, no differences in GAD65 puncta were found in other aggression areas, such as the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and central amygdala. Together, these results support a role for altered GAD65 synthesis and function in adolescent AAS-facilitated offensive aggression.
Aggressive behavior can be studied as either offensive or defensive responses to a stimulus. The studies discussed in this review are focused on the peripubertal development of offensive aggression in male golden hamsters and its responsiveness to repeated social stress. Quantitative and qualitative changes in offensive responses were analyzed during this period. Quantitative changes in offensive responses were observed as decreased frequency of attacks. Qualitative changes were observed as changes in attack types, as animals reorient their attacks gradually from the face to the lower belly and rump. These developmental changes were altered by repeated exposure to social stress during early puberty. Daily exposure to aggressive adults during early puberty accelerated the qualitative development of offensive responses and the onset of adult-like offensive responses. In contrast, social stress had little effect on the quantitative changes associated with early puberty. However, social stress was associated with higher attack frequency during adulthood. These effects of stress during early puberty contrast with those observed with animals in late puberty. At that time, repeated exposure to aggressive adults inhibits offensive aggression. These data constitute the basis for a new theory on the development of agonistic behavior that includes the following hypotheses. First, it is hypothesized that mid-puberty is marked by a change in responsiveness to repeated social stress. As such, differences in stress responsiveness from social interactions are interpreted as a basic distinction between play fighting and adult aggression. Second, it is also hypothesized that a common neural circuitry mediates the activation of offensive responses during play fighting and adult aggressive interactions.
Predatory (towards crickets), intermale, and maternal aggression were examined in four replicate lines of mice that had been selectively bred for high wheel-running (S) and in four random-bred control lines (C). In generation 18, individual differences in both predatory and intermale aggression were significantly consistent across four trial days, but predatory and intermale aggression were uncorrelated both at the individual level and among the eight line means. Latencies to attack crickets were significantly lower in S lines as a group. Intermale aggression, however, did not differ between S and C lines. S lines were significantly smaller in body mass, but did not differ in either testes mass or plasma testosterone. In generations 28 and 30, respectively, S and C lines did not differ in either maternal or intermale aggression. However, significant differences among the individual lines were found for maternal aggression, and one S line exhibited an extremely high mean time of aggression (&gt;120 sec for a 5-min test). Maternal and intermale aggression were not correlated among the eight line means or at the level of individual variation. Overall, our results suggest: (1) predatory aggression and voluntary wheel-running are positively related at the genetic level; (2) predatory and intermale aggression are unrelated at a genetic level; and (3) maternal and intermale aggression are not tightly related at the genetic level. Possible relationships between predatory aggression, dopamine, and wheel-running behavior are discussed.
Verbal fluency and confrontation naming, two tests of word retrieval, are of great utility in the field of cognitive neuroscience. However, in the context of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), movement artefact has necessitated the use of covert paradigms, which has limited clinical application. We developed two overt fMRI paradigms that allowed for performance measurement and hence were appropriate for use with patient groups. The paradigms incorporated a blocked-design and compressed-acquisition methodology where cues were presented and responses made in a &quot;silent&quot; period allowing for performance measurement. The slow response pace was specifically designed for older and potentially cognitively impaired participants. Verbal fluency was associated with activation in the middle frontal gyrus (Brodmann areas 46 and 9), anterior cingulate gyrus and inferior frontal gyrus (area 44 and 45). Confrontation naming activated areas of the temporo-occipital cortices (areas 18, 19, and 37) and the inferior frontal gyrus. The two paradigms successfully activated regions involved in executive and word retrieval processes and overcame the potential artefacts resulting from overt speech during image acquisition, providing useful neuropsychological tools to investigate cognitive deficits in clinical populations.
We investigated the early (&quot;preattentive&quot;) cortical processing of voice information, using the so-called &quot;mismatch response&quot;. This brain potential allows inferences to be made about the sensory short-term store. Most importantly, the mismatch potential also provides information about the organization of long-term memory traces in the auditory system. Such traces have reliably been reported for phonemes. However, it is unclear whether they also exist for human voice information. To explore this issue, 10 healthy subjects were presented with a single word stimulus uttered by voices of different prototypicality (natural, manipulated, synthetic) in a mismatch experiment (stimulus duration 380 msec, onset-to-onset interval 900 msec). The event-related magnetic fields were recorded by a 148-channel whole-head magnetometer and a source current density modeling of the magnetic field data was performed using a minimum-norm estimate. Each deviating voice signal in a series of standard-voice stimuli evoked a mismatch response that was localized in temporal brain regions bilaterally. Increased mismatch related magnetic flux was observed in response to decreased prototypicality of a presented voice signal, but did not correspond to the acoustic similarity of standard voice and deviant voices. We, therefore, conclude that the mismatch activation predominantly reflects the ecological validity of the voice signals. We further demonstrate that the findings cannot be explained by mere acoustic feature processing, but rather point towards a holistic mapping of the incoming voice signal onto long-term representations in the auditory memory.
We investigated the extent of hemodynamic recovery following the paired presentation of either identical or different faces at two different inter-stimulus intervals (ISI). Signal recovery was consistently better at an ISI of 6 sec compared to 3 sec. Significantly less signal recovery was associated with identical faces compared to different faces in bilateral mid-fusiform and right prefrontal regions but not in the calcarine and posterior fusiform regions. Repetition suppression effects contributed significantly to incomplete signal recovery in a region-specific manner. Simulations using empirically derived data suggest that experiments with shorter ISI (average 4.5-6.0 sec) are as sensitive as experiments with intermediate ISI (average 9 sec) in detecting response differences if experimental duration is equivalent. However, designs using intermediate ISI may be more appropriate if the expected difference in responses is small and if the number of suitable stimuli is limited.
Loss-of-function mutations in RET cause abnormal development of the enteric nervous system, a congenital condition known as Hirschsprung disease. Hirschsprung mutations in the extracellular domain of RET (RETECD) affect processing in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and prevent RET expression at the cell surface. We have investigated the processing and function of a series of Hirschsprung disease mutations affecting different biochemical properties of the RETECD. All mutations examined prevented the maturation of RETECD in the ER and abolished its ability to interact with the GDNF/GFRalpha1 ligand complex, indicating defects in protein folding. Immature forms of RETECD accumulating intracellularly associated with the ER chaperone Grp78/BiP and showed different degrees of protein ubiquitination. Maturation of RETECD mutants, including those deficient in Ca2+ binding and disulfide bridge formation, could be rescued by allowing protein expression to proceed at 30 degrees C, a condition known to facilitate protein folding. Several of the mutants produced at 30 degrees C regained their ability to bind to the GDNF/GFRalpha1 complex comparable to wild-type, demonstrating that the mutations affected RETECD folding but not function. Analysis of autonomous folding subunits in the RETECD indicated an intrinsic propensity to misfolding in three N-terminal cadherin-like domains, CLD1-3, which also concentrate the majority of Hirschsprung mutations affecting the RETECD. In agreement with this, expression and maturation of these subdomains was specifically improved at 30 degrees C, identifying them as temperature-sensitive determinants in RETECD. Intriguingly, while production of human and mouse RETECD was suboptimal at 37 degrees C compared with 30 degrees C, expression of Xenopus RETECD was higher at 37 degrees C, a non-physiological temperature for amphibians. The intrinsic susceptibility to misfolding of mammalian RETECD may be the result of a trade-off that helps to avoid an increased incidence of tumors, at the expense of a greater vulnerability to Hirschsprung disease.
Deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertension is characterized by low renin/angiotensin but increased arterial superoxide levels. We have recently reported that the arterial endothelin-1 (ET-1) level is increased, resulting in NADPH oxidase activation and superoxide generation. However, the effect of ET-1 on venous superoxide production and its relation to venoconstriction are unknown. The present study tested the hypotheses that ET-1 stimulates venous NADPH oxidase and superoxide via its ET(A) receptors, resulting in enhanced venoconstriction in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats. Treatment with ET-1 (0.01 to 1 nmol/L), but not the selective ET(B) receptor agonist sarafotoxin s6c, of vena cavas of normal rats concentration-dependently increased superoxide levels, an effect that was abolished by the selective ET(A) receptor antagonist ABT-627. Although the ET-1 level was not increased in the vena cava and plasma, both venous NADPH oxidase activity and superoxide levels were significantly higher in DOCA-salt compared with sham rats. Moreover, ET-1 treatment (10(-9) mol/L, 10 minutes) of isolated vena cavas further elevated superoxide levels in DOCA-salt rats only but not sham rats, an effect that was abrogated by the superoxide scavenger tempol. Similarly, ET-1-induced contractions of isolated vena cavas of DOCA-salt but not sham rats were significantly inhibited by tempol. The NADPH oxidase inhibitor apocynin significantly reduced superoxide levels in vena cavas of DOCA-salt rats and in ET-1-treated vena cavas of normal rats. Finally, in vivo ET(A) receptor blockade by ABT-627 significantly lowered venous superoxide levels and blood pressure in DOCA-salt but not sham rats. These results suggest that superoxide contributes to ET-1-induced venoconstriction through an elevated venous NADPH oxidase activity in mineralocorticoid hypertension.

Clozapine has recently been associated with venous thromboembolism. The aim of this study was to describe three elderly patients in whom olanzapine therapy was associated with venous thromboembolism. During a 4-month period at the same psychogeriatric clinic, three elderly patients (an 89-year-old male, a 78-year-old male and an 83-year-old female) developed deep venous thrombosis shortly after treatment with olanzapine was initiated. Two of the patients also had symptoms consistent with a diagnosis of pulmonary embolism. None had previously been diagnosed with venous thromboembolism. These cases indicate that venous thromboembolism might be associated with the use of olanzapine, at least in geriatric patients. Subjects treated with olanzapine should be monitored clinically for venous thromboembolism to ensure early detection and prompt intervention, and a possible discontinuation of treatment with olanzapine should be considered after a diagnosis of venous thromboembolism.
Gluteal compartment syndrome usually occurs secondary to prolonged immobility and recumbency following alcohol and drug abuse. The resultant pain and swelling in the lower limb may be misdiagnosed as deep vein thrombosis. Once compartment syndrome is diagnosed, urgent decompression fasciotomy is required. The outcome is poor if the diagnosis is missed or delayed. We report such a case.

Glutamate is the major transmitter of the brain and is involved in all aspects of cognitive function since it is the transmitter of cortical and hippocampal pyramidal neurones. Furthermore, glutamate and glutamate receptors are involved in long-term potentiation, a process believed to underlie learning and memory. Histological studies indicate loss of pyramidal neurones and their synapses in Alzheimer's disease (AD), this together with biochemical evidence suggests presynaptic (and postsynaptic) glutamatergic hypoactivity. This represents a 'double blow' as the activity of glutamatergic neurones is heavily influenced by the cholinergic system, which is also dysfunctional in AD. The clinical relevance of these changes is emphasised because glutamatergic and cholinergic dysfunction are strong correlates of cognitive decline in AD. The mechanism by which glutamatergic (and cholinergic) cells die is likely to be a combination of necrosis and apoptosis caused by a range of factors which include tangle formation and the effects of too much and too little glutamatergic neurotransmission.
Aluminum (Al) has been etiologically and epidemiologically related to several neurologic conditions, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). The effects of Al long-term exposure were investigated to describe the associated behavioral and brain modifications. Adult rats were intraperitoneally injected three times a week for 6 months with ecological doses of Al gluconate (0.85 mg/kg). The Al overload was confirmed by the significantly increased level of Al in serum. We assessed fear conditioning, spatial memory and emotional reactivity by shuttle-box task, Morris water maze, and open-field, respectively. The performance of the experimental animals at the shuttle-box task was significantly lower (p &lt;.01) compared to that of control. The experimental animals had impaired spatial memory, with lower and more fluctuant performance at Morris water maze. The noxious-driven behavior of the experimental animals was also altered, with significantly lower activity scores (p &lt;.05), and high emotionality scores (p &lt;.01) at the open-field. We recovered and processed the brain for aluminum and amyloid deposits. The brains of experimental animals, studied by optical microscopy, displayed a massive cellular depletion in the hippocampal formation, particularly, the CAl field, and also in the temporal and parietal cortex. We observed numerous ghost-like neurons with cytoplasmic and nuclear vacuolations, and with Al deposits. The hippocampus contained extracellular accumulations of Al and amyloid surrounded by nuclei of degenerating cells, which we interpreted as neuritic plaques. The cerebrovasculature was distorted, with a significant thickening of the wall of capillaries, associated with amyloid deposits. These behavioral and neuropathological modifications associated with long-term exposure to Al are reminiscent of those observed in AD.
Tonsillectomy (T) is one of the most common surgical procedures performed on children. Long-term follow-up studies concerning its consequences are lacking. This study is the first study done on a group of patients that underwent T in their childhood, about 20 years ago. The investigation is a cohort study, which followed-up 18 patients who were tonsillectomized 20 years ago. It was to be determined whether these subjects suffer from more respiratory tract infections (or other infections) today, than people who are not tonsillectomized. A group of 54 age-matched subjects were selected for comparison. A questionnaire was mailed to the study population. No significant differences were found between the groups in the frequency of upper respiratory tract infection (URI). The mean number of URI's was approximately [MSOffice1]2.5 per year in both groups. The duration of the URI's was identical in each group. A high temperature was present to the same extent in each group. Absence from work, number of visits to physicians and the use of antibiotics were the same in each group. However, the prevalence of chronic disease was greater in the T-group than in the comparison group. The difference was significant with a Relative Risk of 9.41 and a Confidence Interval differing from 1 (1.13&lt;RR&lt;78.14) for the T-population to develop chronic disease. Because of the small number of the present study population, the results must be validated by further immunological and epidemiological studies on long-term effects of tonsillectomy.

In a psychophysical task with echoes that jitter in delay, big brown bats can detect changes as small as 10-20 ns at an echo signal-to-noise ratio of approximately 49 dB and 40 ns at approximately 36 dB. This performance is possible to achieve with ideal coherent processing of the wideband echoes, but it is widely assumed that the bat's peripheral auditory system is incapable of encoding signal waveforms to represent delay with the requisite precision or phase at ultrasonic frequencies. This assumption was examined by modeling inner-ear transduction with a bank of parallel bandpass filters followed by low-pass smoothing. Several versions of the filterbank model were tested to learn how the smoothing filters, which are the most critical parameter for controlling the coherence of the representation, affect replication of the bat's performance. When tested at a signal-to-noise ratio of 36 dB, the model achieved a delay acuity of 83 ns using a second-order smoothing filter with a cutoff frequency of 8 kHz. The same model achieved a delay acuity of 17 ns when tested with a signal-to-noise ratio of 50 dB. Jitter detection thresholds were an order of magnitude worse than the bat for fifth-order smoothing or for lower cutoff frequencies. Most surprising is that effectively coherent reception is possible with filter cutoff frequencies well below any of the ultrasonic frequencies contained in the bat's sonar sounds. The results suggest that only a modest rise in the frequency response of smoothing in the bat's inner ear can confer full phase sensitivity on subsequent processing and account for the bat's fine acuity or delay.
Rene Descartes (1596-1650), often called the 'father of modern philosophy', aimed at rooting all knowledge in certainty so that our understanding of the world could progress without error. To achieve this, he needed at least one sure thing on which to build. Starting with the most basic knowledge, the fact of his own existence--cogito ergo sum (I think therefore I am), he systematically proceeded to explain the world. Such systematic understanding would be accessible to anyone who applied the Cartesian method, and in turn would lead to a good life. Descartes' Passions of the Soul was written according to his method of certainty and fits in with a meticulously refined worldview. It is one of the first systematic treatises to explain a wide array of emotions, both normal and abnormal. Based on the Cartesian dualistic model of mind and body, the work helps ground a long medical tradition of separating 'rational' consciousness from emotions. For Descartes, emotions arose from two sources, the intellect and the body (Passions of the Soul and Passions of the Body). The more subtle 'Passions of the Soul' were viewed as superior to coarser and often-troublesome emotions taking root in the body. It is interesting to note the absence of clarity, however, in Descartes' division of intellectual emotions from bodily emotions, perhaps revealing an enduring weakness in the dualistic model itself. The work grapples with the multi-causal nature of psychopathology and brings out complex interactions between temperament and life experience. While modern neuroscience makes ever-tighter associations between physiology and experience, many of the basic scientific challenges we face today are outlined in this 350-year-old book.
The EAV/CR framework, designed for database support of rapidly evolving scientific domains, utilizes metadata to facilitate schema maintenance and automatic generation of Web-enabled browsing interfaces to the data. EAV/CR is used in SenseLab, a neuroscience database that is part of the national Human Brain Project. This report describes various enhancements to the framework. These include (1) the ability to create &quot;portals&quot; that present different subsets of the schema to users with a particular research focus, (2) a generic XML-based protocol to assist data extraction and population of the database by external agents, (3) a limited form of ad hoc data query, and (4) semantic descriptors for interclass relationships and links to controlled vocabularies such as the UMLS.
We carried out an ultrastructural analysis of axotomized synaptic terminals in Wld(s) and Ube4b/Nmnat (Wld) transgenic mice, in which severed distal axons are protected from Wallerian degeneration. Previous studies have suggested that axotomy in juvenile (&lt; 2 months) Wld mice induced a progressive nerve terminal withdrawal from motor endplates. In this study we confirm that axotomy-induced terminal withdrawal occurs in the absence of all major ultrastructural characteristics of Wallerian degeneration. Pre- and post-synaptic membranes showed no signs of disruption or fragmentation, synaptic vesicle densities remained at pre-axotomy levels, the numbers of synaptic vesicles clustered towards presynaptic active zones did not diminish, and mitochondria retained their membranes and cristae. However, motor nerve terminal ultrastructure was measurably different following axotomy in Wld transgenic 4836 line mice, which strongly express Wld protein: axotomized presynaptic terminals were retained, but many were significantly depleted of synaptic vesicles. These findings suggest that the Wld gene interacts with the mechanisms regulating transmitter release and vesicle recycling.
The internal workings of the organ of Corti and their relation to basilar membrane motion are examined with the aid of a simple kinematic model. It is shown that, due to the lever system embodied in the organ of Corti, there is a significant transformer gain between basilar membrane and cilia displacements. While this transformation is nonlinear, linear response prevails in the narrow physiologically relevant operating range of the ciliary transducer. The model also simulates cilia deflection when the mechanical stimulus is the length change of outer hair cells.
The Zwicker tone (ZT) is defined as an auditory negative afterimage, perceived after the presentation of an appropriate inducer. Typically, a notched noise (NN) with a notch width of 1/2 octave induces a ZT with a pitch falling in the frequency range of the notch. The aim of the present study was to find potential neural correlates of the ZT in the primary auditory cortex of ketamine-anesthetized cats. Responses of multiunits were recorded simultaneously with two 8-electrode arrays during 1 s and over 2 s after the presentation of a white noise (WN) and three NNs differing by the width of the notch, namely, 1/3 octave (NN1), 1/2 octave (NN2), and 2/3 octave (NN3). Both firing rate (FR) and peak cross-correlation coefficient (p) were evaluated for time windows of 500 ms. The cortical units were grouped according to whether their characteristic frequency (CF) was inside (&quot;In&quot; neurons) or outside (&quot;Out&quot; neurons) a 1-octave-wide frequency band centered on the notch center frequency. The ratios between the FRs and the rhos for each NN and the WN condition and for each group of neurons were then statistically evaluated. The ratios of FRs were significantly increased during and after the presentation of the NN for the &quot;In&quot; neurons. In contrast, the changes for the t&quot; neurons were small and most often insignificant. The ratios of the p values differed significantly from 1 in the &quot;In-In&quot; and &quot;In-Out&quot; groups during stimulation as well as after it. We also found that the ps of &quot;Out&quot; neurons were dependent on the type of NN. Potentially, a combination of increased p and increased FR might be a neurophysiological correlate of the ZT.

In vitro and animal investigations have indicated that testosterone is neuroprotective and reduces the levels of beta-amyloid and the phosphorylation of tau (which are considered to be critical to the pathophysiological process that leads to the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD)). Such findings imply that testosterone may have an important role in the modulation of cognitive function and in reducing the risk of AD. Currently available clinical evidence of the association between testosterone and cognitive function/AD comes from a small number of cross-sectional studies and five randomised trials of testosterone supplementation for healthy older men. The results suggest that testosterone has a weak association with visuospatial and memory scores, but the findings are inconsistent across different studies, which often included multiple comparisons across a wide range of cognitive domains. In addition, the serum levels of testosterone in men with AD are comparable to those of controls, as are brain levels. In conclusion, currently available evidence does not support the existence of a strong association between testosterone and cognitive function/AD.
The classic globoid cell leukodystrophy (Krabbe's disease) is caused by genetic defects in a lysosomal enzyme, galactosylceramidase. It is one of the two classic genetic leukodystrophies, together with metachromatic leukodystrophy. The mode of inheritance is autosomal recessive. Typically, the disease occurs among infants and takes a rapidly fatal course, but rarer late-onset forms also exist. Clinical manifestations are exclusively neurologic with prominent white-matter signs. The pathology is unique, consisting of a rapid and nearly complete disappearance of myelin and myelin-forming cells--the oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system and the Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system, reactive astroytic gliosis, and infiltration of the unique and often multinucleated macrophages (&quot;globoid cells&quot;) that contain strongly periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)-positive materials. A normally insignificant but highly cytotoxic metabolite, galactosylsphingosine (psychosine), is also a substrate of galactosylceramidase and is considered to play a critical role in the pathogenesis. The galactosylceramidase gene has been cloned, and a large number of disease-causing mutations have been identified. Equivalent genetic galactosylceramidase deficiency occurs in several mammalian species, such as mouse, dog, and monkey. Recently, deficiency of one of the sphingolipid activator proteins, saposin A, was demonstrated to cause a late-onset, slowly progressive globoid cell leukodystrophy at least in the mouse, with all of the phenotypic consequences of impaired degradation of galactosylceramidase substrates. Human globoid cell leukodystrophy owing to saposin A deficiency might be anticipated and should be suspected in human patients with a late-onset leukodystrophy with normal galactosylceramidase activity when other possibilities are also excluded. The only serious attempt at treating human patients is bone marrow transplantation, which can provide significant alleviation of symptoms, particularly in those patients with later-onset, more slowly progressive globoid cell leukodystrophy.

In Parkinson's disease (PD), the luminance pattern electroretinogram (PERG) is reported to be abnormal, indicating dysfunction of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). To determine the vulnerability of different subpopulations of RGCs in PD patients, the authors recorded the PERG to stimuli of chromatic (red-green [R-G] and blue-yellow [B-Y]) and achromatic (yellow-black [Y-Bk]) contrast, known to emphasize the contribution of parvocellular, koniocellular, and magnocellular RGCs, respectively. Subjects were early PD patients (n = 12; mean age, 60.1 +/- 8.3 years; range, 46 to 74 years) not undergoing treatment with levodopa and age-sex-matched controls (n = 12). Pattern electroretinograms were recorded monocularly in response to equiluminant R-G, B-Y, and Y-Bk horizontal gratings of 0.3 c/deg and 90% contrast, reversed at 1Hz, and presented at a viewing distance of 24 cm (59.2 x 59 degree field). In PD patients, the PERG amplitude was significantly reduced (by 40 to 50% on average) for both chromatic and luminance stimuli. Pattern electroretinogram latency was significantly delayed (by about 15 ms) for B-Y stimuli only. Data indicate that, in addition to achromatic PERGs, chromatic PERGs are altered in PD before levodopa therapy. Overall, chromatic PERGs to B-Y equiluminant stimuli exhibited the largest changes. Data are consistent with previous findings in PD, showing that visual evoked potentials (VEP) to B-Y chromatic stimuli are more delayed than VEPs to R-G and achromatic stimuli. The results suggest that the koniocellular subpopulation of RGCs may be particularly vulnerable in early stages of Parkinson's disease.
An event-related potential (ERP) study was conducted to elucidate the role of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in time estimation. Subjects discriminated between three pairs of visual stimuli lasting from 100 ms and 2 seconds by determining whether the second stimulus was longer or briefer than the first. Event-related potentials were recorded in frontal and prefrontal regions after offset of the second stimulus (S2). The results indicated that the accuracy of the performances depended on stimulus duration and presentation order. In the brief-long order, the number of successful responses was higher as a function of stimulus duration. A time-related late positive component (LPCt) was revealed at prefrontal and frontal electrodes whose latency and amplitude differed depending on stimulus duration and order. The amplitude of this positive wave was higher when performance levels increased in the brief-long but not the reverse order. These results indicate that the LPCt may reflect successful decision-making or retrieval during time estimation as a result of neuronal activity in the PFC.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), the most common form of partial epilepsy in adults is often refractory to medical treatment and in these patients epilepsy surgery is considered. Successful surgery is dependent on accurate localisation and lateralisation of the epileptogenic zone. The preoperative evaluation involves a series of assessments and investigations including detailed clinical history, interictal EEG, video-EEG monitoring, MRI, PET, SPECT, and neuropsychology and neuropsychiatric assessment. The role of each of these investigations and assessments in the preoperative evaluation is discussed. Advanced MR techniques including magnetic resonance spectroscopy, MR diffusion and MR perfusion have recently been assessed and are likely to enhance the pre-surgical evaluation of patients with TLE.The surgical outcome and preoperative investigations performed of 80 consecutive patients who underwent temporal lobe surgery between 1993 and 2002 at Royal Melbourne Hospital were reviewed. All patients had MRI, video-EEG monitoring and neuropsychology assessment and 56% a PET scan. During a mean follow-up of 5.9 years 75% had Class 1 outcome, 22% non-Class 1 outcome and 3% were lost to follow-up. The results of preoperative investigations were correlated with outcome. For interictal EEG, seizure semiology, ictal EEG, PET and neuropsychology assessment the surgical outcome of patients in whom results were concordant to side of surgery was compared with those discordant or non-lateralising. There was no significant difference. In 78 of 80 patients MRI revealed mesial temporal sclerosis or a foreign tissue lesion. The outcome was no different between these two groups. Results suggest that in patients with unilateral temporal lobe lesion on MRI and where ictal EEG is either concordant or non-lateralising, other investigations including PET, provide little additional prognostic information.


The basic organization of an exceptionally complex pattern of axonal projections from one distinct cell group of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis, the rhomboid nucleus (BSTrh), was analyzed with the PHAL anterograde tract-tracing method in rats. Brain areas that receive a strong to moderate input from the BSTrh fall into nine general categories: central autonomic control network (central amygdalar nucleus, descending hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, parasubthalamic nucleus and dorsal lateral hypothalamic area, ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, lateral parabrachial nucleus and caudal nucleus of the solitary tract, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve, and salivatory nuclei), gustatory system (rostral nucleus of the solitary tract and medial parabrachial nucleus), neuroendocrine system (periventricular and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei, hypothalamic visceromotor pattern generator network), orofaciopharyngeal motor control (rostral tip of the dorsal nucleus ambiguus, parvicellular reticular nucleus, retrorubral area, and lateral mesencephalic reticular nucleus), respiratory control (lateral nucleus of the solitary tract), locomotor or exploratory behavior control and reward prediction (nucleus accumbens, substantia innominata, and ventral tegmental area), ingestive behavior control (descending paraventricular nucleus and dorsal lateral hypothalamic area), thalamocortical feedback loops (medial-midline-intralaminar thalamus), and behavioral state control (dorsal raph and locus coeruleus). Its pattern of axonal projections and its position in the basal telencephalon suggest that the BSTrh is part of a striatopallidal differentiation involved in modulating the expression of ingestive behaviors, although it may have other functions as well.
Cholinergic septohippocampal neurons are affected by circulating estrogens. Previously, we found that extranuclear estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) immunoreactivity in presynaptic profiles had an overlapping distribution with cholinergic afferents in the rat hippocampal formation. To determine the subcellular relationships between cholinergic presynaptic profiles and ERalpha, hippocampal sections were dually immunolabeled for vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) and ERalpha and examined by electron microscopy. Within the hippocampal formation, immunoreactivities for VAChT and ERalpha both were presynaptic, although their subcellular targeting was distinct. VAChT immunoreactivity was found exclusively within presynaptic profiles and was associated with small synaptic vesicles, which usually filled axon terminals. VAChT-labeled presynaptic profiles were most concentrated in stratum oriens of the hippocampal CA1 region and dentate inner molecular layer and hilus. In contrast, ERalpha immunoreactivity was found in clusters affiliated either with select vesicles or with the plasmalemma within preterminal axons and axon terminals. ERalpha-immunoreactive (IR) presynaptic profiles were more evenly distributed between hippocampal lamina than VAChT-IR profiles. Quantitative ultrastructural analysis revealed that VAChT-IR presynaptic profiles contained ERalpha immunoreactivity (ranging from 3% to 17%, depending on the lamina). Additionally, VAChT-IR presynaptic profiles apposed ERalpha-IR dendritic spines, presynaptic profiles, and glial profiles; many of the latter two types of profiles abutted unlabeled dendritic spines that received asymmetric (excitatory-type) synapses from unlabeled terminals. The presence of ERalpha immunoreactivity in cholinergic terminals suggests that estrogen could rapidly and directly affect the local release and/or uptake of acetylcholine. The affiliation of cholinergic terminals with excitatory terminals near ERalpha-labeled dendritic spines or glial profiles suggests that alterations in acetylcholine release could indirectly affect estrogen-modulated structural plasticity.
Photoreceptors are richly supplied with mitochondria, where they are required to meet the energetic demands, in the soma, of phototransduction and, in the terminal, of neurotransmitter release. Compromising the latter, we have made photoreceptors R1-R6 in Drosophila ommatidia homozygous for either of two alleles, milt(186) and milt(92), of milton in whole-eye mosaics. Such mutant photoreceptors fail to target mitochondria to their terminals. We show from quantitative electron microscopy (EM) that mitochondria are totally lacking at the terminal but nevertheless abundant and present throughout the soma, where their distribution differs from that of control ommatidia, however, being more heavily concentrated in the nuclear region. Mitochondria are sparse at the basalmost level of mutant ommatidia, and are lacking beneath the basement membrane, in the axons and terminals of these cells. The absence of mitochondria from R1-R6 terminals and concommitant reductions in synaptic vesicle packing density, previously reported, we show here are accompanied by reduced immunoreactivity to the photoreceptor transmitter histamine but not by any change in total head histamine content, as determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. Mutant terminals also contain vesicle profiles with a wider range of sizes. These two phenotypes suggest that the reduced availability of ATP when mutant terminals lack a mitochondrial supply compromises their ability to pump histamine into synaptic vesicles and perturbs membrane distribution within the terminal. In addition, a band of somata in the lamina cortex, at least some of which are postsynaptic neurons not homozygous for milton, also shows altered mitochondrial targeting, with abnormal clusters of mitochondria, as visualized by immunolabeling with anti-hsp and by serial EM. Within the lamina, terminals of mutant photoreceptors are penetrated by neighboring cells with invaginations that frequently contain mitochondria, suggesting that a mechanism exists for intercellular metabolic support. Our findings indicate the direct and compensatory responses in a population of neurons when mitochondria are not correctly targeted to their synaptic terminals.
Big brown bats can discriminate between echoes that alternate in delay (jitter) by as little as 10-15 ns and echoes that are stationary in delay. This delay hyperacuity seems so extreme that it has been rejected in favor of an explanation in terms of artifacts in echoes, most likely spectral in nature, that presumably are correlated with delay. Using different combinations of digital, analog, and cable delays, we dissociated the overall delay of jittering echoes from the size of the analog component of delay, which alone is presumed to determine the strength of the apparatus artifact. The bats' performance remains invariant with respect to the overall delay of the jittering echoes, not with respect to the amount of analog delay. This result is not consistent with the possible use of delay-related artifacts produced by the analog delay devices. Moreover, both electronic and acoustic measurements disclose no spectral cues or impedance-mismatch reflections in delayed signals, just time-delays. The absence of artifacts from the apparatus and the failure of overlap and interference from reverberation to account for the 10-ns result means that closing the gap between the level of temporal accuracy plausibly explained from physiology and the level observed in behavior may require a better understanding of the physiology.
Changes in behavioral state are typically accompanied by changes in the frequency and spatial coordination of rhythmic activity in the neocortex. In this article, we analyze the effects of neuromodulation on ionic conductances in an oscillating cortical circuit model. The model consists of synaptically-coupled excitatory and inhibitory neurons and supports rhythmic activity in the alpha, beta, and gamma ranges. We find that the effects of neuromodulation on ionic conductances are, by themselves, sufficient to induce transitions between synchronous gamma and beta rhythms and asynchronous alpha rhythms. Moreover, these changes are consistent with changes in behavioral state, with the rhythm transitioning from the slower alpha to the faster gamma and beta as arousal increases. We also observe that it is the same set of underlying intrinsic and network mechanisms that appear to be simultaneously responsible for both the observed transitions between the rhythm types and between their synchronization properties. Spike time response curves (STRCs) are used to study the relationship between the transitions in rhythm and the underlying biophysics.


Pharmacological studies have been conducted on the aqueous and methanol extracts of defatted Nigella sativa L. seeds to evaluate their effects on the central nervous system (CNS) and on analgesic activity. The observations suggest that the two extracts of Nigella sativa possesses a potent CNS and analgesic activity (depressant action especially in the case of the methanolic extract).
The authors demonstrate that intersentential context may influence syntactic integration processes during online sentence comprehension, although this influence appears to be restricted to cases in which a contextual requirement must be fulfilled. By applying event-related brain potentials to the processing of clause-medial word order variations in German, the authors show that the local processing difficulty (a negativity from 300 to 450 ms) observed for object-initial sentences in a neutral context is also obtained in a (behaviorally) facilitating context in which the object is contextually given. By contrast, the processing pattern for a focused (questioned) initial object does not differ from that for a focused subject: both elicit a parietal positivity (280-480 ms) post-onset of the focused phrase. The authors interpret this early positivity as a general marker of focus integration, a process that appears to briefly supersede sentence-internal requirements.
A battery of standard neuropsychological tests examining various features of executive function, attention, and visual perception was administered to 27 subjects with questionable to mild dementia and compared to a 4-point caregiver rating scale of driving ability. Based on the results of this study, a computerized maze task, employing 10 mazes, was administered to a second sample of 40 normal elders and questionable to moderately demented drivers. Comparison was made to the same caregiver rating scale as well as to crash frequency. In the first study of neuropsychological tests, errors on Porteus Mazes emerged as the only significant predictor of driving ability in a stepwise regression analysis. In the follow-up study employing the computerized mazes, all 10 mazes were significantly related to driving ability ratings. Computerized tests of maze performance offer promise as a screening tool to identify potential driving impairment among cognitively impaired elderly and demented drivers.


We established a triple-labeling method with two rabbit polyclonal antibodies and a mouse monoclonal antibody and examined autopsied brain tissue with cotton wool plaques (CWPs). One of the polyclonal antibodies was so diluted (anti-Abeta42 or anti-Abeta40/1:30,000 or anti-von Willebrand factor/1:1000) that its visualization was possible only after amplification with the catalyzed reporter deposition (CARD) method. The other polyclonal antibody (anti-Abeta40 or anti-Abeta42/1:1000) was visualized with a fluorochrome conjugated to an anti-rabbit antibody that specifically visualized the latter polyclonal antibody because of its lower sensitivity. A monoclonal antibody, AT8, was superimposed to yield triple immunofluorolabeling. Serial optical sections with an interval of 0.3 micro m were reconstructed to allow three-dimensional (3D) observation of these three epitopes. Abeta40 was localized to core-like structures, mainly in layers I-III, and was sometimes in contact with the vascular wall, both without neuritic reactions. CWPs, present in layers I-VI, were labeled with anti-Abeta42 and were accompanied by neuritic reactions. These differences suggest that mechanisms of Abeta deposition and its relation to neuritic reactions or to blood vessels differ according to the lesion, even in the same microscopic field.
Automatic and effortful information processing in depressed patients was investigated by a visual search paradigm, in order to examine dysfunctional effortful processing in depressed patients. Twenty-one patients with major depression, according to the DSM-IV, and with a moderate depression measured by the Hamilton Rating Scale score at &gt;18 participated in the study. The healthy control group was matched for age, gender, and level of education. Half of the trials involved only one type of distractor, and the other half of the trials involved two types of distractors being presented. The results show that the performance of the depressed patients was equal to the control group when the target was easily recognized with only one type of distractor present. However, when target detection required a more difficult and complex attentive search strategy, effortful information processing, the depressed patients needed longer visual search time compared to the controls. Depressed patients seem to have impaired performance on effortful but not automatic information processing.

Cetacean (dolphin, whale, and porpoise) brains are among the least-studied mammalian brains because of the formidability of collecting and histologically preparing such relatively rare and large specimens. Among cetaceans, there exist relatively few studies of the brain of the harbor porpoise (Phocoena phocoena). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) offers a means of observing the internal structure of the brain when traditional histological procedures are not practical. Therefore, MRI has become a critical tool in the study of the brain of cetaceans and other large species. This article represents the first MRI-based anatomically labeled three-dimensional description of the harbor porpoise brain. Coronal plane sections of the brain of a young harbor porpoise were originally acquired and used to produce virtual digital scans in the other two orthogonal spatial planes. A sequential set of images in all three planes has been anatomically labeled and displays the proportions and positions of major neuroanatomical features. These images allow for the visualizing of the distinctive features of the harbor porpoise brain from various orientations by preserving the gross morphological structure of the specimen.
We have used improved miniaturized adenosine biosensors to measure adenosine release during hypoxia from within the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices. These microelectrode biosensors record from the extracellular space in the vicinity of active synapses as they detect the synaptic field potentials evoked in area CA1 by stimulation of the afferent Schaffer collateral-commissural fibre pathway. Our new measurements demonstrate the rapid production of adenosine during hypoxia that precedes and accompanies depression of excitatory transmission within area CA1. Simultaneous measurement of adenosine release and synaptic transmission gives an estimated IC50 for adenosine on transmission in the low micromolar range. However, on reoxygenation, synaptic transmission recovers in the face of elevated extracellular adenosine and despite a post-hypoxic surge of adenosine release. This may indicate the occurrence of apparent adenosine A1 receptor desensitization during metabolic stress. In addition, adenosine release is unaffected by pharmacological blockade of glutamate receptors and shows depletion on repeated exposure to hypoxia. Our results thus suggest that adenosine release is not a consequence of excitotoxic glutamate release. The potential for adenosine A1 receptor desensitization during metabolic stress implies that its prevention may be beneficial in extending adenosine-mediated neuroprotection in a variety of clinically relevant conditions.
Previous reports suggest the nitric-oxide synthase 2 (Nos2) promoter contains negative and positive cis-regulatory regions. This study identified such regions using rat C6 glial cells. Activity of the serially deleted rat Nos2 promoter fused to a luciferase reporter gene was found to vary with construct size independent of stimuli, decreasing markedly from 160 to 130 bp then increasing significantly from 110 to 94 bp. In contrast, time to peak activity was stimulus-dependent but size-independent; 4-8 h for a cytokine mixture or lipopolysaccharide + interferon-gamma, and 8-16 h for lipopolysaccharide + phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. Peak activity with heterologous promoters also varied; 4 h for 3.7 kb of the human Nos2A promoter, and 36 h for 1.8 kb of the murine promoter. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays and in vivo DNA footprinting data confirmed nuclear protein binding to promoter regions suspected of containing important regulatory sites based on reporter gene data. A binding site for NF-kappaB was not required for Nos2 promoter activity. These findings provide significant new information on the relative importance of different regions of the rat Nos2 promoter for transcriptional activation and nitric oxide production by glial cells and support the existence of cell- and species-specific mechanisms for transcriptional regulation of Nos2 activation.
Neural transplantation is an experimental treatment for Parkinson's disease. Widespread clinical application of the grafting technique is hampered by a relatively poor survival (around 10%) of implanted embryonic dopamine neurones. Earlier animal studies have indicated that a large proportion of the grafted cells die during graft tissue preparation and within the first few days after intracerebral implantation. The present study was designed to reveal the prevalence of cell death in rat intrastriatal grafts at 90 min, 1, 3, 6 and 42 days after implantation. We examined apoptotic cell death using semi-thin and paraffin sections stained with methylene blue and an antibody against activated caspase 3, respectively. We identified abundant apoptotic cell death up to 3 days after transplantation. In addition, we studied calpain activation using an antibody specific for calpain-cleaved fodrin. We report a peak in calpain activity 90 min after grafting. Surprisingly, we did not observe any significant difference in the number of dopaminergic neurones over time. The present results imply that grafted cells may be victims of either an early necrotic or a later apoptotic cell death and that there is substantial cell death as early as 90 min after implantation.
The activation of opioid receptors in neurones of the central nervous system leads to a variety of effects including the modulation of diuresis and parturition, processes that are directly controlled by the hypothalamic-neurohypophysial system (HNS). The effects of mu-opioid receptor activation on peptide release, voltage-gated Ca2+ currents and intracellular calcium levels ([Ca2+]i) were studied in isolated nerve terminals of the HNS. The mu-receptor agonist, DAMGO ([d-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]-enkephalin) inhibited high K+-induced peptide release in a dose-dependent manner, with oxytocin release being more sensitive to block than vasopressin release at all concentrations tested. The addition of the mu-receptor antagonist CTOP (d-Phe-Cys-Tyr-d-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr amide) was able to overcome the inhibitory effects of DAMGO. By contrast to previous results, voltage-gated Ca2+ currents were sensitive to blockage by DAMGO and this inhibition was also prevented by CTOP. Furthermore, [Ca2+]i measurements with Fura-2 corroborated the inhibition by DAMGO of calcium entry and its reversal by the micro -receptor antagonist in these nerve terminals. Thus, the decrease in neuropeptide release, particularly for oxytocin, induced by the activation of mu-opioid receptors in neurohypophysial terminals is mediated, at least in part, by a corresponding decrease in Ca2+ entry due to the inhibition of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels.

Anhedonia is the inability to experience physical or social pleasure. Its physical component is hypothesised to be due to dysfunction of a dopaminergic frontotemporal-subcortical circuit and has never been investigated as a possible affective complication of Parkinson's disease (PD). The aim of this study was to formally assess prevalence and correlates of physical anhedonia in PD patients compared with normal controls. Twenty five people with PD and 25 matched controls were administered a psychometric battery exploring mainly executive functions and mood. Hedonic tone was assessed using Chapman's Physical Anhedonia Scale. PD patients also underwent MRI linear measurement of frontal structures. Anhedonia levels were significantly higher in PD patients with respect to controls, although not extremely elevated; prevalence rate was 40% for parkinsonians, while no anhedonics were found among controls. Clinical, neuropsychological, and quantitative neuroradiological features did not show any significant correlation with physical anhedonia. Physical anhedonia appears to be a relatively frequent, although mild, affective disturbance of PD, independent from neurological, frontal, and depressive aspects.


The unusual case of a patient with a frontal lobe prolactinoma developed 14 years after resection of a histologically benign pituitary adenoma is presented. Sixteen years after resection of this frontal mass, and 30 years after the first intervention, the patient is symptom-free and without evidence of new intracranial tumors. The possibility that frontal tumor resulted as the late proliferation of microscopic tumor seeding that took place in the course of the first surgery, is suggested. Although this case can be considered as a pituitary carcinoma, the clinical course supports that tumor seeding from pituitary tumors not necessarily indicates a poor prognosis.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is recognized to involve demyelination and axonal atrophy but accumulating evidence suggests that dysregulated sodium channel expression may also contribute to its pathophysiology. Recent studies have demonstrated that the expression of Na(v)1.8 voltage-gated sodium channels, which are normally undetectable within the CNS, is upregulated in cerebellar Purkinje cells in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) and MS, and suggest that the aberrant expression of these channels contributes to clinical dysfunction by distorting the firing pattern of these neurons. In this study we examined the temporal pattern of upregulation for Na(v)1.8 mRNA and protein in chronic relapsing EAE by in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry, respectively. Our results demonstrate a positive correlation between disease duration and degree of upregulation of Na(v)1.8 mRNA and protein in Purkinje neurons in chronic-relapsing EAE. The progressive deterioration in clinical baseline scores (i.e. in clinical scores during remissions) is paralleled by a continued increase in Na(v)1.8 mRNA and protein expression, but temporary worsening during relapses is not associated with transient changes in Na(v)1.8 expression. These results provide evidence that the expression of sodium channel Na(v)1.8 contributes to the development of clinical deficits in an in vivo model of neuroinflammatory disease.
An important role for CX3CL1 in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration has been suggested in recent publications. In this study, we compared the expression of CX3CL1 and its receptor CX3CR1 in human brain tissue derived from control patients without neurological complications and in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. Results from this study demonstrate that CX3CL1 is constitutively expressed in human central nervous system (CNS) astrocytes in vivo and under basal conditions in human adult astrocyte cultures. CX3CR1 is expressed on astrocytes and microglial cells both in vivo and in vitro. Chemotaxis assay shows a functional response upon CX3CR1 signaling in microglial cells. Although CX3CL1 expression is upregulated in cultured astrocytes in response to proinflammatory cytokines, no evidence for expression differences of CX3CL1 between control patients and MS patients was found. Our data suggest that CX3CL1 has more general physiological functions, which occur also in the absence of proinflammatory conditions.
Amyloid deposition can take place in the walls of arteries, arterioles, and, less often, capillaries and veins of the central nervous system, a phenomenon known as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). The major clinicopathological manifestations of CAA include cerebral hemorrhage, ischemic lesions, and dementia. CAA may be classified according to the amyloid protein deposited. In the most common form, sporadic CAA, and in CAA related to sporadic Alzheimer disease (AD). A beta deposition is characteristic. CAA can also be severe in variants of familial AD caused by mutations of the amyloid-beta precursor protein or presenilin-1 genes in which deposition of A beta variants and/or wild-type A beta occurs. Other amyloid proteins involved in familial CAAs include 1) the mutant cystatin C (ACys) in hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis of Icelandic type, 2) variant transthyretins (ATTR) in meningo-vascular amyloidoses, 3) mutated gelsolin (AGel) in familial amyloidosis of Finnish type, 4) disease-associated prion protein (PrP(Sc)) in a variant of the Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker syndrome, and 5) ABri and ADan in CAAs observed in the recently described BRI2 gene-related dementias, familial British dementia and familial Danish dementia, respectively. This review addresses issues related to the correlation between morphology, biochemistry, and genetics, and briefly discusses both the pathogenesis and animal models of CAAs.
In hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, action potentials generated in the axon back-propagate in a decremental fashion into the dendritic tree where they affect synaptic integration and synaptic plasticity. The amplitude of back-propagating action potentials (b-APs) is controlled by various biological factors, including membrane potential (Vm). We report that, at any dendritic location (x), the transition from weak (small-amplitude b-APs) to strong (large-amplitude b-APs) back-propagation occurs when Vm crosses a threshold potential, x. When Vm &gt; x, back-propagation is strong (mostly active). Conversely, when Vm &lt; x, back-propagation is weak (mostly passive). x varies linearly with the distance (x) from the soma. Close to the soma, x &lt; resting membrane potential (RMP) and a strong hyperpolarization of the membrane is necessary to switch back-propagation from strong to weak. In the distal dendrites, x &gt; RMP and a strong depolarization is necessary to switch back-propagation from weak to strong. At approximately 260 micrometer from the soma, 260 approximately RMP, suggesting that in this dendritic region back-propagation starts to switch from strong to weak. x depends on the availability or state of Na+ and K+ channels. Partial blockade or phosphorylation of K+ channels decreases x and thereby increases the portion of the dendritic tree experiencing strong back-propagation. Partial blockade or inactivation of Na+ channels has the opposite effect. We conclude that x is a parameter that captures the onset of the transition from weak to strong back-propagation. Its modification may alter dendritic function under physiological and pathological conditions by changing how far large action potentials back-propagate in the dendritic tree.
Despite animal evidence that the reticulospinal system is of major importance to movement, this motor pathway has remained relatively inaccessible to experimentation in the human. Consequently, little is known about its function in health and disease. Here, we use the acoustic startle response to demonstrate that one type of reticulospinal activity in the human is associated with a characteristic pattern of bilateral synchronization between motor units. Surface electromyography (EMG) was recorded from upper limb muscles in 15 healthy subjects during the reflex startle to unexpected acoustic stimulation, voluntary movements mimicking the startle and during sustained voluntary tonic contraction. Frequency analysis demonstrated autospectral peaks at approximately 14 Hz in deltoid and biceps muscles only during the startle reflex. Similarly, coherence spectra of the EMG recorded between homologous proximal upper limb muscles demonstrated a peak centered approximately 12-16 Hz during reflex startles. Coherence in the 10- to 20-Hz band was significantly greater in the startle reflex than during voluntary sham startles or voluntary tonic contraction for deltoid, but not first dorsal interosseous, muscles. The coherence at 10-20 Hz between EMGs from homologous muscles represents a potential surrogate measure of reticulospinal activity that may be useful in determining the contribution of the reticulospinal system to different types of movement in health and disease.
The transient outward potassium currents (also known as A-type currents or IA) are important determinants of neuronal excitability. In the brain, IA is modulated by protein kinase C (PKC), protein kinase A (PKA), and extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK), three kinases that have been shown to be critical modulators of nociception. We wanted to determine the effects of these kinases on IA in superficial dorsal horn neurons. Using whole cell recordings from cultured mouse spinal cord superficial dorsal horn neurons, we found that PKC and PKA both inhibit IA in these cells, and that PKC has a tonic inhibitory action on IA. Further, we provide evidence supporting the hypothesis that PKC and PKA do not modulate IA directly, but rather act as upstream activators of ERKs, which modulate IA. These results suggest that ERKs serve as signal integrators in modulation of IA in dorsal horn neurons and that modulation of A-type potassium currents may underlie aspects of central sensitization mediated by PKC, PKA, and ERKs.
Protein kinases belonging to the protein kinase A (PKA), protein kinase C (PKC), and extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) families have been identified as key players in modulating nociception at the level of the spinal cord dorsal horn, yet little is known about the effects of these kinases on membrane properties of the dorsal horn neurons. PKA, PKC, and ERK exert inhibitory effects on transient potassium currents (A-type currents or IA) in mouse superficial dorsal horn neurons (Hu et al. 2003). Here we aimed to determine the effects of these kinases on action potential firing and membrane properties of these neurons to evaluate the impact of the modulation of IA (and other conductances) in these neurons. We found that activating PKC and PKA has dramatic effects on action potential firing, reflecting an increase in the excitability of superficial dorsal horn neurons. In addition, we found that inhibitors of both PKC and ERK signaling decrease the excitability of dorsal horn neurons, suggesting that these kinases exert a tonic excitation of these cells. Consistent with our findings that these kinases inhibit A-type currents, we found that PKA, PKC, and ERK act to shorten the first-spike latency after depolarization induced by current injection. In addition, activation of these kinases increases spike frequency and action potential amplitude of dorsal horn neurons. Interestingly, we found that the effects of PKA and PKC activators are blocked by inhibitors of ERK signaling, suggesting that PKA and PKC may exert their actions by activation of ERKs.
The effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) on neuronal firing rate in rat suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) slices was examined using continuous recording methods. GABA inhibited neuronal discharge during both the subjective day and the subjective night in a concentration-dependent manner characterized by two apparent affinity states. The GABAA receptor agonist muscimol caused potent inhibition regardless of circadian time; repeated applications of the agonist did not reverse the direction of effect. The GABAA receptor antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxin increased excitability when applied during either subjective day or subjective night. A significant increase in GABAA receptor- mediated inhibition, as well as endogenous GABAergic tone, was observed on the second day after slice preparation. The GABAB receptor agonist baclofen inhibited cell firing during subjective day and night, but the GABAB antagonist phaclofen had no significant effect. These data provide additional strong support for a predominantly inhibitory role of GABA in the rat SCN, regardless of the time of application in relation to the circadian rhythm, and demonstrate an important level of plasticity of this system in vitro.
Hippocampal mu-opioid receptors (MORs) have been implicated in memory formation associated with opiate drug abuse. MORs modulate hippocampal synaptic plasticity acutely, when chronically activated, and during drug withdrawal. At the network level, MORs increase excitability in area CA1 by disinhibiting pyramidal cells. The precise inhibitory interneuron subtypes affected by MOR activation are unknown; however, not all subtypes are inhibited, and specific interneuron subtypes have been shown to preferentially express MORs. Here we investigate, using voltage-sensitive dye imaging in brain slices, the effect of MOR activation on the patterns of inhibition and on the propagation of excitatory activity in rat hippocampal CA1. MOR activation augments excitatory activity evoked by stimulating inputs in stratum oriens [i.e., Schaffer collateral and commissural pathway (SCC) and antidromic], stratum radiatum (i.e., SCC), and stratum lacunosum-moleculare (SLM; i.e., perforant path and thalamus). The augmented excitatory activity is further facilitated as it propagates through the CA1 network. This was observed as a proportionately larger increase in amplitudes of excitatory activity at sites distal from where the activity was evoked. This facilitation was observed for excitatory activity propagating from all three stimulation sites. The augmentation and facilitation were prevented by GABAA receptor antagonists (bicuculline, 30 microM), but not by GABAB receptor antagonists (CGP 55845, 10 microM). Furthermore, MOR activation inhibited IPSPs in all layers of area CA1. These findings suggest that MOR-induced suppression of GABA release onto GABAA receptors augments all inputs to CA1 pyramidal cells and facilitates the propagation of excitatory activity through the network of area CA1.
Rats typically employ 4- to 12-Hz &quot;whisking&quot; movements of their vibrissae during tactile exploration. The intentional sampling of signals in this frequency range suggests that neural processing of tactile information may be differentially engaged in this bandwidth. We examined action potential responses in rat primary somatosensory cortex (SI) to a range of frequencies of vibrissa motion. Single vibrissae were mechanically deflected with 5-s pulse trains at rates &lt;/=40 Hz. As previously reported, vibrissa deflection evoked robust neural responses that consistently adapted to stimulus rates &gt;/=3 Hz. In contrast with this low-pass feature of the response, several other characteristics of the response revealed bandpass response properties. While average evoked response amplitudes measured 0-35 ms after stimulus onset typically decreased with increasing frequency, the later components of the response (&gt;15 ms post stimulus) were augmented at frequencies between 3 and 10 Hz. Further, during the steady state, both rate and temporal measures of neural activity, measured as total spike rate or vector strength (a measure of temporal fidelity of spike timing across cycles), showed peak signal values at 5-10 Hz. A minimal biophysical network model of SI layer IV, consisting of an excitatory and inhibitory neuron and thalamocortical input, captured the spike rate and vector strength band-pass characteristics. Further analyses in which specific elements were selectively removed from the model suggest that slow inhibitory influences give rise to the band-pass peak in temporal precision, while thalamocortical adaptation can account for the band-pass peak in spike rate. The presence of these band-pass characteristics may be a general property of thalamocortical circuits that lead rodents to target this frequency range with their whisking behavior.
The ability to use abstract rules or principles allows behavior to generalize from specific circumstances (e.g., rules learned in a specific restaurant can subsequently be applied to any dining experience). Neurons in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) encode such rules. However, to guide behavior, rules must be linked to motor responses. We investigated the neuronal mechanisms underlying this process by recording from the PFC and the premotor cortex (PMC) of monkeys trained to use two abstract rules: &quot;same&quot; or &quot;different.&quot; The monkeys had to either hold or release a lever, depending on whether two successively presented pictures were the same or different, and depending on which rule was in effect. The abstract rules were represented in both regions, although they were more prevalent and were encoded earlier and more strongly in the PMC. There was a perceptual bias in the PFC, relative to the PMC, with more PFC neurons encoding the presented pictures. In contrast, neurons encoding the behavioral response were more prevalent in the PMC, and the selectivity was stronger and appeared earlier in the PMC than in the PFC.
This study investigates the visuomotor properties of several nuclei within primate central thalamus. These nuclei, which might be considered components of an oculomotor thalamus (OcTh), are found within and at the borders of the internal medullary lamina. These nuclei have extensive anatomical links to numerous cortical and subcortical visuomotor areas including the frontal eye fields, supplementary eye fields, prefrontal cortex, posterior parietal cortex, caudate, and substantia nigra pars reticulata. Previous single-unit recordings have shown that neurons in OcTh respond during self-paced spontaneous saccades and to visual stimuli in the absence of any specific behavioral requirement, but a thorough account of the activity of these areas in association with voluntary, goal-directed movement is lacking. We recorded activity from single neurons in primate central thalamus during performance of a visually guided delayed saccade task. The sample consisted primarily of neurons from the centrolateral and paracentral intralaminar nuclei and paralaminar regions of the ventral anterior and ventral lateral nuclei. Neurons responsive to sensory, delay, and motor phases of the task were observed in each region, with many neurons modulated during multiple task periods. Across the population, variation in the quality and timing of saccade-contingent activity suggested participation in functions ranging from generating a saccade (presaccadic) to registering its consequences (e.g., efference copy). Finally, many neurons were found to carry spatial information during the delay period, suggesting a role for central thalamus in higher-order aspects of visuomotor control.

Activation of the complement cascade following peripheral nerve axotomy and following traumatic brain injury has been demonstrated in previous studies. This study investigates the temporal pattern of microglia/macrophages and complement activation following axotomy of sensory CNS neurons, using a standardized experimental crush injury of the optic nerve in adult rats. Numerous ED1-labeled macrophages were found at the lesion site and distal to the injury at 7 days post injury (dpi). Complement C3-mRNA was upregulated 2-28 days post lesion, indicating local synthesis of complement in the optic nerve. Furthermore, increased immunoreactivity (IR) for the end product of the complement cascade, the membrane attack complex (MAC), was detected along disintegrating axons co-labeled with anti-neurofilament distal to the injury. Double-labeling for microglia show MAC-immunoreactivity expressed in their immediate vicinity, indicating a key role of microglia/macrophages in complement activation. The complement regulator Clusterin was upregulated in astrocytes at the lesion site as well as in the distal portion of the injured optic nerve, suggesting activation of a defense response to endogenous complement attack. A crush injury of the optic nerve leads to complement activation at the site of lesion and along the distal portion of the nerve, as well as upregulation of the complement inhibitor Clusterin at least in astrocytes. Reactive microglial cells seem to have a key role in complement activation as a local source of C3. We suggest that the balance between complement activation and their regulators may have impact on axonal degeneration following optic nerve injury.
We evaluated the effects of FK506, at doses of 0.2, 2, and 5 mg/kg/day, on the response to nerve grafts implanted in outbred mice. A 6 mm long segment of the sciatic nerve was transected and repaired by autograft (the same segment resected), allograft (from another mouse), or xenograft (from a rat nerve). The regenerating nerves were harvested after 3 weeks and studied under light and electron microscope. Allografts of animals treated with the 5 mg/kg/day dose of FK506 appeared similar to those from autografts, demonstrating an equivalent number of myelinated fibers. In mice treated with the 2 mg/kg/day dose, regeneration was slightly hindered, as indicated by the reduced number of myelinated fibers. In contrast, in mice given a 0.2 mg/kg/day dose of FK506, allografts were not different from untreated allografts; both groups showed a marked rejection response with only few unmyelinated axons and no myelinated fibers. Xenografts showed a more severe rejection than allografts, with a marked inflammatory cell reaction throughout the graft. In contrast, in mice treated with the 5 mg/kg/day dose, xenografts exhibited a mild cell reaction and a greater number of regenerated myelinated fibers. In conclusion, effective axonal regeneration is achieved with FK506 administration at doses of 5 mg/kg/day through allografts and, partially, through xenografts.
To treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) within the central nervous system (CNS), levels of anti-HIV drugs in the brain must reach therapeutic concentrations. The ability of (-)-2'-deoxy-3'-thiacytidine (3TC; lamivudine) to cross the blood-brain and blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barriers, alone and in combination with additional nucleoside analogs, was investigated. The bilateral in situ guinea pig brain perfusion method, linked to high-performance liquid chromatography analyses, was used to examine 3TC uptake into brain and CSF simultaneously. The influence of transport inhibitors and additional nucleoside analogs on this uptake was investigated. 3TC movement across the blood-CSF barrier was examined in more detail by the isolated choroid plexus model. 3TC movement across the brain barriers and subsequent accumulation in the brain and CSF was low. However, 3TC uptake from blood into choroid plexus (a potential CNS target for HIV treatment) was significant, and was facilitated by a digoxin-sensitive transporter. Another transporter was identified, which removed 3TC from the choroid plexus. Abacavir, 2'3'-didehydro-3'deoxythymidine, and 3'-azido 3'-deoxythymidine did not interact with 3TC at either of the brain barriers to affect CNS concentrations of 3TC. However, a significant interaction between 3TC and 2'3'-dideoxyinosine was observed at the choroid plexus, and it may prove beneficial to select drug combinations where no such interaction is indicated.
We evaluated the modulation by Na+,K+-ATPase inhibitors of morphine-induced antinociception in the tail-flick test and [3H]naloxone binding to forebrain membranes. The antinociception induced by morphine (1-32 mg/kg, s.c.) in mice was dose-dependently antagonized by ouabain (1-10 ng/mouse, i.c.v.), which produced a significant shift to the right of the morphine dose-response curve. The i.c.v. administration of three Na+,K+-ATPase inhibitors (ouabain at 0.1-100, digoxin at 1-1000, and digitoxin at 10-10000 ng/mouse) dose-dependently antagonized the antinociceptive effect of morphine (4 mg/kg, s.c.) in mice, with the following order of potency: ouabain &gt; digoxin &gt; digitoxin. This effect cannot be explained by any interaction at opioid receptors, since none of these Na+,K+-ATPase inhibitors displaced [3H]naloxone from its binding sites, whereas naloxone did so in a concentration-dependent manner. The antinociception induced by morphine (5 mg/kg, s.c.) in rats was antagonized by the i.c.v. administration of ouabain at 10 ng/rat, whereas it was not significantly modified by intrathecally administered ouabain (10 and 100 ng/rat). These results suggest that the activation of Na+,K+-ATPase plays a role in the supraspinal, but not spinal, antinociceptive effect of morphine.
To investigate the effect of cis-N-[4-[4-(1,2-benz-isozole-3-yl)-1-piperazinyl]butyl] cyclohexane-1,2-dicarboximide hydrochloride (perospirone), a novel antipsychotic agent with high affinities for D(2)/5-HT(2) receptors, on the rat dorsal raphe (DR) neurons, an electrophysiological study was performed using the tight-seal whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Applications of perospirone at the concentration between 10(-)(9) and 10(-)(5) M hyperpolarized the membrane potential and inhibited spontaneous action potentials of the DR neurons in a concentration-dependent manner. This effect of perospirone on DR neurons is similar to that of typical 5HT(1A)-receptor agonists, including 8-OH-DPAT or tandospirone. In addition, WAY100635, a 5-HT(1A)-receptor antagonist, inhibited this perospirone-induced hyperpolarization of DR neurons, suggesting that perospirone physiologically acts on DR neurons as a 5HT(1A)-receptor agonist. These results provide new profiles of perospirone as an antipsychotic drug.
A dual inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and serotonin transporter (SERT), RS-1259 (4-[1S)-methylamino-3-(4-nitrophenoxy)]propylphenyl N,N-dimethylcarbamate (fumaric acid)(1/2)salt), was newly synthesized. RS-1259 simultaneously inhibited AChE and SERT in the brain following an oral administration in mice and rats. Actual simultaneous elevation of extracellular levels of 5-HT and ACh in the rat hippocampus was confirmed by microdialysis. The compound was as effective as SERT inhibitors such as fluoxetine and fluvoxamine in a 5-hydroxytryptophan-enhancing test in mice. Spatial memory deficits in the two-platform task of a water maze in aged rats were ameliorated by RS-1259 as well as donepezil. Both RS-1259 and donepezil increased the awake episodes in the daytime electroencephalogram of rats. Although RS-1259 was weaker than donepezil in enhancing central cholinergic transmission, as observed by ACh elevation in the hippocampus and memory enhancement in aged rats, the efficacy of RS-1259 on the consciousness level, which reflects the whole activity in the brain, was almost the same as that of donepezil. These results suggest that both cholinergic and serotonergic systems are involved in maintaining brain arousal and that a dual inhibitor of AChE and SERT may be useful for the treatment of cognitive disorders associated with reduced brain activity such as in Alzheimer's disease.
Low amplitude muscle vibration (0.5 ms; 80 Hz; duration 1.5 s) was applied in turn to each of three different intrinsic hand muscles (first dorsal interosseus, FDI; abductor pollicis brevis, APB; and abductor digiti minimi, ADM) in order to test its effect on the EMG responses evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Recordings were also taken from flexor and extensor carpi radialis (FCR and ECR, respectively). We evaluated the amplitude of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) produced by a single TMS pulse, short interval intracortical inhibition and facilitation (SICI and ICF) and long interval intracortical inhibition (LICI). TMS pulses were applied 1 s after the start of vibration with subjects relaxed throughout. Vibration increased the amplitude of MEPs evoked in the vibrated muscle (162 +/- 6 % of MEP with no vibration; mean +/- S.E.M.), but suppressed MEPs in the two non-vibrated hand muscles (72 +/- 9 %). Compared with no vibration (test response reduced to 51 +/- 5 % of control), there was less SICI in the vibrated muscle (test response reduced to 92 +/- 28 % of control) and more in the non-vibrated hand muscles (test response reduced to 27 +/- 5 % of control). The opposite occurred for LICI: compared with the no vibration condition (test response reduced to 33 +/- 6 % control), there was more LICI in the vibrated muscle (test response reduced to 17 +/- 3 % control) than in the non-vibrated hand muscles (test response reduced to 80 +/- 11 % control) even when the intensity of the test stimulus was adjusted to compensate for the changes in baseline MEP. There was no effect on ICF. Cutaneous stimulation of the index finger (80 Hz, 1.5 s duration, twice sensory threshold) had no consistent differential effect on any of the parameters. We conclude that vibratory input from muscle can differentially modulate excitability in motor cortical circuits.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is a secretion product of several different central nervous system (CNS) structures, including the choroid plexus in the ventricles. Pathological CNS processes are reflected in the protein composition of CSF. To elucidate the molecular events that occur in the homeostatic and pathological processes of the CNS, the high-throughput characterization of differentially expressed proteins, and of post-translationally modified proteins, is needed for proteomics studies of CSF. Among the post-translational modifications of proteins, phosphorylation is the most common and important mechanism for the reversible regulation of protein function. In this study, CSF phosphotyrosyl (p-Tyr)-proteins were detected with antibodies and were analyzed with proteomics methods. Three different combination methods--1D gel electrophoresis and Western blotting, immunoprecipitation and 2D gel electrophoresis, and 2D gel electrophoresis and Western blotting--were used to detect p-Tyr-proteins in human lumbar CSF samples. Six protein spots, representing four proteins on a 2D Western blot, were identified as p-Tyr-proteins with the 2D gel electrophoresis and Western blotting method. Those four p-Tyr-proteins are kallikrein-6 precursor, complement C4 gamma-chain, gelsolin, and ceruloplasmin precursor. Additionally, four other nonphosphorylated CSF proteins--beta-2-glycoprotein I precursor, fibulin-1 precursor, EGF-containing fibulin-like extracellur matrix protein 1 precursor, and angiotensinogen precursor--were characterized for the first time.
Genetic factors contribute to the risk of psychopathology in many psychiatric conditions, but the specific genes are yet to be identified. Neurotransmitter alterations are implicated in the etiology of psychopathology based, in part, on studies of neurotransmitter receptors and their biosynthetic or degradative enzymes in postmortem tissue. Identification of the altered receptors and enzymes serves to identify candidate genes of potential etiological significance. Polymorphisms in these genes can contribute to alterations in protein function in vivo that are part of the neurochemical underpinnings of psychopathologies such as major depressive disorder, psychoses, alcoholism, personality disorders, aggressive-impulsive traits, or suicidal behavior. Altered serotonergic function is implicated in the etiology and pathogenesis of several major psychiatric conditions. In particular, there is much evidence for an association of lower serotonergic function and suicidal behavior. Thus genes related to the serotonergic system are candidate genes worthy of study as part of the genetic diathesis for suicidal behavior. This review examines the following polymorphisms in the serotonin biosynthetic enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH; A779C substitution), the serotonin transporter (5-HTT, 5-HTTLPR allele), the 5-HT(1B) receptor (G861C, C129T substitution) and the 5-HT(2A) receptor (T102C) for their relationship to suicidal behavior. For the TPH gene, we found the less common U or A allele variant of the A779C polymorphism was associated with suicide attempt. Other studies have found the U allele to be associated with aggression and lower serotonergic function in vivo. A 44 base pair insertion/deletion in the 5' flanking promoter region of the 5-HTT gene may result in less 5-HTT expression and 5-HTT binding. We examined 220 cases postmortem and found no association between the promoter genotype and 5-HTT binding. We also found no association with major depressive disorder (MDD), suicide or pathological aggression, despite finding significantly fewer 5-HTT sites in the prefrontal cortex of depressed and/or suicide cases. In genomic DNA samples from 178 unrelated subjects, we detected two polymorphisms for the 5-HT(1B) receptor at nucleotides 861 and 129. However, no association between either polymorphism and depression, suicide, aggression, or alcoholism was observed. There are two common polymorphisms for the 5-HT(2A) receptor gene in humans. The results of studies of 5-HT(2A) receptor gene polymorphisms do not indicate significant major associations with suicidal behavior. In contrast, the 5-HT(2A) receptor itself is reported to be increased in suicide. Functional polymorphisms involving the promoter region that affect gene expression may explain this finding. Studies of candidate genes related to serotonergic function in brain are increasingly used to establish genetic alterations contributing to psychiatric illness. The most meaningful studies combine the study of candidate genes with direct measures of related proteins as well as psychopathology.
The red flags raised by the 1990 clinical reports of increased suicidality associated with treatment with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine were followed by anecdotal reports of similar symptoms with other antidepressants of the same class. Recent discussions by Healy have argued in favour of a suicidogenic potential of the SSRIs. This paper reviews the relevant literature addressing the epidemiological data of Western populations and the data accumulated from clinical trial databases in several countries. The evidence currently available does not support the hypothesis that antidepressants or, more specifically, SSRIs cause increased suicidality in patients with depression, nor do they appear to do so in patients treated with these drugs for other reasons.




In single-particle analysis, a three-dimensional (3-D) structure of a protein is constructed using electron microscopy (EM). As these images are very noisy in general, the primary process of this 3-D reconstruction is the classification of images according to their Euler angles, the images in each classified group then being averaged to reduce the noise level. In our newly developed strategy of classification, we introduce a topology representing network (TRN) method. It is a modified method of a growing neural gas network (GNG). In this system, a network structure is automatically determined in response to the images input through a growing process. After learning without a masking procedure, the GNG creates clear averages of the inputs as unit coordinates in multi-dimensional space, which are then utilized for classification. In the process, connections are automatically created between highly related units and their positions are shifted where the inputs are distributed in multi-dimensional space. Consequently, several separated groups of connected units are formed. Although the interrelationship of units in this space are not easily understood, we succeeded in solving this problem by converting the unit positions into two-dimensional (2-D) space, and by further optimizing the unit positions with the simulated annealing (SA) method. In the optimized 2-D map, visualization of the connections of units provided rich information about clustering. As demonstrated here, this method is clearly superior to both the multi-variate statistical analysis (MSA) and the self-organizing map (SOM) as a classification method and provides a first reliable classification method which can be used without masking for very noisy images.
Although secondary end-organ damage in diabetes has generally been thought to result from long-term passive shunting of excess glucose through alternative metabolic pathways, recent studies have elucidated a second mechanism of pathogenesis that involves active changes in gene expression in neurons of the CNS. These changes in gene expression result in molecular and functional changes that can become maladaptive over time. In this review, we examine two neuronal populations in the brain that have been studied in human beings and animal models of diabetes. First, we discuss overactivation of magnocellular neurosecretory cells within the hypothalamus and how it relates to the development of diabetic nephropathy. And second, we describe how changes in hippocampal synaptic plasticity can lead to cognitive and behavioural deficits in chronic diabetes. Changes in neuronal gene expression in diabetes represent a new pathway for diabetic pathogenesis. This pathway may hold clues for the development of therapies that, via the targeting of neurons, can slow or prevent the development of diabetic end-organ damage.

The 5-HT3 receptor for serotonin is expressed within limbic structures and is known to modulate neurotransmitter release, suggesting that this receptor may influence learning and memory. Perturbations in serotonergic neurotransmission lead to changes in the ability to attend, learn, and remember. To examine the role of 5-HT3 receptors in learning, memory, and attention, 5-HT3 receptor overexpressing (5-HT3-OE) transgenic mice and their wild-type littermates (WT) were tested in Pavlovian contextual and cued fear conditioning, fear extinction, and latent inhibition (LI) paradigms. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) was assessed to reveal changes in sensorimotor gating. Additionally, anxious behaviors, shock sensitivity, and reactions to novel stimuli were evaluated. 5-HT3-OE mice displayed enhanced contextual conditioning, whereas cued conditioning remained the same as that of WT mice. 5-HT3-OE mice did not differ from WT in extinction rates to either the context or cue. LI was enhanced for 5-HT3-OE mice compared to WT. PPI remained unchanged. No differences in sensitivity to footshock or startle were found. However, 5-HT3-OE mice demonstrated heightened exploratory behavior in response to novel environmental stimuli and decreased anxiety as measured in the elevated plus-maze. Results indicate that overexpression of the 5-HT3 receptor in mouse forebrain results in enhanced hippocampal-dependent learning and attention. Enhanced inspective behavior in response to novelty may contribute to the observed improvements in learning, memory, and attention due to 5-HT3 receptor overexpression.
Serotonin (5-HT) plays a modulatory role in mnemonic functions, especially by interacting with the cholinergic system. The 5-HT1B receptor is a key target of this interaction. The 5-HT1B receptor knockout mice were found previously to exhibit a facilitation in hippocampal-dependent spatial reference memory learning. In the present study, we submitted mice to a delayed spatial working memory task, allowing the introduction of various delays between an exposure trial and a test trial. The 5-HT1BKO and wild-type mice learned the task in a radial-arm water maze (returning to the most recent presented arm containing the escape platform), and exhibited a high level of performance at delays of 0 and 5 min. However, at the delay of 60 min, only 5-HT1BKO mice exhibited an impairment. At a delay of 90 min, all mice were impaired. Treatment by scopolamine (0.8 mg/kg) induced the same pattern of performance in wild type as did the mutation for short (5 min, no impairment) and long (60 min, impairment) delays. The 22-month-old wild-type and knockout mice exhibited an impairment at short delays (5 and 15 min). The effect of the mutation affected both young-adult and aged mice at delays of 15, 30, and 60 min. Neurobiological data show that stimulation of the 5-HT1B receptor inhibits the release of acetylcholine in the hippocampus, but stimulates this in the frontal cortex. This dual function might, at least in part, explain the opposite effect of the mutation on reference memory (facilitation) and delay-dependent working memory (impairment). These results support the idea that cholinergic-serotonergic interactions play an important role in memory processes.
Cytoarchitectonic fields of the human neocortex are defined by characteristic variations in the composition of a general six-layer structure. It is commonly accepted that these fields correspond to functionally homogeneous entities. Diligent techniques were developed to characterize cytoarchitectonic fields by staining sections of post-mortem brains and subsequent statistical evaluation. Fields were found to show a considerable interindividual variability in extent and relation to macroscopic anatomical landmarks. With upcoming new high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) protocols, it appears worthwhile to examine the feasibility of characterizing the neocortical fine-structure from anatomical MRI scans, thus, defining neocortical fields by in vivo techniques. A fixated brain hemisphere was scanned at a resolution of approximately 0.3 mm. After correcting for intensity inhomogeneities in the dataset, the cortex boundaries (the white/grey matter and grey matter/background interfaces) were determined as a triangular mesh. Radial intensity profiles following the shortest path through the cortex were computed and characterized by a sparse set of features. A statistical similarity measure between features of different regions was defined, and served to define the extent of Brodmann's Areas 4, 17, 44 and 45 in this dataset.
Mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) cause impairment of ATP synthesis. It was hypothesized that high-energy compounds, such as ATP, are compartmentalized within cells and that different cell functions are sustained by different pools of ATP, some deriving from mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and others from glycolysis. Therefore, an OXPHOS dysfunction may affect different cell compartments to different extents. To address this issue, we have used recombinant forms of the ATP reporter luciferase localized in different cell compartments- the cytosol, the subplasma membrane region, the mitochondrial matrix, and the nucleus- of cells containing either wild-type or mutant mtDNA. We found that with glycolytic substrates, both wild-type and mutant cells were able to maintain adequate ATP supplies in all compartments. Conversely, with the OXPHOS substrate pyruvate ATP levels collapsed in all cell compartments of mutant cells. In wild-type cells normal levels of ATP were maintained with pyruvate in the cytosol and in the subplasma membrane region, but, surprisingly, they were reduced in the mitochondria and, to a greater extent, in the nucleus. The severe decrease in nuclear ATP content under &quot;OXPHOS-only&quot; conditions implies that depletion of nuclear ATP plays an important, and hitherto unappreciated, role in patients with mitochondrial dysfunction.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), originally cloned as a hepatocyte mitogen, has recently been reported to exhibit neurotrophic activity in addition to being expressed in different parts of the nervous system. At present, the effects of HGF on neural stem cells (NSCs) are not known. In this study, we first report the promoting effect of HGF on the proliferation of neurospheres and neuronal differentiation of NSCs. Medium containing only HGF was capable of inducing neurosphere formation. Addition of HGF to medium containing fibroblast growth factor 2 or epidermal growth factor increased both the size and number of newly formed neurospheres. More neurons were also obtained when HGF was added in differentiation medium. In contrast, neurosphere numbers were reduced after repeated subculture by mechanical dissociation, suggesting that HGF-formed neurospheres comprised predominantly progenitor cells committed to neuronal or glial lines. Together, these results suggest that HGF promotes proliferation of neurospheres and neuronal differentiation of NSCs derived from mouse embyos.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the potential direct effects of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) on adult rat hippocampal stem/progenitor cells (AHPs). IGF-I-treated cultures showed a dose-dependent increase in thymidine incorporation, total number of cells, and number of cells entering the mitosis phase. Pretreatment with fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) increased the IGF-I receptor (IGF-IR) expression, and both FGF-2 and IGF-I were required for maximal proliferation. Time-lapse recordings showed that IGF-I at 100 ng/ml decreased differentiation and increased proliferation of single AHPs. Specific inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MAPKK), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K), or the downstream effector of the PI3-K pathway, serine/threonine p70 S6 kinase (p70(S6K)), showed that both the MAPK and the PI3-K pathways participate in IGF-I-induced proliferation but that the MAPK activation is obligatory. These results were confirmed with dominant-negative constructs for these pathways. Stimulation of differentiation was found at a low dose (1 ng/ml) of IGF-I, clonal analysis indicating an instructive component of IGF-I signaling.
Chronic pain states arise from peripheral nerve injury and are inadequately treated with current analgesics. Using intrathecal drug administration in a rat model of neuropathic pain, we demonstrate that AMPA receptors play a role in the central sensitisation that is thought to underpin chronic pain. The GluR2 subunit of the AMPA receptor binds to a number of intracellular adapter proteins including GRIP, PICK1 and NSF, which may link the receptor to proteins with signalling, scaffolding and other roles. We implicate for the first time a possible role for GRIP, PICK1 and NSF in neuropathic sensitisation from experiments with cell-permeable blocking peptides mimicking their GluR2 interaction motifs and also demonstrate differential changes in expression of these proteins following peripheral nerve injury. These studies suggest a critical involvement of protein:protein complexes associated with the AMPA receptor in neuropathic pain, and the possibility that they may have potential as novel therapeutic targets.
Two main pieces of neurobiological evidence are adduced to support an early neurodevelopmental component to schizophrenia. Firstly, an abnormal distribution of neurons, especially interstitial white matter neurons (IWMNs). Secondly, decreased expression of reelin, a key developmental signalling molecule. Although influential, neither result is wholly established, and a possible link between them has not been examined. We addressed both issues, in superior temporal cortex, in 12 subjects with schizophrenia and 14 controls. The distribution and density of IWMNs, immunostained with the neuronal marker NeuN, was increased in the superficial white matter in schizophrenia (+16%; P=0.03). IWMN density in deep white matter was unaffected. Using in situ hybridization, reelin mRNA was found to be expressed by many IWMNs, layer I neurons, and scattered interneurons. Superficial IWMNs (P=0.008) and layer I neurons (P=0.036) both expressed less reelin mRNA per cell in schizophrenia, with a trend for deep IWMNs (P=0.055). In conclusion, we replicated findings of increased IWMN density, and of decreased reelin expression, in schizophrenia. The loss of reelin reflects, at least partly, its decreased expression by IWMNs. These findings together support neurodevelopmental theories of the disorder, and indicate a link between reelin and IWMNs in this process, consistent with evidence from the heterozygous reeler mutant mouse. The alterations may contribute to the aberrant synaptic connectivity seen in schizophrenia. However, the functional implications of the abnormalities, as well as the mechanisms involved, remain to be fully elucidated.
Neuropsychiatric symptoms, including dementia, frequently coexist with parkinsonian disorders and may cause diagnostic confusion as well as management problems. Functional imaging studies include single photon emission computerised tomography (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET), proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy, diffusion tensor imaging, and functional magnetic resonance imaging. This review addresses the utility of these techniques, from the clinician's perspective, focusing on the most common causes of parkinsonism and cognitive impairment, Parkinson's disease with dementia, dementia with Lewy bodies, and Alzheimer's disease. The potential and limitations of these techniques for accurate and early diagnosis, monitoring disease progression, and establishing the pathophysiological basis underlying key clinical features are considered. The development of new probes for SPECT and PET cameras capable of labeling protein aggregates (e.g., beta-amyloid) will offer exciting new insights into the spatial and temporal pattern of pathophysiological processes. Longitudinal studies with clinicopathological correlation represent the &quot;gold standard&quot; for fully evaluating functional imaging techniques.
Dementia in Parkinson's disease (PDD) is a frequent and distressing complication with major consequences. Clinical and pathological features closely link PDD and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), suggesting they represent part of the same disease spectrum. Although dopaminergic deficiency primarily determines the akinetic-rigid symptoms of PDD and DLB, there is overwhelming evidence that cholinergic dysfunction underpins many of the cognitive impairments and psychotic features. Open-label studies have suggested that cholinesterase inhibitor drugs may exert positive effects upon all aspects of the neuropsychiatric syndrome in PDD and DLB but particularly apathy, anxiety, impaired attention, hallucinations, delusions, sleep disturbance, and cognitive test performance. Worsening of extrapyramidal motor features is reported only rarely. Initial double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in PDD and DLB have so far confirmed these encouraging results. Early identification of PD patients at greatest risk of developing dementia would permit early use of disease modifying treatments which represent the &quot;golden fleece&quot; management approach to these groups.
The presence of tau-positive intraneuronal filamentous inclusions with or without additional inclusions in glial cells has been recognised as a major neuropathological feature in a significant group of neurodegenerative diseases, which are described as tauopathies. In one category of such diseases, the neuronal inclusions occur in association with extracellular deposition of a second aggregated protein (secondary tauopathies), whereas in another, the filamentous inclusions composed of tau are the sole neuropathological abnormality (primary tauopathies). Genetic studies of tauopathies in general, and in frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 in particular, have significantly contributed to our knowledge about the pathogenesis not only of rare hereditary conditions but also of other more common diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy.
Poliomyelitis has recently been identified as a cause of muscle weakness in patients with West Nile virus (WNV) infection. However, the clinical spectrum of WNV-associated weakness has not been described. We reviewed data on 13 patients with WNV infection. Patients with muscle weakness were classified into one of three distinct groups based on clinical features. Group 1 comprised five patients who developed acute flaccid paralysis, four with meningoencephalitis and one without fever or other signs of infection. Paralysis was asymmetric, and involved from one to four limbs in individual patients. Electrodiagnostic studies confirmed involvement of anterior horn cells or motor axons. Group 2 involved two patients without meningoencephalitis who developed severe but reversible muscle weakness that recovered completely within weeks. Muscle weakness involved both lower limbs in one patient and one upper limb in the other. Group 3 consisted of two patients who experienced subjective weakness and disabling fatigue, but had no objective muscle weakness on examination. In addition to the three distinct groups, two other patients developed exaggerated weakness in the distribution of preexisting lower motor neuron dysfunction. We conclude that the clinical spectrum of WNV-associated muscle weakness ranges from acute flaccid paralysis, with or without fever or meningoencephalitis, to disabling fatigue. Also, preexisting dysfunction may predispose anterior horn cells to additional injury from WNV. Awareness of this spectrum will help to avoid erroneous diagnoses and inappropriate treatment.

Cortical map formation requires the accurate targeting, synaptogenesis, elaboration and refinement of thalamocortical afferents. Here we demonstrate the role of Ca2+/calmodulin-activated type-I adenylyl cyclase (AC1) in regulating the strength of thalamocortical synapses through modulation of AMPA receptor (AMPAR) trafficking using barrelless mice, a mutant without AC1 activity or cortical 'barrel' maps. Barrelless synapses are stuck in an immature state that contains few functional AMPARs that are rarely silent (NMDAR-only). Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) at thalamocortical synapses require postsynaptic protein kinase A (PKA) activity and are difficult to induce in barrelless mice, probably due to an inability to properly regulate synaptic AMPAR trafficking. Consistent with this, both the extent of PKA phosphorylation on AMPAR subunit GluR1 and the expression of surface GluR1 are reduced in barrelless neurons. These results suggest that activity-dependent mechanisms operate through an AC1/PKA signaling pathway to target some synapses for consolidation and others for elimination during barrel map formation.
Both blood vessels and nerves are vital channels to and from tissues. Recent genetic insights show that they have much more in common than was originally anticipated. They use similar signals and principles to differentiate, grow and navigate towards their targets. Moreover, the vascular and nervous systems cross-talk and, when dysregulated, this contributes to medically important diseases. The realization that both systems use common genetic pathways should not only form links between vascular biology and neuroscience, but also promises to accelerate the discovery of new mechanistic insights and therapeutic opportunities.



Prolonged cerebral ischaemia initiates complex intra- and inter-cellular signalling cascades ultimately resulting in neuronal death. Well-characterised mediators of ischaemic cell death are glutamate, free radicals and nitric oxide. Many drugs that block these mechanisms are neuroprotective in vitro, but have unfavourable side-effect profiles in man. We have recently demonstrated that the compound L-arginyl-3,4-spermidine (L-Arg3,4) is neuroprotective in vitro through an interaction with several of these mechanisms, and prevents ischaemic neurodegeneration in vivo with no gross side effects. In this study, we have used solid-phase combinatorial chemistry, to synthesise a number of analogues of L-Arg3,4, and investigate the structure-activity relationship using an in vitro, organotypic hippocampal slice culture model of cerebral ischaemia. A number of molecular features were identified which were essential for the neuroprotective activity including the requirement for a positive charge and an amino acid in the L-configuration. Relatively minor alterations to both the terminal arginine and polyamine moieties significantly attenuated neuroprotective efficacy. Our data implies that these compounds are neuroprotective through a currently undefined mechanism rather than non-specific ionic interactions described previously for other polyamine-containing compounds.
Ongoing &quot;spontaneous&quot; electrical field potentials of assemblies of neurons in the brains of diverse animal groups differ widely in character and amplitude without obvious explanation. There may be correlates with other measures of brain complexity, such as histological differentiation, but so far there are no known differences between the EEGs of humans and other mammals or between mammals and reptiles, amphibians or fish, apart from amplitude. The proposition is defended that further search for descriptors or statistical, probably nonlinear features of the time series will reveal consistent differences, meaning that we have so far missed major features of the natural history of EEGs, just as we have thus far relatively neglected the identification of features of the physiology of the brain relevant to its evolution of complexity through major grades of phyla, classes, and orders.
Few studies have examined gender differences in hippocampal volumes, and the potential effect of estrogen on these measures has not been well studied. We used MRI to measure hippocampal volumes in elderly Mexican American men and women subjects in order to determine if there were gender differences and if estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) had an effect on hippocampal volume in postmenopausal women. MRI measures of hippocampal volumes (normalized to intracranial volume) were compared in 59 women and 38 men. Further comparisons were made between men subjects, women subjects taking ERT, and women subjects not taking ERT. There were no significant effects of gender on normalized hippocampal volumes. However, women subjects taking ERT had larger right hippocampal volumes than women subjects not taking ERT and larger anterior hippocampal volumes than men subjects and women subjects not taking ERT. These findings suggest a neuroprotective effect of estrogen.
Mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene are associated with altered production and deposition of amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. The pathways that regulate APP processing, Abeta production and Abeta deposition in different tissues and brain regions remain unclear. To address this, we examined levels of various APP processing products as well as Abeta deposition in a genomic-based (R1.40) and a cDNA-based (Tg2576) transgenic mouse model of AD. In tissues, only brain generated detectable levels of the penultimate precursor to Abeta, APP C-terminal fragment-beta. In brain regions, holoAPP levels remained constant, but ratios of APP C-terminal fragments and levels of Abeta differed significantly. Surprisingly, cortex had the lowest steady-state levels of Abeta compared to other brain regions. Comparison of Abeta deposition in Tg2576 and R1.40 animals revealed that R1.40 exhibited more abundant deposition in cortex while Tg2576 exhibited extensive deposition in the hippocampus. Our results suggest that AD transgenic models are not equal; their unique characteristics must be considered when studying AD pathogenesis and therapies.
Nicotine has been demonstrated to enhance learning processes. The present experiments extend these results to examine the effects of nicotine on acquisition and consolidation of contextual and cued fear conditioning, and the duration of nicotine's enhancement of conditioned fear. C57BL/6 mice were trained with two pairings of an auditory CS and a foot shock US. Multiple doses of nicotine were given before or immediately after training and on testing day (0.0, 0.050, 0.125, 0.250, and 0.375 mg/kg, i.p). Freezing to both the context and auditory CS was measured 24h after training and again 1 week after training. Mice did not receive nicotine for the 1-week retest. Nicotine (0.125 and 0.250 mg/kg) given on both training and testing days enhanced freezing to the context at 24h. In addition, elevated freezing to the context was seen 1 week post-training in mice previously treated with 0.125 and 0.250 mg/kg nicotine. Thus, nicotine-treated mice did show elevated levels of freezing when retested 1 week later, even though no nicotine was administered at the 1-week retest. Mice that received nicotine on training day or testing day only and mice that received nicotine with mecamylamine, a nicotinic receptor antagonist, were not different from saline-treated mice. In addition, post-training administration of nicotine did not enhance fear conditioning. The present results indicate that nicotine enhancement of contextual fear conditioning depends on administration of nicotine on training and test days but results in a long-lasting enhancement of memories of contextual fear conditioning that remains in the absence of nicotine.
The effect of methylmercury (MeHg) on [U-13C]glutamate metabolism was studied in cerebellar astrocytes using 13C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The cells were preincubated in medium containing 25 or 50 microM MeHg and 10% fetal calf serum for 4h and then in medium with [U-13C]glutamate (0.5mM) for 2h. Labeled glutamate, glutamine and aspartate were observed both in the cell extracts and media, labeled glutathione in the cell extracts and labeled lactate and alanine in the media. The amount of glutamate removed from the media was decreased in the 50 microM MeHg group, furthermore, the levels of both labeled and unlabeled glutamine were decreased. This might indicate a decreased synthesis and/or increased degradation. An increase was observed for glutathione in the 25 microM group, which might be due to an upregulated synthesis of glutathione in response to the toxic effects of MeHg. The percentage of [U-13C]glutamate used for the synthesis of metabolites via the tricarboxylic acid cycle was increased in the presence of 50 microM MeHg. However, the percentage used for energy production was decreased in both groups, indicating selective mitochondrial vulnerability due to the inhibitory effect of MeHg.
Studies in different preparations of neurons and astrocytes of alanine transport and activities of its metabolizing enzyme alanine aminotransferase have led to the proposal that this amino acid is preferentially synthesized in astrocytes and transferred from the astrocytic to the neuronal compartment. From a functional point of view this may well be the case in a GABAergic synapse since theoretically alanine can be utilized as a metabolic fuel in GABAergic neurons where the GABA shunt is operating. Thus, a metabolic scheme is proposed, according to which alanine catabolism is coupled to the TCA cycle where the GABA shunt replaces the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase/succinyl CoA synthetase reactions. In a glutamatergic synapse in which the large demand for synthesis of neurotransmitter glutamate leads to a large production of ammonia, it is possible that alanine could play a completely different role. Hence, experimental evidence is reviewed suggesting that alanine may serve as a carrier of ammonia nitrogen from the neuronal compartment to the astrocytic compartment using a flux of lactate in the opposite direction to account for transfer of the C-3 carbon skeleton.
In neuroimaging, data are often modeled using general linear models. Here, we focus on GLMs with error covariances which are modeled as a linear combination of multiple variance/covariance components. Each of these components is weighted by one variance parameter. In many analyses variance parameters are estimated using restricted maximum likelihood (ReML). Most classical approaches assume the error covariance matrix can be factorized into a single variance parameter and a nonspherical correlation matrix. In this context, the F test based on a single variance parameter, with a suitable correction to the degrees of freedom, is the standard inference tool. This correction can also be adapted to models with multiple variance parameters. However, this extension overlooks the uncertainty about the variance parameter estimates and P values tend to be underestimated. Here, we show how one can overcome this problem to render the F test more exact. This issue is important, because serial correlations in fMRI time series are generally modeled using multiple variance parameters. Another application is to hierarchical linear models, which are used for modeling multisubject data. To illustrate our approach, we apply it to some typical modeling scenarios in fMRI data analysis.
Selective attention, particularly during the processing of emotionally evocative events, is a crucial component of adolescent development. We used functional magnetic resonance imagining (fMRI) with adolescents and adults to examine developmental differences in activation in a paradigm that involved selective attention during the viewing of emotionally engaging face stimuli. We evaluated developmental differences in neural activation for three comparisons: (1) directing attention to subjective responses to fearful facial expressions relative to directing attention to a nonemotional aspect (nose width) of fearful faces, (2) viewing fearful relative to neutral faces while attending to a nonemotional aspect of the face, and (3) viewing fearful relative to neutral faces while attention was unconstrained (passive viewing). The comparison of activation across attention tasks revealed greater activation in the orbital frontal cortex in adults than in adolescents. Conversely, when subjects attended to a nonemotional feature, fearful relative to neutral faces influenced activation in the anterior cingulate more in adolescents than in adults. When attention was unconstrained, adolescents relative to adults showed greater activation in the anterior cingulate, bilateral orbitofrontal cortex, and right amygdala in response to the fearful relative to neutral faces. These findings suggest that adults show greater modulation of activity in relevant brain structures based on attentional demands, whereas adolescents exhibit greater modulation based on emotional content.
Activity within motor areas of the cortex begins to increase 1 to 2 s prior to voluntary self-initiated movement (termed the Bereitschaftspotential or readiness potential). There has been much speculation and debate over the precise source of this early premovement activity as it is important for understanding the roles of higher order motor areas in the preparation and readiness for voluntary movement. In this study, we use high-field (3-T) event-related fMRI with high temporal sampling (partial brain volumes every 250 ms) to specifically examine hemodynamic response time courses during the preparation, readiness, and execution of purely self-initiated voluntary movement. Five right-handed healthy volunteers performed a rapid sequential finger-to-thumb movement performed at self-determined times (12-15 trials). Functional images for each trial were temporally aligned and the averaged time series for each subject was iteratively correlated with a canonical hemodynamic response function progressively shifted in time. This analysis method identified areas of activation without constraining hemodynamic response timing. All subjects showed activation within frontal mesial areas, including supplementary motor area (SMA) and cingulate motor areas, as well as activation in left primary sensorimotor areas. The time courses of hemodynamic responses showed a great deal of variability in shape and timing between subjects; however, four subjects clearly showed earlier relative hemodynamic responses within SMA/cingulate motor areas compared with left primary motor areas. These results provide further evidence that the SMA and cingulate motor areas are major contributors to early stage premovement activity and play an important role in the preparation and readiness for voluntary movement.
We present an MEG/EEG framework to reveal statistically significant brain areas engaged in the same cognitive process across trials without resort to averaging procedures. The variability of neuronal responses is assumed to take place only in the reconstructed time series of cortical sources and not in their positions. This hypothesis allows the use of the surrogate data method to detect recurrently active brain areas across trials adjusted with any cortically constrained focal MEEG inverse solution. Results obtained from synthetic data show that considering several trials enhances the accuracy of the source localisation. We apply this approach on MEG data recorded during a simple visual stimulation. The considered stimulus is frequency tagged in order to reveal the neural network correlated to its perception using phase synchronisation analysis. The results show consistent patterns of distributed synchronous networks centred on occipital areas.
Recent findings have demonstrated that attention to visual events engages the lateral premotor cortex even in the absence of motor planning. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to explore acoustically triggered activations within the lateral premotor cortex. Temporal (when), object-related (what), and spatial (where) auditory patterns were to be monitored for violations in a serial prediction task. As a result, we found a modality-dependent modulation for auditory events within the inferior ventrolateral premotor cortex, an area engaged in vocal plans. In addition, however, auditory activations were distributed within the entire premotor cortex depending on which stimulus property was attended to. Attention to where patterns was found to engage fields for gaze and reaching (dorsolateral premotor cortex), what patterns to engage fields for hand movements (superior ventrolateral premotor cortex), and when patterns to engage fields for vocal plans. Together, the findings confirm the idea of a sensory somatotopy in lateral premotor cortex, according to which a perceptual pattern triggers representations within that motor effector which would be most appropriate to generate it as an action effect.
The effects of attentional modulation on activity within the human visual cortex were investigated using magnetoencephalography. Chromatic sinusoidal stimuli were used to evoke activity from the occipital cortex, with attention directed either toward or away from the stimulus using a bar-orientation judgment task. For five observers, global magnetic field power was plotted as a function of time from stimulus onset. The major peak of each function occurred at about 120 ms latency and was well modeled by a current dipole near the calcarine sulcus. Independent component analysis (ICA) on the non-averaged data for each observer also revealed one component of calcarine origin, the location of which matched that of the dipolar source determined from the averaged data. For two observers, ICA revealed a second component near the parieto-occipital sulcus. Although no effects of attention were evident using standard averaging procedures, time-varying spectral analyses of single trials revealed that the main effect of attention was to alter the level of oscillatory activity. Most notably, a sustained increase in alpha-band (7-12 Hz) activity of both calcarine and parieto-occipital origin was evident. In addition, calcarine activity in the range of 13-21 Hz was enhanced, while calcarine activity in the range of 5-6 Hz was reduced. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that attentional modulation affects neural processing within the calcarine and parieto-occipital cortex by altering the amplitude of alpha-band activity and other natural brain rhythms.
Whether common or distinct neural systems underpin perception of different emotions and the degree to which these systems are automatically engaged during emotional perception are unresolved. We performed an event-related fMRI experiment in which subjects viewed morphed emotional faces displaying low or high intensities of disgust, fear, happiness, or sadness under two task conditions. The amygdala and fusiform cortex responded to high-intensity expressions of all emotions, independent of task. Right superior temporal sulcus showed an additive effect of the emotion-directed task and high-intensity emotion. Ventromedial prefrontal and somatosensory cortices, regions implicated in providing representations of somatic states, showed enhanced activity during explicit emotional judgments. We failed to find predicted differences between emotions. The results suggest that amygdala contributes to task-independent perceptual processing of a range of emotions. We interpret ventromedial prefrontal and somatosensory cortex activations as evidence that these regions contribute to explicit emotion processing through linking emotion perception with representations of somatic states previously engendered by emotions.
Musically naive participants were scanned before and after a period of 15 weeks during which they were taught to read music and play the keyboard. When participants played melodies from musical notation after training, activation was seen in a cluster of voxels within the bilateral superior parietal cortex. A subset of these voxels were activated in a second experiment in which musical notation was present, but irrelevant for task performance. These activations suggest that music reading involves the automatic sensorimotor translation of a spatial code (written music) into a series of motor responses (keypresses).
Neocortical cholinergic afferents are proposed to influence both selective attention and emotional processing. In a study of healthy adults we used event-related fMRI while orthogonally manipulating attention and emotionality to examine regions showing effects of cholinergic modulation by the anticholinesterase physostigmine. Either face or house pictures appeared at task-relevant locations, with the alternative picture type at irrelevant locations. Faces had either neutral or fearful expressions. Physostigmine increased relative activity within the anterior fusiform gyrus for faces at attended, versus unattended, locations, but decreased relative activity within the posterolateral occipital cortex for houses in attended, versus unattended, locations. A similar pattern of regional differences in the effect of physostigmine on cue-evoked responses was also present in the absence of stimuli. Cholinergic enhancement augmented the relative neuronal response within the middle fusiform gyrus to fearful faces, whether at attended or unattended locations. By contrast, physostigmine influenced responses in the orbitofrontal, intraparietal and cingulate cortices to fearful faces when faces occupied task-irrelevant locations. These findings suggest that acetylcholine may modulate both selective attention and emotional processes through independent, region-specific effects within the extrastriate cortex. Furthermore, cholinergic inputs to the frontoparietal cortex may influence the allocation of attention to emotional information.
Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) is exceptionally rare in the Indian population. We present and discuss the clinical, radiological and histopathologic findings in 2 siblings with CTX. Both the patients had juvenile cataract, mental retardation and marked cerebellar ataxia. The Achilles tendon swelling was present in only 1 patient (Case 2). MR imaging showed typical bilateral and symmetrical involvement of the dentate nuclei, inferior olives, brainstem and cerebellar hemispheric white matter. Although the diagnosis of CTX was made in the 3rd decade in both our cases, early diagnosis is possible if neuroimaging is done in the early course of the disease.

Doctors in India are heirs to a long tradition of ethics from their own forebears and from those from the West. This paper discusses ethical aspects of topics of relevance to neurological scientists such as brain death, neural transplant and whole brain transplant. Many other topics such as ethics in research, patients with AIDS, patients in a persistent vegetative state and euthanasia deserve similar consideration and debate.
Hypertension is a risk factor for stroke, ischemic white matter lesions, silent infarcts, general atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. This risk increases with increasing blood pressure also at blood pressure within the normal ranges, and a high percentage of these cardiovascular events occur in those with normal blood or mild hypertension. Several studies have reported that high blood pressure precedes Alzheimer's disease by decades, but blood pressure decreases the years before dementia onset and is lower in individuals with Alzheimer's disease than in controls. High blood pressure has also been related to the neuropathological manifestations of Alzheimer's disease. Hypertension often clusters with other vascular risk factors, including diabetes mellitus, obesity, and hypercholesterolemia. Also, these risk factors have been related to Alzheimer's disease. The exact mechanism behind these associations is not clear. Hypertension may cause cerebrovascular disease that may increase the likelihood that individuals with AD encephalopathy will express a dementia syndrome, but hypertension may also accelerate the AD process, subclinical AD may lead to increased blood pressure, and similar biological mechanisms may be involved in the pathogenesis of both disorders. Hypertension is a common disorder and often untreated. Even if hypertension only results in a moderately increased risk of AD, or overall dementia, better treatment of hypertension may have an immense effect on the total numbr of demented individuals.
Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a feature of ageing and Alzheimer's disease (AD); it is also associated with intracerebral hemorrhage and stroke. Here, the pathogenesis of CAA and its effects on the brain are reviewed and the possible effects of CAA on therapies for Alzheimer's disease are evaluated. Tracer experiments in animals and observations on human brains suggest that peptides such as A beta are eliminated along the peri-arterial interstitial fluid drainage pathways that are effectively the lymphatics of the brain. In CAA, A beta becomes entrapped in drainage pathways in the walls of cerebral arteries, reflecting a failure of elimination of A beta from the ageing brain. One consequence of failure in clearance of A beta is accumulation of soluble and insoluble A beta associated with cognitive decline in AD. Replacement of vascular smooth muscle cells by A beta occurs in severe CAA with weakening of artery walls and increased risk of vessel rupture and intracerebral hemorrhage. Risk factors for CAA include mutations of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene and possession of the epsilon 4 allele of apolipoprotein E. There is also evidence that cerebrovascular disease may be a factor in the failure of elimination of A beta along perivascular pathways in sporadic AD; this would link ageing in cerebral arteries with the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. If therapeutic agents, including anti-A beta antibodies, are to be used to eliminate A beta in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, the effects of CAA on the treatment and the effects of the treatment on the CAA need to be considered.
Recent evidence indicates that different vascular risk factors are present in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other prevalent dementia types probably contributing to deterioration of cerebrovascular function, thus enhancing neurodegeneration and premature neuronal death due to a reduction in brain perfusion. Brain blood flow shows a reduced velocity and increased pulsatility (PI) and resistance indices (RI) in different types of dementia and in diabetes and hypertension, as well. High levels of diastolic blood pressure correlate with diminished brain blood flow and elevated PI and RI, accompanied by cognitive deterioration. Nitric oxide (NO) levels are found increased in the sera and brain tissue of AD patients. Vascular risk factors (hyperglycemia, LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, hypertension) and altered brain hemodynamic parameters correlate with APOE genotypes of which APOE-4/4 carriers represent the AD population with the highest cerebrovascular risk. In addition, the genomic profiles of patients with dementia integrating AD-related genes (APOE, PS1, PS2, cFOS) in a mini-tetragenic haplotype significantly differ from controls with an absolute genetic variation of about 50%-60%. Cerebrovascular dysfunction is a factor common to most types of dementia; however, genetic variation among different dementia types might be determinant for the activation of early vascular events inducing or accelerating neurodegeneration. In this regard, cerebrovascular dysfunction should be considered a potential therapeutic target in dementia.

This paper reviews processing of facial identity and expressions. The issue of independence of these two systems for these tasks has been addressed from different approaches over the past 25 years. More recently, neuroimaging techniques have provided researchers with new tools to investigate how facial information is processed in the brain. First, findings from &quot;traditional&quot; approaches to identity and expression processing are summarized. The review then covers findings from neuroimaging studies on face perception, recognition, and encoding. Processing of the basic facial expressions is detailed in light of behavioral and neuroimaging data. Whereas data from experimental and neuropsychological studies support the existence of two systems, the neuroimaging literature yields a less clear picture because it shows considerable overlap in activation patterns in response to the different face-processing tasks. Further, activation patterns in response to facial expressions support the notion of involved neural substrates for processing different facial expressions.
The present study examined the role of the 5-HT1B receptor in learning and memory. The ability of the 5-HT1B receptor agonist anpirtoline and the selective 5-HT1B receptor antagonist NAS-181 to affect spatial learning in the water maze (WM) and aversive learning in the passive avoidance (PA) task were examined in the rat. Anpirtoline (0.1-1.0 mg/kg, s.c.) caused a dose-dependent impairment of learning and memory in both the WM and PA tasks. NAS-181 (1.0-10 mg/kg, s.c.) failed to alter performance of the WM task, but produced a dose-dependent (0.1-20 mg/kg) facilitation of PA retention. Furthermore, treatment with NAS-181 (10 mg/kg) fully blocked the impairment of the WM and PA performance caused by anpirtoline (1.0 mg/kg). In contrast, NAS-181 (3.0-10 mg/kg) did not attenuate the spatial learning deficit and the impairment of PA retention caused by scopolamine (0.1 mg/kg in WM task, 0.3 mg/kg in PA task, s.c.), a nonselective muscarinic antagonist. Moreover, a subthreshold dose of scopolamine (0.1 mg/kg) blocked the facilitation of PA retention induced by NAS-181 (1.0-10 mg/kg). In addition, the behavioral disturbances (eg thigmotaxic swimming and platform deflections) induced by anpirtoline and scopolamine were analyzed in the WM task and correlated with WM performance. These results indicate that: (1) 5-HT1B receptor stimulation and blockade result in opposite effects in two types of cognitive tasks in the rat, and that (2) the 5-HT1B antagonist NAS-181 can facilitate some aspects of cognitive function, most likely via an increase of cholinergic transmission. These results suggest that 5-HT1B receptor antagonists may have a potential in the treatment of cognitive deficits resulting from loss of cholinergic transmission.
Adult hippocampal neurogenesis has been demonstrated in several species and is regulated by both environmental and pharmacological stimuli. The present study seeks to determine whether hippocampal proliferation and neurogenesis are altered in adult animals exposed to inescapable shock (IS) in the learned helplessness model of depression. We report that exposure to avoidance testing, regardless of pre-exposure to IS, decreases cell proliferation in the hippocampus, extending previous studies demonstrating downregulation of neurogenesis by exposure to acute stressors. In addition, when the analysis was conducted 9 days after exposure to IS we observed a significant decrease in cell proliferation compared to nonshocked animals. Administration of fluoxetine, a serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor, from days 2-8 blocked the downregulation of cell proliferation resulting from IS. Fluoxetine treatment also reversed the deficit in escape latency observed in animals exposed to IS. Finally, at the 9 day time point, there was no significant difference in blood levels of corticosterone between nonshocked and IS exposed animals, indicating that the decreased cell proliferation that is observed is not due to increased levels of this adrenal steroid. These findings demonstrate that exposure to IS, which results in a state of behavioral despair, decreases hippocampal cell proliferation and that this effect can be reversed by fluoxetine treatment.
Major depression and alcoholism are often comorbid, resulting in more impairment and more suicidal behavior compared with either diagnosis alone. This study compared clinical features and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) monoamine metabolites in depressed subjects with and without a history of alcoholism and healthy volunteers. We hypothesized that depressed subjects with a history of alcoholism would be more aggressive, impulsive, and suicidal than depressed subjects without a history of alcoholism, and would have lower CSF monoamine metabolite levels. We compared 63 subjects with a current major depressive episode (MDE) and a history of alcoholism, 72 subjects with a current MDE but without a history of alcoholism, and 22 healthy volunteers. Participants with a history of alcoholism were in remission for at least 6 months. All subjects were free from prescribed medications known to affect brain serotonin, dopamine, or norepinephrine systems for a minimum of 14 days. Depressive symptoms, lifetime aggression, impulsivity, Axis II disorders, and suicidal behavior were assessed. CSF was sampled and homovanillic acid (HVA), 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA), and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) were assayed by high-performance lipid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Depressed subjects with a history of alcoholism did not differ from depressed subjects without a history of alcoholism in current severity of depressive symptoms, or in past suicidal behavior. Depressed subjects with a history of alcoholism had lower CSF HVA levels, and higher lifetime aggression and current suicide ideation scale scores and were more likely to be tobacco smokers compared with depressed subjects without a history of alcoholism. Low HVA was present after adjustment for sex, aggression and depression scores, cigarette smoking, antisocial and borderline personality disorders, psychomotor retardation, and delusions. Controls had CSF HVA levels intermediate between the two depressed groups. We found no group difference in CSF 5-HIAA and MHPG levels. In individuals with current MDE, those with a history of comorbid alcoholism had lower CSF HVA levels compared with those without a history of alcoholism. Low CSF HVA suggests that impaired dopaminergic activity is associated with a history of alcoholism in persons with current MDE.
It has previously been shown that inescapable (IS) but not escapable (ES) stress potentiates the rewarding properties of morphine as measured by conditioned place preference and psychomotor activation, and that this potentiation may be mediated by dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) serotonin (5-HT) neurons. The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has been implicated in both reward and stress, and is a projection region of the DRN. The mPFC also contains dopaminergic afferents from the ventral tegmental area, which has been the focus of many studies exploring both the rewarding properties of drugs and the aversive properties of stress. The role of the mPFC in stress/drug reactivity interactions is largely unknown. The present study used in vivo microdialysis to examine 5-HT and dopamine (DA) efflux in the mPFC of rats during IS, ES or no stress (NS). IS and ES rats received the stressor in yoked pairs. The stressor consisted of tailshocks that could be terminated for both rats by the ES rats. Large increases in 5-HT and DA levels were observed during IS but not ES or NS. DA and 5-HT efflux were also measured 24 h later in the same rats in response to morphine (3 mg/kg) or saline. Sustained increases in 5-HT levels were observed after morphine in rats that had previously received IS but not in rats that had received ES or NS. No changes in DA efflux were observed after morphine. Thus, 5-HT and DA in the mPFC may be involved in stressor controllability effects, and the sensitization of 5-HT neurons by IS extends to the mPFC and to morphine as a challenge.
The cholinergic immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin can be used to effect selective, substantial and permanent lesions of basal forebrain neurons in the neonatal rat. Human neurodevelopmental disorders such as Rett and Down syndromes are characterized by early cholinergic dysfunction and cognitive impairment. Hence, the study of the neonatal 192 IgG-saporin lesioned rat should illuminate the role of cholinergic dysfunction in these human disorders. To date, we and others have failed to observe notable effects of this neonatal lesion on learning and memory, even when combined with a severe lesion of noradrenergic forebrain innervation. As well, attention seems not to be affected. However, complex problem solving (intelligence?) is compromised by the cholinergic lesion. There also appears to be reduced cortical dendritic branching indicative of synapse loss but further research is needed to characterize this. Even if the synapse loss due to neonatal cholinergic lesion is modest and thus insufficient to cause a significant neurodevelopmental dysfunction, its consequences may be devastating during old age.
The major problem in olfactory neuroscience is to determine how the brain discriminates one odorant from another. The traditional approach involves identifying how particular features of a chemical stimulus are represented in the olfactory system. However, this perspective is at odds with a growing body of evidence, from both neurobiology and psychology, which places primary emphasis on synthetic processing and experiential factors--perceptual learning--rather than on the structural features of the stimulus as critical for odor discrimination. In the present review of both psychological and sensory physiological data, we argue that the initial odorant feature extraction/analytical processing is not behaviorally/consciously accessible, but rather is a first necessary stage for subsequent cortical synthetic processing which in turn drives olfactory behavior. Cortical synthetic coding reflects an experience-dependent process that allows synthesis of novel co-occurring features, similar to processes used for visual object coding. Thus, we propose that experience and cortical plasticity are not only important for traditional associative olfactory memory (e.g. fear conditioning, maze learning, and delayed-match-to-sample paradigms), but also play a critical, defining role in odor discrimination.
Cdk5 is a member of the cyclin-dependent kinase family. Unlike other conventional Cdks that are major regulators of eukaryotic cell cycle progression, Cdk5 displays diverse functions in neuronal as well as non-neuronal tissues. In particular, accumulating evidence points to the roles of this kinase in CNS development and other cellular processes. In this article, we summarize the functional roles of Cdk5 pertaining to the formation and functions of synapse, a specialized structure for the fundamental functions of neurons.
&quot;Is it sufficient glory to don a white apron and swing a carbolized knife and is therein a sufficient indication to let daylight into a deformed cranium and on top of a hopelessly defective brain, and to proclaim success because the victim consented not to die of the assault? Such rash feats of indiscriminate surgery, if continued, moreover in the presence of fourteen deaths in thirty-three cases, are stains on your hands and sins on your souls. No ocean of soap and water will cleanse those hands, no power of corrosive sublimate will disinfect the souls.&quot; These passionate words, delivered by Abraham Jacobi, the father of American pediatrics, at the International Congress in Rome in 1893, and later in the article &quot;Non nocere&quot; (42), epitomize the growing antagonism to the attempts by many prominent surgeons to improve the gloomy fate of severely retarded, microcephalic children by &quot;liberating&quot; their brains from their presumed bony chains by &quot;linear craniotomy.&quot; This article portrays how the fallacious 19th-century concepts of the relationship between the capacity of the cranial cavity and intelligence, backed by &quot;scientific racism&quot; together with the changing attitude toward retarded and malformed children, generated a surgical solution for microcephalic idiocy. It describes how hopeful surgeons, neurologists, and pediatricians, encouraged by the advances in anesthesia and asepsis, lost their judgment and disregarded logic and evidence. They generated a wave of enthusiasm and hope that soared from the United States and France through the British Isles, Europe, and as far as Ceylon and Australia to end in a ripple of bitter disgrace under caustic criticism, leaving a scar on the recently budding field of neurological surgery.

The past decade has dramatically increased our knowledge of genetic and molecular alterations in human central nervous system tumors. Important as these alterations are for the molecular classification of tumors, their actual roles in tumorigenesis and tumor progression have long remained obscure. Lately, several mouse brain tumor models have been developed that use different gene modification strategies to replicate mutations seen in the human counterpart. These genetic models will allow discrimination between mutations that are causally related to tumor formation and mutations that are a result of tumor progression. These models also provide histologically and genetically accurate models for preclinical testing and will perhaps help us identify novel targets for therapies aimed at the mechanistic cause of the disease. We present here a review of current models, with a focus on gliomas and medulloblastomas.
Morphine is now said to have no problematic side effects such as analgesic tolerance and physical dependence for cancer pain patients in clinic, as far as it is appropriately used. However, sub-sensitivity to morphine might be developed when higher doses of morphine are used for terminal cancer pain patients. Along with the severity of cancer, the nature of pain becomes changed to neuropathic pain, which is resistant to morphine or NSAIDS. In order to safely use morphine in the clinic, we need to know how morphine tolerance and neuropathic pain are developed and what adjuvants could be used to completely suppress the pain. Here I overview the proposed mechanisms for morphine tolerance and neuropathic pain in relation to the availability of analgesic adjuvants.
The essential metal iron has long been implicated in the neuronal damage associated with Parkinson's disease. Recent findings show that iron chelation may prevent the reductions in dopamine and motor disturbances associated with this disease, and suggest the need to examine the role of dietary iron and the use of metal chelators in neurodegenerative disorders.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of severe vision loss in the developed world. The lack of effective treatment modalities, coupled with evidence supporting an oxidative pathogenesis, has increased interest in the potential preventative role of nutritional supplementation. This article reviews seven randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that have investigated the role of nutritional supplementation in AMD. Three of these trials reported a positive effect of nutritional supplementation on AMD; the Age-related eye study (AREDS), the Lutein Antioxidant Supplementation Trial (LAST), and the oral zinc trial by Newsome et al. (1988). However, the oral zinc trial by Newsome et al. (1988) was unlikely to detect any difference between treatments smaller than 72%, and the AREDS results were based on a subgroup of their study population. Lutein was considered for the AREDS formulation, but was not commercially available at that time. The findings of the LAST support a possible therapeutic role of lutein in AMD.
Recent histopathologic studies have shown that mitochondria and peroxisomes of the retinal pigment epithelium may play a central role in the pathophysiology of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). We supposed that compounds which improve mitochondrial functions (mitotropic compounds) may show beneficial effects in preventing AMD. Fourteen patients affected by early AMD were treated with a mixture containing acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC), polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) and vitamin E, while an equal number of age- and sex-matched patients affected by early AMD were treated with vitamin E only. Recovery time after macular photostress, foveal sensitivity and mean defect in the visual field as well as blood lipid levels were recorded at the beginning and after 3, 6, 9, 12 and 24 months of follow-up. In the treated group, all the visual functions showed slight improvement which was evident after 3 months of treatment and remained nearly stationary by the end of 24 months. The same tests in the control group showed slow worsening. The divergence between treated and control groups became more marked with time, but the difference was not significant at any time of the follow-up. These findings suggest that the blend of ALC, PUFA, CoQ10 and vitamin E may improve retinal functions in early AMD.
Injured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons often develop adrenergic sensitivity. To investigate the mechanisms of this phenomenon, the effects of norepinephrine (NE) on membrane potential of large- and medium-sized A-type neurons from chronically compressed DRG were recorded electrophysiologically in vitro. NE induced a depolarization in both control (26/36) and injured (56/62) neurons, whereas the incidence and amplitude of NE-induced depolarization in the injured neurons were significantly higher than that in controls. Following NE-induced depolarization, a subthreshold membrane potential oscillation (SMPO) was triggered or enhanced that initiated or increased repetitive firing in a fraction of injured neurons (15/56). After the SMPO was selectively abolished by application of tetrodotoxin (TTX), NE-induced depolarization failed to produce repetitive firing, even with a greater depolarization. Application of Rp-cAMPS (500 microM), a selective inhibitor of protein kinase A (PKA), decreased both SMPO and repetitive firing evoked by NE application or by intracellular current injection. Conversely, Sp-cAMPS (500 microM), a PKA activator, had a facilitating effect on both the SMPO and the repetitive firing. These results strongly suggest that a PKA mediated triggering and enhancement of SMPO may be responsible for the excitatory effects of NE on sensory neurons in neuropathic rats.
It has been widely accepted that prostaglandins are involved in peripheral mechanisms of hyperalgesia. Several lines of evidence suggest that prostaglandins also contribute to the mechanisms underlying hyperalgesia at the level of the spinal cord. The nociceptive flexor reflex of the hind limb was used to test the hypothesis that products of cyclo-oxygenase contribute to the increased excitability of spinal neurons during hyperalgesia induced by peripheral injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into the hind paw. The reflex was evoked by electrical stimulation of the sural nerve at an intensity that activated A- and C-fibers, and muscle potentials were recorded in hamstring muscles in decerebrate, spinalized rats. Intrathecal administration of (S)-ibuprofen (1-100 nmol) dose-dependently attenuated the flexor reflex in CFA treated rats but had no effect in untreated rats. (R)-Ibuprofen had no effect on the reflex in either control or CFA-treated rats at the dose tested (100 nmol). Western blots of lumbar spinal cord extracts showed increased levels of cyclo-oxygenase (COX)-2 protein in the dorsal spinal cord of rats with peripheral inflammation; no change occurred in the level of COX-1. These results indicate that products of COX-2 contribute to the increased excitability of the spinal cord during persistent peripheral inflammation.

Headache is one of the most common symptoms patients attending a neurological department present. Although the overwhelming majority of these headaches are benign and self-limited, headache can be the initial symptom of life-threatening disorders. It is important for physicians to differentiate primary from symptomatic headaches. There are 3 types of primary headaches: migraine, tension-type headache, cluster headache. Symptomatic headaches are numerous and in most cases are not the consequence of serious diseases, however a tumour or a different cerebral disease can be taken into account. Accurate anamnesis and accurate physical examination will help in diagnosing the aetiology of headache. In most cases, neurological and physical exams are normal. Anamnesis is therefore the key to a correct diagnosis.
Pediatric stroke is an underrecognized, potentially treatable cause of childhood neurologic disease. Acute basilar artery thrombosis is a devastating disease rarely encountered in children. Acute interventions with both chemical and mechanical thrombolysis techniques can improve outcomes in adults with arterial thrombosis of the posterior cerebral circulation. We report a case of intervention with both intra-arterial alteplase (tissue plasminogen activator) and cerebral balloon angioplasty to treat a prolonged basilar artery occlusion secondary to idiopathic thrombosis in an adolescent. Despite the patient being clinically locked-in and intervention being delayed at least 20 hours from symptom onset, he obtained complete neurologic recovery. Issues of pediatric stroke, late therapeutic intervention, chemical thrombolysis, and cerebral angioplasty are discussed. This case highlights the underrecognition and subsequent delay in diagnosis of pediatric stroke and how acute intervention may cure otherwise catastrophic strokes in children.
The loose-patch clamp technique was used to study voltage-activated currents from the surface of rat neurohypophysial and hypothalamic regions in situ. In the neurohypophysis, depolarizing pulses of 4-8 ms duration yielded tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive sodium currents, a 4-AP-sensitive &quot;A&quot;-type potassium current, and a long-lasting outward TEA- and tetrandrine-sensitive Ca(2+)-activated potassium current. All of these currents were elicited during the application of the pulse. With high external calcium there were long-lasting inward currents blocked by Ni(2+) and Cd(2+), identifying them as voltage-gated calcium currents. Depolarizing pulses of 0.3-0.7 ms duration yielded fast biphasic responses, of 1-3 ms duration, composed of mostly sodium and &quot;A&quot;-type potassium currents. With high external calcium there were fast inward currents blocked by Ni(2+) and Cd(2+), indicating that these were voltage-gated calcium currents. These responses have the characteristics of action potential currents: they were elicited after the cessation of the applied pulse and the &quot;A&quot; component is eliminated together with the sodium component upon application of TTX. Similar responses to long and short pulses were obtained from the surface of the associated magnocellular somata in the supraoptic nucleus, and their projections. The explant currents are similar to those previously characterized using conventional methods from somata and terminals.
The zebrafish larva is a powerful model for the analysis of behaviour and the underlying neuronal network activity during early stages of development. Here we employ a new approach of &quot;in vivo&quot; Ca(2+) imaging in this preparation. We demonstrate that bolus injection of membrane-permeable Ca(2+) indicator dyes into the spinal cord of zebrafish larvae results in rapid staining of essentially the entire spinal cord. Using two-photon imaging, we could monitor Ca(2+) signals simultaneously from a large population of spinal neurons with single-cell resolution. To test the method, Ca(2+) transients were produced by iontophoretic application of glutamate and, as observed for the first time in a living preparation, of GABA or glycine. Glycine-evoked Ca(2+) transients were blocked by the application of strychnine. Sensory stimuli that trigger escape reflexes in mobile zebrafish evoked Ca(2+) transients in distinct neurons of the spinal network. Moreover, long-term recordings revealed spontaneous Ca(2+) transients in individual spinal neurons. Frequently, this activity occurred synchronously among many neurons in the network. In conclusion, the new approach permits a reliable analysis with single-cell resolution of the functional organisation of developing neuronal networks.
The molecular basis for the known intramembrane receptor/receptor interactions among G protein-coupled receptors was postulated to be heteromerization based on receptor subtype-specific interactions between different types of receptor homomers. The discovery of GABAB heterodimers started this field rapidly followed by the discovery of heteromerization among isoreceptors of several G protein-coupled receptors such as delta/kappa opioid receptors. Heteromerization was also discovered among distinct types of G protein-coupled receptors with the initial demonstration of somatostatin SSTR5/dopamine D2 and adenosine A1/dopamine D1 heteromeric receptor complexes. The functional meaning of these heteromeric complexes is to achieve direct or indirect (via adapter proteins) intramembrane receptor/receptor interactions in the complex. G protein-coupled receptors also form heteromeric complexes involving direct interactions with ion channel receptors, the best example being the GABAA/dopamine D5 receptor heteromerization, as well as with receptor tyrosine kinases and with receptor activity modulating proteins. As an example, adenosine, dopamine, and glutamate metabotropic receptor/receptor interactions in the striatopallidal GABA neurons are discussed as well as their relevance for Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, and drug dependence. The heterodimer is only one type of heteromeric complex, and the evidence is equally compatible with the existence of higher order heteromeric complexes, where also adapter proteins such as homer proteins and scaffolding proteins can exist. These complexes may assist in the process of linking G protein-coupled receptors and ion channel receptors together in a receptor mosaic that may have special integrative value and may constitute the molecular basis for some forms of learning and memory.
Brain plasticity refers to the ability of the brain to undergo structural and functional changes. It is a necessary process that allows us to adapt and learn from our environment and is fundamental to our survival. However, under certain conditions, these neuroadaptive responses can have adverse consequences. In particular, increasing evidence indicates that plastic processes are coopted by drugs of abuse, leading to addiction and associated drug-seeking behaviors. An extensive and diverse group of studies ranging from the molecular to the behavioral level has also strongly implicated glutamatergic neurotransmission as a critical mediator of experience-dependent synaptic plasticity. Thus, it is vital to understand how drugs of abuse interact and potentially alter glutamatergic neurotransmission and associated signal transduction processes. This review will focus on the cellular and molecular neuroscience of alcoholism, with emphasis on events at the glutamatergic postsynaptic density (PSD) and dendritic spine dynamics that appear to underlie much of the structural and functional plasticity of the CNS.
This study investigated the effects of continuous slow intravenous infusion of cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (CCK-4) on brain stem auditory evoked potentials (BSAEP) in healthy subjects. Twenty-four subjects, 15 females and 9 males, were assigned to infusion with either placebo or CCK-4 in a randomized, double-blind, parallel group design. BSAEPs, mood, physical symptoms, and vital signs were assessed once before infusion and at 10 min and 40 min after the onset of infusion. In the 16 subjects (N = 8, CCK-4; N = 8, placebo) CCK-4, compared to placebo, delayed peak I latency during early infusion, slowed the latencies of peaks III and V, and decreased the amplitude of peak III throughout the infusion. No significant treatment differences were observed with respect to symptoms, mood, or cardiovascular measures. These preliminary findings suggest that CCK-4 may interfere with information processing in the brain stem auditory pathways and that prolonged intravenous CCK-4 administration may be a useful challenge paradigm for investigating CCK's modulatory role on brain stem mechanisms mediating anxiety and panic in humans.
The maximum voluntary muscle force can vary throughout the day; typically being low in the morning and high in the evening. The nature of this possible variation has been investigated with respect to corticospinal excitability. Six healthy subjects were studied. Maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) in the thenar muscles was measured. In addition, we monitored several indices of corticospinal excitability using electromyographic (EMG) recording and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded while relaxed and at 10% MVC when the silent period was assessed as an index of corticospinal inhibition. Readings were taken every 3 h for 24 h. MVC of the thenar muscles did not change significantly over the 24 h. The mean areas, latencies and durations of MEPs did not show significant changes over the 24-h test period with the muscle relaxed or contracted; however, MEP area did vary between sessions at all stimulus intensities suggesting non-time-of-day-dependent changes in corticospinal excitability. Furthermore, the extent and duration of the silent period seen after the MEP in the contracted muscle did not change significantly over the 24 h of the experiment at any stimulus intensity. These results provide evidence that the MVC force of the thenar muscles and their responses to TMS are stable throughout the course of the day and suggest that, in hand muscles, corticospinal excitability may not be subject to circadian variation.
To determine the temporal relation between the ingestion of dry food containing 8% NaCl and the increased daily consumption of water that occurs when rats eat this diet, rats were placed in specially designed cages linked to microprocessors that allowed the continuous monitoring of food and water ingestion. The increase in water intake was found to result from increases both in number and size of individual drinking bouts. Approximately 75% of the water intake was consumed in drinking bouts that occurred less than 5 min after feeding. Indeed, rats rarely consumed 8% NaCl diet without also drinking water in the same ingestive episode, and the volume of water they drank was proportional to the food intake in that episode. These and other observations suggest that ingestion of the high salt diet stimulated thirst rapidly. As such, they are consistent with previous reports that visceral osmoreceptors (or Na(+)-receptors) detect osmolytes passing through the gastrointestinal tract and provide an early stimulus of thirst in rats that precedes large increases in systemic plasma osmolality.
Certain metabolites of progesterone and deoxycorticosterone are established as potent and selective positive allosteric modulators of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor. Upon administration these steroids exhibit clear behavioural effects that include anxiolysis, sedation and analgesia, they are anticonvulsant and at high doses induce a state of general anaesthesia, a profile consistent with an action to enhance neuronal inhibition. Physiologically, peripherally synthesised pregnane steroids derived from endocrine glands such as the adrenals and ovaries function as hormones by crossing the blood brain barrier to influence neuronal signalling. However, the demonstration that certain neurons and glial cells within the central nervous system (CNS) can synthesize these steroids either de novo, or from peripherally derived progesterone, has led to the proposal that these steroids (neurosteroids) can additionally function in a paracrine manner, to locally influence GABAergic transmission. Steroid levels are known to change dynamically, for example in stress and during pregnancy. Given that GABA(A) receptors are ubiquitously expressed throughout the central nervous system, such changes in steroid levels would be predicted to cause a global enhancement of inhibitory neurotransmission throughout the brain, a scenario that would seem incompatible with a physiological role as a selective neuromodulator. Here, we will review emerging evidence that the GABA-modulatory actions of the pregnane steroids are highly selective, with their actions being brain region and indeed neuron dependent. Furthermore, the sensitivity of GABA(A) receptors is not static but can dynamically change. The molecular mechanisms underpinning this neuronal specificity will be discussed with particular emphasis being given to the role of GABA(A) receptor isoforms, protein phosphorylation and local steroid metabolism and synthesis.
Alcohol dependence and abuse are among the most costly health problems in the world from both social and economic points of view. Patterns of drinking appear to be changing throughout the world with more women and young people drinking heavily. Excessive drinking can lead to impairment of cognitive function and structural brain changes--some permanent, some reversible. Patterns of damage appear to relate to lifetime alcohol consumption but, more importantly, to associated medical complications. The most significant of these is the alcohol-related vitamin deficient state, the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (WKS), which is caused by thiamin deficiency but is seen most commonly in alcoholics. Careful selection and classification of alcoholic cases into those with and without these complications, together with detailed quantitative neuropathological analyses has provided data that gives clues to the most vulnerable regions and cells in the brain. Brain shrinkage is largely accounted for by loss of white matter. Some of this damage appears to be reversible. Alcohol-related neuronal loss has been documented in specific regions of the cerebral cortex (superior frontal association cortex), hypothalamus and cerebellum. No change is found in basal ganglia, nucleus basalis, or serotonergic raphe nuclei. Many of these regions which are normal in uncomplicated alcoholics are damaged in those with the WKS. Dendritic and synaptic changes have been documented in alcoholics and these, together with receptor and transmitter changes, may explain functional changes and cognitive deficits, which precede more severe structural neuronal changes. A resource to provide human brain tissues for these types of studies has been developed at the University of Sydney--the New South Wales Tissue Resource Centre. The aim of this facility is to provide research groups throughout the world with fresh and/or frozen tissues from well-characterized cases of alcohol-related brain damage and matched controls. The development of new technologies in pathology and molecular biology means that many more questions can be addressed using appropriately stored human brain tissues. Examples of the application of some of these techniques, involving neurochemical, neuropharmacological, neuroimaging and gene expression studies are included in this paper. Important public health outcomes have arisen from some of these studies including the enrichment of bread flour with thiamin for the whole of Australia. Researchers with an interest in alcohol studies can access tissues from this brain bank.

As more attention is directed to the mental health care of women, sex and gender differences in research design and in regulatory policies have interfaced with clinical care and public policy. An emphasis on women's mental health issues in the provision of treatment and care as well as the design of large-scale screening strategies to identify and treat women with mental disorders promises to be effective public health approaches to reducing the burden of mental illness in women. The past decade has seen increased emphasis on women's mental health and sex/gender differences in the federal sector and in the research community. Federal regulations (summarized in the NIH Outreach Notebook) call for the inclusion of women and minorities in NIH-funded clinical research. The regulations also place emphasis on gender analysis of the results of clinical trials, in particular phase III trials, the findings of which are likely to influence practice. There has been substantial progress toward the goal of including women in research, but more remains to be done. A 2000 GAO report titled &quot;Women's Health: NIH Has Increased Its Efforts to Include Women in Research&quot; commended NIH for tracking the number of women in clinical research but the report also noted that relatively few NIH-funded studies, including major clinical trials, had reported findings by gender of study participants. This was seen as an impediment to progress in developing gender-based effective treatments. In the past decade, the women's health field has moved beyond an exclusive emphasis on women's reproductive function to one that defines health as a scientific enterprise to identify clinically important sex and gender differences in prevalence, etiology, course, and treatment of illnesses affecting men and women in the population as well as conditions specific to women. Nonetheless, for mental disorders, women's reproductive function and its impact on mental health conditions is still understudied. Based on the epidemiology of mental disorders, the course of mental disorders in women in relation to reproductive transitions remains an important issue for the mental health field because the burden of mental disorders, such as depression and anxiety, fall disproportionately on women of childbearing and childrearing age. The public health emphasis on women's mental health does not lessen the basic scientific opportunities to be had by a focus on gender and sex differences. A 2001 report of the Institute of Medicine titled &quot;Exploring the Biological Contributions to Health: Does Sex Matter?&quot; underscores the benefit to health care of looking for sex differences at the biological level. Basic and clinical neuroscience research is rapidly accruing a knowledge base that will provide information at the level of genes and cells of the influences of biological sex on mental health outcomes in both women and men. A focus on women's mental health and gender/sex differences research promises to yield improvement in treatments and services and thereby to improve the public health as well as to increase fundamental knowledge about the etiology and neurophysiology of mental disorders.

This study evaluated the effectiveness of a community-based contingency management (CM) protocol reinforcing punctual dual-diagnosis group counseling attendance and negative breath alcohol levels. Participants were 20 dual-diagnosis patients. The A-B-A within-subjects reversal design included a 4-week baseline phase (BL), a 12-week CM intervention, and a 4-week return-to-baseline phase (R-BL). Group counseling was provided twice weekly, with breath tests before each session. CM attendance rates were significantly higher (65%+-28%) than BL (45%+-32%, p&lt;.05) and remained elevated in the R-BL phase (68%+-29%). Despite clinical reports of frequent intoxication, during the study all breath test results were negative, regardless of study phase. Thus, no contingency effect on alcohol use could be determined. Results suggest that CM interventions can be effective in increasing attendance in a community treatment program for the dually diagnosed.
The frame of neurodegenerative diseases contains multiple pathologies for which very few active drugs have been found. Currently, drugs whose benefit is well established, are only available for Alzheimer's disease. May we term these drugs anti-dementia drugs? Pharmacological research was first oriented to find the mythic Fontaine of Youth. Nowadays, it is directed in a more concrete way, to protect the neurone from aggression before the occurrence of dementia. This pledge could appear very hazardous because we do not know the nature of the aggressors, and time is associated with wearing out and decline. Neurosciences have shown that there is a biology of cognition and that neurogenesis and apoptosis are permanently in confrontation in the brain. The present targets of pharmacology are directed against the decline of the neurone and of cognitive performance. Clinicians will check the accuracy of this very ambitious project.
We tested the effects of predictability on involuntary attention switching to task-irrelevant sound changes (distraction). Behavioral and neurophysiological evidence are provided, showing that the predictability of task-irrelevant sound changes eliminates effects of distraction even though the automatic auditory change detection system remains responsive. Two indices of distraction, slower task performance and cortical brain responses associated with attention switching, were seen only in the unpredictable condition, in which the irrelevant acoustic changes were unexpected. Attention was not involuntarily drawn away from the primary task when the subjects had foreknowledge of when the irrelevant changes would occur. These results demonstrate attentional control over orienting to sound changes and suggest that involuntary attention switching occurs mainly when an irrelevant stimulus change is unexpected. The present data allowed observation of the temporal dynamics of attention switching in the human brain.
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between the five-factor model of psychopathology and depression in schizophrenia. Symptoms were rated using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and the Montgomery and Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) in 105 chronic patients with schizophrenia. Principal-component analysis (PCA) produced a five-factor solution for the PANSS (psychomotor poverty, disorganisation, reality distortion, excitement, and depression), and a two-factor solution for the MADRS (psychological and behavioural depression). The PANSS depression factor was highly associated with the MADRS psychological depression factor but not with MADRS behavioural depression. By contrast, the PANSS excitement factor showed a strong positive correlation with the behavioural depression factor but not with psychological depression. These MADRS factors were not associated significantly with the core PANSS factors, including psychomotor poverty. It is suggested that depression exists as an independent domain, differentiated from negative symptoms, in the structure of schizophrenia symptomatology.
There is an urgent need to improve the pharmacotherapy of schizophrenia despite the introduction of important new medications. New treatment insights may come from appreciating the therapeutic implications of model psychoses. In particular, basic and clinical studies have employed the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonist, ketamine, as a probe of NMDA receptor contributions to cognition and behavior. These studies illustrate a translational neuroscience approach for probing mechanistic hypotheses related to the neurobiology and treatment of schizophrenia and other disorders. Two particular pathophysiologic themes associated with schizophrenia, the disturbance of cortical connectivity and the disinhibition of glutamatergic activity may be modeled by the administration of NMDA receptor antagonists. The purpose of this review is to consider the possibility that agents that attenuate these two components of NMDA receptor antagonist response may play complementary roles in the treatment of schizophrenia.






This experiment was carried out to determine whether reading diatonic violations in a musical score elicits similar endogenous ERP components when hearing such violations in the auditory modality. In the behavioral study, musicians were visually presented with 120 scores of familiar musical pieces, half of which contained a diatonic violation. The score was presented in a measure-by-measure manner. Self-paced reading was significantly delayed for measures containing a violation, indicating that sight reading a violation requires additional effort. In the ERP study, the musical phrases were presented in a &quot;RSVP&quot;-like manner. We predicted that diatonic violations would elicit a late positive component. However, the ERP associated with the measure where a violation was presented showed a negativity instead. The negativity started around 100 ms and lasted for the entire recording period. This long-lasting negativity encompassed at least three distinct effects that were possibly related to violation detection, working memory processing, and a further integration/interpretation process.
This article reviews the author's program of research on the neural substrates of emotion and affective style and their behavioral and peripheral biological correlates. Two core dimensions along which affect is organized are approach and withdrawal. Some of the key circuitry underlying approach and withdrawal components of emotion is reviewed with an emphasis on the role played by different sectors of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and amygdala. Affective style refers to individual differences in valence-specific features of emotional reactivity and regulation. The different parameters of affective style can be objectively measured using specific laboratory probes. Relations between individual differences in prefrontal and amygdala function and specific components of affective style are illustrated. The final section of the article concludes with a brief discussion of plasticity in the central circuitry of emotion and the possibility that this circuitry can be shaped by training experiences that might potentially promote a more resilient, positive affective style. The implications of this body of work for a broader conception of psychophysiology and for training the next generation of psychophysiologists are considered in the conclusion.



We report a case of myopathic form of very-long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD) deficiency with adolescent onset which presented with recurrent rhabdomyolysis and was diagnosed by immunostain of biopsy muscle. She was an 18-year-old woman who showed recurrent episodes of rhabdomyolysis after exercise since the age of 15. The diagnosis was made by the immunostain using anti-VLCAD antibody and the measurement of acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity for the biopsy muscle. Her elder sister had also showed recurrent episodes of rhabdomyolysis at least two times. The analysis of genomic DNA on blood samples of the patient and her sister was performed and the same mutations were identified. Hence, these sister were revealed to have VLCAD deficiency. We should keep in mind this disorder for those presenting with recurrent rhabdomyolysis. In addition, as far as we know, this is the first report that a correct diagnosis was obtained by immunostain. Immunostain is probably a useful diagnostic procedure to identify an uncommon myopathy.
Regulation of decapping is a critical determinant of mRNA stability. We recently identified hDcp2 as a human decapping enzyme with intrinsic decapping activity. This activity is specific to N(7)-methylated guanosine containing RNA. The hDcp2 enzyme does not function on the cap structure alone and is not sensitive to competition by cap analog, suggesting that hDcp2 requires the RNA for cap recognition. We now demonstrate that hDcp2 is an RNA-binding protein and its recognition and hydrolysis of the cap substrate is dependent on an initial interaction with the RNA moiety. A biochemical characterization of hDcp2 revealed that a 163 amino acid region containing two evolutionarily conserved regions, the Nudix fold hydrolase domain and the adjacent Box B region contained methyl-cap-specific hydrolysis activity. Maximum decapping activity for wild-type as well as truncation mutants of hDcp2 required Mn(2+) as a divalent cation. The demonstration that hDcp2 is an RNA-binding protein with an RNA-dependent decapping activity will now provide new approaches to identify specific mRNAs that are regulated by this decapping enzyme as well as provide novel avenues to control mRNA decapping and turnover by influencing the RNA-binding property of hDcp2.
Shame reactions were spontaneously described by 13 of 18 patients interviewed in a qualitative study investigating experiences of care following a suicide attempt. The shame data from the interview study were extracted, analysed separately, and are reported in this article. The shame reactions often occurred in conjunction with the suicide attempt. Feelings of shame were accompanied by impulses to hide or flee, i.e., fear of seeking help or impulses to leave the hospital. The attempted suicide patients often experienced the initial encounter at the hospital as difficult. Having attempted suicide and survived was often perceived as yet another failure, in addition to the problems leading to the attempt. The attempted suicide patients were sensitive to the attitudes and behaviours of the personnel. Experiencing the personnel as kind, respectful, and nonjudgemental seemed to contribute to a relief from shame for some patients. Some respondents expressed that a tolerant and flexible atmosphere in the psychiatric ward, with low demands on the attempted suicide patient, helped them accept treatment and made them feel less ashamed for not living up to the expectations of everyday life. On the other hand, feeling too exposed to others or experiencing negative attitudes from the personnel seemed to contribute to an exacerbation of shame for some patients. Being aware of possible shame reactions after a suicide attempt might help caring personnel to understand and interact with attempted suicide patients in a way that could make it easier for these patients to accept and benefit from psychiatric care after a suicide attempt.
The purpose of this study was to validate the Swedish translation of the Assessment of Communication and Interaction Skills (ACIS-S) and its applicability in Sweden. The ACIS is an observational rating scale designed to capture, in detail, a person's social interactional ability, while he/she is participating in meaningful occupations. Eighteen occupational therapists trained in administering the ACIS-S, completed 157 ACIS-S assessments of 67 subjects with psychosocial and learning disabilities. Many-faceted Rasch analysis was used to analyse the data. The results supported internal, construct and person response validity of the ACIS-S, and rater validity and reliability. The scale effectively categorized subjects according to the levels of communication and interaction ability.
The objective of this retrospective study was to determine whether tardive dyskinesia (TD) represents a risk factor for supersensitive psychosis (SS) by assessing the effect of medication withdrawal on ratings of psychopathology for 30 days following discontinuation of antipsychotic medication in patients with and without TD. The subjects were 101 treatment-resistant patients with schizophrenia who had been admitted to the inpatient service of Neuroscience Research Hospital (NRH), National Institute of Mental Health, between 1982 and 1994 to undergo studies involving discontinuation of antipsychotic medication. Patients were rated independently on a daily basis on the 22-item Psychiatric Symptom Assessment Scale (PSAS), an extended version of the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS). The overall frequency of TD was 35.6%. Tardive dyskinesia patients were older (p &lt; 0.0006) and had suffered from schizophrenia for a longer time (p &lt; 0.003) than No-TD patients. Repeated measure ANOVA revealed a &quot;time&quot; effect for all subgroups studied. The interaction TD x time, however, was not statistically significant for any of the clusters. Within-group analysis revealed significant differences against baseline for measures of positive symptoms, negative symptoms and abnormal involuntary movements in the No-TD group 3 and 4 weeks after antipsychotic withdrawal. In the TD group, however, the changes were observed only at 4 weeks following antipsychotic discontinuation in just two of the positive symptoms cluster. Between-group analyses revealed that, at baseline, the Mannerisms cluster (abnormal involuntary movements) was significantly higher in the TD group (p &lt; 0.05). No significant differences were observed between any of the remaining clusters at baseline or at different times following drug withdrawal. In conclusion, the relationship between SS and TD could not be confirmed in a cohort of patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia. In the present study, patients with no TD seemed to deteriorate faster than patients with TD in terms of psychopathology and abnormal involuntary movements. It is possible that both group of patients may undergo supersensitive receptor changes, and that these changes may be more pronounced but potentially reversible in the group without TD.



Medial temporal lobe structures are known to play a major role in memory processing. Recent work has revealed that extratemporal structures (e.g. the frontal lobe and thalamus) may also be important in memory function. In candidates for epilepsy surgery, particularly in those with temporal lobe seizures, presurgical evaluation of memory function is essential, since seizures may originate in the neural substrate that is critical for memory. In this article, we review the tools used for presurgical evaluation and their contribution to the understanding of memory function, focusing on the Wada test, [18F]fluorodeoxy-glucose positron emission tomography ([18F]FDG-PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We also explore perspectives on future studies that may elucidate the role of the temporal and extratemporal structures in memory function and the mechanisms of cerebral plasticity.
The isolation and characterization of multiple CC chemokine receptors (CCRs) in a wide range of tissues and cells signifies the functional diversity of CC chemokines. The realization that multiple chemokines activate individual receptors and that some chemokines are functional at several different CCRs, indicates that interplay between a complex network of intracellular pathways is required for the full expression of the physiological function of each ligand. In different cellular environments, chemokines can regulate distinct second messengers or even positively or negatively regulate the same signal transduction pathway. The specific interactions between many signalling molecules have been discerned in an increasing number of cellular systems and this information is being used to explain the physiological actions of chemokines. This review will attempt to summarize recent research by many groups that has revealed numerous subtleties of the CC chemokine-coupled signalling pathways.


As numerous coping strategies to deal with stressors can be used concurrently or sequentially, it may be productive to consider coping from a broad, systemic perspective. Using profile analysis and multivariate techniques, we demonstrated that coping profiles comprising multiple strategies distinguished between various mood states (dysphoria, anxiety, major depression, dysthymia and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)). Generally, affective disturbances were associated with increased levels of rumination, cognitive distraction and emotion-focused coping (emotional expression, other-blame, self-blame, emotional containment and passive resignation) coupled with diminished problem solving and social support seeking. These coping profiles, however, varied as a function of anxiety vs. dysphoria, and severity of dysphoric symptoms, although the profile of dysphoric individuals was similar to that of clinically diagnosed dysthymic and major depressive patients. While coping profiles were generally stable over time (6 months), improvement or deterioration of mood was accompanied by corresponding alterations of coping profiles. Importantly, coping profile was not simply a correlate of dysphoric mood, but was also found to be an antecedent condition that favored the evolution of more severe affective problems. It is suggested that a multidimensional approach may prove useful in understanding coping as a dynamic system, and may have implications for clinical intervention.
Metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors, which include mGlu1-8 receptors, are a heterogeneous family of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) that function to modulate neuronal excitation and plasticity via pre-synaptic, post-synaptic and glial mechanisms. Agonists for group II mGlu receptors (mGlu2 and mGlu3), such as LY354740, have been shown to suppress enhanced glutamatergic excitations in brain synapses known to be involved in the expression of fear/anxiety in animals and humans. Systemic administration of LY354740 increases open-arm time in the elevated plus maze in mice under conditions of moderate to severe stress, blocks the expression but not development of fear-potentiated startle in rats, prevents lactate-induced panic-like responses in panic-prone rats, and attenuates certain physiological, behavioral, and neurochemical consequences of acute stress in rodents. In these preclinical models, LY354740 does not produce the side-effects (e.g. sedation) that are associated with other anxiolytic agents such as benzodiazepines. Early clinical results with LY354740 have demonstrated safety and efficacy in a human anxiety model (panic provocation induced by CO2 challenge). Collectively, these data indicate mGlu2/3 receptor agonists such as LY354740 represent a promising new approach for treatment of anxiety and stress-related disorders in humans.



The present work was conducted to obtain clues for the possible roles of a novel stimulant-inducible gene mrt1 (methamphetamine-responsive transcript 1) encoding a PDZ-PX protein in stimulant-induced behavioral sensitization. In the young adult rats, repeated daily treatment with methamphetamine (4 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, once a day) for 5 days caused an enhanced behavioral response to methamphetamine: behavioral sensitization. The 5-day intermittent administration of MAP upregulated the basal expression of mrt1 transcripts and eliminated the increasing effects of a challenge dose of MAP (1.6 mg/kg, i.p.) or cocaine (30 mg/kg, i.p.) on mrt1 expression on day 14 of withdrawal in the neocortex that has been considered to be composed of a neuron circuit implicated in the sensitization phenomenon. In contrast, the basal expression of other stimulant-inducible and plasticity-related genes arc and homer1a and the ability of MAP or cocaine challenge to augment the amounts of their transcripts were not affected by the repeated MAP regimen in the cortical area. These findings suggest the differential regulation by stimulant of neocortical mrt1, arc, and homer1a expression in the behaviorally sensitized animals and supports the view that stimulant induction of mrt1 may be involved in the early molecular signalings for stimulant sensitization.
Advances in neurobiology permit neuroscientists to manipulate specific brain molecules, neurons and systems. This has lead to major advances in the neuroscience of reward. Here, it is argued that further advances will require equal sophistication in parsing reward into its specific psychological components: (1) learning (including explicit and implicit knowledge produced by associative conditioning and cognitive processes); (2) affect or emotion (implicit 'liking' and conscious pleasure) and (3) motivation (implicit incentive salience 'wanting' and cognitive incentive goals). The challenge is to identify how different brain circuits mediate different psychological components of reward, and how these components interact.
We found that L-glutamate (L-Glu) inhibits L-type Ca2+ currents (ICa) in rod photoreceptors. This inhibition was studied in isolated rods or rods in retinal slices from tiger salamander using perforated patch whole cell recordings and Cl(-)-imaging techniques. Application of L-Glu inhibited ICa by approximately 20% at 0.1 mM and approximately 35% at 1 mM. L-Glu also produced an inward current that reversed around ECl. The metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonists t-ADA (Group I), DCG-IV (Group II), and L-AP4 (Group III) had no effect on ICa. However, the glutamate transport inhibitor, TBOA (0.1 mM), prevented L-Glu from inhibiting ICa. D-aspartate (D-Asp), a glutamate transporter substrate, also inhibited ICa with significantly more inhibition at 1 mM than 0.1 mM. Using Cl imaging, L-Glu (0.1-1 mM) and D-Asp (0.1-1 mM) were found to stimulate a Cl- efflux from terminals of isolated rods whereas the ionotropic glutamate receptor agonists NMDA, AMPA, and kainate and the mGluR agonist, 1S,3R-ACPD, did not. Glutamate-evoked Cl- effluxes were blocked by the glutamate transport inhibitors TBOA and DHKA. Cl- efflux inhibits Ca2+ channel activity in rod terminals (Thoreson et al. (2000), Visual Neuroscience 17, 197). Consistent with the possibility that glutamate-evoked Cl- efflux may play a role in the inhibition, reducing intraterminal Cl- prevented L-Glu from inhibiting ICa. In summary, the results indicate that activation of glutamate transporters inhibits ICa in rods possibly as a consequence of Cl- efflux. The neurotransmitter L-Glu released from rod terminals might thus provide a negative feedback signal to inhibit further L-Glu release.
Much has been learned from studies of Limulus photoreceptors about the role of the circadian clock and light in the removal of photosensitive membrane. However, little is known in this animal about mechanisms regulating photosensitive membrane renewal, including the synthesis of proteins in, and associated with, the photosensitive membrane. To begin to understand renewal, this study examines diurnal changes in the levels of mRNAs encoding opsin, the integral membrane protein component of visual pigment, and the relative roles of light and the circadian clock in producing these changes. We show that at least two distinct opsin genes encoding very similar proteins are expressed in both the lateral and ventral eyes, and that during the day and night in the lateral eye, the average level of mRNA encoding opsinl is consistently higher than that encoding opsin2. Northern blot assays showed further that total opsin mRNA in the lateral eyes of animals maintained under natural illumination increases during the afternoon (9 &amp; 12 h after sunrise) in the light and falls at night in the dark. This diurnal change occurs whether or not the eyes receive input from the circadian clock, but it is eliminated in eyes maintained in the dark. Thus, it is regulated by light and darkness, not by the circadian clock, with light stimulating an increase in opsin mRNA levels. The rise in opsin mRNA levels observed under natural illumination was seasonal; it occurred during the summer but not the spring and fall. However, a significant increase in opsin mRNA levels could be achieved in the fall by exposing lateral eyes to 3 h of natural illumination followed by 9 h of artificial light. The diurnal regulation of opsin mRNA levels contrasts sharply with the circadian regulation of visual arrestin mRNA levels (Battelle et al., 2000). Thus, in Limulus, distinctly different mechanisms regulate the levels of mRNA encoding two proteins critical for the photoresponse.
The different actions of two I(h) channel blockers, zatebradine (UL-FS 49) and ZD7288, on rod photoresponses were analysed by computer simulation using a newly revised ionic current model of the rod photoreceptor, based on Hodgkin-Huxley equations. The model, adjusted to fit the experimental results of amphibian rods, shows that both of the blockers enhance the light-induced membrane hyperpolarization. Our model can also predict a mechanism of a damped oscillation arising during the recovery phase appeared only in the presence of zatebradine which, unlike ZD7288, reduces both I(h) and I(Kv). We suggest that the oscillation can appear due to the alternative activation of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) current (I(Ca)) and calcium-dependent current (I(K(Ca)) and I(Cl(Ca))) when I(Kv) is blocked, with I(K(Ca)) having a stronger effect than I(Cl(Ca)).

Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) has been suggested as an adjunctive treatment for drug-resistant epilepsy when surgery is inadvisable. The overall safety profile of VNS seems to be favorable as only minor adverse effects have been described. The purpose of this study was to determine if cardiac vagal tone is eventually modified by short- and long-term VNS. The effects of short- and long-term VNS were evaluated in seven subjects with intractable epilepsy. Autonomic cardiac function has been carried out by means of a 24-h analysis of RR variability at baseline (t(0)), 1 month (t(1), short-term VNS) and 36 months after VNS initiation (t(2), long-term VNS). Frequency- and time-domain parameters were calculated. Periodic cardiological and neurological evaluations were performed.Clinically relevant cardiac effects were not observed throughout the study. Despite the limited number of patients and the variety of data among them, for all the patients, a common trend towards a nocturnal decrease in the high-frequency (HF) component of the spectrum was observed after long-term VNS (mean+/-S.D.: 40+/-18 normalized units (nu) at t(0), 38+/-17 nu at t(1), 18+/-10 nu at t(2); p&lt;0.05 of t(2) vs. either t(0) or t(1)). The day-to-night changes in the power of low-frequency (LF) and HF components were significantly blunted after long-term VNS (LF day-to-night change: +16+/-13 nu at t(0) and +15+/-8 nu at t(1) vs. +3+/-13 nu at t(2), p&lt;0.02; HF day-to-night change: -18+/-13 nu at t(0) and -13+/-11 nu at t(1) vs. +3+/-12 nu at t(2), p&lt;0.003). No significant changes were observed with regard to the time-domain parameters of the heart rate variability. Throughout the neurological follow-up, one subject became seizure-free, three experienced a seizure reduction of &gt;50%, two patients of &lt;50% and one had no changes in his seizure frequency. Our findings suggest that long-term VNS might slightly affect cardiac autonomic function with a reduction of the HF component of the spectrum during night and a flattening of sympathovagal circadian changes, not inducing, however, clinically relevant cardiac side effects.
A new analysis of previously published studies of delayed matching-to-sample (DMTS) water-escape and the results of a new food-reinforced discrimination study are presented. In both cases, male Sprague-Dawley rats demonstrated short-term incidental memory for irrelevant cues in the context of two-alternative forced-choice problems that required learning about relevant cues. In the DMTS experiments, relevant and irrelevant cues were place or brightness. In the discrimination experiment, the relevant cues were place, brightness or a visual-tactile maze insert. In all experiments, after the rats attained high-level performance, consistently making choices with respect to the relevant stimuli, response latencies to the correct relevant cue were shorter when the irrelevant cue value(s) was the same as on the immediately preceding trial. These latency differences are interpreted as indicating that the rats demonstrated short-term incidental memory for the irrelevant cues. This mnemonic phenomenon resembles priming, an implicit form of memory.
The importance of particular genes in neuronal death following global cerebral ischemia can readily be studied in genetically modified mice provided a reliable model of ischemia is available. For that purpose, we developed a mouse model of global cerebral ischemia that induces consistent damage to different regions of the brain and with a low mortality rate. Twelve minutes of ischemia was induced in C57BL/6 mice by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion under halothane anesthesia and artificial ventilation. Body and brain temperature were monitored and cortical cerebral blood flow in each hemisphere was measured by laser Doppler flowmeter before, during, and for 5 min after ischemia. Extensive damage was found in the striatum and marked cell damage was observed in the CA1 and CA2 regions of hippocampus and in thalamus. Mild damage was seen in the CA3 region, dentate gyrus and cortex. Hippocampal damage in the CA1 region is delayed and developed over 48 h. Intraischemic hypothermia of 33 degrees C provided a robust neuroprotection. The non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blocker, MK-801, did not provide protection in the hippocampus, cortex, striatum or thalamus when administered 30 min prior to ischemia or 2 h after the end of ischemia, but selectively mitigated damage in the hippocampus, when administered immediately following ischemia. This model of global cerebral ischemia may be useful in pharmacological and genomic studies of ischemic brain damage.
The present investigation assessed the propensity of an acute psychogenic stressor exposure to induce behavioral change in paradigms assessing fear/anxiety (acoustic startle) and motivation/anhedonia (intracranial self-stimulation) in CD-1 mice. In the acoustic startle paradigm, a 10-min exposure of 2-4 month old mice (young adult mice) to fox odor (2,5-dihydro-2,4,5-trimethylthiazoline; TMT) was associated with decreased acoustic startle relative to mice exposed to the control odor, butyric acid (BA), immediately and relative to both saline and BA exposure 24 h following odor exposure in the home cage. In contrast, a 2-min exposure of young adult mice to TMT was associated with an increase in startle relative to saline and BA during the immediate post-odor test session only. In young adult mice a 2-min and a 10-min exposure to BA resulted in a startle profile of mice reminiscent of saline-treated mice. In comparison to young adult mice, a 2-min exposure of mature adult mice (5-7 months old) to TMT enhanced startle for up to 48 h relative to both saline and BA, while a 10-min exposure of mature adult mice to TMT enhanced startle for 168 h post-odor exposure relative to saline-exposed mice only. However, the greatest increase in startle amplitude (i.e. 48 h) was acquired following the 2-min exposure of mature mice to TMT. Among mature adult mice, a 10-min exposure to BA in the home cage eventuated in enhanced startle relative to saline-exposed animals 168 h following odor exposure. In comparison, exposure of mice to 10 min of TMT depressed responding for VTA brain stimulation at the initial 80 Hz frequency, but was ineffective in elevating reward thresholds relative to mice merely exposed to saline. Mice assessed in the ICSS paradigm were approximately 2-4 months old at the time of surgery and 5-7 months old at the completion of testing. These data suggest that acute odor exposure may induce a fear gradient dependent upon the perceived stressor severity and that the resultant anxiety-like effects are dependent on the duration of odor exposure, age of the animals and the temporal interval between odor presentation and behavioral testing. Moreover, the anxiogenic properties of psychogenic stressors can be separated from their anhedonic effects. The implications of these data for clinical psychopathology are discussed.
Two- or 100-Hz electrical acupoint stimulation (EAS) can induce analgesia via distinct central mechanisms. It has long been known that the extent of EAS analgesia showed tremendous difference among subjects. Functional MRI (fMRI) studies were performed to allocate the possible mechanisms underlying the frequency specificity as well as individual variability of EAS analgesia. In either frequencies, the averaged fMRI activation levels of bilateral secondary somatosensory area and insula, contralateral anterior cingulate cortex and thalamus were positively correlated with the EAS-induced analgesic effect across the subjects. In 2-Hz EAS group, positive correlations were observed in contralateral primary motor area, supplementary motor area, and ipsilateral superior temporal gyrus, while negative correlations were found in bilateral hippocampus. In 100-Hz EAS group, positive correlations were observed in contralateral inferior parietal lobule, ipsilateral anterior cingulate cortex, nucleus accumbens, and pons, while negative correlation was detected in contralateral amygdala. These results suggest that functional activities of certain brain areas might be correlated with the effect of EAS-induced analgesia, in a frequency-dependent dynamic. EAS-induced analgesia with low and high frequencies seems to be mediated by different, though overlapped, brain networks. The differential activations/de-activations in brain networks across subjects may provide a neurobiological explanation for the mechanisms of the induction and the individual variability of analgesic effect induced by EAS, or that of manual acupuncture as well.
Rodent models of focal and global ischemia were used to examine caspase activation. Several readouts were employed on identical tissue to provide correlative measurement of caspase induction, activation and enzymatic activity. In a rat focal ischemia model, caspase-3 enzymatic activity, as recorded by DEVD-AMC cleavage, peaked in penumbral cortex at 6-12 h following ischemia, correlating with increases in caspase 3-cleaved substrates of PARP and alpha-spectrin and subsequent disappearance of caspase-3 zymogen. Although induction of caspases 8 and 2 proteins was detectable as early as 6 h following ischemia, examination of the same tissues for caspase 8 or 2 enzymatic activities did not show significant modulation up to 12 h after ischemic insult. Caspase 9 induction was evident only after 24 h postischemia and did not correlate with elevated LDHD-AMC cleavage. Following global ischemia in gerbils, levels of caspase-3 enzyme activity peaked at 12 h in hippocampal tissue extracts. Cleaved caspase-3 signal was prominent in NeuN-positive layers in the CA1 region 6-12 h following ischemia. Interestingly, strong caspase-3 immunoreactivity was also detected in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus, a known region of ischemia-induced neurogenesis. Caspase-3 activation may be responsible for the loss of these cells, thereby hindering the endogenous recovery process.
18F-DOPA positron emission tomography (PET) has been used for two decades to study the organization and pathology of the striatal dopamine system in the human brain, particularly in Parkinson's disease. High resolution 3D PET allows a more detailed analysis than previously available and was employed in this study to determine the regional uptake of 18F-DOPA in control brain. Eleven healthy volunteers underwent 18F-DOPA PET with a region of interest (ROI) study performed using individual volumetric MRI's coregistered to the PET ADD image. A Patlak linear graphical analysis was undertaken to obtain influx constant (Ki) values. The highest Ki values were from neostriatal areas, with a rostrocaudal gradient of increasing Ki values from head of caudate nucleus to rostral putamen to caudal putamen. However, Ki values for transaxial slices from dorsal to ventral through the caudate and putamen were uniform. Ventral striatum Ki was 81% with red nucleus and globus pallidus Ki values of approximately 40% of neostriatum. In limbic areas, highest values were obtained from amygdala (35% neostriatal Ki). Neocortical Ki values varied from 22% in temporal pole to 6% in occipital cortex of neostriatal values. Hypothalamic Ki was high (45%) in comparison to thalamus (17%) and retina (17%). 18F-DOPA is taken up by serotonin (raphe, 51%), and noradrenaline (locus coeruleus, 37%) as well as dopamine neurons. These data indicate that 18F-DOPA PET can be used with detailed, anatomically based ROIs as a tool for in vivo analysis of regional changes in monoamine neuron systems throughout the brain in Parkinson's disease and other disorders.
It is well established that the NMDA receptor antagonists block hippocampal long-term potentiation and impair acquisition in the Morris watermaze task, although the role of individual NMDA receptor subtypes is largely unknown. In the present study, we compared the effects of (+/-)-CP-101,606, an antagonist selective for NMDA receptor NR1/NR2B subunit-containing receptors and the nonselective NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801, on acquisition in the Morris watermaze. Male hooded Lister rats were given 4 trials/day to find a fixed hidden platform submerged beneath the opaque water of the Morris watermaze. Twenty-four hours after the last acquisition trial, a 'probe trial' was conducted to assess the rat's spatial memory for the location of the hidden platform. Those rats treated with MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) 60 min prior to the acquisition and probe trials took significantly longer to find the hidden platform during training and spent significantly less time searching the platform's location during the probe trial than vehicle-treated rats. In contrast, 60-min pretreatment with (+/-)-CP-101,606 (60 mg/kg, p.o.), a dose that fully occupied hippocampal NR1/NR2B subunit-containing receptors, as determined by ex vivo NMDA receptor-specific [3H]ifenprodil binding immediately following watermaze experiments, had no effect on acquisition or the probe trial. These results suggest that antagonists selective for NR1/NR2B subunit-containing receptors may not impair spatial memory in rats in the Morris watermaze.
The accumulation of abnormal tau filaments is a pathological hallmark of many neurodegenerative diseases. In 1998, genetic analyses revealed a direct linkage between structural and regulatory mutations in the tau gene and the neurodegenerative disease, frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17). Importantly, the FTDP-17 phenotype is transmitted in a dominant rather than a recessive manner. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms causing disease remain uncertain. The most common molecular mechanism generating dominant phenotypes is the loss of function of a multimeric complex containing both mutant and wild-type subunits. Therefore, we sought to determine whether tau might normally function as a multimer. We co-incubated 35S-radiolabeled tau and biotinylated tau with taxol stabilized microtubules, at very low molar ratios of tau to tubulin. Subsequent covalent cross-linking followed by affinity-precipitation of the biotinylated tau revealed the formation of microtubule-dependent tau oligomers. We next used atomic force microscopy to independently assess this conclusion. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that tau forms oligomers upon binding to microtubules. In addition to providing insights into normal tau action, our findings lead us to propose that one mechanism by which mutations in tau may cause cell death is through the formation of tau complexes containing mutant tau molecules in association with wild-type tau. These wild-type-mutant tau complexes may possess altered biological and/or biophysical properties that promote onset of the FTDP-17 phenotype, including neuronal cell death by either altering normal tau-mediated regulation of microtubule-dependent cellular functions and/or promoting the formation of pathological tau aggregates.
As the genomic revolution continues to evolve, there is an increasing demand for efficient and reliable tools for functional characterization of individual gene products. Antisense oligonucleotide-mediated knockdown has been used successfully as a functional genomics tool in animal models of pain and analgesia yet skepticism regarding the validity and utility of antisense technology remains. Contributing to this uncertainty are the lack of systematic studies exploring antisense oligonucleotide use in vivo and the many technical and methodological challenges intrinsic to the method. This article reviews the contributions of antisense oligonucleotide-based studies to the field of pain and analgesia and the general principles of antisense technology. A special emphasis is placed on technical issues surrounding the successful application of antisense oligonucleotides in vivo, including sequence selection, antisense oligonucleotide chemistry, DNA controls, route of administration, uptake, dose-dependence, time-course and adequate evaluation of knockdown.


In the brain, information is encoded by the firing patterns of neuronal ensembles and the strength of synaptic connections between individual neurons. We report here that representation of the environment by &quot;place&quot; cells is altered by changing synaptic weights within hippocampal networks. Long-term potentiation (LTP) of intrinsic hippocampal pathways abolished existing place fields, created new place fields, and rearranged the temporal relationship within the affected population. The effect of LTP on neuron discharge was rate and context dependent. The LTP-induced &quot;remapping&quot; occurred without affecting the global firing rate of the network. The findings support the view that learned place representation can be accomplished by LTP-like synaptic plasticity within intrahippocampal networks.
Neural progenitors of the vertebrate CNS are defined by generic cellular characteristics, including their pseudoepithelial morphology and their ability to divide and differentiate. SOXB1 transcription factors, including the three closely related genes Sox1, Sox2, and Sox3, universally mark neural progenitor and stem cells throughout the vertebrate CNS. We show here that constitutive expression of SOX2 inhibits neuronal differentiation and results in the maintenance of progenitor characteristics. Conversely, inhibition of SOX2 signaling results in the delamination of neural progenitor cells from the ventricular zone and exit from cell cycle, which is associated with a loss of progenitor markers and the onset of early neuronal differentiation markers. The phenotype elicited by inhibition of SOX2 signaling can be rescued by coexpression of SOX1, providing evidence for redundant SOXB1 function in CNS progenitors. Taken together, these data indicate that SOXB1 signaling is both necessary and sufficient to maintain panneural properties of neural progenitor cells.
Basolateral amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex are implicated in cue-outcome learning. In this issue of Neuron, Schoenbaum et al. show that, following basolateral amygdala lesions, cue-selective neurons in orbitofrontal cortex are more sensory driven and less sensitive to the motivational value of an outcome, suggesting that predictive value coding in orbitofrontal cortex is dependent on input from basolateral amygdala.
The formation of spatial memories is believed to depend on long-term potentiation (LTP) of synapses within the hippocampal network. In this issue of Neuron, Dragoi et al. demonstrate that LTP can cause changes in the hippocampal representation of space without disrupting network dynamics. These results help define the elusive relationship between cellular-level synaptic plasticity and systems-level neural coding.
Studies have shown that genetic components to some extent underlie behavioral disorders such as impulsive aggression and violence, and that central serotonergic mechanisms are involved in the development of such behavior. In the present study, we analyzed a polymorphism in the gene encoding the serotonin 2A receptor (5-HT2A -1438 G/A) in a group of Swedish criminals (n=97) and in a group of healthy Swedish blood donors (n=202). The 5-HT2A -1438 GG genotype was lower in the criminal group than in the control group (P=0.034). In accordance with previous results, no associations were found between the 5-HT2A -1438 G/A polymorphism and personality as measured by Karolinska Scales of Personality. Neither were there any associations between the studied polymorphism and the type of crime committed.
This study was designed to evaluate the effects of long-term treatment with alpha-naphthyl-isothiocyanate (ANIT) on liver histology and at the mitochondrial bioenergetic level. Since, ANIT has been used as a cholestatic agent and it has been pointed out that an impairment of mitochondrial function is a cause of hepatocyte dysfunction leading to cholestatic liver injury, serum markers of liver injury were measured and liver sections were analyzed in ANIT-treated rats (i.p. 80 mg/kg/week x 16 weeks). Mitochondrial parameters such as transmembrane potential, respiration, calcium capacity, alterations in permeability transition susceptibility and ATPase activity were monitored. Histologically, the most important features were the marked ductular proliferation, proliferation of mast cells and the presence of iron deposits in ANIT-treated liver. Mitochondria isolated from ANIT-treated rats showed no alterations in state 4 respiration, respiratory control ratio and ADP/O ratio, while state 3 respiration was significantly decreased. No changes were observed on transmembrane potential, but the repolarization rate was decreased in treated rats. Consistently with these data, there was a significant decrease in the ATPase activity of treated mitochondria. Associated with these parameters, mitochondria from treated animals exhibited increased susceptibility to mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening (lower calcium capacity). Since, human cholestatic liver disease progress slowly overtime, these data provide further insight into the role of mitochondrial dysfunction in the process.
The precise role of orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in affective processing is still debated. One view suggests OFC represents stimulus reward value and supports learning and relearning of stimulus-reward associations. An alternate view implicates OFC in behavioral control after rewarding or punishing feedback. To discriminate between these possibilities, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging in subjects performing a reversal task in which, on each trial, selection of the correct stimulus led to a 70% probability of receiving a monetary reward and a 30% probability of obtaining a monetary punishment. The incorrect stimulus had the reverse contingency. In one condition (choice), subjects had to choose which stimulus to select and switch their response to the other stimulus once contingencies had changed. In another condition (imperative), subjects had simply to track the currently rewarded stimulus. In some regions of OFC and medial prefrontal cortex, activity was related to valence of outcome, whereas in adjacent areas activity was associated with behavioral choice, signaling maintenance of the current response strategy on a subsequent trial. Caudolateral OFC-anterior insula was activated by punishing feedback preceding a switch in stimulus in both the choice and imperative conditions, indicating a possible role for this region in signaling a change in reward contingencies. These results suggest functional heterogeneity within the OFC, with a role for this region in representing stimulus-reward values, signaling changes in reinforcement contingencies and in behavioral control.
Mammalian retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) do not normally regenerate their axons through an injured optic nerve, but can be stimulated to do so by activating macrophages intraocularly. In a cell culture model of this phenomenon, we found that a small molecule that is constitutively present in the vitreous, acting in concert with macrophage-derived proteins, stimulates mature rat RGCs to regenerate their axons if intracellular cAMP is elevated. In lower vertebrates, RGCs regenerate their axons spontaneously in vivo, and in culture, the most potent axon-promoting factor for these cells is a molecule that resembles the small vitreous-derived growth factor from the rat. This molecule was isolated chromatographically and was shown by mass spectrometry to be a carbohydrate. In agreement with this finding, D-mannose proved to be a potent axon-promoting factor for rat RGCs (ED50 approximately 10 microm); this response was cAMP-dependent and was augmented further by macrophage-derived proteins. Goldfish RGCs showed far less selectivity, responding strongly to either D-mannose or D-glucose in a cAMP-independent manner. These findings accord well with the success or failure of optic nerves to regenerate in higher and lower vertebrates in vivo. The axon-promoting effects of mannose are highly specific and are unrelated to energy metabolism or glycoprotein synthesis.
In the Drosophila circadian clock, period (per) and its partner, timeless (tim), play a central role in the negative limb of an autoregulatory feedback loop. Unlike per, the dosage of which affects the frequency (tau) of the circadian cycle, we found that increasing copies of the tim gene has no effect on clock period length. The use of the tim promoter to express per results in a shortening of circadian period, also indicating that the regulation of tim is different from that of per. Drosophila TIM is similar to the mammalian circadian protein mPER2 in that it shuttles independently between the nucleus and cytoplasm both in vivo and in vitro. Contrary to the current model that PER and TIM heterodimerization is a prerequisite for their nuclear entry, PER is not required to transport TIM into nuclei, although it influences TIM localization and vice versa. Blocking nuclear export led to increased nuclear expression of TIM in S2 cells and in wild-type and per01 larvae, suggesting that PER may be required for nuclear retention of TIM. Unlike PER, nuclear TIM alone has no ability to repress transcription. We propose that TIM drives cycles of PER expression by regulating its stability, and in turn, PER retains TIM in the nucleus, either for the regulation of its own stability or for a novel nuclear role of TIM.
The present study provides the first evidence that signaling occurs between B-ephrins and EphB receptors in the adult CNS in response to injury. Specifically, our combined histological and biochemical data indicate that two members of the B-class of ephrins and Eph receptors, ephrin-B2 and EphB2, are expressed by astrocytes and meningeal fibroblasts, respectively, in the adult spinal cord. In response to thoracic spinal cord transection lesions, ephrin-B2 and EphB2 protein levels exhibit an initial decrease (1 d after lesion), followed by a significant increase by day 14. Immunohistochemical data indicate that ephrin-B2 is expressed by reactive CNS astrocytes, and EphB2 is present on fibroblasts invading the lesion site from the adjacent meninges. During the first 3 d after injury, there is intermingling of ephrin-B2-expressing reactive astrocytes at the lesion surface with EphB2-containing fibroblasts that is concurrent with bidirectional activation (phosphorylation) of ephrin-B2 and EphB2. By 7 d, both cell types are establishing restricted cellular domains containing dense networks of cells and interweaving processes. This astroglial-meningeal fibroblast scar is fully developed by day 14 when there is strict segregation of ephrin-B2-expressing astrocytes from EphB2-positive meningeal fibroblasts. These morphological changes are concomitant with a simultaneous decrease in ephrin-B2 and EphB2 activation. These observations provide strong evidence that cell contact-mediated bidirectional signaling between ephrin-B2 on reactive astrocytes and EphB2 on meningeal fibroblasts is an early event in the cellular cascades that result in the development of the glial scar and the exclusion of meningeal fibroblasts from the injured spinal cord.

A 61-year-old man presenting with transient global aphasia and chronic major depression was found to have a giant high flow dural arteriovenous fistula of the superior sagittal sinus. EEG and SPECT scan showed left frontoparietal dysfunction. This resolved after fistula embolization, as did the patient's neuropsychiatric complaints.


Adenosine is a neuromodulator acting mainly via inhibitory A1 and facilitatory A2A receptors. Whole tissue PCR also identified adenosine A3 receptors in the brain and A3 receptor agonists affect CNS neuronal responses and viability. However, recent reports failed to detect A3 receptor expression in CNS neurons and showed that A3 receptor agonists can bind and activate A1 receptors. We now present evidence for the presence of A3 receptor mRNA in CNS neurons using single cell PCR analysis of laser dissected hippocampal neurons. Western blot analysis showed that A3 receptors are present in rat hippocampal nerve terminal membranes. This indicates that A3 receptors are present in CNS neurons in the hippocampus.
In the vestibular nuclei of the awake guinea pig, all neurones are spontaneously active. After unilateral labyrinthectomy, this activity virtually disappears on the ipsilateral side, but is completely restored one week later. In a recent study, we observed that the restoration of spontaneous activity was correlated with an increase in pacemaker activity. In the current study, we found that the ratio of medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) neurones endowed with one of the currents known to play a role in pacemaker activity (i.e. low-threshold calcium current; LTCC) increased from 29% in control guinea pigs to 65% in animals labyrinthectomised on the ipsilateral side one week earlier. Yet this change was not correlated with a modification of the ratio of neurones expressing any of the three related protein-channels (alpha1G, alpha1H and alpha1I).
The retinofugal pathways in the California ground squirrel, Spermophilus beecheyi, were mapped after intravitreal injections of cholera toxin B-subunit. The results of the current study are consistent with work in other mammals and provide new details relevant to the organization and evolution of the visual system. All retinorecipient nuclei received bilateral input, with a contralateral predominance. The suprachiasmatic nucleus is heavily innervated, and sparse terminals were noted in other hypothalamic areas. In addition to the interstitial, medial, lateral, and dorsal terminal nuclei, a few fibers of the accessory optic tract may enter the ventral lateral geniculate and the nucleus of the optic tract, though this innervation may not derive from the same ganglion cells innervating the accessory optic nuclei. Retinal terminals are found in the intergeniculate leaflet and the &quot;dorsal cap&quot; of the ventral lateral geniculate. Retinal fibers pass rostrally from the dorsal cap toward the anterodorsal thalamus, confirming a projection described in the tree shrew and monkeys. Retinal termination patterns in the dorsal lateral geniculate reveal a hexilaminate organization of alternating ipsilateral and contralateral input. Variations in terminal morphology suggest that sublayers receive input from distinct ganglion cell types and that laminar comparisons can be made with primates. Finally, terminal patterns in the superior colliculus reveal a dense, highly ordered columnar organization supporting functional properties of tectal receptive fields. All the visual structures in the ground squirrel are large and well differentiated, making the sciurid visual system an accessible rodent model for comparing visual processing with that in other diurnal vertebrates.
The shaking rat Kawasaki (SRK) is an autosomal recessive mutant that exhibits reeler-like abnormal locomotor behaviors. The murine reeler mutants arise from several mutations in the specific gene called reelin, which result in defects of Reelin expression or secretion in the cerebral cortex and other regions of CNS. To address the issue of whether the SRK mutation also arises from a mutation in reelin, we analyzed the reelin gene in SRK. Northern analysis of reelin mRNA from normal rats showed that rat reelin was expressed as a approximately 12-kb transcript in both the cerebrum and the cerebellum, whereas reelin expression was markedly reduced in the SRK brains. In situ hybridization analysis showed that reelin mRNA in the SRK brains was expressed in Cajal-Retzius cells in the marginal zone of the cerebral cortex and outer granular cells in the cerebellar cortex in similar manners to normal controls, but its expression was considerably reduced. On Western blotting and immunohistochemical analyses using antibodies specific for the Reelin protein, no immunoproduct was recognized in the cerebral and cerebellar cortices. From the cDNA sequences, we found a 64-base heterologous sequence in SRK reelin, which contains a termination codon in the reading frame. Furthermore, genomic DNA analysis revealed that a 10-base deletion, which contains a predicted splice donor site, occurred in the SRK genomic reelin gene, resulting in &quot;read through&quot; into the following intron in SRK. Thus, the SRK mutation is another type of mutation that lacks expression of the functional Reelin protein and, therefore, causes the reeler phenotype.
Although the retrosplenial granular b cortex (Rgb) is situated in a critical position between the hippocampal formation and the neocortex, surprisingly few studies have examined its connections carefully. The present experiments use both anterograde and retrograde tracing techniques to characterize the connections of Rgb. The main cortical projections from Rgb are to the caudal part of the anterior cingulate cortex, area 18b, retrosplenial granular a cortex (Rga), and postsubiculum, and less dense terminal fields are present in the prelimbic and caudal occipital cortices. The major subcortical projections are to the anterior thalamic nuclei and the rostral pontine nuclei, and very small terminal fields are present in the caudal dorsomedial part of the striatum, the reuniens and reticular nuclei of the thalamus, and the mammillary bodies. Contralaterally, Rgb primarily projects to itself, i.e., homotypically, and more sparsely projects to Rga and postsubiculum. In general, the axons from Rgb terminate ipsilaterally in cortical layers I and III-V and contralaterally in layer V, with a smaller number of terminals in layers I and VI. Thalamic projections from Rgb target the anteroventral and laterodorsal nuclei of the thalamus, with only a few axons terminating in the anterodorsal nucleus, the reticular nucleus, and the nucleus reuniens of the thalamus. Rgb is innervated by the anterior cingulate cortex, precentral agranular cortex, cortical area 18b, dorsal subiculum, and postsubiculum. Subcortical projections to Rgb originate mainly in the claustrum, the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca, and the anterior thalamic nuclei. These data demonstrate that, in the rat, Rgb is a major nodal point for the integration and subsequent distribution of information to and from the hippocampal formation, the midline limbic and visual cortices, and the thalamus. Thus, similarly to the entorhinal cortex, Rgb in the rat is a prominent gateway for information exchange between the hippocampal formation and other limbic areas of the brain.
Mutation in the gene encoding cystatin-B (CSTB) has been shown to cause progressive myoclonus epilepsy. Mice with a gene deletion of CSTB exhibit increased apoptosis of specific neurons but the physiological role of CSTB in brain cells is not fully understood. In the present study, we have examined the expression of CSTB in neural stem cells (NSC) and in differentiating mature brain cells. The results show that CSTB is present in embryonic and adult NSC and in the neuroepithelium. CSTB was expressed by both neurons and glial cells differentiated from NSC and in hippocampal cultures. CSTB localized mainly to the nucleus in NSC and in neurons, whilst in astrocytes CSTB was also in the cytoplasm. Double labeling showed that CSTB was present in the lysosomes in glial cells. The results demonstrate a nuclear expression of CSTB in NSC and in neurons, suggesting novel function for this molecule.
To test the hypothesis that 5-HT1B receptors modulate serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) and dopamine release in the striatum, we used in vivo microdialysis in mice lacking 5-HT1B receptors. Local administration by reversed microdialysis of the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor, fluvoxamine (0.1-10 microM), concentration dependently increased 5-HT to the same extent in wildtype and in 5-HT1B knockout (KO) mice. Fluvoxamine (10 microM) increased dopamine levels similarly in both genotypes. The 5-HT releaser, fenfluramine (50 microM), increased both 5-HT and dopamine levels, but no difference was found between the genotypes. The 5-HT1B receptor agonist, 1,4-dihydro-3-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-4-pyridinyl)-5H-pyrrolo[3,2-b]pyridin-5-one (CP-93,129), reduced 5-HT levels in the wildtype, but not in 5-HT1B KO mice. CP-93,129 at a concentration of 0.5 microM did not affect striatal dopamine outflow in either genotype, whereas dopamine outflow was increased 5-fold by 50 microM CP-93,129 in both genotypes. The CP-93,129-induced dopamine increase was not attenuated by ritanserin, a 5-HT2A/2C receptor antagonist, but was completely blocked by tetrodotoxin, demonstrating that the dopamine release was of neuronal origin. In conclusion, 5-HT1B autoreceptors are functionally present in the mouse striatum, but do not appear to play a significant role in the effects of a selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor on extracellular 5-HT. In addition, the results in 5-HT1B knockout mice do not support a role of 5-HT1B heteroreceptors in the striatum on dopamine outflow in this brain area of mice.
Chronic use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is associated with a lower risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Recent evidence indicates that some NSAIDs specifically inhibit secretion of the amyloidogenic A beta 42 peptide in cultured cells and mouse models of Alzheimer's disease. The reduction of A beta 42 peptides is not mediated by inhibition of cyclooxygenases (COX) but the molecular mechanism underlying this novel activity of NSAIDs has not been further defined. We now demonstrate that NSAIDs efficiently reduce the intracellular pool of A beta 42 in cell-based studies and selectively decrease A beta 42 production in a cell-free assay of gamma-secretase activity. Moreover, we find that presenilin-1 (PS1) mutations, which affect gamma-secretase activity, differentially modulate the cellular A beta 42 response to NSAID treatment. Overexpression of the PS1-M146L mutation enhances the cellular drug response to A beta 42 lowering NSAIDs as compared with cells expressing wild-type PS1. In contrast, expression of the PS1-Delta Exon9 mutation strongly diminishes the A beta 42 response, showing that PS1 mutations can modulate the cellular drug response to NSAID treatment both positively and negatively. Enhancement of the NSAID drug response was also observed with overexpression of the APP V717F mutation but not with Swedish mutant APP, which affects beta-secretase cleavage. In sum, these results strongly suggest that NSAIDs represent a founding group of compounds that lower A beta 42 production by direct modulation of gamma-secretase activity or its substrate.
Epidemiological evidence suggests that chronic use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) reduces the risk of Alzheimer's disease. Recently, NSAIDs have been shown to decrease amyloid pathology in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. This benefit may be partially attributable to the ability of NSAIDs to selectively reduce production of the amyloidogenic A beta 42 peptide in both cultured cells and transgenic mice. Although this activity does not appear to require the action of cyclooxygenases in cultured cells, it is not known whether other NSAID-sensitive targets contribute to this A beta 42 effect. In this study, we have used both pharmacological and genetic means to determine if other known cellular targets of NSAIDs could mediate the reduction in A beta 42 secretion from cultured cells. We find that altered arachidonic acid metabolism via NSAID action on cyclooxygenases and lipoxygenases does not alter A beta 42 production. Furthermore, we demonstrate that alterations in activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors, I kappa B kinase beta or nuclear factor kappa B do not affect A beta 42 production. Thus, NSAIDs do not appear to alter A beta 42 production indirectly through previously identified cellular targets and may interact directly with the gamma-secretase complex itself to affect amyloid production.
The ERK MAP (mitogen-activated protein) kinase cascade modulates many cellular processes including transcription, adhesion, growth, survival, and proliferation. One target substrate of ERK involved in regulating transcription is the p90 ribosomal S6 kinase (RSK) isozyme, RSK2. Here we demonstrate that a small death effector domain-containing protein called PEA-15 binds RSK2. RSK2 and PEA-15 (phosphoprotein enriched in astrocytes, 15 kDa) co-precipitated from cells and were colocalized in the cytoplasm. Furthermore, purified PEA-15 bound in vitro translated RSK2, suggesting that these proteins interact directly. PEA-15 does not bind to RSK1 and therefore exhibits some binding specificity. RSK2 binds the COOH terminus of PEA-15 and does not interact with its NH2-terminal death effector domain. We show that this interaction has functional consequences including the inhibition of RSK2-dependent CREB transcription. PEA-15 expression also blocks histone H3 phosphorylation, an RSK2-dependent event that may contribute to effects on gene expression. These results can be attributed to two effects of PEA-15 on RSK2. First, PEA-15 blocks nuclear accumulation of RSK2 after epidermal growth factor stimulation. Second, PEA-15 inhibits RSK2 kinase activity by 50%. A mutant of PEA-15 that binds RSK2 but is localized to the nucleus had no effect on RSK2-dependent transcription. Interestingly, this mutant also did not affect RSK2 kinase activity. This may indicate that cytoplasmic retention of RSK2 is also required for PEA-15 to impair kinase activity. PEA-15 does not alter ERK phosphorylation of RSK2 and is not itself a substrate of RSK2. Hence the effects of PEA-15 on RSK2 represent a novel mechanism for the regulation of RSK2-mediated signaling.
The third intracellular (3i) loops of the alpha 2A- and alpha 2B-adrenergic receptor (AR) subtypes are critical for retention of these receptors at the basolateral surface of polarized Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCKII) cells at steady state. The third intracellular loops of the alpha 2A, alpha 2B, and alpha 2C-AR subtypes interact with spinophilin, a multidomain protein that, like the three alpha 2-AR subtypes, is enriched at the basolateral surface of MDCKII cells. The present studies provide evidence that alpha 2-AR interaction with spinophilin contributes to cell surface stabilization of the receptor. We exploited the unique targeting profile of the alpha 2B-AR subtype in MDCKII cells: random delivery to apical and basolateral surfaces with rapid (t(1/2) &lt; or = 60 min) apical versus slower (t(1/2) = 10-12 h) basolateral turnover. Apical delivery of a spinophilin subdomain containing the alpha 2-AR-interacting region (Sp151-483) by fusion with apically targeted p75NTR extended the half-life of alpha 2B-AR at the apical surface to approximately 3.6 h and eliminated the rapid phase (0-60 min) of alpha 2B-AR turnover on that surface. Furthermore, we examined alpha 2B-AR turnover at the surface of mouse embryo fibroblasts derived from wild type (Sp+/+) or spinophilin knock-out (Sp-/-) mice. Two independent experimental approaches demonstrated that agonist-evoked internalization of HA-alpha 2B-AR was accelerated in mouse embryo fibroblasts derived from Sp-/- mice. These findings are consistent with the interpretation that endogenous spinophilin contributes to the stabilization of alpha 2B-AR and presumably all three alpha2-AR subtypes at the surface of target cells and may act as a scaffold that could link alpha 2-ARs to proteins interacting with spinophilin via other domains.
Adaptive behavior is optimized in organisms that maintain flexible representations of the value of sensory-predictive cues. To identify central representations of predictive reward value in humans, we used reinforcer devaluation while measuring neural activity with functional magnetic resonance imaging. We presented two arbitrary visual stimuli, both before and after olfactory devaluation, in a paradigm of appetitive conditioning. In amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex, responses evoked by a predictive target stimulus were decreased after devaluation, whereas responses to the nondevalued stimulus were maintained. Thus, differential activity in amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex encodes the current value of reward representations accessible to predictive cues.
Cyclins are regulatory proteins of the cell cycle which bind and activate kinases. In gliomas, contrary to many malignancies, cyclin D1 is rarely amplified, but together with other cyclins, it increases with anaplasia. In a series of 23 surgical biopsies of grade II and III oligodendroglioma, cyclin D1, E, A, B1, CDK4-6, CDK2, Cdc2 and p27/Kip.1 have been studied by immunohistochemistry and Western blot. Cyclin D1 and A increased with anaplasia, showing a linear correlation with MIB.1 labeling index and an inverse correlation with p27/Kip.1 expression. Cyclin E and B1 and kinases were almost only expressed in grade III tumors. Normal oligodendrocytes and microglia cells of the cortex and white matter showed a clear positivity for cyclin D1, but not for other cyclins or kinases.
To elucidate whether the methamphetamine (MAP)-induced hypersensitivity to dopamine occurs in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), patch clamp studies were performed using brain slice preparations. MAP or physiological saline was administered to 8-10-day-old rats daily for 5 days. On day 5, patch clamp studies were performed on VTA dopamine neurons which were identified by morphological and electrophysiological characteristics. Dopamine (1-100 microM) and talipexole (a dopamine D2 receptor agonist, 1-100 microM) produced a dose-dependent hyperpolarization in these neurons; treatment with SKF 38393 or PD128907 (Dl and D3 receptor agonists, respectively) had no effect. The extent of hyperpolarization was significantly greater in the MAP group compared to the saline controls, suggesting that repeated MAP administration causes a hypersensitivity to dopamine that is D2 receptor-dependent. This hypersensitivity reduces the excitability of VTA dopamine neurons, thus decreasing dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens area. This may compensate for the MAP-induced elevation of dopamine levels and modulate the dopamine-induced signal transduction cascades, leading to reverse tolerance in nucleus accumbens neurons.
Bcl-2 is an antiapoptotic protein expressed in a wide variety of cell types. We have found that overexpression of bcl-2 in PC12 neural crest tumor cells leads to increased expression of neural differentiation-associated genes and decreased expression of proliferation-related genes. Culture growth rate decreases as well. Overexpression of bcl-2 also leads to increased expression of TrkA and increased phosphorylation of signal transductants in, albeit not specific for, the TrkA-MEK-ERK pathway. Blocking of NGF-mediated signaling through TrkA prevents Bcl-2-associated expression changes in differentiation-associated genes, raising the possibility that Bcl-2 mediates induction of neural differentiation through TrkA/NGF signaling.
Glycine acts as a necessary coagonist for glutamate at the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) complex by binding to the strychnine-insensitive glycine-B binding site on the NR1 subunit. The fact that glycine is normally found in the brain and spinal cord at concentrations that exceed those required to saturate this site has led to the speculation that glycine normally saturates NMDAR-containing synapses in vivo. However, additional lines of evidence suggest that synaptic glycine may be efficiently regulated in synaptic areas by the glycine transporter type 1 (GlyT1). The recent description of a potent and selective GlyT1 inhibitor (N-[3-(4'-fluorophenyl)-3-(4'-phenylphenoxy)propyl]sarcosine [NFPS]) provides a tool for evaluation of the hypothesis that inhibition of GlyT1 may increase synaptic glycine and thereby potentiate NMDAR function in vivo. In the present study, we found that (+)-NFPS demonstrated &gt;10-fold greater activity in an in vitro functional glycine reuptake assay relative to the racemic compound. In vivo, (+/-)-NFPS significantly enhanced long-term potentiation in the hippocampal dentate gyrus induced by high-frequency electrical stimulation of the afferent perforant pathway. Furthermore, (+)-NFPS induced a pattern of c-Fos immunoreactivity comparable with the atypical antipsychotic clozapine and enhanced prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response in DBA/2J mice, a strain with low basal levels of prepulse inhibition. Collectively, these data suggest that selective inhibition of GlyT1 can enhance NMDAR-sensitive activity in vivo and also support the idea that GlyT1 may represent a novel target for developing therapeutics to treat disorders associated with NMDAR hypofunction.
Neurotrophic factor signaling pathways modulate cellular and behavioral responses to drugs of abuse. In addition, chronic exposure to morphine increases expression of phospholipase Cgamma1 (PLCgamma1) (a protein involved in neurotrophic signaling) in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a neural substrate for many drugs of abuse. Using viral-mediated gene transfer to locally alter the activity of PLCgamma1, we show that overexpression of PLCgamma1 in rostral portions of the VTA (R-VTA) results in increased morphine place preference, whereas PLCgamma1 overexpression in the caudal VTA (C-VTA) results in avoidance of morphine-paired compartments. In addition, overexpression of PLCgamma1 in R-VTA causes increased preference for sucrose and increased anxiety-like behavior but does not affect responses to stress or nociceptive stimuli. In contrast, overexpression of PLCgamma1 in C-VTA decreases preference for sucrose and increases sensitivity to stress and nociceptive stimuli, although there was a tendency for increased anxiety-like behavior as seen for the R-VTA. These results show that levels of PLCgamma1 in the VTA regulate responsiveness to drugs of abuse, natural rewards, and aversive stimuli and point to the possibility that distinct topographical regions within the VTA mediate generally positive versus negative responses to emotional stimuli. Moreover, these data also support a role for drug-induced elevations in PLCgamma1 expression in the VTA in mediating long-term adaptations to drugs of abuse and aversive stimuli.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by a microglial-mediated inflammatory response elicited by extensive amyloid deposition in the brain. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) treatment reduces AD risk, slows disease progression, and reduces microglial activation; however, the basis of these effects is unknown. We report that treatment of 11-month-old Tg2576 mice overexpressing human amyloid precursor protein (APP) with the NSAID ibuprofen for 16 weeks resulted in the dramatic and selective reduction of SDS-soluble beta-amyloid (Abeta)42, whereas it had smaller effects on SDS-soluble Abeta40 levels. Ibuprofen treatment resulted in 60% reduction of amyloid plaque load in the cortex of these animals. In vitro studies using APP-expressing 293 cells showed that ibuprofen directly affected APP processing, specifically reducing the production of Abeta42. Ibuprofen treatment resulted in a significant reduction in microglial activation in the Tg2576 mice, as measured by CD45 and CD11b expression. NSAIDs activate the nuclear hormone receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma); however, a potent agonist of this receptor, pioglitazone, only modestly reduced SDS-soluble Abeta levels and did not affect amyloid plaque burden or microglia activation, indicating that PPARgamma activation is not involved in the Abeta lowering effect of NSAIDs. These data show that chronic NSAID treatment can reduce brain Abeta levels, amyloid plaque burden, and microglial activation in an animal model of Alzheimer's disease.
Auditory afferents terminating as &quot;large myelinated club endings&quot; on goldfish Mauthner cells are identifiable &quot;mixed&quot; (electrical and chemical) synaptic terminals that offer the unique opportunity to correlate physiological properties with biochemical composition and specific ultrastructural features of individual synapses. By combining confocal microscopy and freeze-fracture replica immunogold labeling (FRIL), we demonstrate that gap junctions at these synapses contain connexin35 (Cx35). This connexin is the fish ortholog of the neuron-specific human and mouse connexin36 that is reported to be widely distributed in mammalian brain and to be responsible for electrical coupling between many types of neurons. Similarly, connexin35 was found at gap junctions between neurons in other brain regions, suggesting that connexin35-mediated electrical transmission is common in goldfish brain. Conductance of gap junction channels at large myelinated club endings is known to be dynamically modulated by the activity of their colocalized glutamatergic synapses. We show evidence by confocal microscopy for the presence of the NR1 subunit of the NMDA glutamate receptor subtype, proposed to be a key regulatory element, at these large endings. Furthermore, we also show evidence by FRIL double-immunogold labeling that the NR1 subunit of the NMDA glutamate receptor is present at postsynaptic densities closely associated with gap junction plaques containing Cx35 at mixed synapses across the goldfish hindbrain. Given the widespread distribution of electrical synapses and glutamate receptors, our results suggest that the plastic properties observed at these identifiable junctions may apply to other electrical synapses, including those in mammalian brain.

Calcium entry through L-type Ca2+ channels has been shown to increase the number of Na+ channels in GH3 cells, a clonal line of rat pituitary cells. To test whether this Ca2+ influx affects the levels of Na+ channel mRNAs, we first examined which Na+ channel subunits are expressed in GH3 cells. By using RT-PCR with specific primers, we detected transcripts for four alpha subunits (Nav1.1, Nav1.2, Nav1.3 and Nav1.6) and two auxiliary subunits (beta1 and beta3) of Na+ channels in total RNA from control GH3 cells. Next, we optimized the RT-PCR conditions to allow detection of cDNAs in the linear range of the assay. These conditions were then used to assess the transcript levels of Na+ channels after chronic exposure (72 h) of GH3 cells to the L-type Ca2+ channel blocker nimodipine (1 microM) or the L-type channel agonist Bay K 8644 (0.5 microM). Nimodipine treatment caused a moderate reduction (approximately 30%) of the mRNA for Nav1.2 and a marked reduction (approximately 70%) of the mRNA for Nav1.3, whereas treatment with Bay K 8644 produced 90-130% increases in these same mRNAs. There were no concomitant changes in the mRNAs for Nav1.1 and Nav1.6. Moreover, beta1 and beta3 mRNA levels were also unchanged. Thus, GH3 cells express multiple Na+ channel subunits and L-type Ca2+ channel activity up-regulates in a specific way the mRNAs for Nav1.2 and Nav1.3. These findings improve our knowledge on the molecular diversity of Na+ channels in pituitary cells and extend the actual view about the regulation of Na+ channel gene expression by Ca2+ influx.
Musicians recognize pitch as having two dimensions. On the keyboard, these are illustrated by the octave and the cycle of notes within the octave. In perception, these dimensions are referred to as pitch height and pitch chroma, respectively. Pitch chroma provides a basis for presenting acoustic patterns (melodies) that do not depend on the particular sound source. In contrast, pitch height provides a basis for segregation of notes into streams to separate sound sources. This paper reports a functional magnetic resonance experiment designed to search for distinct mappings of these two types of pitch change in the human brain. The results show that chroma change is specifically represented anterior to primary auditory cortex, whereas height change is specifically represented posterior to primary auditory cortex. We propose that tracking of acoustic information streams occurs in anterior auditory areas, whereas the segregation of sound objects (a crucial aspect of auditory scene analysis) depends on posterior areas.
We investigated whether variation in auditory experience in humans during development alters the macroscopic neuroanatomy of primary or auditory association cortices. Volumetric analyses were based on MRI data from 25 congenitally deaf subjects and 25 hearing subjects, all right-handed. The groups were matched for gender and age. Gray and white matter volumes were determined for the temporal lobe, superior temporal gyrus, Heschl's gyrus (HG), and the planum temporale. Deaf and hearing subjects did not differ in the total volume or the gray matter volume of HG, which suggests that auditory deafferentation does not lead to cell loss within primary auditory cortex in humans. However, deaf subjects had significantly larger gray matter-white matter ratios than hearing subjects in HG, with deaf subjects exhibiting significantly less white matter in both left and right HG. Deaf subjects also had higher gray matter-white matter ratios in the rest of the superior temporal gyrus, but this pattern was not observed for the temporal lobe as a whole. These findings suggest that auditory deprivation from birth results in less myelination and/or fewer fibers projecting to and from auditory cortices. Finally, the volumes of planum temporale and HG were significantly larger in the left hemisphere for both groups, suggesting that leftward asymmetries within &quot;auditory&quot; cortices do not arise from experience with auditory processing.


Liver failure is often accompanied by cognitive impairment and coma, a syndrome known as hepatic encephalopathy (HE). The administration of flumazenil, a benzodiazepine (BZ) antagonist, is effective in reversing the symptoms of HE in many patients. These clinical observations gave rise to notions of an endogenous BZ-like mechanism in HE, but to date no viable candidate compounds have been characterized. We show here that the hemoglobin (Hb) metabolites hemin and protoporphyrin IX (PPIX) interact with the BZ site on the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor and enhance inhibitory synaptic transmission in a manner similar to diazepam and zolpidem. This finding suggests that hemin and PPIX are neuroactive porphyrins capable of acting as endogenous ligands for the central BZ site. The accumulation of these porphyrins under pathophysiologic conditions provides a potentially novel mechanism for the central manifestations of HE.
Previous studies have established that the expression of defensive rage behavior in the cat is mediated over reciprocal pathways that link the medial hypothalamus and the dorsolateral quadrant of the midbrain periaqueductal gray matter (PAG). The present study was designed to determine the roles played by 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors in the medial hypothalamus on the expression of defensive rage behavior elicited from electrical stimulation of the PAG. Monopolar stimulating electrodes were placed in the midbrain PAG from which defensive rage behavior could be elicited by electrical stimulation. During the course of this study, defensive rage was determined by measuring the latency of the &quot;hissing&quot; component of this behavior. Cannula-electrodes were implanted into sites within the medial hypothalamus from which defensive rage behavior could also be elicited by electrical stimulation in order that serotonergic compounds could be microinjected into behaviorally identifiable regions of the hypothalamus at a later time. Microinjections of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OHDPAT (0.1, 1.0 and 3.0 nmol) into the medial hypothalamus suppressed PAG-elicited hissing in a dose-dependent manner. Administration of the 5-HT(1A) antagonist p-MPPI (3.0 nmol) blocked the suppressive effects of 8-OHDPAT upon hissing. The suppressive effects of 8-OHDPAT were specific to defensive rage behavior because this drug (3 nmol) facilitated quiet biting attack. Microinjections of the 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist (+/-)-DOI hydrochloride into the medial hypothalamus (0.5, 1.0, and 3.0 nmol) facilitated the occurrence of PAG-elicited hissing in a dose-dependent manner. In turn, these facilitating effects were blocked by pretreatment with the selective 5-HT(2) antagonist, LY-53,857, which was microinjected into the same medial hypothalamic site. The findings of this study provide evidence that activation of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2) receptors within the medial hypothalamus exert differential modulatory effects upon defensive rage behavior elicited from the midbrain PAG of the cat.
Acute behavioral effects of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) have been previously reported, however the cellular basis for these actions are unknown. To address this issue we examined the effects of TNFalpha on AMPA- and depolarization-induced changes in cytosolic Ca(2+) in cultured hippocampal neurons. Single cell Ca(2+) levels were determined with the fluorescent calcium indicator fura-2. TNFalpha caused an up-regulation of AMPA (10 microM)- and depolarization (55 mM KCl)-induced Ca(2+) responses. This effect occurred within a window of concentrations (1 and 10 ng/ml but not 0.1 or 100 ng/ml) and times (3 and 6 h but not 1 and 24 h). The effect was dependent upon protein synthesis (blocked by cycloheximide) and was prevented by the soluble TNF receptor and by a soluble TNF receptor fragment. Treatment with the soluble TNF receptor fragment also caused a decrease in the basal response. The TNFalpha treatment protocols did not appear to produce any toxicity to the neurons. Results are consistent with the hypothesis that TNFalpha regulates proteins known to be involved in neuronal communication (AMPA receptors) and cell regulation (voltage-dependent calcium channels) in a relatively rapid period of time (a few hours). These actions may be related to the behavioral effects produced by TNFalpha that occur within this time frame.
Conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm has been suggested as one of the animal models for drug craving. The present study was performed to examine the effect of 100 Hz peripheral electric stimulation (PES) on the expression of morphine-induced CPP. Rats were trained with morphine for 4 days to establish the CPP paradigm in a three-chamber &quot;unbiased&quot; apparatus. Morphine-induced CPP was maintained up to 4 weeks when tests were given once a week. PES of 100 Hz administered 30 min a day for 3 days significantly attenuated morphine-induced CPP (P&lt;0.01). I.c.v. injection of the delta-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole (NTI) or the kappa-antagonist norbinaltorphimine (nor-BNI) but not the mu-antagonist cyclic D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTAP), completely blocked the inhibitory effect of 100 Hz PES on the expression of morphine-induced CPP (P&lt;0.05-0.01). These results indicate that the anti-craving effects induced by repeated PES of 100 Hz is mediated by the activation of supra-segmental delta- and kappa-opioid receptors in the central nervous system.
In over half a century numerous studies have demonstrated that different odorants produce individually different spatial patterns of neural receptor activity on the olfactory mucosa. However, the thought that these differential activity patterns could be the neural code underlying olfactory perception has not been tested directly. In the present study using operant techniques, rats were trained to differentially identify five odors from a homologous series of iso-intensive straight-chain aldehydes that differed serially by only one carbon atom, viz. hexaldehyde to decaldehyde. The rats identified each of the five odorants with greater than 90% correct identification. The degree of perceptual similarity between any pair of the five odorants was determined. Using multidimensional scaling techniques (MDS) the similarity measures yielded a two-dimensional perceptual odorant space. Optical techniques were used to record the olfactory mucosal activity patterns in response to these same five iso-intensive aldehydes. The mucosal activity elicited by each odorant revealed individually distinct band-like patterns that varied both within and across these bands. More importantly, the relative differential responsivity of the bands was related to chain length. An MDS analysis of the dissimilarity measure between all possible pairs of odorant induced activity patterns yielded a two-dimensional neurophysiologic odorant space. Further analysis indicated that the neurophysiologic and psychophysically determined odorant spaces were highly correlated (F(1,39)=23.9, P=nil). These results give additional credence to the concept that the odorant-induced mucosal activity patterns may serve as the substrate for the perception of odorant quality.
In view of current (acetylcholine esterase (AChE) inhibitors) and future (e.g. gamma-secretase inhibitors) therapeutic compounds for treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the development and evaluation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for AD has become a rapidly growing research field. Diagnostic biomarkers for AD would be especially valuable as aids to diagnosis early in the course of the disease, when correct diagnosis is difficult, and when therapeutic compounds have the greatest potential for being effective. This paper reviews CSF biomarkers for AD, with emphasis on their role in the clinical diagnosis. The two most studied biochemical markers, CSF-tau and CSF-Abeta42, have high sensitivity to identify AD, but the specificity against other dementias is lower. The addition of phosphorylated tau (P-Tau) seems to increase the specificity for the diagnosis of AD, since normal levels are found in both frontotemporal and Lewy body dementia, and in cerebrovascular disease. These CSF markers may be useful as diagnostic aids, especially to discriminate early or incipient AD from age-associated memory impairment, depression, and some secondary dementias.
Mammalian neuronal cells abundantly express a deubiquitylating enzyme, ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase 1 (UCH L1). Mutations in UCH L1 are linked to Parkinson's disease as well as gracile axonal dystrophy (gad) in mice. In contrast to the UCH L3 isozyme that is universally expressed in all tissues, UCH L1 is expressed exclusively in neurons and testis/ovary. We found that UCH L1 associates and colocalizes with monoubiquitin and elongates ubiquitin half-life. The gad mouse, in which the function of UCH L1 is lost, exhibited a reduced level of monoubiquitin in neurons. In contrast, overexpression of UCH L1 caused an increase in the level of ubiquitin in both cultured cells and mice. These data suggest that UCH L1, with avidity and affinity for ubiquitin, insures ubiquitin stability within neurons. This study is the first to show the function of UCH L1 in vivo.
Spinal muscular atrophy is an autosomal recessive motor neuron degenerative disorder, caused by the loss of telomeric copy of the survival motor neuron gene (SMN1). To better understand how motor neurons are targeted in Spinal muscular atrophy patients, it is important to study the role of SMN protein in cell death. In this report, we employed RNA interference (RNAi) to study the loss-of-function of SMN in Drosophila S2 cells. A 601-base pair double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) of Drosophila SMN (dSMN) was used for silencing the dSMN. Our data indicate that dSMN RNAi resulted in more than 90% reduction of both RNA and protein. Further analysis of S2 cells by cell death ELISA and flow cytometry assays revealed that reduction of dSMN expression significantly increased apoptosis. The cell death mediated by SMN depletion is caspase-dependent and specifically due to the activation of the endogenous caspases, DRONC and DRICE. Significantly, the effect of dSMN RNAi was reversed by a peptide caspase inhibitor, Z-VAD-fmk. These results suggest that dSMN is involved in signal pathways of apoptotic cell death in Drosophila. Hence, the model system of reduced SMN expression by RNAi in Drosophila could be exploited for identification of therapeutic targets.
Epidemiological studies indicate that long term use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) confers protection from Alzheimer's disease, and some NSAIDs were shown to specifically decrease production of the amyloidogenic Abeta42 peptide, most likely by direct modulation of gamma-secretase activity. In contrast to gamma-secretase inhibitors, Abeta42-lowering NSAIDs do not impair S3 cleavage in the NOTCH receptor and release of the NOTCH intracellular domain, a finding with conceptual implications for the development of safer drugs targeting Abeta production through gamma-secretase modulation. Intramembrane cleavage and release of an intracellular signaling domain has recently been demonstrated in a number of additional gamma-secretase substrates. We now show in cell-based assays that intramembrane cleavage of APP and ErbB-4 receptor is not impaired by the Abeta42-lowering NSAIDs, sulindac sulfide and ibuprofen. Generation of the APP intracellular domain (AICD) was further not inhibited in a cell-free assay at concentrations far exceeding those effective in reducing Abeta42 production. Closer inspection of AICD signaling showed that stabilization of the AICD peptide by FE65 and AICD-mediated transcription were also retained at Abeta42-lowering concentrations. These results demonstrate that S3-like/intramembrane cleavage is preserved by Abeta42-lowering NSAIDs in at least three substrates of gamma-secretase APP, ErbB-4, and NOTCH and underline the striking specificity by which these drugs target Abeta42 production.
Voltage-gated potassium channels are formed by the tetramerization of their alpha subunits, in a process that is controlled by their conserved N-terminal T1 domains. The crystal structures of Shaker and Shaw T1 domains reveal interesting differences in structures that are contained within a highly conserved BTB/POZ domain fold. The most surprising difference is that the Shaw T1 domain contains an intersubunit Zn2+ ion that is lacking in the Shaker T1 domain. The Zn2+ coordination motif is conserved in other non-Shaker channels making this the most distinctive difference between these channels and Shaker. In this study we show that Zn2+ is an important co-factor for the tetramerization of isolated Shaw and Shal T1 domains. Addition of Zn2+ increases the amount of tetramer formed, whereas chelation of Zn2+ with phenanthroline blocks tetramerization and causes assembled tetramers to disassemble. Within an intact cell, full-length Shal subunits containing Zn2+ site mutations also fail to form functional channels, with the majority of the protein found to remain monomeric by size exclusion chromatography. Therefore, zinc-mediated tetramerization also is a physiologically important event for full-length functional channel formation.
Attentive processing is often described as a competition for resources among stimuli by mutual suppression. This is supported by findings that activity in extrastriate cortex is suppressed when several stimuli are presented simultaneously, compared to a single stimulus. In this study, we randomly varied the number of simultaneously presented figures (set size) in an attention-demanding change detection task, while we recorded multiunit activity in striate cortex (V1) in monkeys. After figure-background segregation, activity was suppressed as set size increased. This effect was stronger and started earlier among cells stimulated by the background than those stimulated by the figures themselves. As a consequence, contextual modulation, a correlate of figure-background segregation, increased with set size, approximately 100 msec after its initial generation. The results indicate that suppression of responses under increasing attentional demands differentially affects figure and background responses in area V1.
We have examined Notch3 mutations in patients with cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) whose samples were submitted to us in Japan. The subjects were composed of 21 Japanese, 1 Iranian, 1 Korean and 1 Canadian families. Mutations in the Notch3 gene were found in 7 of 24 families examined. These were R133C in two unrelated Japanese families, and R213K, C174F and R169C in each Japanese family. In addition, we have found R90C in an Iranian family and C174R in a Korean family. Thus, contribution of Notch3 gene mutations is less than one fourth of Japanese CADASIL families, suggesting the existence of other causative genes in CADASIL. It is also of interest to know that Notch3 mutant CADASIL exists in other Asian countries. We next examined the localization of Notch3 protein in the tissue by immunohistochemistry. It was restricted to the wall of arterioles in the brain and other organs. In the brain, there was no difference in the staining pattern among arterioles in the cortex, white matter and meninges. The staining was negative in the venule and capillaries as well as in neurons and glial cells. From the staining pattern, it was recognized to be expressed in the vascular smooth muscle cells in the adult tissue. In an autopsy case with R213K mutation, we could see numerous cerebral infarcts and arteriole wall degeneration with deposits of granular osmiophilic material (GOM). However, it is interesting to note that occlusion of arterioles was rarely observed and the GOM was negative for Notch3 staining. These findings suggest that hemodynamic abnormalities due to smooth muscle cell degeneration may be important in the pathogenesis of CADASIL.
Recent studies showed that the 14-3-3 protein is detectable in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of prion-unrelated neurological diseases, such as meningoencephalitis and myelitis. To investigate the possible association between the amounts of the 14-3-3 protein in the CSF and the clinical severity of multiple sclerosis (MS), its levels were determined by Western blot in the CSF of the patients with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) (n=10), secondary progressive MS (SPMS) (n=7), primary progressive MS (PPMS) (n=2), and non-MS inflammatory diseases of the CNS (n=5). The 14-3-3 protein was identified in seven CSF samples, including four patients with SPMS in acute relapse, one with SPMS in remission accompanied by fresh cerebral infarction, one with RRMS in acute relapse, and one with human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I)-associated myelopathy. The patients positive for the CSF 14-3-3 protein immunoreactivity showed more severe disability and higher levels of pleocytosis, protein, IgG, beta2-microglobulin, and neuron-specific enolase in the CSF, compared with those negative for its immunoreactivity. Four of these patients exhibited extensive lesions distributed along multiple vertebral segments in the spinal cord on MRI. In contrast, none of the MS patients without an extensive involvement of the spinal cord showed the CSF 14-3-3 protein immunoreactivity. These results suggest that detection of the 14-3-3 protein in the CSF provides a marker for severe inflammation-induced extensive damage of the central nervous system tissues responsible for poor therapeutic responses and irreversible neurological deficits in MS.
Zinc is found in synaptic vesicles in a large number of glutamatergic systems. Its involvement in neurotransmission and neurological disorders has been suggested. There are methods for tracing these circuits, but they do not fill the dendritic tree. In this study, extracellular selenite injections in vivo were combined with intracellular injection of fluorochromes in fixed tissue to reveal the morphology of these zinc-rich neurones. Intraperitoneal and intracerebral injections of sodium selenite alone or intracerebral injections of selenite combined with bisbenzimide were made in the visual cortex of the rat in order to locate the somata of zinc-rich neurones. After 24 h of retrograde transport, animals were killed and fluorescent markers were injected intracellularly into fixed slices to show neuronal morphology: (a) Lucifer Yellow (LY) followed by biocytin, (b) LY coupled to biocytin or (c) micro-ruby (MR) (dextranamines bound to rhodamine and biotin). Double-labelled somata (selenite+fluorochrome) were plotted. Details of the dendritic morphology were then revealed by incubation in avidin-biotin complex and development in 3,3'-diaminobenzidine and H(2)O(2). Camera lucida drawings showed that zinc-rich neurones in layers II-III involved in cortico-cortical visual projections were typical pyramidal neurones. This technique is noteworthy for its analysis of the morphology (and connections) of zinc-rich neurones.
In rats, exposure to chronic unavoidable stress produces a decrease in dopamine output in the nucleus accumbens shell that is accompanied by a decreased density of the dopamine transporter and an increased activity of the dopamine-D(1) receptor complex. These modifications have been hypothesized to be adaptive to decreased dopamine output in stressed rats. We investigated whether the learning of an appetitive behavior sustained by palatable food, which is associated with increased dopamine output in the nucleus accumbens shell as measured by microdialysis experiments, would affect the modifications induced by chronic stress exposure on dopamine transporter density and dopamine-D(1) receptor complex activity in the nucleus accumbens. Rats exposed to chronic unavoidable stress after acquisition of the appetitive behavior showed a higher dopamine extraneuronal release in the nucleus accumbens shell than that of stressed animals, and similar to that of control rats. Moreover, previous acquisition of the appetitive behavior prevented development of a stress-induced decrease in dopamine transporter density, measured by [(3)H]-WIN 35428 binding, a stress-induced increase in dopamine-D(1) receptor density, measured by binding of [(3)H]-SCH 23390, and SKF 38393-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in the nucleus accumbens. These results support the hypothesis that changes induced in pre- and postsynaptic dopaminergic transmission by chronic stress exposure are related to decreased dopamine output.
Ror1 and Ror2 are two novel receptor tyrosine kinases that have been implicated in neuronal differentiation in Caenorhabditis elegans. As a first step toward elucidating their role in the mammalian brain, we analyzed their expression and localization patterns in hippocampal neurons. Our results showed that both receptors are expressed from early stages of development and that their protein levels peak during periods of active synapse formation. Immunocytochemical analysis indicated that Ror1 and Ror2 are highly concentrated in the growth cones of immature neurons and are present throughout the somatodendritic compartment of mature hippocampal cells. Further analysis indicated that they are present not only in the cell membrane but also in Triton- and saponin-insoluble fractions, suggesting that they may be associated with both the cytoskeleton and membrane-bound organelles. Taken collectively, our results suggest that Ror1 and Ror2 might play a role during early stages of development in mammalian central neurons.
The extent to which neocortical pyramidal cells function as a local network is determined by the strength and probability of their connections. By mapping connections between pyramidal cells we show here that in a local network of about 600 pyramidal cells located within a cylindrical volume of 200 microm x 200 microm of neocortical layer 2/3, an individual pyramidal cell receives synaptic inputs from about 30 other pyramidal neurons, with the majority of EPSP amplitudes in the 0.2-1.0 mV range. The probability of connection decreased from 0.09 to 0.01 with intercell distance (over the range 25-200 microm). Within the same volume, local interneuron (fast-spiking non-accommodating interneuron, FS)-pyramidal cell connections were about 10 times more numerous, with the majority of connections being reciprocal. The probability of excitatory and inhibitory connections between pyramidal cells and FS interneurons decreased only slightly with distance, being in the range 0.5-0.75. Pyramidal cells in the local network received strong synaptic input during stimulation of afferent fibres in layers 1 and 6. Minimal-like stimulation of layer 1 or layer 6 inputs simultaneously induced postsynaptic potentials in connected pyramidal cells as well as in pyramidal-FS cell pairs. These inputs readily induced firing of pyramidal cells, although synaptically connected cells displayed different firing patterns. Unitary EPSPs in pyramidal-pyramidal cell pairs did not detectably alter cell firing. FS interneurons fire simultaneously with pyramidal cells. In pyramidal-FS cell pairs, both unitary EPSPs and IPSPs efficiently modulated cell firing patterns. We suggest that computation in the local network may proceed not only by direct pyramidal-pyramidal cell communication but also via local interneurons. With such a high degree of connectivity with surrounding pyramidal cells, local interneurons are ideally poised to both coordinate and expand the local pyramidal cell network via pyramidal-interneuron-pyramidal communication.

Adenosine and dopamine receptors interact in the CNS to modulate behaviour, including sensorimotor gating. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) has been suggested to be an operational measure of sensorimotor gating. PPI and startle habituation are disrupted in patients with schizophrenia. In experimental animals, both parameters are modulated by dopaminergic and adenosine receptor agonists and antagonists. In the present study, we measured PPI and startle habituation in mice that lack functional adenosine A(2A) receptors. Startle amplitudes, startle habituation and PPI were significantly reduced in mice homozygous null for the adenosine A(2A) receptor (A(2A)(-/-)). In addition, differential effects of amphetamine and MK-801 on startle amplitude, startle habituation and PPI were observed between A(2A)(-/-) and wildtype controls. These data support the involvement of adenosine A(2A) receptors in regulation of PPI and startle habituation.
Insulin rapidly and completely inhibits expression of the hepatic insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1), phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) genes. This inhibition is mediated through a phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase-dependent regulation of a DNA element, termed the thymine-rich insulin response element, found within the promoters of each of these genes. This has led to the conclusion that these three promoters are regulated by insulin using the same molecular mechanism. However, we recently found that the regulation of the IGFBP1 but not the PEPCK or G6Pase genes by insulin was sensitive to rapamycin, an inhibitor of mTOR. Here, we present further evidence that different regulatory pathways mediate the insulin regulation of these promoters. Importantly, we identify a protein phosphatase activity in the pathway connecting mTOR to the IGFBP-1 promoter. These data have major implications for the development of molecular therapeutics for the treatment of insulin-resistant states such as diabetes and hypertension.
The owl can discriminate changes in the location of sound sources as small as 3 degrees and can aim its head to within 2 degrees of a source. A typical neuron in its midbrain space map has a spatial receptive field that spans 40 degrees--a width that is many times the behavioural threshold. Here we have quantitatively examined the relationship between neuronal activity and perceptual acuity in the auditory space map in the barn owl midbrain. By analysing changes in firing rate resulting from small changes of stimulus azimuth, we show that most neurons can reliably signal changes in source location that are smaller than the behavioural threshold. Each source is represented in the space map by a focus of activity in a population of neurons. Displacement of the source causes the pattern of activity in this population to change. We show that this change predicts the owl's ability to detect a change in source location.
How do we understand the actions of others? According to the direct matching hypothesis, action understanding results from a mechanism that maps an observed action onto motor representations of that action. Although supported by neurophysiological and brain-imaging studies, direct evidence for this hypothesis is sparse. In visually guided actions, task-specific proactive eye movements are crucial for planning and control. Because the eyes are free to move when observing such actions, the direct matching hypothesis predicts that subjects should produce eye movements similar to those produced when they perform the tasks. If an observer analyses action through purely visual means, however, eye movements will be linked reactively to the observed action. Here we show that when subjects observe a block stacking task, the coordination between their gaze and the actor's hand is predictive, rather than reactive, and is highly similar to the gaze-hand coordination when they perform the task themselves. These results indicate that during action observation subjects implement eye motor programs directed by motor representations of manual actions and thus provide strong evidence for the direct matching hypothesis.
Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) and epinephrine act directly on nociceptors to produce mechanical hyperalgesia through protein kinase A (PKA) alone or through a combination of PKA, protein kinase C epsilon (PKCepsilon), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), respectively. Disruptors of the cytoskeleton (microfilaments, microtubules, and intermediate filaments) markedly attenuated the hyperalgesia in rat paws caused by injection of epinephrine or its downstream mediators. In contrast, the hyperalgesia induced by PGE(2) or its mediators was not affected by any of the cytoskeletal disruptors. These effects were mimicked in vitro, as measured by enhancement of the tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium current. When PGE(2) hyperalgesia was shifted to dependence on PKCepsilon and ERK as well as PKA, as when the tissue is &quot;primed&quot; by prior treatment with carrageenan, it too became dependent on an intact cytoskeleton. Thus, inflammatory mediator-induced mechanical hyperalgesia was differentially dependent on the cytoskeleton such that cytoskeletal dependence correlated with mediation by PKCepsilon and ERK.
Inflammatory mediators act on peripheral sensory neurons to produce pain and hypersensitivity after tissue injury. In this issue of Neuron, Dina et al. report that inflammatory mediators, such as epinephrine and prostaglandins, appear to couple to specific G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathways through plastic interactions with the cytoskeleton.
Neurons in the medial superior olive encode interaural temporal disparity, and their receptive fields indicate the location of a sound source in the azimuthal plane. It is often assumed that the projections of these neurons transmit the receptive field information about azimuth from point to point, much like the projections of the retina to the brain transmit the position of a visual stimulus. Yet this assumption has never been verified. Here, we use physiological and anatomical methods to examine the projections of the medial superior olive to the inferior colliculus for evidence of a spatial topography that would support transmission of azimuthal receptive fields. The results show that this projection does not follow a simple point-to-point topographical map of receptive field location. Thus, the representation of sound location along the azimuth in the inferior colliculus most likely relies on a complex, nonlinear map.
Altered regulation of 5-HT1A receptors is implicated in mood disorders such as anxiety and major depression. To provide insight into its transcriptional regulation, we previously identified a novel DNA element [14 bp 5'-repressor element (FRE)] of the 5-HT1A receptor gene that mediates repression in neuronal and non-neuronal cells (Ou et al., 2000). We have now cloned a novel DNA binding protein [five' repressor element under dual repression binding protein-1 (Freud-1)] that binds to FRE to mediate repression of the 5-HT1A receptor or heterologous promoters. Freud-1 is evolutionarily conserved and contains two DM-14 basic repeats, a predicted helix-loop-helix DNA binding domain, and a protein kinase C conserved region 2 (C2)/calcium-dependent lipid binding (CalB) calcium/phospholipid binding domain. An intact CalB domain was required for Freud-1-mediated repression. In serotonergic raphe cells, overexpression of Freud-1 repressed the 5-HT1A promoter and decreased 5-HT1A receptor protein levels, whereas transfection of antisense to Freud-1 derepressed the 5-HT1A gene and increased 5-HT1A receptor protein expression. Calcium-dependent signaling blocked Freud-1-FRE binding and derepressed the 5-HT1A promoter. Treatment with inhibitors of calmodulin or CAM-dependent protein kinase reversed calcium-mediated inhibition of Freud-1. Freud-1 RNA and protein were present in raphe nuclei, hippocampus, cortex, and hypothalamus, and Freud-1 protein was colocalized with 5-HT1A receptors, suggesting its importance in regulating 5-HT1A receptors in vivo. Thus, Freud-1 represents a novel calcium-regulated repressor that negatively regulates basal 5-HT1A receptor expression in neurons and may play a role in the altered regulation of 5-HT1A receptors associated with anxiety or major depression.
Inhibitory interneurons target specific subcellular compartments of cortical pyramidal neurons, where location-specific interactions of IPSPs with voltage-activated ion channels are likely to influence the inhibitory control of neuronal output. To investigate this, we simulated IPSPs as a conductance source at sites across the somato-apical dendritic axis (up to 750 microm) of neocortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons. Analysis revealed that the electrotonic architecture of cortical pyramidal neurons is highly voltage dependent, resulting in a significant site-dependent disparity between the amplitude, kinetics, and dendro-somatic attenuation of IPSPs generated from depolarized (-50 mV) and hyperpolarized (-80 mV) membrane potentials. At the soma, the time course of IPSPs evoked from depolarized potentials was greatest when generated from proximal dendritic sites and decreased as events were generated more distally, whereas the somatic time course of IPSPs evoked from hyperpolarized potentials was independent of the dendritic site of generation. This behavior resulted from the concerted actions of axo-somatic sodium channels that increased the duration of proximal dendritic IPSPs generated at depolarized potentials and distal dendritic hyperpolarization-activated channels that mediated site independence of somatic IPSP time course at hyperpolarized potentials. Functionally, this voltage-dependent control of IPSPs shaped the spatial and temporal profile of inhibition of axonal action potential firing and dendritic spike generation. Together, these findings demonstrate that the somatic impact of dendritic IPSPs is highly voltage dependent and controlled by classes of ion channels differentially distributed across axodendritic domains, directly revealing site-dependent inhibitory synaptic processing in cortical pyramidal neurons.
The removal of excess neurons by programmed cell death (PCD) is believed to be critical for the proper development and function of the nervous system. A major role of this neuronal loss is to attain quantitative matching of neurons with their targets and afferents. Because motoneurons (MNs) in Bax knock-out (Bax KO) mice fail to undergo PCD in the face of normal target muscle development, we asked whether the excess rescued neurons in Bax KO mice can develop normally. We observed many small atrophied MNs in postnatal Bax KO mice, and these failed to innervate limb muscle targets. When examined embryonically during the PCD period, however, these excess MNs had initiated target innervation. To examine whether a limitation in trophic factor availability is responsible for postnatal MN atrophy and loss of innervation, we applied glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) to neonatal mice. GDNF injection for 7-14 d induced the regrowth and reinnervation of muscle targets by atrophic MNs in Bax KO mice and prevented the normal postnatal death of MNs in wild-type mice. These results indicate that, although initially all of the MNs, including those rescued by Bax deletion, are able to project to and innervate targets, because of limited target-derived signals required for maintaining innervation and growth, only a subpopulation can grow and retain target contacts postnatally. Although sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia are also rescued from PCD by Bax deletion, their subsequent development is less affected than that of MNs.


These studies chart the development of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic neurons in the three divisions of the thalamus (ventral thalamus, dorsal thalamus, and epithalamus). GABAergic neurons were identified by in situ hybridization to localize mRNA for 67-kDa glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD(67)) and related to the morphological maturation of the thalamus in fetal and postnatal brains and to expression of transcription factors Gbx-2 and Tbr-1. Origins of GABAergic neurons were sought in in vitro slice preparations incubated in bromodeoxyuridine or injected with a carbocyanine dye. GABA neurons of ventral thalamus (reticular nucleus, ventral lateral geniculate nucleus, zona incerta, and nucleus of the fields of Forel) and of epithalamus appear at least 14 days before those intrinsic to dorsal thalamus. Ventral thalamus GABA cells are derived from a region connecting the ventricular zone of the third ventricle to the caudal ganglionic eminence. This region is delimited ventrally by the Tbr-1-expressing prethalamic eminence and dorsally by the Gbx-2-expressing part of the dorsal thalamus. GABA neurons of epithalamus are derived from the embryonic pretectum. Neurons continue to be added to the ventral thalamus, perireticular nucleus, entopeduncular nucleus, and substantia nigra from the ganglionic eminence as development proceeds. GAD(67)-expressing cells of dorsal thalamus become detectable only at birth and populate the thalamus from posterior to anterior over the first week of life. Although a very small number reaches the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus from the caudal ganglionic eminence, there is no obvious new source of proliferating neurons at this stage. Intrinsic GABA cells of dorsal thalamus may, therefore, derive from an early generated population of cells that turns on a GABAergic phenotype only late in development.
Fever is a coordinated autonomic, endocrine, and behavioral response mediated by the brain in reaction to inflammatory stimuli. An essential step in transmitting the immune signal to the brain is the formation of prostaglandin E2. Cyclooxygenase (COX) is the critical enzyme in the synthesis of prostaglandins and COX-2, the inducible form of the enzyme, is markedly induced in cells associated with the cerebral blood vessels and the leptomeninges by immune stimuli such as intravenous administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). However, the specific roles of COX-1, the constitutive form of cyclooxygenase, and COX-2 in LPS-induced fever are not well understood. We injected LPS i.v. in combination with either a highly selective COX-1 (SC-560) or COX-2 (SC-236) inhibitor to determine the effects of each drug on the subsequent fever response and on the pattern of expression of Fos protein in the brain. The COX-2 inhibitor blocked LPS-induced fever and Fos expression in sites such as the ventromedial preoptic nucleus (VMPO) and the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVH), although Fos-immunoreactivity in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), ventrolateral medulla (VLM), and parabrachial nucleus (PB) remained. In contrast, the COX-1 inhibitor resulted in a profound hypothermic response to LPS and blocked LPS-induced Fos-immunoreactivity in the PVH, PB, NTS, and VLM, although it had no effect on the VMPO. Although COX-2 plays a dominant role in mediating fever responses to i.v. LPS, at least some components of the response, including avoiding hypothermia and the induction of Fos in the NTS, VLM, PB, and PVH, appear to depend on COX-1. J.
We prepared a series of 18 novel substituted phenylbenzazepine congeners of the dopamine D1/D5 receptor partial-agonist SKF-83959 (R,S-3-methyl-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-[3'-methylphenyl]-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-benzazepine) and characterized their potency and selectivity in assays of dopamine, 5-HT and adrenoceptors in rat brain tissue or membranes of genetically transfected cells. The R-enantiomer of SKF-83959 (MCL-202) and three other novel racemic 1-phenyl-7,8-dihydroxybenzazepines (MCL-204, -203, and -207) showed very high dopamine D5 receptor affinity; MCL-209 displayed the greatest dopamine D5 receptor affinity. These five potent novel ligands also had &gt;100-fold selectivity for dopamine D1 over dopamine D2, D3, serotonin 5-HT-2A receptors and alpha2-adrenoceptors. They require further functional testing to characterize their intrinsic activity, and for potential stimulant-antagonist actions, as observed with SKF-83959 and MCL-202.
The metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been predicted to have a classical seven transmembrane domain structure similar to that seen for members of the G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily. However, the mGluRs (and other members of the family C GPCRs) show no sequence homology to the rhodopsin-like GPCRs, for which this seven transmembrane domain structure has been experimentally confirmed. Furthermore, several transmembrane domain prediction algorithms suggest that the mGluRs have a topology that is distinct from these receptors. In the present study, we set out to test whether mGluR5 has seven true transmembrane domains. Using a variety of approaches in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems, our data provide strong support for the proposed seven transmembrane domain model of mGluR5. We propose that this membrane topology can be extended to all members of the family C GPCRs.

Our previous study has demonstrated intraneuronal localization of Nogo-A in motoneurons of the adult rat spinal cord. In the present study, we wished to explore Nogo-A immunoreactivity at synapses using pre-embedding and post-embedding immunogold cytochemistry. Immunogold particles for Nogo-A could be identified in dendrites of the spinal cord motoneurons. Some Nogo-A immunogold particles were found in close apposition to the postsynaptic density and the postsynaptic dense bodies at both symmetric and asymmetric synapses. The present finding of Nogo-A at the postsynaptic active zone provides a morphological basis for the possibility that the Nogo-A-Nogo receptor system may contribute to structural plasticity at synapses as well as along the axonal pathway.
Activation of the cerebral cortex is seen during hallucinations. The 5-HT(2A/C) agonist 1-[2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl]-2-aminopropane (DOI) is a potent hallucinogen that has been proposed to act by targeting 5-HT(2A) heteroceptors on thalamocortical neurons and eliciting release of glutamate from these cells, which in turn drives cortical neurons. We used in vivo microdialysis to determine if DOI increases extracellular glutamate levels. Systemic administration of DOI significantly increased extracellular glutamate levels in the somatosensory cortex of the freely-moving rat. Similarly, intracortical administration of DOI by reverse dialysis increased cortical extracellular glutamate levels. No consistent changes in either extracellular GABA or glycine levels were observed in response to DOI. The increase in glutamate levels elicited by intracortical DOI was blocked by treatment with the selective 5-HT(2A) antagonist MDL 100,907. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that 5-HT(2A) receptor-mediated regulation of glutamate release is the mechanism through which hallucinogens activate the cerebral cortex.
The globus pallidus (GP) is a key GABAergic nucleus in the basal ganglia (BG). The predominant input to the GP is an inhibitory striatal projection that forms the first synapse in the indirect pathway. The GP GABAergic neurons project to the subthalamic nucleus, providing an inhibitory control of these glutamatergic cells. Given its place within the BG circuit, it is not surprising that alterations in GP firing pattern are postulated to play a role in both normal and pathological motor behavior. Because the inhibitory striatal input to the GP may play an important role in shaping these firing patterns, we set out to determine the role that the group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (GluRs) play in modulating transmission at the striatopallidal synapse. In rat midbrain slices, electrical stimulation of the striatum evoked GABA(A)-mediated IPSCs recorded in all three types of GP neurons. The group III mGluR-selective agonist L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4) inhibited these IPSCs through a presynaptic mechanism of action. L-AP4 exhibited high potency and a pharmacological profile consistent with mediation by mGluR4. Furthermore, the effect of L-AP4 on striatopallidal transmission was absent in mGluR4 knock-out mice, providing convincing evidence that mGluR4 mediates this effect. The finding that mGluR4 may selectively modulate striatopallidal transmission raises the interesting possibility that activation of mGluR4 could decrease the excessive inhibition of the GP that has been postulated to occur in Parkinson's disease. Consistent with this, we find that intracerebroventricular injections of L-AP4 produce therapeutic benefit in both acute and chronic rodent models of Parkinson's disease.
We exploited the simple organization of bullfrog paravertebral sympathetic ganglia (BFSG) to test whether the neurotransmitter peptide luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH), which generates the late slow EPSP, could also exert long-term neurotrophic control of ion channel expression. Whole-cell recordings from B-cells in BFSG showed that removal of all of the sources of ganglionic LHRH for 10 d by cutting preganglionic C-fibers in vivo caused a 28% reduction in Ca2+ current density. When BFSG B-neurons were dissociated from adult bullfrogs and maintained in a defined-medium, neuron-enriched, low-density, serum-free culture, the ICa density was increased by 49% after 6-7 d in the presence of 0.45 microm LHRH. This increase was not associated with alterations in the voltage dependence of Ca2+ current activation or inactivation and reflected a selective increase in N-type Ca2+ channel current. The increase in ICa density induced by LHRH was blocked by the transcription inhibitor actinomycin D. These results suggest that chronic exposure to a neurotransmitter that acts through G-protein-coupled receptors exerts long-term control of ion channel expression in a fully differentiated, adult sympathetic neuron in vitro or in vivo.
The similarity of musical scales and consonance judgments across human populations has no generally accepted explanation. Here we present evidence that these aspects of auditory perception arise from the statistical structure of naturally occurring periodic sound stimuli. An analysis of speech sounds, the principal source of periodic sound stimuli in the human acoustical environment, shows that the probability distribution of amplitude-frequency combinations in human utterances predicts both the structure of the chromatic scale and consonance ordering. These observations suggest that what we hear is determined by the statistical relationship between acoustical stimuli and their naturally occurring sources, rather than by the physical parameters of the stimulus per se.
The establishment of memory requires coordinated signaling between presynaptic and postsynaptic terminals in the CNS. The integrins make up a large family of cell adhesion receptors that are known to mediate bidirectional signaling between cells or between cells and their external environment. We show here that many different integrins, including alpha3 and alpha5, are expressed broadly in the adult mouse brain and are associated with synapses. Mice with genetically reduced expression of alpha3 integrin fail to maintain long-term potentiation (LTP) generated in hippocampal CA1 neurons. Mice with reduced expression of the alpha3 and alpha5 integrins exhibit a defect in paired-pulse facilitation. Mice with reduced expression of alpha3, alpha5, and alpha8 are defective in hippocampal LTP and spatial memory in the water maze but have normal fear conditioning. These results demonstrate that several different integrins are involved in physiological plasticity and provide the first evidence of their requirement for behavioral plasticity in vertebrates.
The present study uniquely combines olfactory ensheathing glia (OEG) implantation with ex vivo adenoviral (AdV) vector-based neurotrophin gene therapy in an attempt to enhance regeneration after cervical spinal cord injury. Primary OEG were transduced with AdV vectors encoding rat brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), or bacterial marker protein beta-galactosidase (LacZ) and subsequently implanted into adult Fischer rats directly after unilateral transection of the dorsolateral funiculus. Implanted animals received a total of 2 x 105 OEG that were subjected to transduction with neurotrophin-encoding AdV vector, AdV-LacZ, or no vector, respectively. At 4 months after injury, lesion volumes were smaller in all OEG implanted rats and significantly reduced in size after implantation of neurotrophin-encoding AdV vector-transduced OEG. All OEG grafts were filled with neurofilament-positive axons, and AdV vector-mediated expression of BDNF by implanted cells significantly enhanced regenerative sprouting of the rubrospinal tract. Behavioral analysis revealed that OEG-implanted rats displayed better locomotion during horizontal rope walking than unimplanted lesioned controls. Recovery of hind limb function was also improved after implantation of OEG that were transduced with a BDNF- or NT-3-encoding AdV vector. Hind limb performance during horizontal rope locomotion did directly correlate with lesion size, suggesting that neuroprotective effects of OEG implants contributed to the level of functional recovery. Thus, our results demonstrate that genetic engineering of OEG not only resulted in a cell that was more effective in promoting axonal outgrowth but could also lead to enhanced recovery after injury, possibly by sparing of spinal tissue.
Normal visual experience during postnatal development is necessary for the maturation of visual cortical circuits and acts through molecular mechanisms that are still poorly understood. Recently, it has been shown that ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) 1/2, protein kinase A (PKA), and CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein) are crucial factors for experience-dependent development of the visual cortex, but very little is known about the role of visual experience in their activation. Here, we show that visual stimulation after a brief period of dark rearing caused a transient ERK activation in the visual cortex. Visually induced ERK activation occurred primarily in excitatory neurons of layers II-III and VI and was prevented by binocular lid suture. ERK phosphorylation was strongly reduced by cortical infusion with the cAMP-PKA inhibitor Rp-8-Cl-cAMPS, thus establishing a link between PKA and ERK activation. To analyze the downstream consequences of ERK and PKA signaling, we studied the action of visual stimulation on transcription of genes controlled by CREB in transgenic mice carrying the LacZ reporter gene under the control of the CRE (cAMP response element) promoter. Visual stimulation triggered a prolonged episode of CRE-mediated gene expression in the visual cortex that was suppressed by infusion with the ERK inhibitor U0126. Cortical administration of Rp-8-Cl-cAMPS attenuated the experience-dependent activation of CRE-mediated gene transcription. These results show that ERK phosphorylation in visual cortical neurons represents a molecular readout of patterned visual stimuli and that visual activation of ERK involves the cAMP-PKA system. Finally, because CRE-mediated gene expression was totally dependent on ERK activation, we suggest that PKA action on CRE-mediated gene expression is mediated by ERK.
When planning goal-directed reaches, subjects must estimate the position of the arm by integrating visual and proprioceptive signals from the sensory periphery. These integrated position estimates are required at two stages of motor planning: first to determine the desired movement vector, and second to transform the movement vector into a joint-based motor command. We quantified the contributions of each sensory modality to the position estimate formed at each planning stage. Subjects made reaches in a virtual reality environment in which vision and proprioception were dissociated by shifting the location of visual feedback. The relative weighting of vision and proprioception at each stage was then determined using computational models of feedforward motor control. We found that the position estimate used for movement vector planning relies mostly on visual input, whereas the estimate used to compute the joint-based motor command relies more on proprioceptive signals. This suggests that when estimating the position of the arm, the brain selects different combinations of sensory input based on the computation in which the resulting estimate will be used.
Timely deactivation of G-protein signaling is essential for the proper function of many cells, particularly neurons. Termination of the light response of retinal rods requires GTP hydrolysis by the G-protein transducin, which is catalyzed by a protein complex that includes regulator of G-protein signaling RGS9-1 and the G-protein beta subunit Gbeta5-L. Disruption of the Gbeta5 gene in mice (Gbeta5-/-) abolishes the expression of Gbeta5-L in the retina and also greatly reduces the expression level of RGS9-1. We examined transduction in dark- and light-adapted rods from wild-type and Gbeta5-/- mice. Responses of Gbeta5-/- rods were indistinguishable in all respects from those of RGS9-/- rods. Loss of Gbeta5-L (and RGS9-1) had no effect on the activation of the G-protein cascade, but profoundly slowed its deactivation and interfered with the speeding of incremental dim flashes during light adaptation. Both RGS9-/- and Gbeta5-/- responses were consistent with another factor weakly regulating GTP hydrolysis by transducin in a manner proportional to the inward current. Our results indicate that a complex containing RGS9-1-Gbeta5-L is essential for normal G-protein deactivation and rod function. In addition, our light adaptation studies support the notion than an additional weak GTPase-accelerating factor in rods is regulated by intracellular calcium and/or cGMP.
Over 30% of normal elderly people have cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). Possession of APOE epsilon4 is associated with increased prevalence and severity of CAA in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in cerebral haemorrhage. We examined CAA in relation to APOE genotype in brains from 152 people aged 60-102 years, without AD or cerebral haemorrhage. Prevalence of CAA increased with age (p = 0.003). CAA was not associated with APOE genotype. The frequency of epsilon4 showed a significant negative association with age (p = 0.016). Age at death was significantly lower in those with than without epsilon4 (p = 0.028). Possession of epsilon4 does not by itself confer an increased risk of CAA but may be associated with reduced longevity even in the absence of AD or cerebral haemorrhage.
Niemann-Pick type C (NPC) disease is a lysosomal disorder commonly caused by a recessive mutation in NPC1, which encodes an integral membrane protein with regions of homology to the morphogen receptor, Patched, and to 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase. Neurons in NPC disease exhibit extensive storage of free cholesterol and glycosphingolipids (GSLs), including GM2 and GM3 gangliosides. Most studies have viewed cholesterol storage as primary, with NPC1 functioning as a retroendocytic transporter for regulation of cholesterol homeostasis. Here, we analyze the effects of genetically depriving NPC neurons of complex gangliosides by creating mice doubly deficient in both NPC1 and the GSL synthetic enzyme, GM2/GD2 synthase (GalNAcT). Ganglioside and cholesterol expression in neurons of NPC1(-/-)/GalNAcT(+/+), NPC1(-/-)/GalNAcT(-/-), NPC1(+/+)/GalNAcT(-/-), and WT mice was examined in situ by immunocytochemical and histochemical methods. Neurons in double-deficient mice lacked intraneuronal GM2 accumulation as expected, but remarkably also exhibited absence or dramatic reduction in free cholesterol. Neurons storing cholesterol consistently showed GM3 accumulation but some GM3-positive neurons lacked cholesterol storage. These findings provide a compelling argument that cholesterol sequestration in NPC1-deficient neurons is ganglioside dependent and suggest that the function of NPC1 in these cells may be more closely linked to homeostatic control of GSLs than cholesterol.
Small GTP binding proteins regulate diverse biological processes including gene expression, cytoskeleton reorganization, and protein and vesicular transport. While small GTPases have been investigated in a wide variety of cells, few studies have addressed their role in photoreceptors. In vertebrate retinal rods, the light stimulus is transmitted from rhodopsin via the pathway mediated by the heterotrimeric G protein transducin. To increase their sensitivity to light, photoreceptors accumulate remarkably high concentrations of rhodopsin and transducin in specialized cellular compartments, the outer segments (OS). Transport of these proteins from the inner segments is regulated by the small GTPases Rab6 and Rab8, which do not enter OS. Here, we asked if small G proteins have other functions in photoreceptors. We show that OS contain the small GTPase Rac-1, a member of the Rho family. In contrast to other cells, Rac-1 in OS is exclusively associated with the membranes and resides in lipid rafts. Most importantly, Rac-1 is activated by light. This activation is specifically blocked by a synthetic peptide corresponding to the Asn-Pro-X-X-Tyr motif found in rhodopsin, and Rac-1 coprecipitates with rhodopsin on Concanavalin A Sepharose. These data provide the first direct evidence for the existence of a novel pathway activated by rhodopsin.



The microtubule (MT)-associated protein tau is important in neuronal development and in Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases. Genetic analyses have established a cause-and-effect relationship between tau dysfunction/misregulation and neuronal cell death and dementia in frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism associated with chromosome 17; several mutations causing this dementia lead to increased ratios of four-repeat (4R) to three-repeat (3R) wild-type tau, and an attractive hypothesis is that the abnormally high ratio of 4R to 3R tau might lead to neuronal cell death by altering normal tau functions in adult neurons. Thus, we tested whether 3R and 4R tau might differentially modulate the dynamic instability of MTs in vitro using video microscopy. Although both isoforms promoted MT polymerization and decreased the tubulin critical subunit concentration to approximately similar extents, 4R tau stabilized MTs significantly more strongly that 3R tau. For example, 4R tau suppressed the shortening rate, whereas 3R tau had little or no detectable effect. Similarly, 3R tau had no effect on the length shortened during a shortening event, whereas 4R tau strongly reduced this parameter. Further, when MTs were diluted into buffer containing 4R tau, the MTs were stabilized and shortened slowly. In contrast, when diluted into 3R tau, the MTs were unstable and shortened rapidly. Thus, 4R tau stabilizes MTs differently and significantly more strongly than 3R tau. We suggest a &quot;dosage effect&quot; or haploinsufficiency model in which both tau alleles must be active and properly regulated to produce appropriate amounts of each tau isoform to maintain MT dynamics within a tolerable window of activity.
Nicotine enhances several cognitive and psychomotor behaviors, and nicotinic antagonists cause impairments in tasks requiring cognitive effort. To explore the contribution of nicotinic receptors to complex cognitive functions, we developed an automated method to investigate sequential locomotor behavior in the mouse and an analysis of social behavior. We show that, in the beta2-/- mutant, the high-order spatiotemporal organization of locomotor behavior, together with conflict resolution and social interaction, is selectively dissociated from low-level, more automatic motor behaviors. Such deficits in executive functions resemble the rigid and asocial behavior found in some psychopathological disorders such as autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
Nodes of Ranvier are specialized, highly polarized axonal domains crucial to the propagation of saltatory action potentials. In the peripheral nervous system, axo-glial cell contacts have been implicated in Schwann cell (SC) differentiation and formation of the nodes of Ranvier. SC microvilli establish axonal contact at mature nodes, and their components have been observed to localize early to sites of developing nodes. However, a role for these contacts in node formation remains controversial. Using a myelinating explant culture system, we have observed that SCs reorganize and polarize microvillar components, such as the ezrin-binding phosphoprotein 50 kD/regulatory cofactor of the sodium-hydrogen exchanger isoform 3 (NHERF-1), actin, and the activated ezrin, radixin, and moesin family proteins before myelination in response to inductive signals. These components are targeted to the SC distal tips where live cell imaging reveals novel, dynamic growth cone-like behavior. Furthermore, localized activation of the Rho signaling pathway at SC tips gives rise to these microvillar component-enriched &quot;caps&quot; and influences the efficiency of node formation.
To gain insight into how cortical fields process somatic inputs and ultimately contribute to complex abilities such as tactile object perception, we examined the pattern of connections of two areas in the lateral sulcus of macaque monkeys: the second somatosensory area (S2), and the parietal ventral area (PV). Neuroanatomical tracers were injected into electrophysiologically and/or architectonically defined locations, and labeled cell bodies were identified in cortex ipsilateral and contralateral to the injection site. Transported tracer was related to architectonically defined boundaries so that the full complement of connections of S2 and PV could be appreciated. Our results indicate that S2 is densely interconnected with the primary somatosensory area (3b), PV, and area 7b of the ipsilateral hemisphere, and with S2, 7b, and 3b in the opposite hemisphere. PV is interconnected with areas 3b and 7b, with the parietal rostroventral area, premotor cortex, posterior parietal cortex, and with the medial auditory belt areas. Contralateral connections were restricted to PV in the opposite hemisphere. These data indicate that S2 and PV have unique and overlapping patterns of connections, and that they comprise part of a network that processes both cutaneous and proprioceptive inputs necessary for tactile discrimination and recognition. Although more data are needed, these patterns of interconnections of cortical fields and thalamic nuclei suggest that the somatosensory system may not be segregated into two separate streams of information processing, as has been hypothesized for the visual system. Rather, some fields may be involved in a variety of functions that require motor and sensory integration.
One of the most exciting possibilities in human therapeutics is that stem cells (embryonic or adult) may compensate for cell loss in disease, with functional recovery. This has received considerable publicity in the lay press. Much work remains to be done to turn stem cell therapy into a practical reality for major degenerative diseases, especially those affecting the nervous system. Medical scientists and journalists should work together in ensuring that the general public has a realistic understanding of the likely time frame in which benefits from stem cell therapies will be realised.



Corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) have some clinical and pathological features in common. Each, however, has been shown to have specific astrocytic inclusions. CBD is characterized by astrocytic plaques, and PSP is characterized by tuft-shaped astrocytes. To clarify differences between these inclusions, we investigated intracerebral distribution of astrocytic plaques and tuft-shaped astrocytes in autopsied brains of patients with either CBD or PSP. Specimens from ten patients with CBD and five patients with PSP were stained by the Gallyas-Braak method. Densities of the astrocytic plaques and tuft-shaped astrocytes were determined for 11 cerebral cortical regions, 6 subcortical nuclei, 5 brain stem regions, the cerebellar cortex and the dentate nucleus. Astrocytic plaques were most abundant in the prefrontal and premotor areas in the cerebral cortex of CBD brains, whereas tuft-shaped astrocytes were most prominent in the precentral gyrus and premotor area of PSP brains. Many astrocytic plaques were observed in the caudate nucleus of CBD brains, whereas tuft-shaped astrocytes were abundant in both the caudate and putamen and moderate in number in the globus pallidus, subthalamic nucleus and thalamus in PSP brains. Very slight accumulation of astrocytic plaques was seen in the brain stem of CBD brains, whereas numerous tuft-shaped astrocytes were found in the red nucleus and superior colliculus of PSP brains. Distribution of the astrocytic plaques and tuft-shaped astrocytes differed greatly. Thus, CBD and PSP can be considered different entities.
A series of human brains with cerebral infarction obtained at autopsy were investigated to clarify the possible contribution of aquaporin 4 (AQP4) to the development of brain edema. Cellular localization of AQP4 and its relation to ischemic foci were examined with double-labeling immunohistochemistry. AQP4 immunoreactivity (IR) was more intense at the periphery of ischemic foci than at their center. Double-labeling study demonstrated that AQP4 IR was restricted to astrocytes and was localized to their entire processes, including their end feet facing the outer surface of capillaries. Moreover, AQP4 IR, detectable in the subpial and subependymal zone in the normal condition, was more intense in the vicinity of ischemic foci. Accumulation of AQP4 IR may reflect its participation in the development of brain edema in human brains by playing a role in the transport of water not only through blood vessel walls but also through pial and ependymal surface of the brain.
We evaluated morphological changes in the tibial bone after meniscectomy in a rabbit model. 15 rabbits subjected to a medial meniscectomy in the right knee and a sham-operation in the left. Histomorphometric parameters were evaluated in the subchondral bone plate and the underlying trabecular bone, 13, 25 and 40 weeks after surgery. 5 rabbits were used as unoperated controls. Meniscectomized knees had a thicker subchondral bone plate than sham-operated contralateral ones in 13 of the 15 rabbits (p = 0.01), but the trabecular bone showed no morphological differences. The meniscectomized knees of these rabbits developed mild osteoarthrosis, described elsewhere, which may have been partly due to a change in the mechanical properties of the thickened subchondral bone plate. Our findings suggest that the first bony response after meniscectomy occurs in the subchondral bone plate rather than in the trabecular bone.






N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are a subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptors that are highly expressed in brain neurons. These receptors are calcium permeable and regulate various forms of plasticity, including long-term potentiation of glutamate synapses. Acutely, ethanol inhibits the function of NMDA receptors, and chronic exposure of neurons to ethanol is associated with enhanced NMDA receptor function during withdrawal. Results from previous studies with recombinant NMDA receptors have demonstrated that subunit composition influences the ethanol sensitivity of NMDA receptors, with NR2A-containing receptors often showing greater inhibition by ethanol than shown by those containing other NR2 subunits. NR2A-containing NMDA receptors are particularly sensitive to other modulators of channel function, including heavy metals such as zinc. Although zinc inhibits NMDA receptors at micromolar concentrations through a voltage-dependent interaction with a channel site, NR2A-containing receptors are inhibited by low nanomolar concentrations of zinc in a voltage-independent manner. In this study, we examined the effects of ethanol on NR1/NR2A receptors expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK 293) cells recorded under conditions in which the effects of zinc are minimized. Under control conditions, ethanol (100 mM) inhibited peak and steady-state currents of NR1/2A receptors by 35%-40%. Inclusion of the heavy metal chelator ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid [(EDTA); 10 microM] or other chelating compounds in the experimental solution augmented NMDA-stimulated currents, as previously described. In the presence of EDTA (10 microM), the inhibition of NR1/2A currents by 100 mM ethanol was reduced to approximately 28%. As expected, currents recorded from cells expressing the NR1 subunit and a zinc-insensitive NR2A mutant (H128S) were not augmented by zinc chelators. In these cells, ethanol (100 mM) inhibited NMDA receptor currents by approximately 28%, and this inhibition was unaffected by EDTA. These results support the suggestion that low levels of zinc present in experimental solutions may affect the apparent ethanol sensitivity of NMDA receptors containing the NR2A subunit.
Results of studies from our laboratory have shown that administration of 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) reduces cerebellar neuronal damage during ethanol withdrawal (EW). In the current study, we investigated whether the GABAergic system is involved in the protective effects of E(2) against the EW syndrome. To test this hypothesis, we examined the effects of GABAergic drugs, with and without E(2), on EW sign scores, motoric capacity, and caspase activation. Ovariectomized rats implanted with an E(2) or an oil pellet received liquid ethanol [7.5% weight/volume (wt./vol.)] for 5 weeks or dextrin diet, followed by 2 weeks of EW. A gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) agonist, muscimol (0.125 or 0.25 mg/kg), and antagonist, bicuculline (1.25 mg/kg), were administered (intraperitoneally; three times a day for 4 days) starting 1 day before the onset of EW. On termination of chronic administration of ethanol diet, rats were tested for overt withdrawal signs and latency to fall from a rotarod. The initial latency was measured separately to assess motoric capacity before learning occurred. Cerebelli were subsequently collected for immunohistochemistry to detect caspase activation. Results showed that treatment with E(2) lowered EW sign scores and improved initial as well as subsequent rotarod latencies compared with findings without treatment with E(2) (control group). These effects of E(2) were enhanced by combined treatment with muscimol and diminished by bicuculline. Results also showed that ethanol-withdrawn rats had more caspase-3-positive cells than observed for the dextrin diet-fed group in a manner reversed by E(2) and exacerbated by bicuculline. Bicuculline also caused partial antagonism of the protective effect of E(2). These findings support the suggestion that GABA(A) agonists ameliorate, and GABA(A) antagonists exacerbate, EW signs, cerebellar neuronal damage, and motoric impairment in ethanol-withdrawn rats. Also, results of the current study provide indirect evidence that the GABAergic system is involved in protective effects of E(2) against the EW syndrome.
Results of studies from our laboratory have shown that administration of 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) reduces cerebellar neuronal damage during ethanol withdrawal (EW). In the current study, we examined mechanisms underlying E(2) protection against EW-associated cerebellar damage by assessing apoptotic indicators: DNA fragmentation, caspase-3 activity, and protein kinase C (PKC) activity. Ovariectomized rats, implanted with E(2) or oil pellets, received ethanol [7.5% weight/volume (wt./vol.)] (EW/E(2) group and EW/Oil group, respectively) chronically (for 5 weeks) or control dextrin diet (Dextrin/Oil group). At day 14 of EW, cerebelli were collected for the terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase (TdT)-mediated dUDP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay to detect DNA fragmentation and for immunohistochemistry to detect caspase-3 activation. A separate group of rat cerebelli was prepared to assess for total PKC activity, as well as for activity of a specific PKC isozyme, epsilon (PKCepsilon), by using an in vitro [gamma-(32)P]ATP phosphorylation assay at days 1 and 14 of EW. Results indicated that rats in the EW/Oil group had more DNA fragments and caspase-3-positive neuronal cells than observed for control rats, and these effects were inhibited by E(2) treatment. For total PKC activity at day 1 of EW, rats in the EW/E(2) group had a lower cytosolic PKC activity than observed for either rats in the EW/Oil group or control rats. At day 14 of EW, both EW groups had a lower total PKC activity than observed for control rats. For PKCepsilon activity, rats in the EW/E(2) group had a lower cytosolic PKCepsilon activity than observed for rats in the EW/Oil group or for control rats at day 1, and they had a lower membrane PKCepsilon activity at day 14 of EW than observed for control rats. These findings support the suggestion that E(2) protects against cerebellar neuronal damage in ethanol-withdrawn rats by inhibition of DNA fragmentation and caspase-3 activation, and that reduced PKC activity may be involved in the protection.

Familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) affects 5%-10% of cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and is inherited as an autosomal dominant condition with incomplete penetrance. One-fifth of these cases of FALS are associated with mutations in copper/zinc-dependent superoxide dismutase (SOD1), but the gene defect in the remaining 80% of familial cases is, as yet, unknown. We have carried out a preliminary genome screen, using a U.K. resource of families lacking SOD1 mutations, to identify other potential disease loci and have identified a putative locus on chromosome 16q12.1-q12.2. The region associated with disease was further refined in the major family that contributed to this result and was localized to D16S409-D16S3032, a 14.74-cM genetic interval that corresponds to a physical distance of 6.6 Mb, which coincides with a region independently identified by two further research groups in the United States and the United Kingdom.


The integrated response to hypotonic NaCl solutions (100, 50, 25, and 0 mM NaCl) in proximal duodenum of anesthetized rats was examined. Luminal alkalinization, fluid flux, duodenal contractions, blood-to-lumen clearance of 51Cr-labeled EDTA (mucosal permeability), and perfusate osmolality were studied in the absence and presence of the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin. In response to hypotonic solutions net fluid absorption, increases in permeability and perfusate osmolality were markedly higher in indomethacin-treated animals than in controls, and these effects were diminished by the nicotinic-receptor antagonist hexamethonium. Infusion of iloprost, a stable PGI2 analog, to indomethacin-treated animals markedly reduced the hypotonicity-induced increase in mucosal permeability and diminished the rise in perfusate osmolality. Lowering the NaCl concentration in the perfusion solution but maintaining isotonicity with mannitol had no effect on mucosal permeability. Very good linear correlations were obtained between the degree of luminal hypotonicity and the increase in permeability and between increases in permeability and perfusate osmolality. It is concluded that luminal hypotonicity increases duodenal mucosal permeability. The hypotonicity-induced increase in permeability modulated by prostaglandins and nicotinic receptors fulfills the function of increasing blood-to-lumen transport of Na+ facilitating adjustment of luminal osmolality.
Activation of esophageal mechanosensors excites neurons in and near the central nucleus of the solitary tract (NSTc). In turn, NSTc neurons coordinate the relaxation of the stomach [i.e., the receptive relaxation reflex (RRR)] by modulating the output of vagal efferent neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMN). The NSTc area contains neurons with diverse neurochemical phenotypes, including a large population of catecholaminergic and nitrergic neurons. The aim of the present study was to determine whether either one of these prominent neuronal phenotypes was involved in the RRR. Immunohistochemical techniques revealed that repetitive esophageal distension caused 53% of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir) neurons to colocalize c-Fos in the NSTc. No nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-ir neurons in the NSTc colocalized c-Fos in either distension or control conditions. Local brain stem application (2 ng) of alpha-adrenoreceptor antagonists (i.e., alpha1-prazosin or alpha2-yohimbine) significantly reduced the magnitude of the esophageal distension-induced gastric relaxation to approximately 55% of control conditions. The combination of yohimbine and prazosin reduced the magnitude of the reflex to approximately 27% of control. In contrast, pretreatment with either the NOS-inhibitor NG-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester or the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol did not interfere with esophageal distension-induced gastric relaxation. Unilateral microinjections of the agonist norepinephrine (0.3 ng) directed at the DMN were sufficient to mimic the transient esophageal-gastric reflex. Our data suggest that noradrenergic, but not nitrergic, neurons of the NSTc play a prominent role in the modulation of the RRR through action on alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoreceptors. The finding that esophageal afferent stimulation alone is not sufficient to activate NOS-positive neurons in the NSTc suggests that these neurons may be strongly gated by other central nervous system inputs, perhaps related to the coordination of swallowing or emesis with respiration.

Oligophrenin-1 is a RhoGTPase-activating protein (RhoGAP) that is involved in the regulation of shape changes in dendritic spines, and outgrowth of axons and dendrites in the brain. These changes in neuronal morphology are central to the mechanisms of plasticity, learning, and memory. Although the enteric nervous system also exhibits long-term changes in neuronal function, the expression and involvement of oligophrenin-1 has not previously been investigated. We show by RT-PCR analysis that oligophrenin-1 mRNA is expressed in the myenteric plexus (MP) of the guinea pig ileum. Sequencing of RT-PCR products showed that guinea pig oligophrenin-1 mRNA is 98% and 87% homologous to human and mouse oligophrenin-1, respectively, except that a 42 bp sequence is absent from the guinea pig mRNA. This 42 bp sequence codes for a sequence of 14 amino acids located near the carboxy-terminal end of the RhoGAP domain in the human sequence. An antibody that recognizes human oligophrenin-1 identified a 91 kDa protein band in rat and mouse brain lysates and in guinea pig sciatic nerve, and a 36 kDa protein band in both purified enteric ganglion cell and brain lysate from guinea pig. Oligophrenin-1 is localized specifically to neurons and varicose axons in the MPs and submucosal plexuses (SMPs) of the guinea pig and rat, but is not detectable in glial cells, smooth muscle, or other cell types. These findings indicate that oligophrenin-1 is expressed in the enteric nervous system, where it may regulate morphological changes in axons and dendrites, and thus modulate neuronal connectivity.

We report an autopsied case of a 21-gestational-week fetus with duplication of the proteolipid protein (PLP) gene (PLP1). An immunohistochemical study, which can detect the specific expression of PLP, myelin basic protein, myelin-associated glycoprotein, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha subunit in brain tissues, showed that the myelination was almost the same as that of age-matched controls. This result suggests that the development and migration of the oligodendrocyte is normal in Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease until midgestation. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the myelination of a fetus with duplication of the PLP1 gene.
Rett's Syndrome (RTT) is a neurodevelopmental disorder resulting from mutation in the mecp2 gene that encodes methyl CpG binding protein 2, a transcriptional repressor. Because this disease primarily affects neurons, tissue is not available during active disease. We used the olfactory system as a model to investigate abnormalities in neuronal development in RTT, because olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) are replaced throughout life by ongoing postnatal neurogenesis. Thus, even in the adult, the olfactory epithelium contains neurons at various developmental stages. We obtained biopsies of nasal epithelium containing ORNs from RTT patients and age-matched controls to study the status of the neuronal population using antibodies to stage-specific developmental markers. There were no postprocedure complications. Compared with age-matched controls, there were far fewer mature ORNs, as defined by olfactory marker protein expression, and significantly greater numbers of immature neuron-specific tubulin-positive ORNs present. In RTT biopsies, olfactory marker protein-positive neurons displayed abnormal structure. These results suggest that dysfunction of MeCP2 results in decreased survival of mature ORNs with a compensatory increase in neurogenesis, or a failure of immature neurons to mature. Our study indicates that olfactory biopsies provide a method to study neuronal developmental diseases in adults and children.
Quantitative neuropsychiatry has provided increasingly precise descriptions of behavioral phenotypes associated with neurodegenerative disorders. Degenerative diseases of the brain are disturbances of protein metabolism, with failure of protein degredation by the ubiquitin-proteosome system, production of neurotoxic peptide oligomers, and accumulation of intracellular protein deposits. Abnormalities of amyloid beta peptide, alpha-synuclein protein, and hyperphosphorylated tau protein account for more than 90% of degenerative dementias. Functionally related neuroanatomical systems have shared metabolic characteristics and common vulnerabilities to protein dysmetabolism, providing the basis for phenotypes that reflect the underlying proteotype. Patients with alpha-synuclein disorders are particularly prone to hallucinations, delusions, and rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder. Patients with tauopathies manifest disproportionate disinhibition and apathy, and may exhibit compulsions. Alzheimer's disease is a triple proteinopathy with abnormalities of A-beta, tau, and alpha-synculein leading to a complex behavioral phenotype. This molecular approach to neuropsychiatry may assist in understanding the mechanisms of degenerative diseases, provide insight into the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric symptoms, and contribute to monitoring disease-modifying therapies.
The possible involvement of herpesviruses in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS) was recently investigated in a clinical trial of valacyclovir in patients with MS. As an important part of that survey we performed an independent pharmacokinetic study in order to determine the concentration of acyclovir in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The concentrations of acyclovir in serum and CSF were measured at steady state after 6 days of oral treatment with 1,000 mg of valacyclovir three times a day. Samples were obtained from 10 patients with MS. All patients had normal renal function, and none had signs of a damaged blood-CSF barrier. The maximum concentration of acyclovir in serum was reached after 1 to 3 h (mean +/- standard deviation [SD], 27.1 +/- 5.6 micro M), and the minimum concentration in serum was 3.1 +/- 1.1 micro M (mean +/- SD). The acyclovir concentrations in CSF at 2 and 8 h were essentially stable, with the mean +/- SD levels being 2.5 +/- 0.9 and 2.3 +/- 0.7 micro M, respectively. Similar levels were recorded in serum and CSF samples from five other MS patients after 6 months of oral treatment with valacyclovir at identical dosages. The area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) for acyclovir in CSF to the AUC for acyclovir in serum (CSF/serum AUC ratio) was approximately 20%. We conclude that the improved bioavailability previously reported for valacyclovir in plasma results in higher concentrations in CSF, while the CSF/serum AUC ratio remains constant.
The neurobiological and neuropathological bases that underlie the neuropsychological deficits associated with traumatic brain injury (TBI), including mild TBI, are further reviewed. The article provides an update on neuroimaging methods and findings in the study of TBI since the author's published address of the 1999 Distinguished Neuropsychologist Award of the National Academy of Neuropsychology (see Bigler, 2001a). The review addresses and answers criticisms raised about the interface of neuroimaging abnormalities and neuropsychological deficits, particularly in mild TBI. The article provides further guidelines in making the link between neuroimaging findings and neuropsychological outcome in the clinical practice of neuropsychology. The article also opines on the future role and importance that neuroimaging will play in neuropsychological practice, particularly functional neuroimaging methods.

Leptin is a hormone that regulates food intake, energy expenditure and body weight. Our previous studies have demonstrated that the taste organ is a new peripheral target for leptin in mice. Leptin selectively inhibits the responses of taste nerves and receptor cells to sweet substances without affecting responses to sour, salty, and bitter substances. Still, there is no convincing evidence for the existence of leptin receptors (Ob-Rs) in taste receptor cells, especially the functional isoform Ob-Rb. We investigated the expression of 5 different Ob-R isoforms (a-e) and 6 STAT (signal transducers and activators of transcription) members in mouse taste cells. STATs are considered to be involved in the leptin signaling via Ob-Rb. Semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that Ob-Rb was expressed in the taste buds of the fungiform and circumvallate papillae, but not so clearly in the surrounding epithelial tissue. The expression pattern among the three different tissues was similar to that of the taste cell specific G-protein, alpha-gustducin. The other Ob-R isoforms were widely detected in either the taste papillae or the epithelial tissue. Among 6 STAT members, STAT3 showed the highest relative abundance of mRNA in the taste buds. Consistently, in situ hybridization analysis showed that while Ob-Rb and STAT3 signals were detected in some taste bud cells, the signals were not clearly observed in the epithelial tissue cells. In conclusion, the present study provides evidence of the existence of the leptin receptor, Ob-Rb, and STAT3 in the mouse taste bud cells. This finding further confirms the involvement of leptin in the control of taste sensitivities to sweet substances in mice.

Chloroquine has been used for many decades in the prophylaxis and treatment of malaria. It is metabolized in humans through the N-dealkylation pathway, to desethylchloroquine (DCQ) and bisdesethylchloroquine (BDCQ), by cytochrome P450 (CYP). However, until recently, no data are available on the metabolic pathway of chloroquine. Therefore, the metabolic pathway of chloroquine was evaluated using human liver microsomes and cDNA-expressed CYPs. Chloroquine is mainly metabolized to DCQ, and its Eadie-Hofstee plots were biphasic, indicating the involvement of multiple enzymes, with apparent Km and Vmax values of 0.21 mM and 1.02 nmol/min/mg protein 3.43 mM and 10.47 nmol/min/mg protein for high and low affinity components, respectively. Of the cDNA-expressing CYPs examined, CYP1A2, 2C8, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4/5 exhibited significant DCQ formation. A study using chemical inhibitors showed only quercetin (a CYP2C8 inhibitor) and ketoconazole (a CYP3A4/5 inhibitor) inhibited the DCQ formation. In addition, the DCQ formation significantly correlated with the CYP3A4/5-catalyzed midazolam 1-hydroxylation (r = 0.868) and CYP2C8-catalyzed paclitaxel 6alpha-hydroxylation (r = 0.900). In conclusion, the results of the present study demonstrated that CYP2C8 and CYP3A4/5 are the major enzymes responsible for the chloroquine N-deethylation to DCQ in human liver microsomes.
This lecture highlights my career in rehabilitation research. My principal efforts in rehabilitation have been to study (1) mechanisms of brain plasticity related to reorganization of the brain and recovery of function; (2) late postacute rehabilitation; (3) sensory substitution; and (4) rehabilitation engineering. A principal goal has been to aid in the development of a strong scientific base in rehabilitation.
Spirituality among African American women recovering from substance abuse is a recovery phenomena: little is known about the individual's experience in this process. The ameliorating effect of spirituality covering a broad range of positive outcomes has been consistent across populations, regardless of gender, race, study design, and religious affiliation. Giorgi's phenomenological method was used to explore and described the meaning of spirituality of 15 African American women recovering from substance abuse. The findings are described and discussed relative to the state of the science on spirituality. Implications for substance abuse and recovery practitioners are presented.
Withdrawal from an escalating-dose, bingelike regimen of cocaine administration in rats produced significantly depressed levels of locomotor activity during the nocturnal portion of the day-night cycle. This effect was observed during the first 48 hr of testing. Extracellular single-unit recordings of ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine (DA) neurons revealed no differences between saline- and cocaine-treated rats with respect to basal firing rates. However, significantly fewer spontaneously active VTA DA neurons were encountered in rats withdrawn from binge cocaine. As with the nocturnal hypoactivity, this effect was observed only during the first 48 hr of withdrawal. These findings suggest that short-term DA neuron dysfunction during cocaine withdrawal temporally corresponds to behavioral disruptions that are similar to those described in human addicts.
The influence of intraventricular cholecystokinin-8S (CCK-8S) and systemic N-t-Boc-Trp-Met-Asp-Phe-amide (Boc CCK-4) was evaluated in the acoustic and fear-potentiated startle paradigms in CD-1 mice. In the light + tone startle condition. CCK-8S increased startle 168 hr after administration, compared with saline. In the tone startle condition, CCK-8S decreased startle immediately and 24 hr after administration, compared with saline. Among nonshocked mice, CCK-8S increased startle at 48 and 168 hr, compared with saline. In the light + tone condition, 5 microg Boc-CCK-4 did not influence startle, whereas 15 microg Boc CCK-4 decreased startle immediately, 24 hr, and 48 hr following administration. Results demonstrate that antecedent environmental experiences interact with subsequent pharmacological challenges in provoking the temporal expression of alterations in startle magnitude.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are shown to potentiate NGF-induced neuronal differentiation in PC12 phaeochromocytoma cells grown on collagen under low-serum conditions. Whereas, cell bodies remained rounded in control medium or with only BMPs present, addition of BMP4 or BMP6 robustly increased the neuritogenic effect of NGF within 2 days. NGF-increased phosphorylation of p44(Erk1) and p42(Erk2) between 2 and 24h was unaffected by addition of BMP6. PC12 cells transfected with the SBE(4x)-luc reporter showed that BMP4 significantly increased receptor-activated Smad activity. Expression of constitutively active BMP receptor ALK2 activating Smad1 and Smad5 resulted in a strong increase in the SBE(4x)-luc reporter response. Adding the inhibitory Smad7 drastically reduced this signal. In contrast to wild-type (wt) Smad5, a Smad5 variant lacking five Erk phosphorylation sites in the linker region (designated Smad5/5SA) showed a strong background transcriptional activity. A fusion construct (Gal4-Smad5/5SA) was also highly transcriptionally active. Addition of the MEK inhibitor U0126 to PC12 cells expressing Gal4-Smad5/wt did not increase background transcriptional activity. However, upon activation by constitutively active ALK2 both Gal4-Smad5/wt and Gal4-Smad5/5SA strongly stimulated transcription. The data show that serine residues of the linker region of Smad5 reduce spontaneous transcriptional activity and that NGF-activated Erk does not antagonise BMP signalling at this site. Hence, NGF and BMP signals are likely to interact further downstream at the transcriptional level in neuronal differentiation of the PC12 cells.
Modulation of exocytosis is integral to the regulation of cellular signalling, and a variety of disorders (such as epilepsy, hypertension, diabetes and asthma) are closely associated with pathological modulation of exocytosis. Emerging evidence points to protein phosphatases as key regulators of exocytosis in many cells and, therefore, as potential targets for the design of novel therapies to treat these diseases. Diverse yet exquisite regulatory mechanisms have evolved to direct the specificity of these enzymes in controlling particular cell processes, and functionally driven studies have demonstrated differential regulation of exocytosis by individual protein phosphatases. This Review discusses the evidence for the regulation of exocytosis by protein phosphatases in three major secretory systems, (1) mast cells, in which the regulation of exocytosis of inflammatory mediators plays a major role in the respiratory response to antigens, (2) insulin-secreting cells in which regulation of exocytosis is essential for metabolic control, and (3) neurons, in which regulation of exocytosis is perhaps the most complex and is essential for effective neurotransmission.
We have generated and characterised a clone of chicken DT40 lymphocytes stably transfected with the rat P2X(7) receptor (rP2X(7)). Successful transfection was confirmed by Western blotting. Under voltage clamp, P2X(7)-expressing cells responded to ATP and dibenzoyl-ATP (Bz-ATP) (a more potent P2X(7) receptor agonist) with a rapidly activating and sustained inward current. The EC(50) values for these agonists were 305 and 15 microM, respectively. Bz-ATP evoked Ca(2+) and Mn(2+) influx into transfected cells as determined by Fura-2 spectrofluorimetry. Responses to Bz-ATP were inhibited by pre-treatment of cells with oxidised ATP. Treatment of cells with Bz-ATP for up to 24hr produced time- and concentration-dependent cell death. This was associated with an increase in caspase-3-like activity, exposure of phosphatidylserine on the outside of cell membrane and DNA cleavage, indicating death by apoptosis. Pre-treatment with Z-VAD-fmk, a pan-caspase inhibitor, reduced the DNA fragmentation and phosphatidylserine externalisation, but did not affect overall rates of cell death at 24hr, implicating caspase-independent mechanisms. The properties of rP2X(7) receptors expressed in DT40 cells are similar to those described for other expression systems. Because DT40 cells lack functionally detectable endogenous P2 receptors and are highly amenable to genetic manipulation, stably transfected DT40 cells provide a novel and potentially useful model system in which to investigate the intracellular signal transduction pathways associated with P2X(7) receptor stimulation, in particular those involved in induction of cell death.
Mammalian gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptors are constructed from a large repertoire of subunits (alpha1-alpha6, beta1-beta3, gamma1-gamma3, delta, epsilon, theta and pi) into a pentameric ion channel. GABA(A) receptor assembly occurs within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and involves interactions with chaperone molecules. Only specific subunit combinations can produce functional surface receptors (with a fixed stoichiometry); other subunit combinations are retained within the ER and degraded. Thus, receptor assembly occurs by defined pathways to limit the diversity of GABAA receptors. The key to understanding how receptor diversity is achieved and controlled is the identification of assembly signals capable of distinguishing between other subunit partners. Analysis of an assembly box in alpha1 (residues 57-68) has revealed an absolute requirement for this region in the assembly of alphabeta receptors. Furthermore, a selective requirement for a single amino acid (R66) is observed for the assembly of alpha1beta2, but not alpha1beta1 or alpha1beta3, receptors. In addition, we have characterized an assembly signal in the beta3 subunit that is capable of driving the assembly of beta3, gamma2beta3 and alpha1beta3 receptors. Interestingly, this signal does not appear to utilize the alpha1 assembly box, suggesting the presence of alternative assembly signals within the alpha1 subunit. Although this beta3 signal is sufficient to permit the formation of betagamma receptors it is not necessary, suggesting that alternative assembly signals also exist within the beta3 subunit. These findings support the belief that GABAA receptor assembly occurs via multiple defined pathways that may be determined by subunit availability.
Agonistic behavior is a fundamental aspect of ecological theories on resource acquisition and sexual selection. Crustaceans are exemplary models for agonistic behavior within the laboratory, but agonistic behavior in natural habitats is often neglected. Laboratory studies do not achieve the same ecological realism as field studies. In an attempt to connect laboratory results to field data and investigate how habitat structure affects agonistic interactions, the nocturnal behavior of two crayfish species was observed by scuba diving and snorkeling in two northern Michigan lakes. Intraspecific agonistic interactions were analyzed in three habitats: two food resources-macrophytes and detritus-and one sheltered habitat. The overall observations reinforce the concept that resources influence agonistic bouts. Fights in the presence of shelters were longer and more intense, suggesting that shelters have a higher perceived value than food resources. Fights in the presence of detritus patches had higher average intensities and ended with more tailflips away from an opponent, suggesting that detritus was a more valuable food resource than macrophytes. In addition, observations of aggressive behavior within a natural setting can add validity to laboratory studies. When fights in nature are compared with laboratory fights, those in nature are shorter, less intense, and less likely to end with a tailflip, but do show the fundamental fight dynamics associated with laboratory studies. Extrinsic and intrinsic factors affect intraspecific aggression in many ways, and both should always be recognized as having the potential to alter agonistic behavior.
