Protein synthesis is required for the expression of enduring memories and long-lasting synaptic plasticity. During cellular proliferation and growth, S6 kinases (S6Ks) are activated and coordinate the synthesis of de novo proteins. We hypothesized that protein synthesis mediated by S6Ks is critical for the manifestation of learning, memory, and synaptic plasticity. We have tested this hypothesis with genetically engineered mice deficient for either S6K1 or S6K2. We have found that S6K1-deficient mice express an early-onset contextual fear memory deficit within one hour of training, a deficit in conditioned taste aversion (CTA), impaired Morris water maze acquisition, and hypoactive exploratory behavior. In contrast, S6K2-deficient mice exhibit decreased contextual fear memory seven days after training, a reduction in latent inhibition of CTA, and normal spatial learning in the Morris water maze. Surprisingly, neither S6K1- nor S6K2-deficient mice exhibited alterations in protein synthesis-dependent late-phase long-term potentiation (L-LTP). However, removal of S6K1, but not S6K2, compromised early-phase LTP expression. Furthermore, we observed that S6K1-deficient mice have elevated basal levels of Akt phosphorylation, which is further elevated following induction of L-LTP. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that removal of S6K1 leads to a distinct array of behavioral and synaptic plasticity phenotypes that are not mirrored by the removal of S6K2. Our observations suggest that neither gene by itself is required for L-LTP but instead may be required for other types of synaptic plasticity required for cognitive processing.
Human recognition memory shows a decline during normal ageing, which is thought to be related to age-associated dysfunctions of mediotemporal lobe structures. Whether the hippocampus is critical for human general relational memory or for spatial relational memory only is still disputed. The human perirhinal cortex is thought to be critically involved in non-relational memory, but another view postulates hippocampal involvement in both relational and non-relational memory. Investigating whether there is a differential impact of ageing on these memory processes may shed further light into these issues. Thus, in the present study, 106 healthy adults performed three recognition memory tasks in a consecutive age groups design involving a range from age 20 to 76. This allowed the separate assessment of spatial and nonspatial relational memory as well as non-relational memory. Both spatial and nonspatial relational memory declined in the 66-76 yr group. This pattern is consistent with the presumed course of hippocampal changes across normal ageing and points to the hippocampal role in relational memory in general. An impairment of non-relational memory commenced earlier in the 51-65 yr group. This finding is discussed in relation to perceptual/attentional mediation of memory and its potential brain correlates in ageing.
To determine whether L-type voltage-gated calcium channels (L-VGCCs) are required for remote memory consolidation, we generated conditional knockout mice in which the L-VGCC isoform Ca(V)1.2 was postnatally deleted in the hippocampus and cortex. In the Morris water maze, both Ca(V)1.2 conditional knockout mice (Ca(V)1.2(cKO)) and control littermates displayed a marked decrease in escape latencies and performed equally well on probe trials administered during training. In distinct contrast to their performance during training, Ca(V)1.2(cKO) mice exhibited significant impairments in spatial memory when examined 30 d after training, suggesting that Ca(V)1.2 plays a critical role in consolidation of remote spatial memories.

Understanding how neural activity in sensory cortices relates to perception is a central theme of neuroscience. Action potentials of sensory cortical neurons can be strongly correlated to properties of sensory stimuli and reflect the subjective judgements of an individual about stimuli. Microstimulation experiments have established a direct link from sensory activity to behaviour, suggesting that small neuronal populations can influence sensory decisions. However, microstimulation does not allow identification and quantification of the stimulated cellular elements. The sensory impact of individual cortical neurons therefore remains unknown. Here we show that stimulation of single neurons in somatosensory cortex affects behavioural responses in a detection task. We trained rats to respond to microstimulation of barrel cortex at low current intensities. We then initiated short trains of action potentials in single neurons by juxtacellular stimulation. Animals responded significantly more often in single-cell stimulation trials than in catch trials without stimulation. Stimulation effects varied greatly between cells, and on average in 5% of trials a response was induced. Whereas stimulation of putative excitatory neurons led to weak biases towards responding, stimulation of putative inhibitory neurons led to more variable and stronger sensory effects. Reaction times for single-cell stimulation were long and variable. Our results demonstrate that single neuron activity can cause a change in the animal's detection behaviour, suggesting a much sparser cortical code for sensations than previously anticipated.
Mutations in PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) gene have been linked to an autosomal recessive form of familial Parkinson's disease. PINK1 encodes a predicted mitochondrial protein kinase. Although the mitochondrial localization of PINK1 has been suggested, the exact subcellular compartment in which PINK1 exerts its cytoprotective function is elusive. Thus, we studied the subcellular distribution and metabolism of PINK1 in cultured cells. Immunocytochemical analysis showed that PINK1 resides in cytoplasm in addition to mitochondria, and that the mitochondrial localization is dependent on its N-terminal sequence. Cellular expression of PINK1 yielded several N-terminally cleaved fragments as well as the full-length protein, among which the 54 kDa fragment (DeltaN 54 kDa) was highly accumulated in the presence of proteasome inhibitors. Endogenous PINK1 was detected dominantly in the form of DeltaN 54 kDa upon proteasome inhibition. Rapid turnover of DeltaN 54 kDa further supported its higher susceptibility to proteasomal degradation compared with that of full-length protein. These results indicate that DeltaN 54 kDa PINK1 undergoes constitutive degradation by proteasome, and underscore the significance of its localization in cytoplasm, especially in the N-terminally processed form.
Recently brain imaging evidence indicated that letter/speech-sound integration, necessary for establishing fluent reading, takes place in auditory association areas and that the integration is influenced by stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) between the letter and the speech-sound. In the present study, we used a specific ERP measure known for its automatic character, the mismatch negativity (MMN), to investigate the time course and automaticity of letter/speech-sound integration. We studied the effect of visual letters and SOA on the MMN elicited by a deviant speech-sound. We found a clear enhancement of the MMN by simultaneously presenting a letter, but without changing the auditory stimulation. This enhancement diminishes linearly with increasing SOA. These results suggest that letters and speech-sounds are processed as compound stimuli early and automatically in the auditory association cortex of fluent readers and that this processing is strongly dependent on timing.
Stroke and spinal cord or brain injury often result in cavity formation. Stem cell transplantation in combination with tissue engineering has the potential to fill such a cavity and replace lost neurons. Several hydrogels containing unique features particularly suitable for the delicate nervous system were tested by determining whether these materials were compatible with fetal human neural stem cells (hNSCs) in terms of toxicity and ability to support stem cell differentiation in vitro. The hydrogels examined were pluronic F127 (PF127), Matrigel and PuraMatrix. We found that PF127, in a gelated (30%) form, was toxic to hNSCs, and Matrigel, in a gelated (1-50%) form, prevented hNSCs' normal capacity for neuronal differentiation. In contrast, PuraMatrix was the most optimal hydrogel for hNSCs, since it showed low toxicity when gelated (0.25%) and retained several crucial properties of hNSCs, including migration and neuronal differentiation. Further optimization and characterization of PuraMatrix is warranted to explore its full potential in assisting neural regeneration in vivo.
Mammalian neuromuscular junctions are useful model synapses to study the relationship between synaptic structure and function, although these have rarely been studied together at the same synapses. To do this, we generated transgenic lines of mice in which the thy1.2 promoter drives expression of synaptopHluorin (spH) as a means of optically measuring synaptic vesicle distribution and release. SpH is colocalized with other synaptic vesicle proteins in presynaptic terminals and does not alter normal synaptic function. Nerve stimulation leads to readily detectable and reproducible fluorescence changes in motor axon terminals that vary with stimulus frequency and, when compared with electrophysiological recordings, are reliable indicators of neurotransmitter release. Measurements of fluorescence intensity changes reveal a surprising amount of heterogeneity in synaptic vesicle release throughout individual presynaptic motor axon terminals. Some discrete terminal regions consistently displayed a greater rate and extent of release than others, regardless of stimulation frequency. The amount of release at a particular site is highly correlated to the relative abundance of synaptic vesicles there, indicating that a relatively constant fraction of the total vesicular pool, approximately 30%, is released in response to activity. These studies reveal previously unknown relationships between synaptic structure and function at mammalian neuromuscular junctions and demonstrate the usefulness of spH expressing mice as a tool for studying neuromuscular synapses in adults, as well as during development and diseases that affect neuromuscular synaptic function.
An increasing body of evidence indicates that the vitamin A metabolite retinoic acid (RA) plays a role in adult brain plasticity by activating gene transcription through nuclear receptors. Our previous studies in mice have shown that a moderate downregulation of retinoid-mediated transcription contributed to aging-related deficits in hippocampal long-term potentiation and long-term declarative memory (LTDM). Here, knock-out, pharmacological, and nutritional approaches were used in a series of radial-arm maze experiments with mice to further assess the hypothesis that retinoid-mediated nuclear events are causally involved in preferential degradation of hippocampal function in aging. Molecular and behavioral findings confirmed our hypothesis. First, a lifelong vitamin A supplementation, like short-term RA administration, was shown to counteract the aging-related hippocampal (but not striatal) hypoexpression of a plasticity-related retinoid target-gene, GAP43 (reverse transcription-PCR analyses, experiment 1), as well as short-term/working memory (STWM) deterioration seen particularly in organization demanding trials (STWM task, experiment 2). Second, using a two-stage paradigm of LTDM, we demonstrated that the vitamin A supplementation normalized memory encoding-induced recruitment of (hippocampo-prefrontal) declarative memory circuits, without affecting (striatal) procedural memory system activity in aged mice (Fos neuroimaging, experiment 3A) and alleviated their LTDM impairment (experiment 3B). Finally, we showed that (knock-out, experiment 4) RA receptor beta and retinoid X receptor gamma, known to be involved in STWM (Wietrzych et al., 2005), are also required for LTDM. Hence, aging-related retinoid signaling hypoexpression disrupts hippocampal cellular properties critically required for STWM organization and LTDM formation, and nutritional vitamin A supplementation represents a preventive strategy. These findings are discussed within current neurobiological perspectives questioning the historical consensus on STWM and LTDM system partition.
Understanding the cell-cell interactions that control CNS development and function has long been limited by the lack of methods to cleanly separate neural cell types. Here we describe methods for the prospective isolation and purification of astrocytes, neurons, and oligodendrocytes from developing and mature mouse forebrain. We used FACS (fluorescent-activated cell sorting) to isolate astrocytes from transgenic mice that express enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the control of an S100beta promoter. Using Affymetrix GeneChip Arrays, we then created a transcriptome database of the expression levels of &gt;20,000 genes by gene profiling these three main CNS neural cell types at various postnatal ages between postnatal day 1 (P1) and P30. This database provides a detailed global characterization and comparison of the genes expressed by acutely isolated astrocytes, neurons, and oligodendrocytes. We found that Aldh1L1 is a highly specific antigenic marker for astrocytes with a substantially broader pattern of astrocyte expression than the traditional astrocyte marker GFAP. Astrocytes were enriched in specific metabolic and lipid synthetic pathways, as well as the draper/Megf10 and Mertk/integrin alpha(v)beta5 phagocytic pathways suggesting that astrocytes are professional phagocytes. Our findings call into question the concept of a &quot;glial&quot; cell class as the gene profiles of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes are as dissimilar to each other as they are to neurons. This transcriptome database of acutely isolated purified astrocytes, neurons, and oligodendrocytes provides a resource to the neuroscience community by providing improved cell-type-specific markers and for better understanding of neural development, function, and disease.
Serotonin (5-HT) acts as a neurotransmitter, but also modulates brain maturation during early development. The demonstrated influence of genetic variants on brain function, personality traits, and susceptibility to neuropsychiatric disorders suggests a critical importance of developmental mechanisms. However, little is known about how and when developmentally perturbed 5-HT signaling affects circuitry and resulting behavior. The 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) is a key regulator of extracellular 5-HT levels and we used pharmacologic strategies to manipulate 5-HTT function during development and determine behavioral consequences. Transient exposure to the 5-HTT inhibitors fluoxetine, clomipramine, and citalopram from postnatal day 4 (P4) to P21 produced abnormal emotional behaviors in adult mice. Similar treatment with the norepinephrine transporter (NET) inhibitor, desipramine, did not adversely affect adult behavior, suggesting that 5-HT and norepinephrine (NE) do not share the same effects on brain development. Shifting our period of treatment/testing to P90/P185 failed to mimic the effect of earlier exposure, demonstrating that 5-HT effects on adult behavior are developmentally specific. We have hypothesized that early-life perturbations of 5-HT signaling affect corticolimbic circuits that do not reach maturity until the peri-adolescent period. In support of this idea, we found that abnormal behaviors resulting from postnatal fluoxetine exposure have a post-pubescent onset and persist long after reaching adult age. A better understanding of the underlying 5-HT sensitive circuits and how they are perturbed should lead to new insights into how various genetic polymorphisms confer their risk to carriers. Furthermore, these studies should help determine whether in utero exposure to 5-HTT blocking drugs poses a risk for behavioral abnormalities in later life.
During development axon outgrowth and branching are independently regulated such that axons can stall or retract while their interstitial branches extend toward targets. Previous studies have shown that guidance cues and intracellular signaling components can promote branching of cortical axons without affecting axon outgrowth. However, the mechanisms that regulate differential outgrowth of axons and their branches are not well understood. Based on our previous work showing the importance of localized repetitive calcium transients in netrin-1-induced cortical axon branching, we sought to investigate the role of calcium signaling in regulating differential outgrowth of axons and their branches. Using fluorescence calcium imaging of dissociated developing cortical neurons, we show that localized spontaneous calcium transients of different frequencies occur in restricted regions of axons and their branches. Higher frequencies occur in more rapidly extending processes whereas lower frequencies occur in processes that stall or retract. Direct induction of localized calcium transients with photolysis of caged calcium induced rapid outgrowth of axonal processes. Surprisingly outgrowth of one axonal process was almost invariably accompanied by simultaneous retraction of another process belonging to the same axon, suggesting a competitive mechanism for differential process outgrowth. Conversely, reducing frequencies of calcium transients with nifedipine and TTX reduced the incidence of differential process outgrowth. Together these results suggest a novel activity-dependent mechanism whereby intrinsic localized calcium transients regulate the competitive growth of axons and their branches. These mechanisms may also be important for the development of cortical connectivity in vivo.
Associative long-term depression (LTD) at cerebellar parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses is sensitive to the temporal order in which the parallel fiber is coactivated with the climbing fiber input, but how order sensitivity is achieved is unknown. Here we show that the cerebellar inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptor, whose activation is required for LTD induction, is sensitive in situ to the order of presentation of its coagonists, IP3 and cytoplasmic calcium. By focally photolyzing a novel caged IP3 compound in dendritic spines, we find that pairing IP3 with climbing fiber-mediated calcium entry leads to a large calcium release transient if the climbing fiber is activated up to 100 ms before or up to 500 ms after IP3 uncaging. This asymmetric timing window for coactivation follows the kinetics of calcium removal and IP3 unbinding from the receptor and is not limited by IP3 metabolism. IP3 receptor binding thus acts as an eligibility trace that can drive temporal order-dependent calcium release and LTD induction in Purkinje cells and event order-dependent sensory plasticity in the whole animal.
Previous neuropsychological findings have implicated medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures in retaining object-location relations over the course of short delays, but MTL effects have not always been reported in neuroimaging investigations with similar short-term memory requirements. Here, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to test the hypothesis that the hippocampus and related MTL structures support accurate retention of relational memory representations, even across short delays. On every trial, four objects were presented, each in one of nine possible locations of a three-dimensional grid. Participants were to mentally rotate the grid and then maintain the rotated representation in anticipation of a test stimulus: a rendering of the grid, rotated 90 degrees from the original viewpoint. The test stimulus was either a &quot;match&quot; display, in which object-location relations were intact, or a &quot;mismatch&quot; display, in which one object occupied a new, previously unfilled location (mismatch position), or two objects had swapped locations (mismatch swap). Encoding phase activation in anterior and posterior regions of the left hippocampus, and in bilateral perirhinal cortex, predicted subsequent accuracy on the short-term memory decision, as did bilateral posterior hippocampal activity after the test stimulus. Notably, activation in these posterior hippocampal regions was also sensitive to the degree to which object-location bindings were preserved in the test stimulus; activation was greatest for match displays, followed by mismatch-position displays, and finally mismatch-swap displays. These results indicate that the hippocampus and related MTL structures contribute to successful encoding and retrieval of relational information in visual short-term memory.
NF-protocadherin (NFPC)-mediated cell-cell adhesion plays a critical role in vertebrate neural tube formation. NFPC is also expressed during the period of axon tract formation, but little is known about its function in axonogenesis. Here we have tested the role of NFPC and its cytosolic cofactor template-activating factor 1 (TAF1) in the emergence of the Xenopus retinotectal projection. NFPC is expressed in the developing retina and optic pathway and is abundant in growing retinal axons. Inhibition of NFPC function in developing retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) severely reduces axon initiation and elongation and suppresses dendrite genesis. Furthermore, an identical phenotype occurs when TAF1 function is blocked. These data provide evidence that NFPC regulates axon initiation and elongation and indicate a conserved role for TAF1, a transcriptional regulator, as a downstream cytosolic effector of NFPC in RGCs.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)/Ret signaling has potent trophic effects on ventral midbrain dopaminergic, motor, sensory, and sympathetic neurons. The molecular mechanisms that restrict Ret receptor tyrosine kinase activation are not well understood. Here, we show that Lrig1, a transmembrane protein containing leucine-rich repeats and Ig-like domains in its extracellular region, acts in a negative feedback loop to regulate the activity of Ret receptor tyrosine kinase. In particular, we demonstrate that Lrig1 is capable of physically interacting with Ret and that Lrig1/Ret association inhibits GDNF binding, recruitment of Ret to lipid rafts, receptor autophosphorylation, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation in response to GDNF. In neuronal cells, Lrig1 overexpression also inhibits GDNF/Ret-induced neurite outgrowth in a cell-autonomous manner. Downregulation of Lrig1 using small interference RNA knock-down experiments potentiates both neuronal differentiation and MAPK activation in response to GDNF. Together, these results provide an insight into Lrig1 function and establish a new physiological mechanism to restrict signaling and biological responses induced by GDNF and Ret in neuronal cells.
Activation of diacylglycerol (DAG) signaling pathways with phorbol esters dramatically enhances Ca2+-triggered exocytosis from both endocrine cells and neurons, however the relevant targets of DAG are controversial. A possible effector mechanism for this signaling pathway is phosphorylation of SNAP-25 (25 kDa synaptosome-associated protein) at Ser187 by PKC. Here, we investigated the role of Ser187 in the enhancement of exocytosis by the phorbol ester PMA (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate). We used patch-clamp measurements of membrane capacitance together with photorelease of caged-Ca2+ and membrane depolarization to study exocytosis. Expression of the nonphosphorylatable S187C SNAP-25 mutant did not attenuate the enhancement of exocytosis by PMA in either bovine chromaffin cells or the INS-1 insulin-secreting cell line. To test the effects of Ser187 mutations under conditions in which the endogenous SNAP-25 is disabled, we expressed botulinum toxin serotype E to cleave SNAP-25 in INS-1 cells. Coexpression of a toxin-resistant mutant (TR), but not wild-type SNAP-25, was able to rescue PMA-modulated exocytosis. Coexpression of the toxin with the TR-S187C SNAP-25 mutant was able to completely block the enhancement of exocytosis by PMA in response to photoelevation of [Ca2+]i to low microM levels or to a depolarizing train. The phospho-mimetic S187E mutation enhanced the small, fast burst of exocytosis evoked by photelevation of Ca2+, but, like PMA, had smaller effects on exocytosis evoked by a depolarizing train. This work supports the hypothesis that phosphorylation of Ser187 of SNAP-25 by PKC is a key step in the enhancement of exocytosis by DAG.
ASIC2a (BNaC1 or MDEG) is distributed throughout the nervous system and potentially involved in mechanosensation, hearing, vision, and taste functions. However, pharmacological properties of ASIC2 homomers including the mechanism of inhibition by amiloride remain unclear. In this study, we describe the properties of hASIC2a stably expressed in Ltk(-) cells, the first reported stable cell line expressing any ASICs subunit, by standard whole cell voltage clamp method. In response to pH 4.0, at -80 mV, hASIC2a cells exhibited rapidly activating fast transient inward current ( approximately 100 pA/pF) that was followed by a sustained current ( approximately 13 pA/pF). In contrast, untransfected Ltk(-) cells showed only a very small rapidly activating non-inactivating inward current ( approximately 4 pA/pF). The magnitude of hASIC2a transient current was pH dependent with pH(50) values for activation and inactivation of approximately 4.2 and approximately 5.5, respectively. Ion substitution experiments revealed the following rank order of permeability: Na(+)&gt;K(+)&gt;Ca(2+) for the transient current. Amiloride reversibly inhibited the pH 4.0 evoked transient current with IC(50) values of approximately 20 microM at both -30 and -80 mV holding potentials, indicating that the interactions are voltage independent when nearly all amiloride is protonated. Amiloride (100 microM) did not inhibit ASIC2a transient current when pre-applied in pH 7.4 and pH 4.0 currents obtained in absence of amiloride, but it did inhibit currents when co-applied at pH 4.0 suggesting open channel blockade. In summary, ASIC2a stable cell line serves as a useful model system to study the pharmacological properties of ASIC2a currents, potentially contributing to pH-evoked responses in cells of the dorsal root ganglion and the central nervous system.
The olfactory memory acquired during the early postnatal period is known to be maintained for a long period, however, its neural mechanism remains to be clarified. In the present study, we examined the effect of olfactory conditioning during the early postnatal period on neurogenesis in the olfactory bulb of rats. Using the bromodeoxyuridine-pulse chase method, we found that the olfactory conditioning, which was a paired presentation of citral odor (conditioned stimulus) and foot shock (unconditioned stimulus) in rat pups on postnatal day 11, stimulated the proliferation of neural stem/progenitor cells in the anterior subventricular zone (aSVZ), but not in the olfactory bulb, at 24 h after the conditioning. However, the number of newborn cells in the olfactory bulb was increased at 2 weeks, but not 8 weeks, after such conditioning. Neither the exposure of a citral odor alone nor foot shock alone affected the proliferation of neural stem/progenitor cells in the aSVZ at 24 h after and the number of newborn cells in the olfactory bulb at 2 weeks after. The majority of newborn cells in the olfactory bulb of either the conditioned rats or the unconditioned rats expressed the neural marker NeuN, thus indicating that the olfactory conditioning stimulated neurogenesis in the olfactory bulb. These results suggest that olfactory conditioning during the early postnatal period temporally stimulates neurogenesis in the olfactory bulb of rats.
Genetically selected for high or low two-way active avoidance, Roman high-avoidance (RHA) and Roman low-avoidance (RLA) rats differ in their central dopaminergic activity, sensation/novelty- and substance-seeking profiles. These animals are, therefore, well suited to identify anatomical and neurochemical concomitants of behavioral sensitization, a phenomenon linked to addictive liability. We submitted inbred RHA (RHA-I), inbred RLA (RLA-I) and Sprague-Dawley-OFA (SD-OFA) rats to a sensitization regimen with amphetamine and studied the behavioral response to an amphetamine challenge after a 2-week withdrawal period. The expression patterns of nerve growth factor inducible clone A (NGFI-A), secretogranin, post-synaptic density protein of 95 Kd (PSD-95), prodynorphin and proenkephalin mRNA were also analyzed using in situ hybridization, after the challenge with amphetamine. RHA-I rats showed stronger sensitization than SD-OFA rats. RLA-I rats did not show sensitization but were hyper-reactive to amphetamine. Expression of behavioral sensitization in RHA-I rats activated secretogranin and PSD-95 mRNA in the nucleus accumbens core. On the other hand, high induction of NGFI-A mRNA in the central amygdala was observed in RLA-I rats when they experienced amphetamine for the first time in the challenge. Our results reveal that 1) the acute locomotor response to amphetamine does not predict vulnerability to behavioral sensitization and 2) differences in vulnerability to sensitization may involve distinctive cellular adaptations at particular brain locations which may be related to addictive vulnerability.
Platelet-derived growth factor-AA (PDGF-AA) has been used as a potent mitogen for the proliferation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). Whether it plays a role in oligodendrocyte lineage differentiation of neural stem cells (NSCs) is unclear. Here we report that PDGF-AA is an instructional signal required for the differentiation of embryonic forebrain NSCs into O4-positive oligodendrocytes. Moreover, such PDGF-AA-induced oligodendrocyte differentiation appears to be mediated by the extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (Erk1/2) but not phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) pathway. Finally, PDGF-AA treatment resulted in a significant increase in the expression of the oligodendrocyte-specific transcriptional factor Olig2 in an Erk1/2-dependent mechanism at early stages of oligodendrogliogenesis. Together, our studies provide cellular and molecular evidence to suggest that PDGF-AA is a key molecule that regulates the differentiation of embryonic NSCs into oligodendrocytes. The action of PDGF-AA is mediated by the activation of Erk pathway which involves the downstream upregulation of transcriptional factor Olig2.
Gangliogliomas (GG) constitute the most frequent tumor entity in young patients undergoing surgery for intractable epilepsy. The histological composition of GG, with the presence of dysplastic neurons, corroborates their maldevelopmental origin. However, their histogenesis, the pathogenetic relationship with other developmental lesions, and the molecular alterations underlying the epileptogenicity of these tumors remain largely unknown. We performed gene expression analysis using the Affymetrix Gene Chip System (U133 plus 2.0 array). We used GENMAPP and the Gene Ontology database to identify global trends in gene expression data. Our analysis has identified various interesting genes and processes that are differentially expressed in GG when compared with normal tissue. The immune and inflammatory responses were the most prominent processes expressed in GG. Several genes involved in the complement pathway displayed a high level of expression compared with control expression levels. Higher expression was also observed for genes involved in cell adhesion, extracellular matrix and proliferation processes. We observed differential expression of genes as cyclin D1 and cyclin-dependent kinases, essential for neuronal cell cycle regulation and differentiation. Synaptic transmission, including GABA receptor signaling was an under-expressed process compared with control tissue. These data provide some suggestions for the molecular pathogenesis of GG. Furthermore, they indicate possible targets that may be investigated in order to dissect the mechanisms of epileptogenesis and possibly counteract the epileptogenic process in these developmental lesions.
Systemic application of the muscarinic agonist, pilocarpine, is commonly utilized to induce an acute status epilepticus that evolves into a chronic epileptic condition characterized by spontaneous seizures. Recent findings suggest that the status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine may be triggered by changes in the blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability. We tested the role of the BBB in an acute pilocarpine model by using the in vitro model brain preparation and compared our finding with in vivo data. Arterial perfusion of the in vitro isolated guinea-pig brain with &lt;1 mM pilocarpine did not cause epileptiform activity, but rather reduced synaptic transmission and induced steady fast (20-25 Hz) oscillatory activity in limbic cortices. These effects were reversibly blocked by co-perfusion of the muscarinic antagonist atropine sulfate (5 microM). Brain pilocarpine measurements in vivo and in vitro suggested modest BBB penetration. Pilocarpine induced epileptiform discharges only when perfused with compounds that enhance BBB permeability, such as bradykinin (n=2) or histamine (n=10). This pro-epileptic effect was abolished when the BBB-impermeable muscarinic antagonist atropine methyl bromide (5 microM) was co-perfused with histamine and pilocarpine. In the absence of BBB permeability enhancing drugs, pilocarpine induced epileptiform activity only after arterial perfusion at concentrations &gt;10 mM. Ictal discharges correlated with a high intracerebral pilocarpine concentration measured by high pressure liquid chromatography. We propose that acute epileptiform discharges induced by pilocarpine treatment in the in vitro isolated brain preparation are mediated by a dose-dependent, atropine-sensitive muscarinic effect promoted by an increase in BBB permeability. Pilocarpine accumulation secondary to BBB permeability changes may contribute to in vivo ictogenesis in the pilocarpine epilepsy model.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, which is caused by an accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER lumen, is associated with stroke and with neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer diseases. We assessed the expression patterns of immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein (BiP)/glucose-regulated protein (GRP) 78 (an ER-resident molecular chaperone whose expression serves as a good marker of ER-stress), activating transcription factor (ATF)-4, and C/EBP homology protein (CHOP) by immunohistochemistry and/or Western blotting after transient forebrain ischemia in gerbils. Double-fluorescent staining involving CHOP immunohistochemistry and the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated DNA nick-end labeling (TUNEL) method was performed to clarify the involvement of CHOP in cell death. Immunohistochemical and Western blot analyses of the hippocampal Cornet d'Ammon (CA)1 subfield showed that BiP expression was increased at 12 h, peaked at 3 days, then decreased (versus the control group). A transient increase was detected in CA3 at 1 day after ischemia, but BiP expression was unchanged in dentate gyrus and cortex. Signals for ATF-4 and CHOP were increased at 1 day and 3 days in CA1, and at 12 h in CA3. Co-localization of CHOP immunoreactivity and DNA fragmentation was detected by the TUNEL method at 3 days after ischemia in CA1, but not at 12 h in CA3. These findings are consistent with ER stress playing a pivotal role in post-ischemic neuronal death in the gerbil hippocampal CA1 subfield.
We investigated the firing pattern and frequency tuning properties of medial geniculate body (MGB) neurons, through in vivo intracellular recordings in anesthetized guinea pigs. Twenty-two of the 25 physiological characterized neurons were anatomically identified. Ten neurons were located in the ventral division of the medial geniculate body (MGv) (seven in pars ovoidea (OV) and three in the pars lateralis (LV)). Eight were located in the dorsal division (MGd), and four in the medial division (MGm). OV neurons showed a uniform, phasic ON response with high frequency selectivity. Functionally, they are interpreted as relaying spectral information with high reliability. LV neurons exhibited various patterns: phasic, tonic and excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSP) with a spike train. These high magnitude EPSPs are proposed to convey temporal information of the auditory signals with more encoding power. MGd neurons had relatively low best frequencies while MGm neurons had high intensity threshold, broader frequency selectivity, and a tonic response pattern. Tonic firing is likely to impose a strong impact onto wide cortical area and amygdala. When hyperpolarized with current injection, MGB neurons evoked low-threshold calcium spikes. Distinct change in these spike numbers was observed among MGv and MGd neurons as compared with MGm neurons, implying their differential roles. MGm neurons are more modulatory in nature, while the long lasting bursts of low-threshold calcium spikes observed in MGv and MGd neurons probably participate in propagating the sleep oscillations.
Methamphetamine (MA) is a drug of abuse as well as a dopaminergic neurotoxin. We have previously demonstrated that pretreatment with bone morphogenetic protein 7 (BMP7) reduced 6-hydroxydopamine-mediated neurodegeneration in a rodent model of Parkinson's disease. In this study, we examined the neuroprotective effects of BMP7 against MA-mediated toxicity in dopaminergic neurons. Primary dopaminergic neurons, prepared from rat embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue, were treated with MA. High doses of MA decreased tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity (THir) while increasing terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dNTP nick end labeling. These toxicities were significantly antagonized by BMP7. Interaction of BMP7 and MA in vivo was first examined in CD1 mice. High doses of MA (10 mg/kgx4 s.c.) significantly reduced locomotor activity and THir in striatum. I.c.v. administration of BMP7 antagonized these changes. In BMP7 +/- mice, MA suppressed locomotor activity and reduced TH immunoreactivity in nigra reticulata to a greater degree than in wild type BMP7 +/+ mice, suggesting that deficiency in BMP7 expression increases vulnerability to MA insults. Since BMP7 +/- mice also carry a LacZ-expressing reporter allele at the BMP7 locus, the expression of BMP7 was indirectly measured through the enzymatic activity of beta-galactosidase (beta-gal) in BMP7 +/- mice. High doses of MA significantly suppressed beta-gal activity in striatum, suggesting that MA may inhibit BMP7 expression at the terminals of the nigrostriatal pathway. A similar effect was also found in CD1 mice in that high doses of MA suppressed BMP7 mRNA expression in nigra. In conclusion, our data indicate that MA can cause lesioning in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic terminals and that BMP7 is protective against MA-mediated neurotoxicity in central dopaminergic neurons.
Zebrafish is a novel experimental model that has been used in developmental studies as well as in the study of pathological processes involved in human diseases. It has been demonstrated that the endogenous opioid system is involved in developmental mechanisms. We have studied the relationship between the different embryonic stages and opioid receptor expression for the four known opioid receptors in zebrafish (mu, delta 1, delta 2 and kappa). The mu opioid receptor is detected at higher levels than the other opioid receptors before the midblastula transition and during the segmentation period. The delta duplicate 2 exhibits only one peak of expression at 21 h postfertilization (hpf), when the motor nervous system is forming. The kappa receptor is expressed at very low levels. In situ hybridization studies at 24 hpf show that the opioid receptors are widely distributed in zebrafish CNS and at 48 hpf their localization is detected in more defined structures. Our results support specific implications of the opioid receptors in developmental processes such as morphogenesis of the CNS, neurogenesis, neuroprotection and development of neuromuscular and digestive system. Pain-related alterations can be a consequence of changes in the endogenous opioid system during development, hence we provide important information that might help to solve pain-related pathological situations.
N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are critical determinants of bidirectional synaptic plasticity, however, studies of NMDAR function have been based primarily on pharmacological and electrophysiological manipulations, and it is still debated whether there are subunit-selective forms of long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). Here we provide ultrastructural analyses of axospinous synapses in cornu ammonis field 1 of hippocampus (CA1) stratum radiatum of transgenic mice with mutations to two key underlying postsynaptic density (PSD) proteins, postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95) and the alpha-isoform of calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (alphaCaMKII). Distribution profiles of synaptic proteins in these mice reveal very different patterns of subunit-specific NMDAR localization, which may be related to the divergent phenotypes of the two mutants. In PSD-95, Dlg, ZO-1/Dlg-homologous region (PDZ) 3-truncated mutant mice in which LTD could not be induced but LTP was found to be enhanced, we found a subtle, yet preferential displacement of synaptic N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 2B (NR2B) subunits in lateral regions of the synapse without affecting changes in the localization of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 2A (NR2A) subunits. In persistent inhibitory alphaCaMKII Thr305 substituted with Asp in alpha-isoform of calcium-calmodulin kinase II (T305D) mutant mice with severely impaired LTP but stable LTD expression, we found a selective reduction of NR2A subunits at both the synapse and throughout the cytoplasm of the spine without any effect on the NR2B subunit. In an experiment of mutual exclusivity, neither PSD-95 nor alphaCaMKII localization was found to be affected by mutations to the corresponding PSD protein suggesting that they are functionally independent of the other in the regulation of NR2A- and NR2B-containing NMDARs preceding synaptic activity. Consequently, there may exist at least two distinct PSD-95 and alphaCaMKII-specific NMDAR complexes involved in mediating LTP and LTD through opposing signal transduction pathways in synapses of the hippocampus. The contrasting phenotypes of the PSD-95 and alphaCaMKII mutant mice further establish the prospect of an independent and, possibly, competing mechanism for the regulation of NMDAR-dependent bidirectional synaptic plasticity.
The adult neurohypophysis (NH) is a well-established site of CNS plasticity: its glial cells, the pituicytes, reorganize their structure and undergo increased proliferation in response to stimulations such as dehydration. However, it remains to be clarified whether the newly-formed cells derive from pituicytes re-entering the cell cycle or from glial precursors or stem cells. Here, we first analyze the expression of several glial markers in the adult rat NH and demonstrate that the pituicytes constitute a heterogeneous population. In particular, we identify a distinct subtype of glial cells expressing the oligodendrocyte precursor marker platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (pdgfralpha). In addition, adult NH explants can give rise to migratory precursors able to differentiate into mature oligodendrocytes, unlike NH cells in vivo. This led us to hypothesize that the adult NH could contain immature cells, therefore we used a neurosphere-forming assay to test for the presence of stem or progenitor cells. Adult NH cells can generate bipotent primary neurospheres but not secondary ones, suggesting that the structure contains glial progenitors but probably not stem cells. Finally, when the NH is stimulated by dehydration, we observe an increase in cell proliferation associated with an increase in cell death. By identifying the cells incorporating bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) or positive for Ki67, we demonstrate that this increased proliferation concerns all glial cell types in the adult NH, including the pdgfralpha+ cells. Our study shows that the NH is a complex structure composed of multiple glial subtypes, which all participate in the physiological response to dehydration.
The Nogo-66 receptor (NgR) has been found throughout axons in the adult and maturing CNS. An interaction of Nogo on the oligodendrocyte surface with NgR on axons has been suggested to play an important role in limiting axonal growth. In our study, we found that neural stem cells (NSCs) derived from the spinal cords of rats expressed NgR significantly. After normal NSCs differentiation, the average neuronal neurite length was 97.80+/-6.97 microm and the percentage of differentiated neurons was 34.73+/-5.21% 3 days after the differentiation was initiated in vitro. If NSCs were allowed to differentiate in the presence of Nogo-p4 (the active segment of Nogo-66), the average neurite length and the percentage of differentiated neurons were decreased, respectively, to 60.31+/-6.58 microm and 10.26+/-1.22%. An siRNA-mediated knockdown of NgR on NSCs could reverse the inhibitory effect of Nogo-p4 and restore the average neuronal neurite length as well as the percentage of differentiated neurons to 94.01+/-8.37 microm and 31.84+/-4.03%. These results deepen our knowledge about the distribution of NgR and provide a possible strategy of treating NSCs to ameliorate neuronal differentiation after transplantation.
Recent data suggest that the endocannabinoid system (ECS) may be involved in the glial response in different types of brain injury. Both acute and chronic insults seem to trigger a shift in the pattern of expression of some elements of this system from neuronal to glial. Specifically, data obtained in human brain tissue sections from Alzheimer's disease patients showed that the expression of cannabinoid receptors of the CB(2) type is induced in activated microglial cells while fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) expression is increased in reactive astrocytes. The present study was designed to determine the time-course of the shift from neuronal to glial induction in the expression of these proteins in Down's syndrome, sometimes referred to as a human model of Alzheimer-like beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposition. Here we present immunohistochemical evidence that both CB(2) receptors and FAAH enzyme are induced in Abeta plaque-associated microglia and astroglia, respectively, in Down's syndrome. These results suggest that the induction of these elements of the ECS contributes to, or is a result of, amyloid deposition and subsequent plaque formation. In addition, they confirm a striking differential pattern of distribution of FAAH and CB(2) receptors.
A recently described family of &quot;orphan&quot; receptors, called Mas-related G-protein-coupled receptors (Mrg), is preferentially expressed in small nociceptive neurons of the rodent and human dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Mrg are activated by high affinity peptide fragments derived from the proenkephalin A gene, e.g. BAM22 (bovine adrenal medullary). To study the histological distribution and functional properties of these receptors, we combined confocal immunohistochemistry in rat DRG and dermis whole mounts, using new antibodies against the rat Mas-related G-protein-coupled receptor C (MrgC), with single-fiber recordings and neurochemical experiments using isolated hind-paw skin and sciatic nerve. In lumbar DRG we found cytoplasmic MrgC labeling mainly in small- and medium-sized neurons; coexpression with isolectin B4 (46%) and transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1 channel protein (TRPV1) (52%) occurred frequently, whereas calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was rarely colocalized with MrgC in DRG (11%) and dermal nerve fibers (6%). One of the MrgC agonists, BAM22, more than doubled the heat-induced cutaneous CGRP release from rat and mouse skin. The effect of BAM22, also known to activate opioid receptors, was further enhanced by combination with naloxone that had no effect on its own. This sensitizing effect proved to be independent of secondary prostaglandin formation, mast cell degranulation, protein kinase C (PKC) activation and independent of TRPV1. Nonetheless, the capsaicin-induced CGRP release was also sensitized. Receptive fields of 26 mechano-heat sensitive C-fibers were treated with MrgC agonists. Only one unit was strongly and repeatedly excited and showed a profound sensitization to heat upon BAM22+naloxone. Two other established MrgC agonists (gamma2-melanocyte stimulating hormone and BAM8-22) were ineffective. Thus, BAM22 sensitizes the capsaicin- and heat-induced CGRP release in an apparently MrgC-unrelated way. The sensitization to heat appears unusually resistant against pharmacological interventions and does not involve TRPV1.
Thyroid hormones (THs) are well known for their genomic effects but recently attention has focused also on their nongenomic actions as rapid modulators of membrane receptors. Here we show that thyroxine (T4) and 3,3',5'-l-triiodothyronine (T3) rapidly decrease N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-evoked currents in rat hippocampal cultures with potency in the micromolar range. The effect is not mediated by glutamate or glycine binding sites as an increase in agonist or glycine concentration does not alter TH potencies. Furthermore THs' effect on NMDA receptors is independent of voltage and of subunit composition. The mechanism of THs' antagonistic effect does not involve PKC phosphorylation of NMDA receptors since neither blocking nor stimulating PKC changed THs' modulation. T3, but not T4, inhibits also kainate-evoked currents in hippocampal neurons in culture. In hippocampal pyramidal neurons in slice, T3, but not T4, significantly reduced the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) without affecting their amplitude and decay. In cultured rat cortical neurons THs prevented glutamate-induced neuronal death at concentrations similar to those effective on glutamatergic receptors. Taken together our data show for the first time that THs can rapidly affect ionotropic glutamatergic receptors in hippocampal neurons, an effect that could have an important role in their modulation of brain function in physiological and pathological states.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a protein factor which has been found to play a significant role in both normal and pathological states. Its role as an angiogenic factor is well-established. More recently, VEGF has been shown to protect neurons from cell death both in vivo and in vitro. While VEGF's potential as a protective factor has been demonstrated in hypoxia-ischemia, in vitro excitotoxicity, and motor neuron degeneration, its role in seizure-induced cell loss has received little attention. A potential role in seizures is suggested by Newton et al.'s [Newton SS, Collier EF, Hunsberger J, Adams D, Terwilliger R, Selvanayagam E, Duman RS (2003) Gene profile of electroconvulsive seizures: Induction of neurotrophic and angiogenic factors. J Neurosci 23:10841-10851] finding that VEGF mRNA increases in areas of the brain that are susceptible to cell loss after electroconvulsive-shock induced seizures. Because a linear relationship does not always exist between expression of mRNA and protein, we investigated whether VEGF protein expression increased after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. In addition, we administered exogenous VEGF in one experiment and blocked endogenous VEGF in another to determine whether VEGF exerts a neuroprotective effect against status epilepticus-induced cell loss in one vulnerable brain region, the rat hippocampus. Our data revealed that VEGF is dramatically up-regulated in neurons and glia in hippocampus, thalamus, amygdala, and neocortex 24 h after status epilepticus. VEGF induced significant preservation of hippocampal neurons, suggesting that VEGF may play a neuroprotective role following status epilepticus.
The hippocampal formation is a key structure in memory formation and consolidation. The hippocampus receives information from different cortical and subcortical sources. Cortical information is mostly funneled to the hippocampus through the entorhinal cortex (EC) in a bi-directional way that ultimately ends in the cortex. Retrograde tracing studies in the nonhuman primate indicate that more than two-thirds of the cortical afferents to the EC come from polymodal sensory association areas. Although some evidence for the projection from visual unimodal cortex to the EC exists, inputs from other visual and auditory unimodal association areas, and the possibility of their convergence with polymodal input in the EC remains largely undisclosed. We studied 10 Macaca fascicularis monkeys in which cortical deposits of the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran-amine were made into different portions of visual and auditory unimodal association cortices in the temporal lobe, and in polymodal association cortex at the upper bank of the superior temporal sulcus. Visual and auditory unimodal as well as polymodal cortical areas projected to the EC. Both visual unimodal and polymodal association cortices presented dense projections, while those from unimodal auditory association cortex were more patchy and less dense. In all instances, the projection distributed in both the superficial and deep layers of the EC. However, while polymodal cortex projected to all layers (including layer I), visual unimodal cortex did not project to layer I, and auditory unimodal cortex projected less densely, scattered through all layers. Topographically, convergence from the three cortical areas studied can be observed in the lateral rostral and lateral caudal subfields. The present study suggests that unimodal and polymodal association cortical inputs converge in the lateral EC, thereby providing the possibility for the integration of complex stimuli for internal representations in declarative memory elaboration.
Chronic and acute activation of mu-opioid receptors (MOR) in hippocampal cornu Ammon 1 (CA1) disrupts rhythmic activity, alters activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and impairs spatial memory formation. In CA1, MORs act by hyperpolarizing inhibitory interneurons and suppressing inhibitory synaptic transmission. MOR modulation of inhibitory synaptic function translates into an increase in excitatory activity in all layers of CA1. However, the exact anatomical sites for MOR actions are not completely known. Therefore, we used voltage-sensitive dye imaging, whole cell patch clamping, photolysis of alpha-carboxy-2-nitrobenzyl ester, trifluoroacetic acid salt (CNB) -caged GABA, and micro-sectioned slices of rat hippocampus to investigate the effect of MOR activation in CA1. First, we investigated the effect of MOR activation using a MOR agonist [d-Ala2, NMe-Phe4, Gly-ol5]-enkephalin (DAMGO) on the direct activation of GABA receptors by photolysis of CNB-caged GABA in all layers of CA1. MOR activation did not affect hyperpolarizations due to direct GABA receptor activation in any layer of CA1, but MOR activation did suppress GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials suggesting that MOR activation acts by presynaptically inhibiting interneuron function. We next examined whether MOR activation was equivalently effective in all anatomical layers of CA1. To do this, cuts were made between anatomical layers of CA1 and isolated layers were stimulated electrically (five pulses at 20 Hz) to produce excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). Under these conditions, MOR activation significantly increased EPSP areas in stratum radiatum (SR), stratum pyramidale (SP) and stratum oriens (SO) relative to stratum lacunosum-moleculare (SLM). When compared with the effect of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor antagonists on EPSP areas, the effect of DAMGO was proportionately larger in SR, SP and SO than in SLM. We conclude that MOR activation is more effective at directly modulating activity in SR, SP and SO, and the smaller effect in SLM is likely due to a smaller MOR inhibition of GABA release in SLM.
The transient receptor potential cation channel, vanilloid family, type 2 (TRPV2) is a member of the TRPV family of proteins and is a homologue of the capsaicin/vanilloid receptor (transient receptor potential cation channel, vanilloid family, type 1, TRPV1). Like TRPV1, TRPV2 is expressed in a subset of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons that project to superficial laminae of the spinal cord dorsal horn. Because noxious heat (&gt;52 degrees C) activates TRPV2 in transfected cells this channel has been implicated in the processing of high intensity thermal pain messages in vivo. In contrast to TRPV1, however, which is restricted to small diameter DRG neurons, there is significant TRPV2 immunoreactivity in a variety of CNS regions. The present report focuses on a subset of neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord of the rat including the dorsal lateral nucleus (DLN) of the spinal cord, the nucleus ambiguus, and the motor trigeminal nucleus. Double label immunocytochemistry with markers of motoneurons, combined with retrograde labeling, established that these cells are, in fact, motoneurons. With the exception of their smaller diameter, these cells did not differ from other motoneurons, which are only lightly TRPV2-immunoreactive. As for the majority of DLN neurons, the densely-labeled populations co-express androgen receptor and follow normal DLN ontogeny. The functional significance of the very intense TRPV2 expression in these three distinct spinal cord and brainstem motoneurons groups remains to be determined.
We have investigated effects of letrozole, an aromatase inhibitor, on spatial learning and memory, expression of neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAM) and catecholaminergic neurotransmitters in the hippocampus and cortex of female rats. In the intact model, adult Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups (n=8). Control received saline alone. Letrozole was administered to the animals in the second and third groups by daily oral gavage at 0.2 and 1 mg/kg doses, respectively, for 6 weeks. Another group of letrozole-treated rats was allowed to recover for 2 weeks. In the second model, 24 rats were ovariectomized (ovx) and the first group served as control. The second group received letrozole (1 mg/kg) for 6 weeks. Ovx rats in the third group were given letrozole (1 microg/kg) plus estradiol (E(2)) (10 microg/rat). At the end, all rats were tested in a spatial version of the Morris water maze. Then they were decapitated and the brains rapidly removed. Catecholamine concentrations were determined by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. NCAM 180, 140 and 120 isoforms were detected by Western blotting. Uterine weights were significantly reduced by letrozole in a dose-dependent manner (P&lt;0.01) which returned to control values following 2 weeks of recovery (P&lt;0.05). Serum E(2) levels followed a similar course (P&lt;0.01). Although improvement in spatial learning performance of letrozole-treated rats was not statistically significant, the high-dose letrozole-treated group remained significantly longer in the target quadrant compared with the control (P&lt;0.05). Administration of letrozole to ovx animals significantly reduced the latency (P&lt;0.001) and increased the probe trial performance compared with ovx controls (P&lt;0.05). Letrozole increased expression of NCAM 180 and NCAM 140 in both hippocampus and cortex of intact rats. In the cortex samples of ovx animals, NCAM 180 was overall lower than the intact control values (P&lt;0.05). Noradrenaline, dopamine and their metabolites were decreased in the hippocampus of the letrozole-treated group (P&lt;0.01). Letrozole had differential effects on noradrenaline and dopamine content in the cortex. It appears that inhibition of estrogen synthesis in the brain may have beneficial effects on spatial memory. We suggest that structural changes such as NCAM expression and catecholaminergic neurotransmitters in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex may be the neural basis for estrogen-dependent alterations in cognitive functions.
The primate facial nucleus is a prominent brainstem structure that is composed of cell bodies giving rise to axons forming the facial nerve. It is musculotopically organized, but we know little about the morphological features of its motor neurons. Using the Lucifer Yellow intracellular filling method, we examined 11 morphological parameters of motor neurons innervating the monkey orbicularis oculi (OO) muscle, which plays an important role in eyelid closure and voluntary and emotional facial expressions. All somata were multipolar and remained confined to the intermediate subnucleus, as did the majority of its aspiny dendritic branches. We found a mean maximal cell diameter of 54 microm in the transverse dimension, cell diameter of 60 microm in the rostrocaudal dimension, somal surface area of 17,500 microm(2) and somal volume of 55,643 microm(3). Eight neurons were used in the analysis of dendritic parameters based upon complete filling of the distal segments of the dendritic tree. We found a mean number of 16 dendritic segments, an average dendritic length of 1036 microm, diameter of 7 microm, surface area of 12,757 microm(2) and total volume of 16,923 microm(3). Quantitative analysis of the dendritic branch segments demonstrated that the average number, diameter and volume gradually diminished from proximal to distal segments. A Sholl analysis revealed that the highest number of dendritic intersections occurred 60 microm distal to the somal center with a gradual reduction of intersections occurring distally. These observations advance our understanding of the morphological organization of the primate facial nucleus and provide structural features for comparative studies, interpreting afferent influence on OO function and for designing studies pinpointing structural alterations in OO motor neurons that may accompany disorders affecting facial movement.
Although a robust relationship between sleep and increased brain protein synthesis is well-documented, there have been few reports of the effects of local application of a protein synthesis inhibitor (PSI) on sleep. In this study, we compared the effects of local microdialytic administration of the protein synthesis inhibitor, anisomycin (ANI) into the lateral preoptic area (LPOA), a sleep promoting area vs. the perifornical/lateral hypothalamus (PF/LH), a wake and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep-promoting area. ANI administered to the LPOA at night resulted in an increase in stage 2 of rat non-REM sleep, whereas ANI delivered into the PF/LH during the daytime increased REM sleep. ANI microdialysis into hippocampus did not affect sleep or waking. These differential effects of local protein synthesis inhibition on sleep support a hypothesis that mechanisms controlling protein synthesis are critically involved in the regulation of both NREM sleep and REM sleep.
Peripheral nerve injury models are used to investigate processes that can potentially be exploited in CNS injury. A consistent change that occurs in injured peripheral neurons is an induction in expression of pituitary adenylyl cyclase activating peptide (PACAP), a neuropeptide with putative neuroprotective and neuritogenic actions. PACAP-deficient mice were used here to investigate actions of endogenous PACAP after facial nerve injury. Although motor neuron survival after axotomy was not significantly different in PACAP deficient vs. wild type mice, recovery of axon regeneration after crush injury was significantly delayed. The impaired regeneration was associated with 8- to 12-fold increases in gene expression of proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma, interleukin (IL) -6, and a 90% decrease in the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-4 at the injury site. Similar cytokine changes and an increased microglial response were observed in the brainstem facial motor nucleus. Because immunocompromised animals such as SCID mice are known to exhibit peripheral nerve regeneration defects, the observations raise the novel hypothesis that PACAP is critically involved in a carefully controlled immune response that is necessary for proper nerve regeneration after injury.
Developments in functional neuroimaging in normal human subjects, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), have permitted the mapping of several visual areas of the human brain and have already provided provisional identification of some of the visual areas that were first described in nonhuman primates. However, the lack of a detailed description of the sulcal patterns of the human occipital lobe makes it difficult to establish clear relationships between sulcal landmarks and identified visual areas with functional neuroimaging. In the present study we used magnetic resonance images to investigate the morphological variation of the human occipital sulci in both the left and right hemispheres of 40 normal adult human brains. We identified 11 occipital sulci, the parieto-occipital fissure and the temporo-occipital incisure, and their corresponding gray matter voxels were marked in the magnetic resonance volumes which had been transformed into the Montreal Neurological Institute standard proportional stereotaxic space. Probability maps were then constructed for each occipital sulcus. These probability maps provide a quantitative measure of the variability of the occipital sulci in standard stereotaxic space and are a useful tool to identify the location of voxels of other magnetic resonance imaging images transformed in the same stereotaxic space.
Interleukin (IL)-1beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) are released under pathological conditions in the gastrointestinal tract such as inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). We examined the effects of IL-1beta and TNFalpha on bradykinin (BK) -induced increases in the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)]i) and prostaglandin (PG) E(2) release in neonatal rat myenteric plexus cells. BK evoked a [Ca(2+)]i increase in myenteric neurons and glial cells, both of which were potentiated by treatment with IL-1beta but not TNFalpha. In both cell types, the [Ca(2+)]i responses to BK were abolished by D-Arg(0)[Hyp(3), Thi(5), D-Tic(7), Oic(8)]-BK (HOE140), a B2R antagonist, but not affected by des-Arg(9)-HOE140, a B1R antagonist. After culture with IL-1beta, however, the B1R antagonist suppressed the BK-induced [Ca(2+)]i increase. Only in glial cells did the B1R agonists des-Arg(9)-BK and BK fragment 1-8 evoke a [Ca(2+)]i rise in a dose-dependent manner. Real time RT-PCR and immunocytochemical analyses showed that IL-1beta treatment increased expression of B1R mRNA in myenteric plexus cells and B1R protein in glial cells, respectively. Either indomethacin or an EP1 receptor antagonist suppressed the increased [Ca(2+)]i response to BK invoked by treatment with IL-1beta. IL-1beta treatment increased BK-induced PGE(2) release from cultured myenteric plexus cells. These results suggest that IL-1beta promotes up-regulation of B1R expression in glial cells, resulting in the potentiation of neural responses to BK through the elevation of PGE(2) released from glial cells. The alteration of phenotypes of glial cells may be the cause of the changes in neural function in the enteric nervous system in IBD.
Brief pretreatment of astrocytes in culture with glutamate (500 microM for 20 min), was earlier shown to significantly enhance the Ca(2+) responses to a depolarizing pulse. It is known that malfunction of glutamate transporters increases extracellular glutamate concentration. We hypothesized that pretreatment of astrocytes with glutamate in conditions where the glutamate transporter activity is blocked should cause further elevation of the Ca(2+) responses to a depolarizing pulse. To test the hypothesis we pretreated astrocytes in culture (primary rat astrocyte cultures) with glutamate (500 microM) and glutamate transport inhibitor, threo-beta-hydroxy-aspartate (200 microM, TBHA) or glutamate (500 microM) in Na(+) free extracellular solution for 20 min. The Ca(2+) responses were elicited by depolarization of the astrocyte to evoke voltage-gated Ca(2+) currents. Paradoxical attenuation of the Ca(2+) transients was observed when the glutamate pretreatment was done in conditions that blocked glutamate transport, accompanied by faster rise and decay times. When the experiments were done on astrocyte pairs that were pretreated with glutamate and TBHA, we observed attenuated Ca(2+) responses in the adjoining cell when compared with the depolarized cell. The results were contrary to our earlier observation of heightened responses in the adjoining cell of the astrocyte pair, in cells pretreated with glutamate alone. The attenuated Ca(2+) responses in astrocytes would imply decrease in the vesicular release of glutamate and ATP. Extracellular glutamate concentration dependent regulation of the Ca(2+) signaling mechanism thus seems to operate in astrocytes, which may be important in regulating the neurotoxic accumulation of glutamate in the extracellular space and the synapse.
We have previously shown that the observed immediate increase in nitric oxide (NO) plays a significant role in the control of the cerebral microcirculation following traumatic brain injury (TBI). However, a second consequence of increased NO production after TBI may be impaired mitochondrial function, due to the fact that NO is a well-known inhibitor of cytochrome c oxidase (CcO). CcO is a key enzyme of the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos) machinery, which creates cellular energy in the form of ATP. NO competes with oxygen at the heme a(3)-Cu(B) reaction center of CcO. We thus hypothesized that TBI triggers inhibition of CcO, which would in turn lead to a decreased energy production by OxPhos at a time of an elevated energy demand for tissue remodeling. Here we show that TBI as induced by an acceleration weight drop model of diffuse brain injury in rats leads to CcO inhibition and dramatically decreased ATP levels in brain cortex. CcO inhibition can be partially restored by application of iNOS antisense oligonucleotides prior to TBI, which leads to a normalization of ATP levels similar to the controls. We propose that a lack of energy after TBI caused by inhibition of CcO is an important aspect of trauma pathology.
Synaptic plasticity in inhibitory interneurons is essential to maintain a proper equilibrium between excitation and inhibition in hippocampal network. Recent studies showed that theta-burst-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) at excitatory synapses of oriens/alveus (O/A) interneurons in CA1 hippocampal region required the activation of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) 1. However these interneurons also express mGluR5 and the contribution of this receptor subtype in interneuron synaptic plasticity remains unexplored. We combined pharmacological and transgenic approaches to examine the relative contribution of mGluR1/5 in LTP at excitatory synapses on O/A interneurons. Bath-application of the selective mGluR1/5 agonist (s)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) induced LTP of compound excitatory postsynaptic potentials. DHPG-induced LTP was not prevented by application of either mGluR1 or mGluR5 antagonists, was still present in mGluR1 knockout mice, but was blocked by co-application of both antagonists. These results indicate that LTP can be induced at O/A interneuron synapses by either mGluR1 or mGluR5 activation. As previously reported for mGluR1-dependent LTP, the mGluR5-dependent LTP was independent of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors. Pairing DHPG application with postsynaptic depolarization induced mGluR1- and mGluR5-dependent LTP of minimally-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents, which were composed of calcium-permeable AMPA receptor and presynaptically modulated by group II mGluRs, hence confirming that both forms of LTP occurred directly at interneuron excitatory synapses. These findings uncover a new mGluR5-dependent form of LTP at O/A interneuron synapses and indicate that activation of mGluR1 or mGluR5 is sufficient to induce LTP at these synapses. Thus, a rich repertoire of adaptive changes may take place at these interneuron synapses to regulate hippocampal feedback inhibition.

The workshop was organized so that representatives of all corners of the neuroscience world could provide updates on the latest advances in the field, and then discuss how they related to the concept of Grand Challenges. Throughout the day, participants learned how advances in imaging technology, computer science, molecular biology, biochemistry, and neuroscience in general had made it possible for us to imagine understanding how the brain works at a fundamental levelsomething that was not possible just 2 or 3 years ago. In addition, each participant was invited to present his/her impression of what one or two Grand Challenges would be for the neurosciences.
On April 18 and 19, 2007, the Institute of Medicines (IOMs) Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders (the Forum), in response to a request from the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services, hosted a workshop called Autism and the Environment: Challenges and Opportunities for Research. The goal of the workshop was to provide a venue to bring together scientists, members of the autism community, and the major sponsors of autism-related research to discuss the most promising scientific opportunities (Box I-1). The focus was on improving the understanding of the ways in which environmental factors such as chemicals, infectious agents, or physiological or psychological stress can affect the development of the brain. In addition, discussions addressed the infrastructure needs for pursuing the identified research opportunitiestools, technologies, and partnerships.
The impetus for the biomarkers workshop arose out of the scientific and therapeutic import of discovering and developing neuroscience biomarkers or biosignaturesmore specifically biomarkers that are not currently being aggressively pursued but that hold the potential of near-term impact. The workshop drew upon experts from various fields to inform and provide discussion for the Institute of Medicine (IOM) Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders about the challenges and opportunities in identifying biomarker targets that are not currently being aggressively pursued but that could be developed to practicality within the next 5 years by public-private partnerships. The goal of the workshop was focused consideration of potential biomarker, or biosignature, opportunities, including the current state of biomarker development and the resources needed to carry this effort forward.
Electrical activity is essential for neuronal communication. Over the years, in vivo multielectrode recordings have revealed that the electrical activities of individual neurons are not independent of each other. Instead, neurons tend to fire in a coordinated way within a given neural network. When measured as the electroencephalogram (EEG) or local field potential (LFP) signals, this neural coordination results in complex oscillatory activity patterns, which reflect synchronous synaptic potentials in a local network (Lopes da Silva 1991). Thus, unveiling the physiological mechanisms generating such complex oscillatory neural activity patterns is key to achieving a better understanding of how the brain operates in behaving animals. The dynamics of the forebrain is not random. Ever since the initial discovery of cerebral electrical activity by Caton (Caton 1875) in rabbits and monkeys, and later in humans by Berger (Berger 1929), different patterns of forebrain activity have been tightly linked to various behavioral and wake-sleep states. Indeed, these distinct patterns of neural activity have become incorporated as part of the criteria of wake-sleep states (Green and Arduini 1954; Rechtschaffen and Kales 1968; Lopes da Silva and van Leeuwen 1969; Timo-Iaria et al. 1970; Moruzzi 1972; Winson 1972; Winson 1974; Gottesmann 1992; Steriade et al. 1993), suggesting that forebrain dynamics fall into several different regimes. This observation is intriguing because the same neural circuit can support several different dynamic regimes, which likely serve distinct roles in information processing and storage. Therefore, a quantitative description of its network dynamics can further reveal how the forebrain underlies so many fundamental functions in mammals. In this chapter, we first describe the forebrain oscillatory activity patterns associated with different wake-sleep states, and highlight limitations of existing state identification methods. Then, we introduce a novel state-space framework (Gervasoni et al. 2004) that we have employed to quantitatively describe global forebrain dynamics in rodents. Such an analysis revealed several distinct regimes in which the forebrain can operate. These regimes correspond to distinct global brain states and are correlated with the occurrence of major wake-sleep states observed in both rats and mice. In addition, the state-space framework proposed here has allowed us to characterize the gradient dynamics within global brain states, providing a quantitative description of state transition dynamics in rodents. We end this chapter by discussing the underlying driving forces and potential functional roles of global brain states.
The study of learning has a rich tradition, going back at least to the days of Aristotle, who proposed that the formation of associations between coincident events is the way humans learn. More famously associated with learning, especially in the popular mind, is Pavlov who, in the 1920s, studied what is now known as classical conditioning or Pavlovian conditioning. In these well-known experiments, an unconditioned stimulus (food), which naturally causes an unconditioned reflex (salivation), was presented along with a neutral stimulus (a bell) with enough repetition that, eventually, the bell began to evoke the salivation even without the presence of food (conditioned response). At that point the bell had become a conditioned stimulus, i.e., a stimulus that, after learning a new association, evokes the conditioned response. Classical conditioning refers to an environmental stimulus that can elicit a response, but it does not address the ways in which an animal might learn how its own behavior could cause an environmental response. Work by Thorndike in the late 1890s began to address this by studying what he termed instrumental conditioning. Thorndike observed that a hungry cat could learn through trial and error that rubbing up against the side of its cage would open a latch allowing it access to food. From this he proposed his law of effect, in which he argued that the tendency to repeat a behavior is dependent on the consequences that behavior evokes. In a series of studies from the 1930s through the 1950s, Skinner followed up on Thorndikes work, studying primarily pigeons and rats in a wide variety of conditions, including positive reinforcement (in which a behavior is more likely to recur if it is followed by a reward such as a piece of food), negative reinforcement (a behavior becoming more likely if it is followed by the removal of an aversive stimulus such as an electric shock). Skinner renamed this paradigm operant conditioning because a spontaneously emitted behavior (or operant) is what elicits the response. Although the rich psychological history of studying classical conditioning, operant conditioning, and other forms of learning has led to greater understanding of the phenomenology of learning, less is known about the neurophysiological mechanisms of these forms of learning. This is because most studies of cortical and subcortical function have involved either functional imaging, in which case the spatial resolution is too gross to permit the study of precise mechanisms of neuronal learning, or acute single-electrode recording methods, which are inherently limited in their ability to examine functional interrelationships between various cortical areas or to study any changes in neuronal firing that might occur over days or weeks. This inability to track changes across cortical areas has meant that most studies have used highly trained animals who have reached a stable level of performance on a previously learned task, rather than animals learning a new task. Multielectrode ensemble recording, however, provides the ability to record from a large number of cells simultaneously. The mammalian brain contains many millions of neurons that work in an interconnected manner to produce complex behaviors and thoughts. Understanding the interrelations between many neurons that make up a functional circuit, therefore, requires simultaneous recording from many more than one at a time. Furthermore, because the brains encoding of a given event (be it sensory, motor, or cognitive) relies on complex interactions between neurons, our ability to understand fundamental neural-circuit mechanisms is greatly improved when one simultaneously records the firing of many neurons, rather than just a single one at a time. Thus, multielectrode recording brings us a step closer to understanding normal brain function. Another important advantage of multielectrode recording is that it provides a more random sample of the neurons in the implanted area, obviating a priori decisions about the cell types of interest and permitting comparison of the contributions of different neurons to the encoding of, for example, a given motor action. Finally, and most important for the study of learning, chronic implantation of multielectrode arrays allows us to study ongoing processes that take more than a single session to complete. Thus, multielectrode arrays may be implanted in a nave animal and recordings made throughout the course of learning. This allows the sampling of many neurons each day of the study, even if it lasts weeks, months, or years.
Over the last two decades, many laboratories around the world have started to rely on microelectrode arrays formed by fine microwires, organized in different geometrical configurations, to chronically record the extracellular activity of populations of individual neurons in both anesthetized and behaving animals (Nicolelis et al. 1997, 2003; Lebedev et al. 2006; Verloop and Holsheimer 1984; Williams et al. 1999). As the field of chronic multielectrode recordings evolved, so did the designs of such microwire-based arrays. Indeed, during the last 13 years, our laboratory at the Duke University Center for Neuroengineering (DUCN) has specialized in producing a large variety of microwire array configurations that can now be utilized in a large variety of species (e.g., mice, rats, monkeys, and intraoperative human recordings). In particular, our efforts have been directed at producing arrays that can be utilized in experimental protocols demanding simultaneous recordings from large samples of single neurons (e.g., 50 to 500), distributed across multiple cortical and subcortical brain sites in fully awake and behaving animals over long periods of time (months to years). The goal of this chapter, therefore, is to review the DUCN accumulated experience and describe its current state-of-the-art design and fabrication approach for producing high-quality microwire-based arrays for chronic, multisite, neural ensemble recordings.
The mammalian gustatory system participates in the detection and discrimination of intraoral stimuli, allowing for the selection of nutrients and rejection of toxic compounds. However, the sensory percept of a substance that is placed in the mouth does not depend solely on its taste. The olfactory and somatosensory systems discriminate odor, texture, and temperature, which participate, with taste, in the unitary perception of flavor (Small and Prescott 2005). Flavor is a central contributor in the decision making relative to ingestive behavior. However, feeding decisions are made in specific physiological contexts and, therefore, are not entirely dependent on sensory experience. We know today that the central nervous system (CNS) detects a multitude of peripheral neural and humoral signals that reflect gastrointestinal status and current energy needs, availability, and stores (Broberger 2005). The regulation of energy homeostasis and maintenance of stable body weight depend on the integration of these signals and the ability to respond adequately through the modulation of both energy expenditure and food intake (Schwartz and Porte 2005). The appearance and familiarity of a particular food, given the memory of the orosensory, olfactory, and postingestive (Garcia, Kimeldorf et al. 1955; Sclafani 2004) effects of previously encountered identical or similar substances, will also influence the decision of ingestion, as will emotional, cognitive, and social factors (Wilson 2002). These observations underline that, when trying to understand food seeking, one should consider not only sensory and homeostatic factors but others such as emotional processing, learning and decision making (Balleine 2005; Kelley, Baldo et al. 2005). Data obtained by recording neural ensemble activity in awake animals has demonstrated not only that neural populations distributed across several cortical and subcortical brain areas can encode the multisensory properties of intraoral stimuli but also that this coding is modulated by physiological state (de Araujo, Gutierrez et al. 2006; Fontanini and Katz 2006; Gutierrez, Carmena et al. 2006; Stapleton, Lavine et al. 2006). Consequently, it has been proposed that gustatory processing must be considered in a multimodal perspective, combining taste with the several other sensory and homeostatic processes that occur in association with taste receptor activation (Jones, Fontanini et al. 2006; Simon, de Araujo et al. 2006). According to this view, gustation results from a distributed neural process by which information conveyed to the brain through specialized taste, and oral somatosensory, olfactory, and gastrointestinal fibers is integrated with humoral signals, allowing the organism to feed in accordance with the maintenance of adequate energy homeostasis, and participating with complex neural circuits of affective and cognitive processing to organize ingestive behavior. In our laboratories at Duke University, experimental work is directed to further understand the neural mechanisms of gustation in order to contribute towards a better comprehension of dysfunctional feeding behavior, especially as it relates to hyperphagia and obesity. In this chapter we will describe the methodology currently in use in our laboratories to perform neural ensemble recordings from the gustatory-reward system of awake and freely licking mice and rats, as well as other associated measures performed simultaneously or in parallel to neural recordings.
The ability to perform either multineuron or local field/EEG recordings from the nervous system is a critical requirement to develop a new generation of neuroprosthetics that can sense the brains intent for action (Nicolelis 2001, 2003). This form of sensing neuroprosthesis builds upon the concept of current neuroprosthetic devices, which are primarily for macrostimulation of neural elements, such as deep brain stimulation (DBS); (Abosch, Hutchison et al. 2002; Rodriguez-Oroz, Obeso et al. 2005). A key aspect of this evolving technology is the translation of preclinical multineuron recording and analysis technology into the clinical arena (Donoghue 2002; Carmena, Lebedev et al. 2003; Mussa-Ivaldi, Miller et al. 2003). This translation requires the use of medical-grade components at all levels of electrodes, connections, and electronics, and the stabilization of technology and software for the long process of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval. Human sensing neuroprosthetic devices currently depend upon control signals from residual nerve or muscle activity to restore motor functions lost due to disease or trauma. It has been proposed that these devices could be significantly improved by directly harnessing brain activity from central motor-related regions to drive artificial actuators (Chapin 2000; Nicolelis 2001; Caves, Shane et al. 2002; Nicolelis, Chapin et al. 2002; Chapin and Chapin 2004). Recently, laboratory studies involving nonhuman primates have made considerable advances toward the development of such devices. For example, neuronal ensemble recordings from motor areas of cerebral cortex in nonhuman primates have been demonstrated to accurately predict three-dimensional arm movements (Chapin, Moxon et al. 1999; Wessberg, Stambaugh et al. 2000; Taylor, Tillery et al. 2002; Carmena, Lebedev et al. 2003; Nicolelis, Dimitrov et al. 2003) and to successfully control a robotic arm neuroprosthetic device. Despite these interesting advances, primate studies have yet to address the fundamental question as to whether current brainmachine interface (BMI) technology and approaches may be successfully applied to human patients, in particular, those who are nave regarding the eventual tasks (Wolpaw, Birbaumer et al. 2002; Patil, Carmena et al. 2004; Gage, Ludwig et al. 2005). Nonhuman primate BMI studies suggest that multineuronal recordings are critical for neuroprosthetic applications, and may require a minimum of 50100 recorded neurons to drive a real-time neuroprosthesis (Nicolelis 2001, 2003; Sanchez, Carmena et al. 2004). In addition to cortical motor regions, subcortical regions, such as the motor thalamus and subthalamic nucleus, are also involved in motor planning and execution, and could serve as alternative multineuron recording sites (Lenz, Kwan et al. 1990; Cheruel, Dormont et al. 1996; Abosch, Hutchison et al. 2002; Guillery, Sherman et al. 2002; MacMillan, Dostrovsky et al. 2004; Patil, Carmena et al. 2004). Devices utilizing control signals from the nervous system have also been developed recently to enhance functional independence, using external reflections of brain events rather than direct neuronal recordings, such as electroencephalogram (EEG), direct cortical surface recordings (ECoG), or evoked potentials (Kubler, Kotchoubey et al. 1999; Donchin, Spencer et al. 2000; Pfurtscheller, Guger et al. 2000; Birch, Bozorgzadeh et al. 2002; Wolpaw, Birbaumer et al. 2002; Scherberger, Jarvis et al. 2005). These external signals suffer considerable information loss, because the control signal is derived from thousands or millions of neurons averaged across time and space. For example, scalp EEG signals can enable the control of approximately 67 characters per minute on an optimized keyboard, for a short period, but this is very limited for most purposes (Wolpaw, Birbaumer et al. 2002). Although a large variety of devices and approaches to neuroprosthetics are currently available, there is not at present a robust control signal that can be derived directly from the brain using noninvasive methods and that leads to fast, reliable conversion of thoughts into actions (Nicolelis 2001, 2003). This challenge leads to two problems. The first is that a high-throughput, reliable control signal is needed to directly link the brain with external devices, for translation of thought into action (Figure 12.1). The second is the inherent understanding of what packets of action potentials mean to the brain, and how sensorimotor information is concurrently processed by multiple subcortical and cortical structures that define a neural circuit. This challenge is thus posed from two different anglesthe clinical treatment domain of using a control signal (regardless of its meaning if it works) to actuate an external event, and the research domain of interpreting information generated by networks of neurons involved in coding, ultimately leading to a better understanding of brain function. For both of these challenging goals, the concept and practical achievement of neural ensemble recordings are critical; the various types of available and envisioned devices will be discussed in detail.
From early arguments between Galvani and Volta in the late 1700s, to later experiments by Helmholtz in the mid-1800s, the scientific examination of the electrical excitability of biological tissues has a rich history (Galvani, 1791; Volta, 1800; Helmholtz, 1842; Hess, 1994), particularly regarding the use of electrical stimulation to induce focused cortical activation, which enabled the discovery of motor maps in different locations of the cortex. This tradition started in the late 19th century when German neuroscientists Fritsch and Hitzig used electrical stimulation in animals to generate crude motor cortex maps, demonstrating contralateral activation of muscles for the first time (Fritsch and Hitzig, 1870). Sir Charles Sherrington, one of the founders of modern neuroscience, later used more focused stimulation to form early maps of ape motor cortex (Brown and Sherrington, 1911). In the 1930s, Wilder Penfield, one of Sherringtons students extended this work to human motor cortex, as he showed the existence of a spatial map of muscles in the body (Penfield and Boldrey, 1937). His rigorous examination demonstrated that the size of a body parts cortical representation is proportional to the fine nature of that body parts movements. Penfields work helped popularize the technique of electrical stimulation as a useful tool for extending understanding of the brain (Penfield and Rasmussen, 1950).
The study of electrophysiology started with the work of Luigi Galvani (17371798), who was the first to provide evidence for the electrical nature of the mysterious fluid (at the time referred to as animal spirits). Galvanis nephew, Giovanni Aldini (17621834), continued this line of inquiry in 1803, using Galvanis and Alessandro Voltas (bimetallic electricity) principles together, despite the fact that Volta did not believe in animal electricity. Carlo Mateucci (18181868) in Bologna and Emil Du Bois-Reymond (18181896) in Berlin described the phenomenon called negative variation when a galvanometer showed an unexpected decrease in current intensity during muscle contraction. The study of the electrophysiology of the nervous system began when Julius Berstein (18391917) proposed his theory of the nerve impulse as a wave of negativity (membrane theory of the nerve tissue). Later, using a galvanometer with one electrode in the gray matter and one on the skull surface (or electrodes in different points of the external surface of the brain), Richard Caton (18421926) recorded a feeble current in the brain. In 1870, for the first time, Gustav Fritsch (18381927) and Eduard Hitzig (18381907) inserted an electrode in the dura of a dog brain and stimulated the motor area, generating movement in the contralateral side of the animals body (Niedermeyer 1993; Piccolino 1998). The work of these and many other scientists marked the beginning of the study of the electrophysiology of the nervous system, opening doors to the possibility of stimulating different areas of the brain through electrical current and subsequently recording the brain electrical activity. Improvements in electrode manufacturing, the advent of modern acquisition equipment, and better surgical and asepsis techniques have provided us the ability to chronically implant multiple electrodes simultaneously in several areas of the brain in the same animal (Nicolelis, Baccala et al., 1995) and to study the interactions of populations of neurons (Nicolelis, Fanselow et al., 1997; Ghazanfar, Stambaugh et al., 2000). Upon the animals recovery from surgery, we have been able to record simultaneously from different brain areas of mice (Costa, Cohen et al., 2004), rats (Faggin, Nguyen et al., 1997; Ghazanfar and Nicolelis 1997; Nicolelis, Ghazanfar et al., 1997) and nonhuman primate brains (Nicolelis, Stambaugh et al., 1999; Nicolelis, Dimitrov et al., 2003) for long periods of time, from a couple of months in rodents (Ghazanfar and Nicolelis 1997; Nicolelis, Ghazanfar et al., 1997) to up to years in non-human primates, such as owl monkeys (Nicolelis, Ghazanfar et al., 1998) and Rhesus monkeys (Nicolelis, Dimitrov et al., 2003). These recordings are carried out under several different experimental conditions and behavior tasks (Kralik, Dimitrov et al., 2001; Nicolelis and Ribeiro 2002). With chronically implanted multiple electrodes, it is also possible to record different layers of the same area of the brain (Chapin and Lin 1984) and study spatiotemporal response of many neurons (Nicolelis and Chapin 1994). Microcannulae can be attached to the electrode arrays and are used to inject drugs in the areas of the implant during chronic experimental recordings (Shuler, Krupa et al., 2002). Chronically implanted electrodes offer unparalleled advantages for correlating neuronal activity and animal behavior. In our lab, these techniques were developed in rodents and later adapted to primates. Over the last several years, there have been significant strides in making rodent implantations more reliable, faster, and easier. We have identified and resolved many of the issues that now permit larger neuronal yields that last longer. As a consequence of continuous improvement in techniques, the length of time required for surgery has been reduced. At the same time, over the last 14 years, we have developed a surgical technique adapted to the unique features of primates. This has made primate implantations routine and reproducible. Here, we will describe detailed technical aspects of the current surgical implantation approach used in our laboratory at the Duke University Center for Neuroengineering (DUCN). Such a surgical protocol has evolved and benefited from almost two decades of accumulated experience on chronic multielectrode neural recordings (Nicolelis, Stambaugh et al., 1999; Nicolelis, Dimitrov et al., 2003, Kralik, Dimitrov et al., 2001; Nicolelis and Ribeiro 2002).
A fundamental goal in systems neuroscience is to explain animal behavior in terms of the dynamics of neural ensembles. Multielectrode techniques greatly facilitate the approach toward this goal. Aside from the fact that each experiment provides a higher yield of data as compared to single-site recordings, some questions simply cannot be addressed using only one electrode at a time. For example, only multisite recordings can determine whether different neurons respond independently to stimuli, or covary from trial to trial. The purpose of this chapter is to review methods used in multielectrode studies of the rat somatosensory system, with an emphasis on the whisker system. We present a basic toolbox of methods we have used to probe the functions of populations of somatosensory neurons in a behavioral context. The basic toolbox includes techniques for applying controlled whisker stimuli, behavioral training in tactile discrimination tasks, multielectrode recordings, reversibly inactivating specific brain areas, and analysis of the ensemble neural data. These methods have already revealed fundamental properties of the somatosensory system that would have been difficult or impossible to uncover using single-electrode recordings. For example, cortical (Zhu and Connors, 1999; Ghazanfar and Nicolelis, 2001; Diamond et al., 1992; Ghazanfar et al., 2000; Schubert et al., 2001) and thalamic (Armstrong-James and Fox, 1987; Nicolelis and Chapin, 1994) neurons have large multiwhisker receptive fields that are dynamic over poststimulus time (Nicolelis and Chapin, 1994; Ghazanfar and Nicolelis, 1999; Ghazanfar et al., 2000). These data, together with observations of supralinear summation of multiwhisker inputs (Ghazanfar and Nicolelis, 1997; Shimegi, 2000), suggest that tactile receptive field dynamics function to integrate time-varying multiwhisker inputs (Ghazanfar and Nicolelis, 2001). For example, analysis of multineuron response data revealed additional stimulus-coding properties of somatosensory ensembles. S1 ensembles code stimulus location in single-neuron temporal patterns and the relative response latencies of their neurons, but not in single-trial covariations among the neurons (Nicolelis et al., 1998; Ghazanfar et al., 2000). In S2 of the primate, on the other hand, single-trial covariations among multiple neurons did contribute significantly to coding the location of a punctate stimulus (Nicolelis et al., 1998; Ghazanfar et al., 2000). Even in S1, the contribution of coordinated firing may increase with greater stimulus complexity, because multiple whisker stimuli lead to a higher prevalence of synchronous responses between neurons in the infragranular layers of S1 than in other layers (Zhang and Alloway, 2005). Combining methods for inactivating specific neural inputs with ensemble recordings led to the further conclusion that spatiotemporal RF properties of somatosensory neurons arise not only from intrinsic local properties of neurons and their neighbor connections, but rather from interactions among multiple levels of the somatosensory system. For example, recording thalamic tactile responses in the presence and absence of cortical feedback revealed that corticofugal projections contributed to both the short- and long-latency components of ventral posterior medial nucleus (VPM) responses (Krupa et al., 1999; Ghazanfar et al., 2001). These interlevel interactions were reflected in simultaneous recordings in trigeminal areas in brain stem, thalamus, and cortex, which revealed widespread oscillatory synchronization of neural firing (Nicolelis et al., 1995). The correlated activity remains even after transection of the facial nerve, which suggests that such synchronous activity is generated centrally. Although the high coherence among large populations of neurons associated with this oscillatory 712 Hz brain state suggested absence seizures to a number of authors (Marescaux et al., 1992; Shaw et al., 2006; Shaw, 2007), a direct test showed that rats respond robustly to mild tactile stimulation during bouts of 712 Hz oscillations in S1, contradicting the absence interpretation (Wiest and Nicolelis, 2003). Thus, widespread synchronized neural firing need not preclude perception; in fact, it can enhance aspects of sensory representation (Fontanini and Katz, 2006) as well as long-term plasticity (Erchova and Diamond, 2004). These demonstrations of fast interactions among neurons distributed across the somatosensory maps at multiple processing stages were paralleled by demonstrations of a tight coupling between the two hemispheres of S1 (Shuler et al., 2001; Wiest et al., 2005). This cross-talk challenges the classical conception of the S1 barrel cortex as an encoder for exclusively contralateral whisker activity and suggests the potential importance of bilateral interactions in S1 for whisker-guided discriminations (Krupa, 2001b; Shuler et al., 2002). Multielectrode recordings in different layers of S1 while rats performed a bilateral whisker-guided discrimination revealed that a feed-forward model of tactile signal processing cannot explain S1 response properties (Krupa et al., 2004). For example, firing rate modulations that began before tactile stimulation clearly could not be explained in terms of bottom-up propagation of a stimulus signal. Rather, other inputs to S1 must contribute to shaping the task-related responses. Similarly, tactile responses were found to vary significantly in different spontaneously occurring behavioral states (Nelson, 1996; Fanselow and Nicolelis, 1999; Moore et al., 1999; Nicolelis and Fanselow, 2002; Castro-Alamancos, 2004; Moore, 2004). These data collectively suggest that widely distributed neurons coordinate their activities on millisecond time scales, and that the functional connectivity among them can be quickly adjusted in different behavioral contexts. The preceding examples are meant to indicate the range of results that have already been achieved using multielectrode arrays (MEAs). In the following sections we present specific methods developed in the past 15 years. The examples have been selected to represent methods from each major phase of a typical study, from electrode design and surgical implantation, through ensemble recording involving somatosensory stimulation, behavioral monitoring, and reversible inactivation of specific brain areas, to analysis of the recorded many-neuron data.
Previous chapters of this book have highlighted technical advances made in recording ensembles of neurons in primates and rats. These advances have created a novel window through which to study brain function, allowing us to interpret an ever-growing body of data describing how the normal brain operates. On the other hand, these techniques have only provided a limited picture of how alterations in brain function generate behavioral pathology, requiring new recording techniques to be manufactured. In this chapter, we describe a novel method for extending previously described electrophysiological recording techniques for use in transgenic mice. This fusion of genetic and neuroscience technologies provides a promising tool for elucidating how changes in gene expression result in the behavioral alterations characteristic of central nervous system (CNS) disease. During the course of the last century, great strides were made in treating diseases involving the CNS. Much of this progress resulted from an explosion of neuroscience research, which led to the discovery of action potentials, neuromodulators, and the principles of organization of neural circuits. Although these findings facilitated the development of drugs to treat neurological and psychiatric illnesses such as schizophrenia, Alzheimers disease, Parkinsons disease, and depression, little headway was made in elucidating the pathophysiological mechanisms associated with many of these diseases. Thus, treatment options typically focused on managing symptoms, and not on curing the underlying disease. Currently, one of the primary challenges of behavioral brain research lies in the complexity of understanding how changes in patterns of gene expression alter the spatiotemporal firing of widely distributed populations of single neurons that define the large-scale neural interactions underlying the generation of behavior. This issue is further complicated by ethical concerns associated with genetic manipulation in humans and limitations inherent to the techniques currently used to study electrophysiological changes in the brain. The primary techniques used to study human brain activity are functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG). Unfortunately, fMRI, which measures changes in blood flow resulting from activation of neural networks, has significant limitations in temporal resolution, and EEG, which utilizes scalp electrodes to measure brain activity, has significant limitations in spatial resolution. Although intraparenchymal recording protocols can be used to enhance spatial and temporal resolution of brain activity, these techniques are invasive and are thus not typically suitable for studying neurological and psychiatric illness in human populations. To overcome these issues, we have created a protocol for chronically recording brain activity in animal models of CNS disease. Recently, transgenic mice have gained greater acceptance as models of CNS disease (Dennis 2005). These genetically modified mice display behavioral alterations similar to those observed in humans with neurological or psychiatric illness, and recapitulate several endophenotypes characteristic of these diseases. By chronically implanting these mice with intraparenchymal microelectrode arrays, one is able to assess how changes in gene expression result in changes in neural ensemble firing patterns. Moreover, one can conduct longitudinal observations in animals given drugs used to treat the CNS diseases they model, providing a detailed picture of how changes in neuronal firing patterns result in neurological and psychiatric pathology.
The most versatile neurophysiological paradigms for the study of cognitive function in animals are those that involve recording the activity of neurons in awake and behaving monkeys. Techniques for recording in behaving monkeys were originally developed by Herbert Jaspers and colleagues (Jasper et al., 1960) and elaborated by Edward Evarts (Evarts, 1966; Evarts, 1968) in the 1960s. Conventional recording methods, based on these early developments, employ single movable sharp electrodes to isolate single cells in regions of interest. Cells must be recorded serially over many weeks to accumulate enough data to characterize the population of cells under study. More recently, systems that permit several sharp electrodesfrom approximately 2 to 16to be independently positioned have improved the yield and allow the activity of several cells to be monitored simultaneously. Recordings of this kind, however, are generally restricted to a single cortical or subcortical site and can be maintained only for a short time. In this chapter, we will describe a range of contemporary and emerging methods for studying the activity of large numbers of neurons, in multiple cortical and subcortical locations, for periods extending from several weeks to several years. Techniques for conducting multielectrode recordings will be described with special emphasis on issues unique to conducting these experiments in behaving monkeys (readers interested in more detail will be directed to the more specialized chapters of this volume and other resources where appropriate). To demonstrate the value of these methods for addressing significant neuroscientific questions, an example of the use of multi-electrode recordings in behaving monkeys from our own work will be described.
Modern research on brainmachine interfaces (BMI) is a highly multidisciplinary field that has been developing at a stunning pace since the first experiment conducted 8 years ago that demonstrated direct control of a robotic manipulator by ensembles of neurons recorded in cortical and subcortical areas in awake, behaving rats (Chapin, Moxon et al. 1999). Since this pioneering study, an exponentially growing stream of research publications has provoked an enormous interest in BMIs among scientists from different fields and the lay public. This level of interest stems from both the use of BMIs to investigate the way large and distributed neural circuits operate in behaving animals and the perceived potential that BMI technology can realize for restoration of motor behaviors and other functions in patients suffering from devastating neurological conditions. In theory, the group of patients that can benefit from BMI systems includes people who lost mobility as a consequence of neurodegenerative disorders, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), severe trauma and irreversible spinal cord injuries, stroke, and cerebral palsy. As the riskbenefit factor of invasive BMIs improves, it is conceivable that the same technology may be accepted by patients with less severe degrees of body paralysis or even by amputees. Future BMI technologies will not be limited to systems for restoration of mobility. We expect that systems for restoration of speech and restoration of communication between brain areas will likely emerge. These future neuroprostheses are expected to be seamlessly integrated with the human body as much as possible and to use the most advanced developments in robotics, material science, computational algorithms, and electrical engineering. Notwithstanding these high expectations, much work has to be done to develop solutions for numerous issues that preclude an immediate translation of laboratory demonstrations into practical clinical applications. Most of BMI research has been conducted in monkeys and rats, and clinical trials in humans are only starting. In this chapter, we highlight the major obstacles faced by BMI research and lay out a roadmap that can transform experimental advances into clinical applications that will benefit millions of people worldwide in the next decade. This roadmap is based on a critical analysis of previous studies conducted in both experimental animals and human subjects. The milestones that we propose take into account the experience accumulated during the last 5 years by a multiuniversity consortium led by the Duke University Center for Neuroengineering.
In the last ten years neural ensemble recording grew into a well-respected and highly data-lucrative science. New experimental paradigms, including the fabrication of high-density microelectrodes, new surgical implantation techniques, multi-channel signal processing, and the establishment of direct real-time brain-machine interfaces, hold promise not just for neurophysiology research, but also for new-generation prosthetic devices aimed at restoring mobility and communication skills in severely disabled patients.
The advance of BMIs was largely motivated by investigations of velocity encoding in single neurons during stereotypical reaching experiments. However, BMIs are designed to decode neural activity from an ensemble of neurons and direct general reaching movements. Hence, neural data analysis strategies for BMIs are required to: (1) analyze the neural activity from ensemble of neurons, (2) account for the dynamical nature of the neural activity associated with general reaching movements, and (3) explore and exploit other relevant modulating signals. Decoding neural activity can be performed either in a single stage or two stages. Two-stage decoding relies on a preliminary encoding stage to determine how the neurons are tuned to the relevant biological signals. Based on the estimated tuning curves, the neural activity across an ensemble of neurons can be decoded using either a population-vector, maximum likelihood estimation, or Bayesian inference (Pouget et al., 2003). The population-vector approach results in a linear relationship between the spike counts and the estimated biological signal, which can be estimated directly in a single stage using linear regression (Brown et al., 2004). This chapter focuses on single-stage decoding with linear regression, and in particular on two special challenges facing the application of linear regression to neural ensemble decoding during reaching movements (see Movement Prediction). First, given the dynamic nature of the decoded signal, it is necessary to include the history of the neural activity, rather than just its current spike count. Second, due to the correlation between the activities of different neurons (see Ensemble Analysis) and the activities in different time lags, the resulting regression problem is ill-posed and requires regularization techniques (see Linear Regression). Although neural decoding can be performed in a single stage, neural encoding is still important for investigating which signals are encoded in the neural activity. For this purpose, the notion of tuning curves is generalized to characterize how the neural activity represents the spatiotemporal profile of the movement. This analysis quantifies both the spatiotemporal tuning curves and the percent variance of the neural activity that is accounted by the movement profile (see Neuronal Encoding and Tuning Curves). For comparison, the percent variance in the neural activity that might be related to general neural modulations is assessed independently under the Poisson assumption (see Neuronal Modulations). These two-faced variance analyses provide a viable tool for quantifying the extent to which the neural code is effectively decoded, and the potential contribution of yet undecoded modulating signals. The strategies and algorithms described in this chapter are demonstrated using the neural activity recorded from an ensemble of cortical neurons in different brain areas during a typical target-hitting experiment with pole control as described in Carmena et al., 2003.
Successfully interfacing the CNS with external electronics holds great potential in improving the quality of life for patients with sensory and motor dysfunctions. The impact is already evident in the profound clinical applications of cochlear implants and deep brain stimulations [1,2]. More recently, the use of an invasive electronic brain implant, also known as a neuromotor prosthesis, to help a patient paralyzed by a tetraplegic spinal cord injury has been reported [3]. In the study, a 96-electrode array was implanted into the patients motor cortex to establish a braincomputer interface, where the patient could move a cursor to issue different instructions by thoughts of such motions. Clearly, it adds credibility to the enormous benefits that the interface technology could bring as a potential new therapy to restore independence for those severely disabled patients. Additionally, this interface technology may have significant implications for fundamental studies in neuroscience to understand normal physiology, pathology, or treatment of disorders such as epilepsy. A key component in such interface technology is the electrode, which is usually placed inside the CNS tissue to record neural impulses. These spikes will subsequently be translated into commands for external electronic devices. Currently, several types of electrodes are being used for research purposes, including microwires [4], glass electrodes [5], polymeric electrodes [6], and silicon micromachined implants [7,8]. Among these designs, microwires and silicon electrodes are the most popular. Microwires are well-established, metal-based, tip-recording electrodes. Their features include the ability to record large numbers of single units and ease of fabrication. However, they lack precise positioning inside the tissue. In comparison, silicon micromachined electrodes allow for greater control over electrode placement in vivo, as well as precise and versatile electrode design to accommodate signal recordings at different depths. This, however, comes at the price of a sophisticated multistep fabrication process. There are two prominent silicon electrodes in the field, widely known as the Utah electrode array (UEA) and the Michigan probe. The UEA is a three-dimensional array of needle-like structures with recording sites located at the tips, while the Michigan probe is a thin-film planar array with recording sites spaced out along the electrode shank. Our discussion will mainly refer to the silicon electrode, as such technology has the potential to enable precise dense sampling that will permit detailed mapping of the nervous system and improve the development of prosthetic devices.



There are indications that the dilution of botulinum toxin affects dose-response. This must be considered when comparing different products. The aim of this study was to estimate a concentration of Dysport in physiological saline that is approximately equivalent to Botox 100 U/ml with respect to anhidrotic and muscular effect. Thirty-six patients with primary palmar hyperhidrosis were treated with multiple intradermal injections of 0.02 ml botulinum toxin. Botox(R) was injected in one hand and Dysport in the other in a random order. The concentrations of Dysport were 200 U/ml (n=18), 150 U/ml (n=11) and 100 U/ml (n=7). Muscular effect was measured as the reduction in compound muscle action potential in 3 muscles in the hand and anhidrotic effect was indicated by an iodine-starch test 4 weeks after treatment. Dysport at 200 U/ml was more potent than Botox at 100 U/ml with regard to both anhidrotic and muscular effect. The equipotent concentration of Dysport, compared with Botox 100 U/ml, was found to be in the range 100-150 U/ml.
Botulinum toxin is used in various fields of medicine, including in the treatment of hyperhidrosis. Three products containing botulinum toxin are commercially available in Sweden; Botox, Dysport and Neurobloc. In the literature dose-response has varied with respect to these 3 products. We hypothesized that the dilution level of botulinum toxin is of importance for the effect and we therefore investigated anhidrosis after intradermal injections of each product in 3 different concentrations. Nine healthy subjects received 0.1 ml injections in the back. The anhidrotic areas were identified by an iodine-starch test after 3 weeks. When the 3 products were diluted to 100 U/ml level the achieved mean anhidrotic areas were approximately the same. This is in strong contrast with the large dose conversion factors suggested for intramuscular injections of the products. Furthermore, the lowest used concentrations for Botox(R) (25 U/ml) and Neurobloc (100 U/ml) led to the largest anhidrotic mean area per unit, respectively. The optimal concentration in this study was 25 U/ml for Botox, 100 U/ml for Dysport and 100 U/ml for Neurobloc, but for Botox and Neurobloc the optimal concentrations may be even lower.
The large majority of excitatory synapses are located on dendritic spines which are discrete membrane protrusions present on neuronal dendrites. Interestingly the highly heterogeneous morphology of dendritic spines is thought to be the morphological basis for synaptic plasticity associated to learning and memory formation. Indeed dendritic spines structure is regulated by molecular mechanisms that are fine tuned and adjusted according to level and direction of synaptic activity, development, specific brain region, and different experimental behavioral conditions. This supports the idea that reciprocal changes between the structure and function of spines impact both local and global integration of signals within dendrites. An increasing number of proteins have been found to be morphogens for dendritic spines and provided new insights into the molecular mechanisms regulating spine formation and morphology. Thus determining the mechanisms that regulate spine formation and morphology is essential for understanding the cellular changes that underlie learning and memory in normal and pathological conditions.
Different theories conceptualise dyslexia as either a phonological, attentional, auditory, magnocellular, or automatisation deficit. Such heterogeneity suggests the existence of yet unrecognised subtypes of dyslexics suffering from distinguishable deficits. The purpose of the study was to identify cognitive subtypes of dyslexia. Out of 642 children screened for reading ability 49 dyslexics and 48 controls were tested for phonological awareness, auditory discrimination, motion detection, visual attention, and rhythm imitation. A combined cluster and discriminant analysis approach revealed three clusters of dyslexics with different cognitive deficits. Compared to reading-unimpaired children cluster no. 1 had worse phonological awareness; cluster no. 2 had higher attentional costs; cluster no. 3 performed worse in the phonological, auditory, and magnocellular tasks. These results indicate that dyslexia may result from distinct cognitive impairments. As a consequence, prevention and remediation programmes should be specifically targeted for the individual child's deficit pattern.

Intracerebral hemorrhagic transformation is a multifactorial phenomenon in which ischemic brain tissue converts into a hemorrhagic lesion with blood vessel leakage. Hemorrhagic transformation can significantly contribute to additional brain injury after stroke. Especially threatening are the thrombolytic-induced hemorrhages after reperfusion therapy with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), the only treatment available for ischemic stroke. In this context, it is important to understand its underlying mechanisms and identify early markers of hemorrhagic transformation, so that we can both search for new treatments as well as predict clinical outcomes in patients. In this review, we discuss the emerging mechanisms for hemorrhagic transformation after stroke, and briefly survey potential molecular, genetic, and neuroimaging markers that might be used for early detection of this challenging clinical problem.















Neural pathways connect different parts of the cerebellum to different parts of the central nervous system. The cerebellum may be divided anatomically and functionally into three major regions. The cerebellar hemispheres and a small part of the posterior lobe vermis form the pontocerebellum, which receives inputs from the cerebral cortex via the pontine nuclei. The anterior lobe and most of the posterior lobe vermis make up the spinocerebellum, which receives afferents from the spinal cord. The nodulus and flocculus are connected with the vestibular nuclei and constitute the vestibulocerebellum. Most cases of cerebellar disease affect more than one region and different pathways. Hence, they cause generalized cerebellar symptoms dominated by impaired motor control and balance. Focal syndromes after restricted cerebellar lesions are rare. Isolated spinocerebellar affection may give gait ataxia. Vestibulocerebellar disease causes equilibrium disturbances with truncal ataxia and nystagmus. Pontocerebellar lesions typically give ipsilateral limb ataxia, but also dysartria and oculomotor dysfunction if vermal parts are involved. The clinical picture is in most cases of cerebellar disease dominated by motor disturbances, but the cerebellum also participates in the modulation of autonomic and affective responses and in cognitive functions. The cerebrocerebellar and hypothalamocerebellar circuits may be important for these tasks.
This brief historical review on neuroscience in Norway shows a comparatively high research activity with many important results. The Norwegian zoologist Fridtjof Nansen, who later became a famous Arctic explorer, was the first to formulate the neuron doctrine. 'The Oslo School of Neuroanatomy' contributed enormously to the understanding of the detailed anatomy and chemistry of the central nervous system. Norwegian neurophysiologists made important findings from studies of hippocampus including the inhibitory basket cell, the LTP phenomenon and the 'hippocampal-slice-technique'. In clinical neuroscience the description of Refsum's disease and studies of myasthenia gravis and multiple sclerosis have been of particular importance. Two of 13 centres of excellence in Norway selected in 2003 were from neuroscience, and The Norwegian Research Council has its own programme for neuroscience. The Norwegian Neurological Association arranges annual meetings to promote interest in neurological research.

Huntington disease (HD) occurs only in humans. Thus, its natural pathogenesis takes place exclusively within the human brains expressing the causative, mutated protein huntingtin (mhtt). The techniques applicable to postmortem human HD brains are inadequate for investigating the cellular pathogenesis. The creation of genetically engineered animals represents a critical moment in neuroscience. Monitoring the actions of either normal, or abnormal proteins at subcellular levels, and at different time points is now possible thanks to these models. They are the necessary substitutes to investigate the wild type (whtt), or mhtt. The postmortem neuropathologic phenotype of the human HD is well documented. Its pattern and spectrum are highly predictable. From this point of view, the existent models do not exhibit the phenotypic constellation of changes seen in the human HD brains. On one hand, this deficit reflects the limitations of the methods of evaluation used in a clinical setting. On the other hand, it highlights the limitations of the animals. The validity of the models probably should be measured by their capacity of reproducing the cellular dysfunctions of HD rather than the phenotype of the postmortem human brains. Although not perfect, these models are essential for modeling the human disease in cells, which is not feasible with postmortem human HD brains. Nonetheless, their relevance to the patient population remains to be determined. Ultimately needed are means preventing the disease to occur, the discovery of which probably depends on these models.

The 'body schema' has traditionally been defined as a passively updated, proprioceptive representation of the body. However, recent work has suggested that body representations are more complex and flexible than previously thought. They may integrate current perceptual information from all sensory modalities, and can be extended to incorporate indirect representations of the body and functional portions of tools. In the present study, we investigate the source of a facilitatory effect of viewing the body on speeded visual discrimination reaction times. Participants responded to identical visual stimuli that varied only in their context: being presented on the participant's own body, on the experimenter's body, or in a neutral context. The stimuli were filmed and viewed in real-time on a projector screen. Careful controls for attention, biological saliency, and attribution confirmed that the facilitatory effect depends critically on participants attributing the context to a real body. An intermediate effect was observed when the stimuli were presented on another person's body, suggesting that the effect of viewing one's own body might represent a conjunction of an interpersonal body effect and an egocentric effect.
This study investigated whether electro-acupuncture (EA) would improve the survival and migration of neural stem cells (NSCs) transplanted in injured spinal cord as well as the potential mechanisms. T10 spinal cord segments of 50 adult Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were completely transected, and then NSCs were immediately transplanted into the transected site of the experimental animals, while control animals were sham operated without transplantation. Five days post-operation, electro-acupuncture treatment on GV9 (Zhiyang), GV6 (Jizhong), GV2 (Yaoshu) and GV1 (Changqiang) acupoints was applied for 14 days (EA+NSCs 14d) and 30 days (EA+NSCs 30d). ELISA and immunohistochemical staining were used to assess the content of neurotrophine-3 (NT-3) and the characteristics of transplanted NSCs. We found that the number of transplanted NSCs the survived in EA+NSCs14d group was significantly increased as compared to that of the NSCs30d group (5825.20 +/- 819.01 vs 4781.40 +/- 500.49, P&lt;0.05). Immunostaining indicated that some transplanted NSCs developed into microtubule association protein 2 (MAP2) positive cells and many of them developed into glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) positive cells in the NSCs30d group. Further, the migration length of transplanted NSCs toward caudal tissue in the injured site was longer in the EA+NSCs30d group than that in NSCs30d group (5.98 +/- 0.79 mm vs 3.96 +/- 1.72 mm; P&lt;0.05). Also NT-3 in injured spinal cord tissue was 23% increased in the EA+NSCs14d group. These results suggest that the combination of EA and NSCs improves the survival and migration of NSCs in injured spinal cord in rats.
This paper aims to test the clinical and research utility of a Spanish version of the Teen-Addiction Severity Index (T-ASI) in adolescents with psychiatric disorders attending a treatment programme. Eighty adolescents, 12 to 17 years old (Mean=14.5; SD=1.48) were evaluated with a research battery including the T-ASI to obtain data on socio-demographics, psychopathology, drug use, family environment and school achievement. The Substance Use scale of the T-ASI correlated significantly (Rho=0.90, p&lt;/=0.01) with an ordinal measure of &quot;pattern of any drug use&quot;, and with &quot;subjective problems with drugs&quot; (rank 0-32) (Rho=0.69, p&lt;/=0.01). All T-ASI scales, except Psychiatric Status, showed significant correlations with externalized scores of the Children's Behavior Checklist (CBC) and also discriminated between patients with and without Substance Use Disorders. To conclude, Spanish version of the T-ASI shows adequate psychometric properties to be used as a clinical and research instrument in Spanish-speaking adolescents with psychiatric disorders.



For decades, Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been linked to aging, gender, and menopause. Not surprisingly, this led most investigators to focus on the role of estrogen. While undoubtedly important, estrogen is unlikely the key determinant of disease pathogenesis. Rather, it appears that estrogen may work in conjunction with a novel determinant of disease pathogenesis, namely gonadotropins. The fact that gonadotropins, specifically luteinizing hormone, play a pivotal role in disease is apparent from significant etiological, epidemiological, and pathological evidences. Moreover, targeting gonadotropins appears to have beneficial actions as a therapeutic regimen.
Dynamics of the slow-growing (pointed) end of the actin filament is regulated by tropomodulins, a family of capping proteins that require tropomyosin for optimal function. Tropomodulin is an elongated molecule with a molecular mass of about 40 kDa, containing the Tm-independent actin-binding site at the C-terminus. The highly disordered N-terminal half of tropomodulin contains two Tm-binding sites and a Tm-dependent actin-binding site. There are many Tm isoforms whose distribution varies in different tissues and cell compartments and changes during development of these tissues. Tropomyosin/tropomodulin interactions are isoform specific. Differences in Tm affinity for the two binding sites in Tmod may regulate its correct positioning at the pointed end as well as effectiveness of capping actin filament. The regulation of tropomodulin binding may have significant consequences for local cytoskeletal formation and filament dynamics in cells.
Tropomyosin is known as the archetypal coiled coil, being the first to be sequenced and modeled. Studies of the structure and dynamics of tropomyosin, accompanied by biochemical and biophysical analyses of tropomyosin, mutants and model peptides, have revealed the complexity and subtleties required for tropomyosin function. Interruptions in the canonical coiled coil allow for bends and regions of local instability that are required for tropomyosin to bind to the helical actin filament. This chapter highlights insights gained from recent structural studies as they relate to variations in tropomyosin's coiled-coil structure that are essential for binding to actin and the relationship of periodic repeats to actin molecules in the filament.
Tissue damage caused by oxidative stress has been implicated in aging, carcinogenesis, atherosclerosis and neurodegeneration. In xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) and Cockayne syndrome (CS), oxidative stress is associated with promoted occurrence of skin cancers and progressive neurodegeneration, because decreased DNA repair and persistent DNA damage can result in augmented oxidative nucleotide damage. Oxidative nucleotide damage has been investigated mainly in isolated human skin and blood cells or their cell lines, in which CS cells may be more sensitive to oxidative DNA lesions than XP cells. However, cells from patients with XP group A (XPA) show defective repair of 8, 5'-(S)-cyclo-2'-deoxyadenosine, a free radical-induced endogenous DNA lesion and antioxidant system seems to be disturbed variously in cells from XP patients. We have neuropathologically investigated the involvement of oxidative stress in the brains of XPA and CS autopsy cases and clarified the enhanced lipid peroxidation and protein glycation in the pallidal and cerebellar degeneration. Also, oxidative nucleotide damage with reduced expression of superoxide dismutases has been identified in the basal ganglia lesions, lending further weight involvement of oxidative stress in neurodegeneration in XPA patients. Additionally, we are developing ELISA analysis of oxidative stress markers in the urine and cerebrospinal fluid from XP patients, which will aid with further data on oxidative stress in pathogenesis of XP.
The fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster) exhibits robust odor-evoked behaviors in response to cues from diverse host plants and pheromonal cues from other flies. Understanding how the adult olfactory system supports the perception of these odorous chemicals and translates them into appropriate attraction or avoidance behaviors is an important goal in contemporary sensory neuroscience. Recent advances in genomics and molecular neurobiology have provided an unprecedented level of detail into how the adult Drosophila olfactory system is organized. Volatile odorants are sensed by two bilaterally symmetric olfactory sensory appendages, the third segment of the antenna and the maxillary palps, which respectively contain approximately 1200 and 120 olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) each. These OSNs express a divergent family of seven transmembrane domain odorant receptors (ORs) with no homology to vertebrate ORs, which determine the odor specificity of a given OSN. Drosophila was the first animal for which all OR genes were cloned, their patterns of gene expression determined and axonal projections of most OSNs elucidated. In vivo electrophysiology has been used to decode the ligand response profiles of most of the ORs, providing insight into the initial logic of olfactory coding in the fly. This chapter will review the molecular biology, neuroanatomy and function of the peripheral olfactory system of Drosophila.


The integrity of retinal pigment epithelial cells is critical for photoreceptor cell survival and vision. The essential omega-3 fatty acid, docosahexaenoic acid, attains its highest concentration in the human body in photoreceptors. Docosahexaenoic acid is the essential precursor of neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1). NPD1 acts against apoptosis mediated by A2E, a byproduct of phototransduction that becomes toxic when it accumulates in aging retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells and in some inherited retinal degenerations. Here we also describe that neurotrophins, mainly pigment epithelium-derived factor, induce NPD1 synthesis and its polarized apical secretion, suggesting paracrine and autocrine bioactivity of this lipid mediator. In addition, DHA elicits a concentration-dependent and selective potentiation of pigment epithelial-derived factor-stimulated NPD1 synthesis and release through the apical RPE cell surface. The bioactivity of signaling activated by PEDF and DHA demonstrates synergistic cytoprotection when cells were challenged with oxidative stress, resulting in concomitant NPD1 synthesis. Also, DHA and PEDF synergistically activate anti-apoptotic protein expression and decreased pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein expression and caspase 3 activation during oxidative stress. Thus, DHA-derived NPD1 protects against RPE cell damage mediated by aging/disease-induced A2E accumulation. Also, neurotrophins are regulators of NPD1 synthesis and of its polarized apical efflux from RPE cells. Therefore, NPD1 may elicit autocrine and paracrine bioactivity in cells located in the proximity of the interphotoreceptor matrix.
Recent work from our laboratory has focused on identifying burst-to-burst variability in temporal and spectral characteristics for 5-minute time series segments of basal inspiratory motor discharges from urethane-anesthetized adult C57BL/6 mice. The current investigation, as the continuation of our previous studies, examined short- and long-term burst-to-burst variability in temporal and spectral components as well as in complexity, which reflects the central respiratory network dynamics. All measures were assessed by quantitative poincar plot analyses and the determination of the coefficient of variation.
Chemosensitive (CS) neurons are found in discrete brainstem regions, but whether the CS response of these neurons is due to intrinsic chemosensitivity of individual neurons or is mediated by changes in chemical and/or electrical synaptic input is largely unknown. We studied the effect of synaptic blockade (11.4 mM Mg2+/0.2mM Ca2+) solution (SNB) and a gap junction uncoupling agent carbenoxolone (CAR--100 microM) on the response of neurons from two CS brainstem regions, the NTS and the LC. In NTS neurons, SNB decreased spontaneous firing rate (FR). We calculated the magnitude of the FR response to hypercapnic acidosis (HA; 15% CO2) using the Chemosensitivity Index (CI). The percentage of NTS neurons activated and CI were the same in the absence and presence of SNB. Blocking gap junctions with CAR did not significantly alter spontaneous FR. CAR did not alter the CI in NTS neurons and resulted in a small decrease in the percentage of activated neurons, which was most evident in NTS neurons from rats younger than postnatal day 10. In LC neurons, SNB resulted in an increase in spontaneous FR. As with NTS neurons, SNB did not alter the percentage of activated neurons or the CI in LC neurons. CAR resulted in a small increase in spontaneous FR in LC neurons. In contrast, CAR had a marked effect on the response of LC neurons to HA: a reduced percentage of CS LC neurons and decreased CI. In summary, both NTS and LC neurons appear to contain intrinsically CS neurons. CS neurons from the two regions receive different tonic input in slices (excitatory for NTS and inhibitory for LC); however, blocking chemical synaptic input does not affect the CS response in either region. In NTS neurons, gap junction coupling plays a small role in the CS response, but gap junctions play a major role in the chemosensitivity of many LC neurons.
Currently, a change in pH(i) is believed to be the major signal in the chemosensitive (CS) response of brainstem neurons to hypercapnia; however, multiple factors (e.g., Ca2+, CO2, pH(i), and pHo) have been suggested to contribute to this increase in firing rate. While there is evidence for a significant role of pH(i) in the CS response, we hypothesize that hypercapnic acidosis (HA) can increase firing rate even with no change in pH(i). We tested several methods to clamp pH(i), including high intracellular buffer and the use of rapid diffusion of weak bases or weak acids through the cell membrane. We were able to clamp pH(i) during hypercapnic exposure using weak acids. We observed a CS response to HA, with pH(i) clamped, indicating that intracellular acidification, while sufficient to increase firing rate, is not required for the response of CS neurons. The CS response to HA without a change in pH(i) is most likely due to extracellular acidification and/or increased CO2 and strongly supports the multiple factors model of chemosensitive signaling.

The carotid bodies are the major peripheral chemoreceptors that detect changes in arterial blood oxygen level. PACAP-deficient mice are prone to sudden neonatal death and have reduced respiratory response to hypoxia and hypercapnia. To investigate whether PACAP contributes to the chemotransduction in carotid body, we studied the action of PACAP on glomus cells isolated from rat carotid body. We found that PACAP triggered cytosolic [Ca2+] ([Ca2+]i) rise in glomus cells. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ reversibly inhibited the PACAP-mediated [Ca2+]i rise. Under voltage clamp conditions and in the presence of tetraethylammonium (TEA) and Cd2+, PACAP reduced the outward current evoked at positive potentials. We suggest that the inhibition of a TEA-insensitive current is a mechanism underlying the PACAP-mediated [Ca2+]i rise in glomus cells. The loss of the stimulatory action of PACAP in glomus cells may partly account for the reduction in chemoresponse in the PACAP-deficient mice.




New developments in the area of sexual dysfunction, e.g. epidemiology and pharmacological treatment, are reviewed. Areas where new developments/changes are needed, such as diagnosis of sexual dysfunction and research methodology, are also briefly discussed.
Hormesis is a term used by toxicologists to refer to a biphasic dose-response to an environmental agent characterized by a low dose stimulation or beneficial effect and a high dose inhibitory or toxic effect. In the fields of biology and medicine hormesis is defined as an adaptive response of cells and organisms to a moderate (usually intermittent) stress. Examples include ischemic preconditioning, exercise, dietary energy restriction and exposures to low doses of certain phytochemicals. Recent findings have elucidated the cellular signaling pathways and molecular mechanisms that mediate hormetic responses which typically involve enzymes such as kinases and deacetylases, and transcription factors such as Nrf-2 and NF-kappaB. As a result, cells increase their production of cytoprotective and restorative proteins including growth factors, phase 2 and antioxidant enzymes, and protein chaperones. A better understanding of hormesis mechanisms at the cellular and molecular levels is leading to and to novel approaches for the prevention and treatment of many different diseases.
The impact of dietary factors on health and longevity is increasingly appreciated. The most prominent dietary factor that affects the risk of many different chronic diseases is energy intake -- excessive calorie intake increases the risk. Reducing energy intake by controlled caloric restriction or intermittent fasting increases lifespan and protects various tissues against disease, in part, by hormesis mechanisms that increase cellular stress resistance. Some specific dietary components may also exert health benefits by inducing adaptive cellular stress responses. Indeed, recent findings suggest that several heavily studied phytochemicals exhibit biphasic dose responses on cells with low doses activating signaling pathways that result in increased expression of genes encoding cytoprotective proteins including antioxidant enzymes, protein chaperones, growth factors and mitochondrial proteins. Examples include: activation of the Nrf-2 -- ARE pathway by sulforaphane and curcumin; activation of TRP ion channels by allicin and capsaicin; and activation of sirtuin-1 by resveratrol. Research that establishes dose response and kinetic characteristics of the effects of dietary factors on cells, animals and humans will lead to a better understanding of hormesis and to improvements in dietary interventions for disease prevention and treatment.
In vertebrates and invertebrates, relationships between diet and health are controlled by a conserved signalling pathway responsive to insulin-like ligands. In invertebrate models for example, forkhead transcription factor family O (FOXO) transcription factors in this pathway regulate the rate of aging in response to dietary cues, and in vertebrates, obesity and age-induced deficits in the same pathway are thought to contribute to dysregulation of hepatic gluconeogenesis through genes such as phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK). Recently, we have begun to screen for dietary constituents capable of regulating this pathway in our cell culture model. Here, we identify three black tea theaflavins, theaflavin 3-O-gallate, theaflavin 3'-O-gallate, theaflavin 3,3'di-O-gallate and thearubigins as novel mimics of insulin/IGF-1 action on mammalian FOXO1a, PEPCK and moreover we provide evidence that the effects on this pathway of the green tea constituent (-)-epigallocatechin gallate depend on its ability to be converted into these larger structures. With the exception of water, tea is the most popular drink globally, but despite this, little is known about the biological availability of black tea polyphenols in vivo or the molecular target(s) mediating the effects presented here. Further investigation in these two areas might provide insight into how age-related metabolic disease may be deferred.


Human studies are necessary to identify and classify the brain systems predisposing individuals to develop alcohol use disorders and those modified by alcohol, while animal models of alcoholism are essential for a mechanistic understanding of how chronic voluntary alcohol consumption becomes compulsive, how brain systems become damaged, and how damage resolves. Our current knowledge of the neuroscience of alcohol dependence has evolved from the interchange of information gathered from both human alcoholics and animal models of alcoholism. Together, studies in humans and animal models have provided support for the involvement of specific brain structures over the course of alcohol addiction, including the prefrontal cortex, basal ganglia, cerebellum, amygdala, hippocampus, and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Behavioral phenotypes (e.g., drug responses and withdrawal) are typically quantitative traits-characteristics that differ along a spectrum in the extent to which an individual possesses that characteristic. Such traits are determined by multiple genes, as well as by environmental factors and interactions among genes and environmental factors. The chromosomal regions containing these genes are commonly referred to as quantitative trait loci (QTLs). As described in the preceding article by Hitzemann and colleagues (pp. 270- 271), researchers have developed a variety of strategies to attain greater precision when mapping QTLs (Darvasi 1998; Talbot et al. 1999), which is necessary for unbiased genomewide approaches such as QTL mapping to be successful in ultimately identifying which gene(s) underlies a QTL's phenotypic influence. Among these, some approaches are clearly superior for fine mapping QTLs associated with behavioral traits. One such strategy employs specially bred animals known as interval-specific congenics (ISCs) (sometimes called small donor segment congenics). This article introduces the use of these animals in mapping QTLs associated with certain responses to alcohol.
Until well into the 1990s, both preclinical and clinical research focused on finding &quot;the&quot; gene for human diseases, including alcoholism. This focus was reinforced by the emergence of technologies to either inactivate (i.e., knock out) a gene or add extra copies of an existing gene in a living organism, which clearly demonstrated that over- or underexpressing a single gene could have a profound effect on behavior. However, a small but vocal group of scientists, including many alcohol researchers, argued that behaviors, including alcohol-related behaviors, were complex traits and therefore no one gene likely would have a large effect. This view was consistent with a large body of genetic research conducted in plants and fruit flies (e.g., Paterson et al. 1988) indicating that, for example, even a presumably simple characteristic, such as the size of a tomato, was determined by several genes. However, it was difficult to convince the scientific community that, in terms of its genetic determination, behavior was similar to the size of a tomato. Only with the advent of new genetic tools did it become possible to prove that many different genes contribute to complex behavioral characteristics.
When analyzing alcohol's effects on the brain, researchers often want to look at small clusters of cells that can be studied in isolation from the surrounding brain tissue rather than at the entire brain or larger brain areas. This implies that relatively small numbers of cells have to be retrieved from the brain and studied in culture or subjected to biochemical analyses. The challenge then becomes how to isolate small numbers of cells from a specific brain region without including unwanted cells. One approach to solving this problem is to use a technology known as laser-assisted microdissection (LMD). This article reviews some of the principles of LMD and its use in alcohol research.
The recent emergence of magnetic resonance (MR)-based neuroimaging techniques has dramatically improved researchers' ability to understand the neuropathology of alcoholism. These techniques range from those that directly monitor the metabolism and the biochemical and physiological effects (i.e., the pharmacodynamics) of alcohol within the brain to techniques that examine the impact of heavy alcohol use on brain structure and function. In general, MR-based techniques measure electromagnetic signals (the same type of signals detected by a radio antenna) generated by nuclei of endogenous molecules in the body of a person placed in a powerful magnet field. When influenced by a magnet, tissue itself transiently becomes magnetic. In part, this is because of the properties of atomic nuclei. Different MR-based techniques have been developed to utilize nuclear magnetism induced in tissue to generate images of internal structure. The most commonly used MR imaging (MRI) techniques rely on signals derived from hydrogen nuclei in water, which is by far the most concentrated molecular species in the body. The physical properties of water molecules vary from one region of tissue to another, and this influences the nuclear magnetism generated by water hydrogen nuclei. As a result, MRI can differentiate regions in soft tissue at a high level of detail. A second approach-MR spectroscopy (MRS)- uses the same strategy to detect electromagnetic signals, but they are derived from nuclei of atoms (hydrogen as well as some other atoms) on molecules other than water, such as lipids, amino acids, or even alcohol (i.e., ethanol). The resulting data on the molecule(s) under investigation can provide detailed information about the metabolic activity of various tissues, including the brain. The main advantage of MR-based techniques is that they do not expose the subject to radioactive tracers and therefore can be used repeatedly in the same subject, allowing researchers to track metabolic or structural changes over time. This article briefly summarizes how these techniques may be used to characterize the effects of alcohol dependence on the brain.
Alcohol use and abuse are widespread in the U.S. population. Moreover, for each drinker, alcohol consumption, particularly at excessive levels, has a vast range of effects on the body. Accordingly, research programs aimed at understanding alcohol's effects on the individual as well as on society are similarly varied and widespread. Much of this research focuses on alcohol's impact on the brain and individual nerve cells (i.e., neurons). A detailed survey of the strategies used to investigate the neural mechanisms associated with alcohol use and abuse would easily fill multiple volumes. Instead, this Special Section provides brief reviews of topics largely associated with two areas of research: 1) What strategies can researchers use to image the acute and chronic effects of alcohol on brain function? 2) How can investigators detect the genes, gene products, and gene networks associated with alcohol-related traits?
Nerve cells (i.e., neurons) communicate via a combination of electrical and chemical signals. Within the neuron, electrical signals driven by charged particles allow rapid conduction from one end of the cell to the other. Communication between neurons occurs at tiny gaps called synapses, where specialized parts of the two cells (i.e., the presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons) come within nanometers of one another to allow for chemical transmission. The presynaptic neuron releases a chemical (i.e., a neurotransmitter) that is received by the postsynaptic neuron's specialized proteins called neurotransmitter receptors. The neurotransmitter molecules bind to the receptor proteins and alter postsynaptic neuronal function. Two types of neurotransmitter receptors exist-ligand-gated ion channels, which permit rapid ion flow directly across the outer cell membrane, and G-protein-coupled receptors, which set into motion chemical signaling events within the cell. Hundreds of molecules are known to act as neurotransmitters in the brain. Neuronal development and function also are affected by peptides known as neurotrophins and by steroid hormones. This article reviews the chemical nature, neuronal actions, receptor subtypes, and therapeutic roles of several transmitters, neurotrophins, and hormones. It focuses on neurotransmitters with important roles in acute and chronic alcohol effects on the brain, such as those that contribute to intoxication, tolerance, dependence, and neurotoxicity, as well as maintained alcohol drinking and addiction.
Discovery, development, and testing of new drugs with novel mechanisms and new indications are extremely risky. The number of new drugs introduced into clinical practice with new mechanisms and novel indications has not increased during recent years in spite of advances in biologic science. The sources of uncertainty leading to failure in drug development are discussed in three categories: biologic or target risk, clinical development uncertainty, and market uncertainty. Efforts to develop drugs that modify the course of Alzheimer's disease and/or delay the initial clinical manifestations of disease are subject to all three types of risk. Opportunities for government, academic researchers, advocacy groups, and the pharmaceutical industry to mitigate some of these risks and possibly speed the introduction of new therapies are mentioned.
Considerable evidence has emerged through more than a decade of research supporting the neuroprotective and cognition-preserving effects of estrogens. Such basic research coupled with various epidemiological studies led quickly to the assessment of Premarin for the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD), initiated by the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study Group and headed by Dr. Leon Thal. While this and subsequent trials with Premarin (Wyeth Research, Monmouth Junction, New Jersey) and PremPro (Wyeth Research), a conjugated equine estrogen preparation plus medoxyprogresterone acetate, have not supported the use of estrogens in treating advanced AD, considerable inferences have been made from these placebo controlled trials of estrogens. Here, we aimed to put these AD trials of estrogens in perspective by considering the potential mechanisms of these potent neuroprotective estrogens, the role of estrogens in other neurodegenerative conditions, such as cerebral ischemia, and based on our current understanding of estrogen neurobiology, offer insight into the design of future clinical trails of estrogens for neuronal protection.














There is considerable interest in the use of neuroimaging techniques for forensic purposes. Memory detection techniques, including the well-publicized Brain Fingerprinting technique (Brain Fingerprinting Laboratories, Inc., Seattle WA), exploit the fact that the brain responds differently to sensory stimuli to which it has been exposed before. When a stimulus is specifically associated with a crime, the resulting brain activity should differentiate between someone who was present at the crime and someone who was not. This article reviews the scientific literature on three such techniques: priming, old/new, and P300 effects. The forensic potential of these techniques is evaluated based on four criteria: specificity, automaticity, encoding flexibility, and longevity. This article concludes that none of the techniques are devoid of forensic potential, although much research is yet to be done. Ethical issues, including rights to privacy and against self-incrimination, are discussed. A discussion of legal issues concludes that current memory detection techniques do not yet meet United States standards of legal admissibility.


The Neuroethics Affinity Group of the American Society for Bioethics and Humanities (ASBH) met for the third time in October 2007 to review progress in the field of neuroethics and consider high-impact priorities for the future. Closely aligned with ASBH's own goals of recruiting junior scholars to bioethics and mentoring them to successful careers, the Neuroethics Affinity Group placed a call for new ideas to be presented at the Group meeting, specifically by junior attendees. One group responded with the idea to probe a new direction for neuroethics focused on the neuroscience of gender differences. In the spirit of full disclosure, two of the authors are a student (Chalfin) and fellow (Murphy) of the program I formerly directed at Stanford University. The third (Karkazis) is junior faculty there. The intellectual ownership of the ideas in the report below, however, are entirely theirs. Like lit torches in a juggling act, there are many directions this project can go. The report is a snapshot of these authors' first iteration of the concept of women's neuroethics. Many thanks are extended to participants of the ASBH Neuroethics Affinity Group meeting whose enthusiasm and feedback was immensely helpful in shaping the concept and moving it ahead.

This study investigated the link between exposure to early life trauma, sensitivity to current daily stressors, and cocaine dependence. Individuals with (n = 105) or without (n = 53) cocaine dependence completed the Early Trauma Inventory and the Daily Hassles Scale. In comparison to controls, cocaine-dependent individuals reported almost twice as many daily hassles and perceived those hassles more negatively (p &lt; .001). For participants with cocaine dependence, a significant relationship between exposure to early life trauma and negative perception of current daily hassles was observed (p &lt; .01), whereas no such relationship was observed for participants without cocaine dependence. Adverse childhood events may lead to an altered view of the environment that contributes to increased irritability with daily life events among cocaine-dependent individuals.


Autism is a genetically complex neurodevelopmental syndrome in which language deficits are a core feature. We describe results from two complimentary approaches used to identify risk variants on chromosome 7 that likely contribute to the etiology of autism. A two-stage association study tested 2758 SNPs across a 10 Mb 7q35 language-related autism QTL in AGRE (Autism Genetic Resource Exchange) trios and found significant association with Contactin Associated Protein-Like 2 (CNTNAP2), a strong a priori candidate. Male-only containing families were identified as primarily responsible for this association signal, consistent with the strong male affection bias in ASD and other language-based disorders. Gene-expression analyses in developing human brain further identified CNTNAP2 as enriched in circuits important for language development. Together, these results provide convergent evidence for involvement of CNTNAP2, a Neurexin family member, in autism, and demonstrate a connection between genetic risk for autism and specific brain structures.
Worster-Drought syndrome (WDS) is a distinct clinical phenotype, comprising a congenital pseudobulbar palsy usually in association with a mild tetraplegia and often additional impairments. The phenotype is identical to that described in congenital bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria syndrome (CBPS) and appears to have several different causes and a significant familial incidence. This study draws from a database of children with WDS phenotype or perisylvian polymicrogyria, held at a tertiary center. The findings suggest that genetic factors are important for a significant proportion of children and points to considerable genetic heterogeneity. There are grounds for considering WDS and perisylvian polymicrogyria as a spectrum of perisylvian malfunction.
Many of the most distinctive attributes of our species are a product of our brains. To understand the function, development, variability, and evolution of the human brain, we must engage with the field of neuroscience. Neuroscientific methods can be used to investigate research topics that are of special interest to anthropologists, such as the neural bases of primate behavioral diversity, human brain evolution, and human brain development. Traditional neuroscience methods had to rely on investigation of postmortem brains, as well as invasive studies in living nonhuman primates. However, recent neuroimaging methods have made it possible to compare living human and nonhuman primate brains using noninvasive techniques such as structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, and diffusion tensor imaging. These methods are providing an integrated picture of brain structure and function that was not previously available. With a combination of these traditional and modern neuroscience methods, we are beginning to explore and understand the neural bases of some of the most distinctive cognitive and behavioral attributes of the human species, including language, tool use, altruism, and mental self-projection, and we can now begin to propose plausible scenarios by which the neural substrates supporting these human specializations evolved from pre-existing neural circuitry serving related functions in common ancestors we shared with the living nonhuman primates. Consideration of the process of neurodevelopment suggests plausible mechanisms by which the highly encephalized human brain might have evolved. Neurodevelopmental studies also demonstrate that experience can shape both brain structure and function, providing a mechanism by which people of different cultures learn to act and think differently. Finally, not only can anthropologists benefit from neuroscience, neuroscience can benefit from the more sophisticated concept of evolution that anthropology offers, including an appreciation of evolutionary diversity as well as consideration of the process by which the human brain was formed during evolution.
The aim of this study was to elucidate the mechanisms responsible for the effects of innervation on the maturation of excitation-contraction coupling apparatus in human skeletal muscle. For this purpose, we compared the establishment of the excitation-contraction coupling mechanism in myotubes differentiated in four different experimental paradigms: 1) aneurally cultured, 2) cocultured with fetal rat spinal cord explants, 3) aneurally cultured in medium conditioned by cocultures, and 4) aneurally cultured in medium supplemented with purified recombinant chick neural agrin. Ca(2+) imaging indicated that coculturing human muscle cells with rat spinal cord explants increased the fraction of cells showing a functional excitation-contraction coupling mechanism. The effect of spinal cord explants was mimicked by treatment with medium conditioned by cocultures or by addition of 1 nM of recombinant neural agrin to the medium. The treatment with neural agrin increased the number of human muscle cells in which functional ryanodine receptors (RyRs) and dihydropyridine-sensitive L-type Ca(2+) channels were detectable. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that agrin, released from neurons, controls the maturation of the excitation-contraction coupling mechanism and that this effect is due to modulation of both RyRs and L-type Ca(2+) channels. Thus, a novel role for neural agrin in skeletal muscle maturation is proposed.
Mechanisms by which beta-adrenergic receptor (beta AR) agonists inhibit proliferation of human airway smooth muscle (HASM) cells were investigated because of their potential relevance to smooth muscle hyperplasia in asthma. We hypothesized that beta AR agonists would inhibit mitogenesis in HASM cells via the beta 2AR, an increase in cAMP, and PKA activation. HASM cells were treated for 24 h with various agents and then analyzed for [3H]thymidine incorporation as a measure of cell proliferation. EGF stimulated proliferation by approximately 10-fold. The nonselective beta AR agonist isoproterenol and the beta 2AR-selective agonists albuterol and salmeterol inhibited EGF-stimulated proliferation by more than 50%, with half-maximal effects at 4.8 nM, 110 nM, and 6.7 nM, respectively. A beta 2AR-selective antagonist inhibited the isoproterenol effect with 100-fold greater potency than a beta 1AR-selective antagonist, confirming beta 2AR involvement in the inhibition of proliferation. The cAMP-elevating agents PGE2 and forskolin decreased EGF-induced proliferation, suggesting cAMP as the mediator. beta 2AR agonists and forskolin also inhibited proliferation stimulated by lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) as well as the synergistic proliferation stimulated by LPA+EGF. Importantly, PKA-selective cAMP analogs did not inhibit proliferation at concentrations that maximally activated PKA (10-100 microM), whereas a cAMP analog selective for the exchange protein directly activated by cAMP (EPAC), 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-2'-O-methyl-cAMP, maximally inhibited proliferation at a concentration that did not activate PKA (10 microM). These data show that beta 2AR agonists and other cAMP-elevating agents decrease proliferation in HASM cells via a PKA-independent mechanism, and they provide pharmacological evidence for involvement of EPAC or an EPAC-like cAMP effector protein instead.
An epithelial Na(+) channel (ENaC) is expressed in taste cells and may be involved in the salt taste transduction. ENaC activity is blocked by amiloride, which in several mammalian species also inhibits taste responses to NaCl. In mice, lingual application of amiloride inhibits NaCl responses in the chorda tympani (CT) gustatory nerve much stronger in the C57BL/6 (B6) strain than in the 129P3/J (129) strain. We examined whether this strain difference is related to gene sequence variation or mRNA expression of three ENaC subunits (alpha, beta, gamma). Real-time RT-PCR and in situ hybridization detected no significant strain differences in expression of all three ENaC subunits in fungiform papillae. Sequences of the beta- and gammaENaC subunit genes were also similar in the B6 and 129 strains, but alphaENaC gene had three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). One of these SNPs resulted in a substitution of arginine in the B6 strain to tryptophan in the 129 strain (R616W) in the alphaENaC protein. To examine association of this SNP with amiloride sensitivity of CT responses to NaCl, we produced F(2) hybrids between B6 and 129 strains. Amiloride inhibited CT responses to NaCl in F(2) hybrids with B6/129 and B6/B6 alphaENaC R616W genotypes stronger than in F(2) hybrids with 129/129 genotype. This suggests that the R616W variation in the alphaENaC subunit affects amiloride sensitivity of the ENaC channel and provides evidence that ENaC is involved in amiloride-sensitive salt taste responses in mice.
Endometriosis is a poorly understood, estradiol-dependent condition associated with severe pelvic pains and defined by vascularized endometrial growths outside the uterus. Endometriosis is produced in cycling rats by autotransplanting pieces of uterus onto abdominal arteries where they develop into cysts. The surgery induces vaginal and abdominal muscle hyperalgesia, whose severity is greatest in proestrus and nearly absent in estrus. The cysts contain growth factors and cytokines and develop their own sympathetic and sensory C- and Adelta-fiber innervation. Here, we used quantitative immunostaining and protein array analyses to test the hypothesis that the innervation and growth factor/cytokine content of the cysts, but not uterine horn, contribute to proestrous-to-estrous changes in hyperalgesic severity. If so, these characteristics in the cysts, but not the uterine horn, should change with estrous stage. In cysts, the density of sympathetic (but not sensory) neurites and amounts of NGF and VEGF proteins (but not cytokines IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, or TNF-alpha) were greater in proestrus than estrus. These changes were accompanied by vascular changes. Both sympathetic and sensory fibers in both stages colabeled with TrkA, indicating that changes in NGF could act on both afferent and efferent fibers. In contrast with the cysts, no changes occurred in the uterine horn between proestrus and estrus. Together, these results suggest that coordinated proestrous-to-estrous changes in innervation and vascularization of the cysts contribute to similar changes in hyperalgesic severity. The findings also encourage consideration of endometriosis as a neurovascular condition.
I recall the background, the environment, the people and the events that led to the birth of the Spanish Society for Neuroscience (SENC) and remember how and why the multidisciplinary Neurobiology teachers at the Medical School of the Universidad Autnoma de Madrid decided to organize the First Meeting of Spanish Neurobiologists in 1979. Our principal aim was to promote Neuroscience research in Spain. For this was necessary: to know each other, support each other and organize and set up a modern and solid framework for training young researchers in Neuroscience. After reporting the results and circumstances of the first two Meetings, in 1980 and 1981, I discuss the impact of the Sixth European Neuroscience Congress held in Torremolinos in 1982 on Neuroscience in our country. The 1983 Meeting of the Spanish Neurobiologists decided to create the Spanish Society for Neuroscience. The effort of the heterogeneous Management Commission, the preparation of the Bylaws, the selection of the first members and the birth of the Society in 1985 are outlined. I continue in describing the components and work of the three first Boards of Directors and events of the corresponding Congresses until the consolidation of SENC in national and international scientific fields. My talk runs through the development of our Society, its growth in membership and quality and our hopes for the future.
Aphasia is an acquired language impairment that affects over 1 million individuals, the majority of whom are over age 65 (Groher, 1989). This disorder has typically been conceptualized within a cognitive neuroscience framework, but a behavioral interpretation of aphasia is also possible. Skinner's (1957) analysis of verbal behavior proposes a framework of verbal operants that can be integrated with the work of Sidman (1971) and Haughton (1980) to describe the language difficulties individuals with aphasia experience. Using this synthesis of models, we propose a new taxonomy of aphasia based on the observed deficit relations. Assessment and treatment implications are also discussed.
The substantia nigra neurons expressing c-RET, a glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) receptor intracellular tyrosine kinase subunit, were investigated in rats by using a double labeling method which combined retrograde horseradish peroxidase (HRP) labeling after injection into the striatum with immunohistochemistry to c-RET. It was revealed that the distribution of c-RET-immunoreactive neurons and HRP-labeled nigrostriatal neurons overlapped. Numerous double-labeled HRP/c-RET neurons were found in the substantia nigra pars compacta with predominate distribution ipsilateral to the injected striatum. Semiquantitative cell count indicated that a large percentage (97%) of HRP-labeled neurons showed c-RET immunoreactivity. Furthermore, double-labeled HRP/c-RET ones constituted only 61% of total c-RET-immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra ipsolateral to the injected striatum. Taken together with previous observations on glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor in the basal ganglia, this study provides evidence that the c-RET protein may mediate biological activity of GDNF family ligands in most of projecting neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta where the dopaminergic neurons are numerously distributed. Specially, it suggests that c-RET-mediating signaling cascades may play important roles in neuron-glial interaction that support and sustain nigrostriatal neuronal circuits in the basal ganglia.
Non-human animals and human children can make use of the geometric shape of an environment for spatial reorientation and in some circumstances reliance on purely geometric information (metric properties of surfaces and sense) can overcome the use of local featural cues. Little is known as to whether the use of geometric information is in some way reliant on past experience or, as would likely be argued by advocates of the notion of a geometric module, it is innate. We tested the navigational abilities of newborn domestic chicks reared in either rectangular or circular cages. Chicks were trained in a rectangular-shaped enclosure with panels placed at the corners to provide salient featural cues. Rectangular-reared and circular-reared chicks proved equally able to learn the task. When tested after removal of the featural cues, both rectangular- and circular-reared chicks showed evidence that they had spontaneously encoded geometric information. Moreover, when trained in a rectangular-shaped enclosure without any featural cues, chicks reared in rectangular-, circular-, or c-shaped cages proved to be equally able to learn and perform the task using geometric information. These results suggest that effective use of geometric information for spatial reorientation does not require experience in environments with right angles and metrically distinct surfaces, thus supporting the hypothesis of a predisposed geometric module in the animal brain.
In both humans and rodents, males typically excel on a number of tasks requiring spatial ability. However, human females exhibit advantages in memory for the spatial location of objects. This study investigated whether rats would exhibit similar sex differences on a task of object location memory (OLM) and on the watermaze (WM). We predicted that females should outperform males on the OLM task and that males should outperform females on the WM. To control for possible effects of housing environment, rats were housed in either complex environments or in standard shoebox housing. Eighty Long-Evans rats (40 males and 40 females) were housed in either complex (Complex rats) or standard shoebox housing (Control rats). Results indicated that males had superior performance on the WM, whereas females outperformed males on the OLM task, regardless of housing environment. As these sex differences cannot be easily attributed to differences in cognitive style related to linguistic processing of environmental features or to selection pressures related to the hunting gathering evolutionary prehistory of humans, these data suggest that sex differences in spatial ability may be related to traits selected for by polygynous mating strategies.
Early goal-directed therapy is a term used to describe the guidance of intravenous fluid and vasopressor/inotropic therapy by using cardiac output or similar parameters in the immediate post-cardiopulmonary bypass in cardiac surgery patients. Early recognition and therapy during this period may result in better outcome. In keeping with this aim in the cardiac surgery patients, we conducted the present study. The study included 30 patients of both sexes, with EuroSCORE &gt;or=3 undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery under cardiopulmonary bypass. The patients were randomly divided into two groups, namely, control and early goal-directed therapy (EGDT) groups. All the subjects received standardized care; arterial pressure was monitored through radial artery, central venous pressure through a triple lumen in the right internal jugular vein, electrocardiogram, oxygen saturation, temperature, urine output per hour and frequent arterial blood gas analysis. In addition, cardiac index monitoring using FloTrac and continuous central venous oxygen saturation using PreSep was used in patients in the EGTD group. Our aim was to maintain the cardiac index at 2.5-4.2 l/min/m2 , stroke volume index 30-65 ml/beat/m2 , systemic vascular resistance index 1500-2500 dynes/s/cm5/m2 , oxygen delivery index 450-600 ml/min/m2 , continuous central venous oximetry more than 70%, stroke volume variation less than 10%; in addition to the control group parameters such as central venous pressure 6-8 mmHg, mean arterial pressure 90-105 mmHg, normal arterial blood gas analysis values, pulse oximetry, hematocrit value above 30% and urine output more than 1 ml/kg/h. The aims were achieved by altering the administration of intravenous fluids and doses of inotropic or vasodilator agents. Three patients were excluded from the study and the data of 27 patients analyzed. The extra volume used (330+/-160 v/s 80+/-80 ml, P=0.043) number of adjustments of inotropic agents (3.4+/-1.5 v/s 0.4+/-0.7, P=0.026) in the EGDT group were significant. The average duration of ventilation (13.8+/-3.2 v/s 20.7+/-7.1 h), days of use of inotropic agents (1.6+/-0.9 v/s 3.8+/-1.6 d), ICU stay (2.6+/-0.9 v/s 4.9+/-1.8 d) and hospital stay (5.6+/-1.2 v/s 8.9+/-2.1 d) were less in the EGDT group, compared to those in the control group. This study is inconclusive with regard to the beneficial aspects of the early goal-directed therapy in cardiac surgery patients, although a few benefits were observed.


Human rabies still continues to be a significant health problem in India and other developing countries where dogs are the major vectors of transmission. Rabies in humans can present in two clinical forms, i.e., furious and paralytic. While diagnosis of furious rabies can be made based on the typical symptoms and signs, paralytic rabies poses a diagnostic dilemma to the neurologists who may encounter these cases in their practice. Although there are certain clinical features that distinguish this disease from other forms of Guillain-Barre syndromes, confirmation of diagnosis may require laboratory assistance. Conventional techniques such as antigen detection, antibody assays and virus isolation have limited success. The recently introduced molecular techniques show more promise in confirming the cases of paralytic rabies. There has not been much success in the treatment of confirmed rabies cases and recovery from rabies is extremely rare. Therefore, preventive measures of this dreaded disease after an exposure become extremely important. The present article reviews the current status of human rabies with regard to antemortem diagnosis, disease management and post-exposure prophylaxis.
Contrary to the classic description of acetylcholine (ACh) as a slowly acting neuromodulator that influences arousal states, results from experiments that employed enzyme-selective microelectrodes for the real-time monitoring of ACh release in the cortex of attentional task-performing rats indicate that cholinergic signals manifesting on multiple timescales (seconds, tens of seconds, and minutes) support, and are necessary for, the mediation of defined cognitive operations. Specifically, in the prefrontal cortex, second-based cholinergic signals support the detection of behaviorally significant cues. In contrast to these prefrontal cholinergic transients, performance-associated cholinergic activity that manifested at lower temporal resolution also was observed elsewhere in the cortex. Although tonic cholinergic signal levels were correlated with the amplitudes of cue-evoked cholinergic transients, and the latter with response latencies, the interrelationships and interactions between the multiple cholinergic signaling modes remains unclear. Hypotheses concerning the afferent circuitry contributing to the regulation of second- versus minute-based cholinergic signals are discussed. The discovery of cholinergic transients and their crucial role in cue detection and attentional performance form the basis for new hypotheses about the nature of cholinergic dysfunction in cognitive disorders and offer new targets for the development of treatments for the cognitive symptoms of neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders.
The sequencing of the human genome and the identification of a vast array of DNA polymorphisms has afforded cognitive scientists with the opportunity to interrogate the genetic basis of cognition with renewed vigor. The extant literature on the molecular genetics of sustained and spatial attention is reviewed herein. Advances in our understanding of the neural substrates of sustained and spatial attention arising from the cognitive neurosciences can help guide putative linkages in cognitive genetics. In line with catecholamine models of sustained attention, associations have been reported between sustained attention and allelic variation in the dopamine beta hydroxylase gene (DBH), the dopamine D2 and D4 receptor genes (DRD2; DRD4) and the dopamine transporter gene (DAT1). Much evidence implicates the cholinergic system in spatial attention. Accordingly, individual differences in spatial attention have been associated with variation in an alpha-4 cholinergic receptor gene (CHRNA4). APOE-epsilon4 allele dosage has been shown to influence the speed of attentional reorienting in independent samples of nonaffected individuals. Preliminary evidence in both healthy children and children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) suggests and association with variants of the DAT1 gene and the control of spatial attention across the hemifields. With the recent development of high-throughput genotyping techniques, such as microarrays, the time seems ripe for a genomewide association study that can identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for sustained and spatial attention. The identification of QTLs for attention will provide a range of novel candidate genes for disorders of attention, such as ADHD and schizophrenia, and will drive cognitive neuroscientists to understand how DNA variation influences the neural substrates of attention.
Recent advances in neuroscience and molecular biology have begun to identify neural and genetic correlates of complex traits. Future theories of personality need to integrate these data across the behavioral, neural, and genetic level of analysis and further explain the underlying epigenetic processes by which genes and environmental variables interact to shape the structure and function of neural circuitry. In this chapter, I will review some of the work that has been conducted at the cognitive, neural, and molecular genetic level with respect to one specific personality trait-neuroticism. I will focus particularly on individual differences with respect to memory, self-reference, perception, and attention during processing of emotional stimuli and the significance of gene-by-environment interactions. This chapter is intended to serve as a tutorial bridge for psychologists who may be intrigued by molecular genetics and for molecular biologists who may be curious about how to apply their research to the study of personality.
Biased competition models of selective attention suggest that attentional competition is influenced both by bottom-up sensory mechanisms sensitive to stimulus salience and top-down control mechanisms that support the processing of task-relevant stimuli. This provides a framework for investigating the neural mechanisms underlying selective attention to threat. Both subcortical regions implicated in threat detection--specifically the amygdala--and prefrontal cortical regions implicated in top-down attentional control are activated in response to task-irrelevant threat stimuli. A number of questions including the automaticity of the amygdala response to threat distractors, the modulation by anxiety of the amygdala and prefrontal response to these stimuli, and the impact of genetic and environmental factors upon this circuitry are addressed. The empirical literature is considered in the context of theoretical accounts of the neural substrate of selective attention and conscious awareness. It is suggested that the neural activity provoked by a given visual stimulus is influenced by factors impacting upon the strength of the bottom-up trace (e.g., presentation time, backward masking), stimulus salience (including threat relatedness), competition with other visual stimuli for perceptual processing resources, and the augmentation of the stimulus trace by allocation of top-down attentional resources. Individual differences in trait and state anxiety, and in genetic makeup, are thought to modulate the influence of stimulus valence and top-down attention through their impact upon amygdala and prefrontal function.
This review focuses on the contributions of the central thalamus to normal mechanisms of arousal regulation and to neurological disorders of consciousness. Forebrain arousal is regulated by ascending influences from brainstem/basal forebrain neuronal populations (&quot;arousal systems&quot;) and control signals descending from frontal cortical systems. These subcortical and cortical systems have converging projections to the central thalamus that emphasize their role in maintaining organized behavior during wakefulness. Central thalamic neurons appear to be specialized both anatomically and physiologically to support distributed network activity that maintains neuronal firing patterns across long-range cortico-cortical pathways and within cortico-striatopallidal-thalamocortical loop connections. Recruitment of central thalamic neurons occurs in response to increasing cognitive demand, stress, fatigue, and other perturbations that reduce behavioral performance. In addition, the central thalamus receives projections from brainstem pathways evolved to rapidly generate brief shifts of arousal associated with the appearance of salient stimuli across different sensory modalities. Through activation of the central thalamus, neurons across the cerebral cortex and striatum can be depolarized and their activity patterns selectively gated by descending or ascending signals related to premotor attention and alerting stimuli. Direct injury to the central thalamus or prominent deafferentation of these neurons as a result of complex, multifocal, brain insults are both associated with severe impairment of forebrain functional integration and arousal regulation. Interventions targeting neurons within the central thalamus may lead to rational therapeutic approaches to the treatment of impaired arousal regulation following nonprogressive brain injuries. A model accounting for present therapeutic strategies is proposed.
Current work on central nervous system (CNS) mechanisms underlying behavior has expanded from consideration of specific sensory codes or motor controls to the analyses of global CNS states. These include states of arousal, alertness, attention, emotional states regarding emotion and motivation, and states of addiction, which carry great importance for medicine and public health. In this brief introduction, orderly neuroanatomical concepts of forebrain pathways regulating motivated behaviors are presented. Neuropeptides often coordinate large sets of responses associated with an individual behavioral state. Here, we emphasize some of the central roles for opioid peptides. We also mention a few outstanding unanswered questions related to this area of neuroscience.
Acetylcholinesterase pre-mRNA is susceptible to alternative splicing. Myasthenia gravis has been shown to be associated with the expression of the readthrough transcript (AChE-R), which, unlike the normal &quot;synaptic&quot; transcript (AChE-S) is not tethered to the post-synaptic membrane, but is a soluble monomer in the synaptic cleft. In rats with experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG), inhibition of production of AChE-R using antisense is associated with a significant reduction in synaptic expression of AChE-R mRNA and protein, with improved muscle strength and stamina and increased survival. Synaptic AChE does not appear to be significantly affected by the induction of EAMG or treatment with antisense to AChE-R. Monarsen (EN101) is a synthetic 20-base antisense oligodeoxynucleotide directed against the human AChE gene. It is modified to achieve stability for oral administration. Sixteen patients with seropositive myasthenia gravis who were responsive to pyridostigmine were withdrawn from it and treated with Monarsen. Fourteen patients experienced a clinically significant response. In some, the improvement was dramatic. Although the dose of pyridostigmine was not optimized before the study, the majority of responders achieved better Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis scores than on pyridostigmine. The response of an individual muscle group to Monarsen was related to the degree of deterioration following the withdrawal of pyridostigmine. Cholinergic side effects were conspicuous by their absence. Monarsen is now being investigated in a phase II study.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease caused by antibodies mainly directed to the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) of the neuromuscular junction. Induction of antigenic modulation and complement activation by such autoantibodies leads to ultrastructural damage of the postsynaptic membrane and loss of AChR and associated proteins. Reduction of antigenic modulation by increasing the expression of the receptor-associated anchor protein, rapsyn, or by functionally monovalent competing IgG4 anti-AChR antibodies was shown to prevent MG disease activity. We propose that preventing antigenic modulation can be used as a treatment strategy for MG.
Autoimmunizing mechanisms are very hard to study in humans, so we have focused on vital clues in thymomas and hyperplastic thymuses in myasthenia gravis (MG). According to our multi-step hypothesis: thymic epithelial cells (TEC) present epitopes from the isolated acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subunits they express, and autoimmunize helper T cells; subsequently, these evoke &quot;early antibodies&quot; that then attack rare thymic myoid cells expressing intact AChR; in the resulting germinal centers, autoantibodies diversify to recognize native AChR. We have studied: 1) thymomas, to identify autoimmunizing cell types, focusing on IFN-alpha, against which many patients have high titer autoantibodies, as in another highly informative autoimmune syndrome. Although IFN-alpha is much easier to label than the sparse and delicate AChR subunits, we have not yet located obviously autoimmunizing micro-environments; 2) hyperplastic MG thymuses, where we find (a) upregulation of complement receptors and regulators on hyperplastic TEC and deposition of activated C3b complement component on them, (b) absence of complement regulators from almost all myoid cells, indicating vulnerability to attack, and (c) deposition of C3b, and even of the terminal membrane attack complex, especially on the myoid cells close to the infiltrating germinal centers. The changes are very similar in over 50% of the so-called seronegative patients with generalized MG (SNMG) but without detectable autoantibodies against AChR or MuSK, consistently with other evidence that they belong to the spectrum of AChR-seropositive MG. Together, moreover, our findings implicate both myoid cells and TEC in autoimmunization, and thus strongly support our hypothesis.
The Guillain Barr syndromes (GBS) are the world's leading cause of acute autoimmune neuromuscular paralysis. Understanding the pathophysiological events of GBS, and improving immunotherapies are fundamental to improving the clinical outcome. Recent research into GBS and the Miller Fisher syndrome (MFS) variant has focused on the forms mediated by anti-ganglioside antibodies in which correlations have been established between anti-ganglioside antibodies and specific clinical phenotypes, notably between anti-GM1/GD1a antibodies and the acute motor axonal variant and anti-GQ1b/GT1a antibodies and MFS. Anti-ganglioside antibodies can arise through molecular mimicry with GBS-associated Campylobacter jejuni oligosaccharides. Our work has focused on axonal and glial components of the motor nerve terminal as a model site of injury, and through combined active and passive immunization paradigms in glycosyltransferase knockout mice we have developed murine neuropathy phenotypes mediated by anti-ganglioside antibodies. Several determinants influence disease expression including the level of immunological tolerance to microbial glycans that mimic self gangliosides, the degree of complement activation, and the ganglioside density in target tissue. Such studies provide us with clear information on an antibody-mediated pathogenesis model for GBS and should lead to rational therapeutic testing of agents that are potentially suitable for use in man.
The congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are a heterogeneous group of disorders affecting neuromuscular transmission. Underlying mutations have been identified in at least 11 different genes. The majority of CMS patients have disorders due to mutations in postsynaptic proteins. Initial studies focused on dysfunction of the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) itself as the major cause of CMS. However, it is becoming apparent that mutations of proteins involved in clustering the AChR and maintaining neuromuscular junction structure form important subgroups. Analysis of the mutations in the AChR-clustering protein, rapsyn, show diverse causes for defective AChR localization and suggest that the common mutation rapsyn-N88K results in AChR clusters that are less stable than those generated by wild-type rapsyn. More recently, mutations in the newly identified endplate protein Dok-7 have been shown to affect AChR clustering and the generation and maintenance of specialized structures at the endplate. Dok-7 binds MuSK and many of the mutations of DOK7 impair the MuSK signaling pathway. Components of this pathway will provide attractive gene candidates for additional forms of CMS. The phenotypic characteristics of the different CMS in which muscle groups may be differentially affected not only provide clues for targeted genetic screening, but also pose further intriguing questions about underlying molecular mechanisms.
Antibodies to muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) are found in a variable proportion of patients with myasthenia without typical acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibodies, but their characteristics and pathogenic mechanisms are not fully understood. We discuss the incidence and pathogenicity of MuSK antibodies and how clinical studies, animal models, and cultured cell lines can be used to elucidate their pathogenic mechanisms. Patients without either AChR or MuSK antibodies (seronegative myasthenia) appear to present another disease subtype that is highly similar to that of typical myasthenia gravis. We demonstrate a new method that detects AChR antibodies in these patients and show that these low-affinity AChR antibodies are predominantly IgG1 and can activate complement C3b deposition. Similarly MuSK antibodies, although mainly IgG4, are partially IgG1 and can activate C3b deposition. Overall, these results suggest that complement-activation may be an important pathogenic mechanism even in patients without conventional AChR antibodies.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) with antibodies against the muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK abs) is often a severe disease requiring aggressive treatment. Various immunosuppressive (IS) regimens have been employed; the efficacy of plasma exchange is unanimously recognized, while the indication for thymectomy is controversial. We evaluated the response to therapy in 57 MuSK-positive patients (12 M/45 F) comparing our experience with other authors' results. Disease severity and response to treatment were graded according to MG Foundation of America; follow-up ranged from 0.5-29 years. Owing to both MG severity and the unsatisfactory response to cholinesterase inhibitors, most patients (54/57) needed IS treatment, and 35 received one or more courses of plasma exchange and intravenous immunoglobulin. At the end of follow-up, the rate of complete remission was 8.8%, and IS treatment had been withdrawn in only 10/54 patients. The extent of therapeutic response varied considerably. With conventional IS therapy (prednisone alone or in combination with azathioprine or cyclosporine), most patients achieved good control of their disease, but 30% of them were left with permanent facial and bulbar weakness. In patients with refractory disease, the use of mycophenolate mofetil and rituximab proved very effective, as also reported by other authors. In our and others' experience, MuSK-positive MG markedly improves with IS therapy, although, in comparison with the AChR-positive disease, it is characterized by a lower remission rate, as a higher proportion of patients remain dependent on treatment. Thymectomy is mostly considered scarcely effective; however, at present, no firm conclusions can be drawn on its role in the treatment of this form of MG.
The main immunogenic region (MIR), against which half or more of the autoantibodies to acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) in myasthenia gravis (MG) or experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG) are directed, is located at the extracellular end of alpha1 subunits. Rat monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to the MIR efficiently compete with MG patient autoantibodies for binding to human muscle AChRs. Antibodies bound to the MIR do not interfere with cholinergic ligand binding or AChR function, but target complement and trigger antigenic modulation. Rat mAbs to the MIR also bind to human ganglionic AChR alpha3 subunits, but MG patient antibodies do not. By making chimeras of alpha1 subunits with alpha7 subunits or ACh binding protein, the structure of the MIR and its functional effects are being investigated. Many mAbs to the MIR bind only to the native conformation of alpha1 subunits because they bind to sequences that are adjacent only in the native structure. The MIR epitopes recognized by these mAbs are not recognized by most patient antibodies whose epitopes must be nearby. The presence of the MIR epitopes in alpha1/alpha7 chimeras greatly promotes AChR expression and sensitivity to activation. EAMG can be suppressed by treatment with denatured, bacterially expressed mixtures of extracellular and cytoplasmic domains of human alpha1, beta1, gamma, delta, and epsilon subunits. A mixture of only the cytoplasmic domains not only avoids the potential liability of provoking formation antibodies to pathologically significant epitopes on the extracellular surface, but also potently suppresses the development of EAMG.
Neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) in different species share many features of structure and function. At the same time, important differences distinguish, for example, human NMJs from those in other species. An understanding of the biological context of the human NMJ helps in the interpretation of the effects of disease on the biophysical properties of neuromuscular transmission. Many NMJs consist of a number of spot-like synaptic regions 1-5 microm across. Usually only a few multimolecular &quot;quanta&quot; of transmitter are released from each presynaptic &quot;bouton&quot; by a single nerve impulse. The total number of quanta released from an NMJ is roughly proportional to its total area. For example, human NMJs are about 10-fold smaller than those in frogs and release about 20 quanta/impulse versus 100-200 in frog NMJ. Although human NMJs release relatively few quanta, the effect of the transmitter is amplified by the high density of voltage-gated sodium channels (Na(V)1.4) in the highly folded postsynaptic membrane. A genetic influence on NMJ size has recently been discovered in some patients with limb-girdle myasthenia (LGM). Mutations of the gene encoding Dok-7, an essential component of the agrin-muscle-specific kinase pathway that controls postsynaptic differentiation at the mammalian NMJ, results in impaired transmission because the NMJs are abnormally small and have reduced folding but have a normal local density of normal acetylcholine receptors. This condition emphasizes the importance of structural features in achieving reliability of neuromuscular transmission.


Viruses can be engineered to efficiently deliver exogenous genes, but their natural gene delivery properties often fail to meet human therapeutic needs. Therefore, engineering viral vectors with new properties, including enhanced targeting abilities and resistance to immune responses, is a growing area of research. This review discusses protein engineering approaches to generate viral vectors with novel gene delivery capabilities. Rational design of viral vectors has yielded successful advances in vitro, and to an extent in vivo. However, there is often insufficient knowledge of viral structure-function relationships to reengineer existing functions or create new capabilities, such as virus-cell interactions, whose molecular basis is distributed throughout the primary sequence of the viral proteins. Therefore, high-throughput library and directed evolution methods offer alternative approaches to engineer viral vectors with desired properties. Parallel and integrated efforts in rational and library-based design promise to aid the translation of engineered viral vectors toward the clinic.
Learning and memory, defined as the acquisition and retention of neuronal representations of new information, are ubiquitous among insects. Recent research indicates that a variety of insects rely extensively on learning for all major life activities including feeding, predator avoidance, aggression, social interactions, and sexual behavior. There is good evidence that individuals within an insect species exhibit genetically based variation in learning abilities and indirect evidence linking insect learning to fitness. Although insects rely on innate behavior to successfully manage many types of variation and unpredictability, learning may be superior to innate behavior when dealing with features unique to time, place, or individuals. Among insects, social learning , which can promote the rapid spread of novel behaviors, is currently known only from a few well-studied examples in social Hymenoptera. The prevalence and importance of social learning in insects are still unknown. Similarly, we know little about ecological factors that may have promoted enhanced learning abilities in insects, and whether learning has significantly contributed to speciation in insects.
Molecular and genetic approaches in several species have provided new insights into the mechanisms of rest-activity and sleep-wake regulation. Many of these discoveries are believed to support hypotheses about sleep functions, which nevertheless remain elusive. In this review we discuss the specific contribution of both mammalian and invertebrate models to our understanding of the molecular basis of sleep.
Infants learn language(s) with apparent ease, and the tools of modern neuroscience are providing valuable information about the mechanisms that underlie this capacity. Noninvasive, safe brain technologies have now been proven feasible for use with children starting at birth. The past decade has produced an explosion in neuroscience research examining young children's processing of language at the phonetic, word, and sentence levels. At all levels of language, the neural signatures of learning can be documented at remarkably early points in development. Individual continuity in linguistic development from infants' earliest responses to phonemes is reflected in infants' language abilities in the second and third year of life, a finding with theoretical and clinical implications. Developmental neuroscience studies using language are beginning to answer questions about the origins of humans' language faculty.
Guiding effective movement through the environment is one of the visual system's most important functions. The pattern of motion that we see allows us to estimate our heading accurately in a variety of environments, despite the added difficulty imposed by our own eye and head movements. The cortical substrates for heading perception include the medial superior temporal area (MST) and the ventral intraparietal area (VIP). This review discusses recent work on these two areas in the context of behavioral observations that establish the important problems the visual system must solve. Signals relevant to self motion are both more widespread than heretofore recognized and also more complex because they are multiplexed with other sensory signals, such as vestibular, auditory, and tactile information. The review presents recent work as a background to highlight important problems that remain unsolved.
Each movement we make activates our own sensory receptors, thus causing a problem for the brain: the spurious, movement-related sensations must be discriminated from the sensory inputs that really matter, those representing our environment. Here we consider circuits for solving this problem in the primate brain. Such circuits convey a copy of each motor command, known as a corollary discharge (CD), to brain regions that use sensory input. In the visual system, CD signals may help to produce a stable visual percept from the jumpy images resulting from our rapid eye movements. A candidate pathway for providing CD for vision ascends from the superior colliculus to the frontal cortex in the primate brain. This circuit conveys warning signals about impending eye movements that are used for planning subsequent movements and analyzing the visual world. Identifying this circuit has provided a model for studying CD in other primate sensory systems and may lead to a better understanding of motor and mental disorders.
At the optic chiasm, retinal ganglion cell axons from each eye converge and segregate into crossed and uncrossed projections, a pattern critical for binocular vision. Here, we review recent findings on optic chiasm development, highlighting the specific transcription factors and guidance cues that implement retinal axon divergence into crossed and uncrossed pathways. Although mechanisms underlying the formation of the uncrossed projection have been identified, the means by which retinal axons are guided across the midline are still unclear. In addition to directives provided by transcription factors and receptors in the retina, gene expression in the ventral diencephalon influences chiasm formation. Throughout this review, we compare guidance mechanisms at the optic chiasm with those in other midline models and highlight unanswered questions both for retinal axon growth and axon guidance in general.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory-mediated demyelinating disease of the human central nervous system. The clinical disease course is variable, usually starts with reversible episodes of neurological disability in the third or fourth decade of life, and transforms into a disease of continuous and irreversible neurological decline by the sixth or seventh decade. We review data that support neurodegeneration as the major cause of irreversible neurological disability in MS patients. We question whether inflammatory demyelination is primary or secondary in the disease process and discuss the challenges of elucidating the cause of MS and developing therapies that will delay or prevent the irreversible and progressive neurological decline that most MS patients endure.
A task set is a configuration of cognitive processes that is actively maintained for subsequent task performance. Single-unit and brain-imaging studies have identified the neural correlates for task sets in the prefrontal cortex. Here I examine whether the neural data obtained thus far are sufficient to explain the behaviors that have been illustrated within the conceptual framework of task sets. I first discuss the selectivity of neural activity in representing a specific task. I then discuss the competitions between neural representations of task sets during task switch. Finally I discuss how, in neural terms, a task set is implemented to facilitate task performance. The processes of representing, updating, and implementing task sets occur in parallel at multiple levels of brain organization. Neural accounts of task sets demonstrate that the brain determines our thoughts and behaviors.
Each of the descending pathways involved in motor control has a number of anatomical, molecular, pharmacological, and neuroinformatic characteristics. They are differentially involved in motor control, a process that results from operations involving the entire motor network rather than from the brain commanding the spinal cord. A given pathway can have many functional roles. This review explores to what extent descending pathways are highly conserved across species and concludes that there are actually rather widespread species differences, for example, in the transmission of information from the corticospinal tract to upper limb motoneurons. The significance of direct, cortico-motoneuronal (CM) connections, which were discovered a little more than 50 years ago, is reassessed. I conclude that although these connections operate in parallel with other less direct linkages to motoneurons, CM influence is significant and may subserve some special functions including adaptive motor behaviors involving the distal extremities.
More than three decades of research have demonstrated a role for hippocampal place cells in representation of the spatial environment in the brain. New studies have shown that place cells are part of a broader circuit for dynamic representation of self-location. A key component of this network is the entorhinal grid cells, which, by virtue of their tessellating firing fields, may provide the elements of a path integration-based neural map. Here we review how place cells and grid cells may form the basis for quantitative spatiotemporal representation of places, routes, and associated experiences during behavior and in memory. Because these cell types have some of the most conspicuous behavioral correlates among neurons in nonsensory cortical systems, and because their spatial firing structure reflects computations internally in the system, studies of entorhinal-hippocampal representations may offer considerable insight into general principles of cortical network dynamics.
Spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) as a Hebbian synaptic learning rule has been demonstrated in various neural circuits over a wide spectrum of species, from insects to humans. The dependence of synaptic modification on the order of pre- and postsynaptic spiking within a critical window of tens of milliseconds has profound functional implications. Over the past decade, significant progress has been made in understanding the cellular mechanisms of STDP at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses and of the associated changes in neuronal excitability and synaptic integration. Beyond the basic asymmetric window, recent studies have also revealed several layers of complexity in STDP, including its dependence on dendritic location, the nonlinear integration of synaptic modification induced by complex spike trains, and the modulation of STDP by inhibitory and neuromodulatory inputs. Finally, the functional consequences of STDP have been examined directly in an increasing number of neural circuits in vivo.
Peptide neurotransmitters and peptide hormones, collectively known as neuropeptides, are required for cell-cell communication in neurotransmission and for regulation of endocrine functions. Neuropeptides are synthesized from protein precursors (termed proneuropeptides or prohormones) that require proteolytic processing primarily within secretory vesicles that store and secrete the mature neuropeptides to control target cellular and organ systems. This review describes interdisciplinary strategies that have elucidated two primary protease pathways for prohormone processing consisting of the cysteine protease pathway mediated by secretory vesicle cathepsin L and the well-known subtilisin-like proprotein convertase pathway that together support neuropeptide biosynthesis. Importantly, this review discusses important areas of current and future biomedical neuropeptide research with respect to biological regulation, inhibitors, structural features of proneuropeptide and protease interactions, and peptidomics combined with proteomics for systems biological approaches. Future studies that gain in-depth understanding of protease mechanisms for generating active neuropeptides will be instrumental for translational research to develop pharmacological strategies for regulation of neuropeptide functions. Pharmacological applications for neuropeptide research may provide valuable therapeutics in health and disease.
Exocytotic release of neurotransmitters requires their accumulation inside preformed secretory vesicles. Distinct vesicular transport activities translocate classical transmitters into synaptic vesicles energized by a H+ electrochemical gradient (Delta(mu(H+))), with subtle but important differences in dependence on the electrical and chemical components. The vesicular transporters also interact with toxic compounds and drugs. They mediate neuroprotection by sequestering toxic compounds as well as neurotransmitters into vesicles, reducing their concentration in the cytosol where they may have detrimental effects. Both therapeutic agents and psychostimulants interfering with vesicular transport have yielded insight into the pathogenesis of psychiatric as well as neurodegenerative diseases. Thus, specific inhibitors have helped to characterize both the physiological role and mechanism of vesicular neurotransmitter transport.
The placebo effect has evolved from being thought of as a nuisance in clinical and pharmacological research to a biological phenomenon worthy of scientific investigation in its own right. It is now clear that the term placebo effect is too restrictive and, in fact, many placebo-related effects have recently been investigated. A placebo effect differs from a placebo-like effect in that the former follows the administration of a placebo, whereas in the latter no placebo is administered. However, in both cases, the psychosocial context around the treatment plays a key role. In recent years, placebo and placebo-related effects have been analyzed with sophisticated biological tools that have uncovered specific mechanisms at both the biochemical and cellular level. This recent research has revealed that these psychosocial-induced biochemical changes in a patient's brain and body in turn may affect the course of a disease and the response to a therapy.
Neuroeconomics has further bridged the once disparate fields of economics and psychology. Such convergence is almost exclusively attributable to changes within economics. Neuroeconomics has inspired more change within economics than within psychology because the most important findings in neuroeconomics have posed more of a challenge to the standard economic perspective. Neuroeconomics has primarily challenged the standard economic assumption that decision making is a unitary process--a simple matter of integrated and coherent utility maximization--suggesting instead that it is driven by the interaction between automatic and controlled processes. This article reviews neuroeconomic research in three domains of interest to both economists and psychologists: decision making under risk and uncertainty, intertemporal choice, and social decision making. In addition to reviewing new economic models inspired by this research, we also discuss how neuroeconomics may influence future work in psychology.
Retrospective and prospective studies consistently show that individuals exposed to human-generated traumatic events carry a higher risk of developing Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) than those exposed to other kinds of events. These studies also consistently identify perceptions of social support both before and after a traumatic event as an important factor in the determining vulnerability to the development of PTSD. We review the literature on interpersonal traumas, social support and risk for PTSD and integrate findings with recent advances in developmental psychopathology, attachment theory and social neuroscience. We propose and gather evidence for what we term the social ecology of PTSD, a conceptual framework for understanding how both PTSD risk and recovery are highly dependent on social phenomena. We explore clinical implications of this conceptual framework.
The past 10 years have brought near-revolutionary changes in psychological theories about short-term memory, with similarly great advances in the neurosciences. Here, we critically examine the major psychological theories (the &quot;mind&quot;) of short-term memory and how they relate to evidence about underlying brain mechanisms. We focus on three features that must be addressed by any satisfactory theory of short-term memory. First, we examine the evidence for the architecture of short-term memory, with special attention to questions of capacity and how--or whether--short-term memory can be separated from long-term memory. Second, we ask how the components of that architecture enact processes of encoding, maintenance, and retrieval. Third, we describe the debate over the reason about forgetting from short-term memory, whether interference or decay is the cause. We close with a conceptual model tracing the representation of a single item through a short-term memory task, describing the biological mechanisms that might support psychological processes on a moment-by-moment basis as an item is encoded, maintained over a delay with some forgetting, and ultimately retrieved.
Interest has recently surged in the neural mechanisms of audition, particularly with regard to functional imaging studies in human subjects. This review emphasizes recent work on two aspects of auditory processing. The first explores auditory spatial processing and the role of the auditory cortex in both nonhuman primates and human subjects. The interactions with visual stimuli, the ventriloquism effect, and the ventriloquism aftereffect are also reviewed. The second aspect is temporal processing. Studies investigating temporal integration, forward masking, and gap detection are reviewed, as well as examples from the birdsong system and echolocating bats.
Much has been learned concerning the neuroendocrine processes and cellular mechanisms by which steroid hormones influence reproductive behaviors in rodents and other animals. In this review, a short discussion of hormones and feminine sexual behavior in some rodent species is followed by an outline of the main principles that have been learned from these studies. Examples are given of the importance of considering the timing of hormone treatments, dosage of hormone, use of a specific hormone, particular class of hormones, or form of hormone, interactions between hormones, route of administration, peripheral factors that influence hormonal response, and the possible mechanisms of action by which hormones and other factors influence sexual behaviors. Although cellular studies in humans are presently impossible to perform, mechanistic studies in rodents may provide clues about the neuroendocrine mechanisms by which hormones act and interact in the brain to influence behavior in all species, including humans.
Our understanding and conceptualization of the placebo effect has shifted in emphasis from a focus on the inert content of a physical placebo agent to the overall simulation of a therapeutic intervention. Research has identified many types of placebo responses driven by different mechanisms depending on the particular context wherein the placebo is given. Some placebo responses, such as analgesia, are initiated and maintained by expectations of symptom change and changes in motivation/emotions. Placebo factors have neurobiological underpinnings and actual effects on the brain and body. They are not just response biases. Other placebo responses result from less conscious processes, such as classical conditioning in the case of immune, hormonal, and respiratory functions. The demonstration of the involvement of placebo mechanisms in clinical trials and routine clinical practice has highlighted interesting considerations for clinical trial design and opened up opportunities for ethical enhancement of these mechanisms in clinical practice.


Overactivation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors accounts, at least in part, for excitotoxic neuronal damage, potentially contributing to a wide range of acute and chronic neurologic disorders. Recent studies have suggested that generation of excessive nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) can mediate excitotoxicity, in part by triggering protein misfolding. S-Nitrosylation, which is a covalent reaction of a NO group with a cysteine thiol, represents one such mechanism that can contribute to NO-induced neurotoxicity. The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), in conjunction with molecular chaperones, can prevent accumulation of aberrantly-folded proteins. For example, protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) can provide neuroprotection from misfolded proteins or endoplasmic reticulum stress through its molecular chaperone and thiol-disulfide oxidoreductase activities. Here, the authors present recent evidence suggesting that NO contributes to degenerative conditions by S-nitrosylating PDI (forming SNO-PDI) and the ubiquitin protein ligase, parkin (forming SNO-parkin). Moreover, it is demonstrated for the first time that inhibition of excessive NMDA receptor activity by memantine, via a mechanism of uncompetitive open-channel block with a relatively rapid off-rate, can ameliorate excessive production of NO, protein misfolding, and neurodegeneration.
Eating is an action open to awareness by the individual; however, it cannot be claimed that processes that control the expression of eating habits are necessarily explicit. This distinction between implicit and explicit processes may enhance understanding of the expression of food reward (particularly the concepts of liking and wanting [Berridge, K. C., &amp; Robinson, T. E. (2003). Parsing reward. Trends in Neurosciences, 26, 507-513] and its importance for human appetite control [Finlayson, G. S., King, N. A., &amp; Blundell, J. E. (2007b). Liking vs. wanting food: Importance for human appetite control and weight regulation. Neuroscience and Biobehavioural Reviews, in press]. The present study investigated the effect of meal-induced satiation on implicit and explicit processes of liking (L) and wanting (W) by developing a computer-based procedure to measure L and W in hungry and satiated states. Explicit measures were derived from analogue ratings whilst an implicit W measure was derived from reaction time in a forced-choice procedure, which also identified food preferences. Seventy subjects (21.8+/-0.9 years, BMI: 22.2+/-0.5 kg/m2) completed the procedure before and immediately following consumption of a savoury test meal. Satiation caused explicit ratings of L and W to decrease in all food categories (p&lt;0.01); but with a more marked decrease for savoury foods compared with sweet foods (p&lt;0.01). Implicit W was increased for sweet categories (p&lt;0.01), but not for savoury. Implicit and explicit measures of L and W independently correlated with preference for sweet foods. This study provides support that implicit and explicit processes of food reward can be simultaneously measured and dissociated using a test meal. Adjustments in hunger were linked to changes in explicit L and W in a manner consistent with sensory specific satiety, while a relationship between hunger and implicit W was absent. We suggest that implicit W is not systematically downregulated by the physiological consequences of food consumption in the same way as hunger and therefore may be largely independent of homoeostatic processes influencing intake.
Nocardia infection is a rare bacterial disorder that tends to affect the lungs and, in immunocompromised individuals, may progress to the brain. The brief, consecutive neuropsychological and neurobehavioral data of a 49-year-old male who developed multiple nocardia-related brain abscesses in the left frontal, occipital, and right cerebellar areas are reviewed. Neuropsychological findings indicated that he maintained mild-to-moderate impairments, primarily in executive functions, upon follow-up evaluation 43 days subsequent to baseline evaluation. This case demonstrates the utility of brief, serial neuropsychological screening in tracking the progression of an infectious process for the purposes of treatment planning and disposition.
An event-based and a time-based prospective memory (PM) task, a script generation task, several working memory tasks, an incidental retrospective memory task, and a screen clock were implemented on the computer in one integrated procedure lasting between one and two hours. The procedure was designed to simulate four working days and four nights for a white-collar employee. Sixty-eight normal participants completed the task. Time-based prospective memory (self-injecting and going to bed at preordained times of day) shared unique variance with clock checking, but hardly at all with incidental retrospective memory. On the other hand, event-based prospective memory (answering a faint telephone cue as quickly as possible) shared unique variance with incidental retrospective memory of formally task irrelevant context and less with clock checking. The latter correlational dissociation of event-based versus time-based PM by retrospective memory reached significance, inspiring the idea that administrative versus clerical work might each impose its own type of PM demands. In both types of PM, low-level abilities (use of external aids and incidental encoding of context, respectively) seem to be critical for good performance, more so than for high-order executive functions. Our software is offered to the readership to explicitate these findings further or for other research pursuits.
We report here on a single neuropsychological case study of a young girl, KH, who presented with Wilson's Disease (WD) associated with a peripheral spatial neglect dysgraphia without major problems in the standard clinical tests of spatial neglect. Few studies have demonstrated a visuospatial deficit in WD and to date there has been no report of neglect syndrome arising from WD. However, recent studies have demonstrated that neglect is frequently associated with brain damage including the primary site of WD, the basal ganglia. KHs writing abilities were evaluated just after her admission to the rehabilitation department and 6 months later. The baseline evaluation demonstrated that KH had neglect dysgraphia with verbal stimuli (e.g., words or sentences) although her deficit was less evident in drawing multiple geometric shapes. Six months after the initial evaluation, KH showed evidence of neglect dysgraphia only when writing was associated with a secondary memory task. KHs writing performance is discussed with reference to previous cases of spatial neglect dysgraphia and in the context of spatial neglect. We suggest that the asymmetry between verbal writing and nonverbal drawing disturbances was caused by different attentional loads.
This paper proposes a simple method of hand skill assessment in children that can be useful in clinical practice. A reduced 5-hole version of Annett's Peg Moving Task was used to quantify hand skill bilaterally in 435 normally developing preschool and school-children, and adolescents aged 3-18 years from Brazil. The cross-cultural validity of the normative data obtained in Brazil was verified in 157 school-children aged 6-11 years from France. An application in 76 children with cerebral palsy (hemiplegia 21, diplegia 34, triplegia 6, mixed type 15) showed very important variability of the deficits in hand function within each subtype of cerebral palsy (CP). Hand deficits were more severe in children in special schools than in children in regular schools within each CP subtype. A qualitative analysis showed which difficulties during the execution of the task were specific to children with CP and which were also observed in normally developing children.
Behavioral rating scales and tests of attention were used to study attentional problems in children born very preterm (&lt; or =27 weeks gestation) or with extremely low birth weight (ELBW; &lt; or =1000 g). Psychological tests of attention (viz., Digits and Spatial Span Forward, Visual Attention from the NEPSY, Trail Making Test B, and Stroop Color and Word Test) were administered to 45 children born very preterm/ELBW and 49 full-term controls, aged 7-9 years of age. Behavioral ratings on an ADHD scale were provided by parents and teachers on inattentive and hyperactive-impulsive symptoms. Children born very preterm/ELBW were found to perform significantly more poorly on Spatial Span Forward, Visual Attention, and Trail Making B than controls. Group differences were also found on parents' ratings on inattentive and total symptoms. Finally, measures of psychological tests of attention were found to be significant predictors of parents' and teachers' ratings of symptoms.
During the past few years, an increasing set of evidence has supported the major role of deregulation of the interaction patterns between glial cells and neurons in the pathway toward neuronal degeneration. Neurons and glial cells, together with brain vessels, constitute an integrated system for brain function. Inflammation is a process related with the onset of several neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Several hypotheses have been postulated to explain the pathogenesis of AD, but none provides insight into the early events that trigger metabolic and cellular alterations in neuronal degeneration. The amyloid hypothesis was sustained on the basis that Abeta-peptide deposition into senile plaques is responsible for neurodegeneration. However, recent findings point to Abeta oligomers as responsible for synaptic impairment in neuronal degeneration. Amyloid is only one among many other major factors affecting the quality of neuronal cells. Another explanation derives from the tau hypothesis, supported by the observations that tau hyperphosphorylations constitute a common feature of most of the altered signaling pathways in degenerating neurons. Altered tau patterns have been detected in the cerebrospinal fluids of AD patients, and a close correlation was observed between the levels of hyperphosphorylated tau isoforms and the degree of cognitive impairment. On the other hand, the anomalous effects of cytokines and trophic factors share in common the activation of tau hyperphosphorylation patterns. In this context, a neuroimmunological approach to AD becomes relevant. When glial cells that normally provide neurotrophic factors essential for neurogenesis are activated by a set of stressing events, they overproduce cytokines and NGF, thus triggering altered signaling patterns in the etiopathogenesis of AD. A solid set of discoveries has strengthened the idea that altered patterns in the glia-neuron interactions constitute early molecular events within the cascade of cellular signals that lead to neurodegeneration in AD. A direct correlation has been established between the Abeta-induced neurodegeneration and cytokine production and its subsequent release. In effect, neuroinflammation is responsible for an abnormal secretion of proinflammatory cytokines that trigger signaling pathways that activate brain tau hyperphosphorylation in residues that are not modified under normal physiological conditions. Other cytokines such as IL-3 and TNF-alpha seem to display neuroprotective activities. Elucidation of the events that control the transitions from neuroprotection to neurodegeneration should be a critical point toward elucidation of AD pathogenesis.

Patients with schizophrenia spectrum psychoses have a high risk of suicide. Suicide is more frequent in men. Our objective in this study was to investigate the long term suicide risk in schizophrenia spectrum psychoses in relation to gender. A cohort from 1973 to 1987 of 385 schizophrenia spectrum psychoses inpatients in Stockholm were followed up for cause of death in 2006. Twenty-six suicides (6.8%) occurred during the follow up of 24.4 years. There was no significant difference in suicide mortality between men (6.5%) and women (6.9%). There was no gender difference in death from other causes. These results indicate that patients with schizophrenia spectrum psychoses have a high long term suicide risk in both men and women. The high suicide risk in female patients deserves further research attention.
The Met allele of the Catechol-O-Methyltransferase (COMT) gene functional polymorphism (COMT-V158M) is associated with lower enzymatic activity than the Val allele and is reported to be associated with aggression, depression, and suicidal behavior. Since depression and impulsive-aggressive behavior may mediate risk for suicidal behavior, we assessed the association of this polymorphism with suicidal behavior. Clinical (impulsive aggression) and biological (CSF monoamine metabolites) endophenotypes were tested as potential mediators of the effect of genotype on suicide risk. Subjects with mood disorders (N = 486) and healthy volunteers (N = 119), all European Caucasian, were genotyped for COMT-V158M and assessed for DSM IV diagnoses, lifetime suicidal behavior, lifetime impulsivity, hostility, and aggression. CSF monoamine metabolites were assayed in a sub-sample of mood disorder patients (N = 111). We found no association between genotype and mood disorder diagnosis or with reported history of suicide attempt in mood disorder subjects. There was no association between genotype and lethality or method of suicide attempt, or with aggressive/impulsive traits. Further, there was no difference in monoamine metabolites by genotype. The COMT-V158M polymorphism was not associated with suicidal behavior in a Caucasian sample of mood disorder subjects, or with possible clinical or biological endophenotypes.


The objective of this study was to estimate the prevalence of different kinds of physical and emotional violence in an Iranian pregnant population and to examine its associated risk factors. This cross-sectional study was done from March through July 2005 in the 4 main hospitals of Kerman, Iran, which had maternity units. In total, 416 out of 460 women who were asked to participate agreed to be interviewed, a 90.4% response rate. All respondents were interviewed privately during the first 48 hours after delivery. The mean age (+/- SD) was 28.0 +/- 5.6, and all were married. Most of the women were urban residents (89.2%), and the majority of them were multiparous (78.8%). Nearly 16% of mothers said the pregnancies were unintended. In total, 35% (95% confidence interval: 30%-40%) of women had experienced 1 or more episodes of emotional violence during the pregnancy inflicted by their husbands, and 106 women (25%; 95% confidence interval: 21%-30%) had experienced at least 1 episode of physical violence. The highest odds of domestic violence during pregnancy was associated with unintended pregnancies (odds ratio: 7.66; 95% confidence interval: 3.45-16.99) and multiparous pregnancies (odds ratio: 6.88; 95% confidence interval: 3.46-13.68). Considering the high prevalence of different types of domestic violence during pregnancy, it should be regarded as a priority for health policy experts in Kerman and possibly Iran.
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) due to canalithiasis can be treated with particle repositioning manoeuvres, which aim to evacuate trapped particles from the semicircular canals (SCC). The movement of particles within the SCC is affected by gravity as well as by the accelerations of the head during the manoeuvres. Moreover, as experienced by the particles, gravity is indistinguishable from an upward acceleration of the SCC in free space. We used a set of three orthogonal linear accelerometers to measure the net three-dimensional linear acceleration vector acting on the head during the Hallpike manoeuvre and Epley and Semont particle repositioning manoeuvres (which are used to treat posterior canal BPPV). The projection of the net acceleration vector onto the SCC planes showed that both the Epley and Semont manoeuvres approximated to stepwise, 360 degrees , backward rotations in the plane of the targeted posterior canal. Angular velocity measurements however showed that the rotational component during the central stages of these two manoeuvres is opposite in direction. A simple model of head rotations during particle repositioning manoeuvres was created which showed good agreement to the linear acceleration measurements. Analysis of modelled and measured data identified that speed of movement during the Semont manoeuvre should be critical to its clinical success.
A substantial proportion of children with language-based learning problems [learning disabilities (LD)] display abnormal encoding of speech at rostral levels of the auditory brainstem (i.e. midbrain) as measured by the auditory brainstem response (ABR). Of interest here is whether these timing deficits originate at the rostral brainstem or whether they reflect deficient sensory encoding at lower levels of the auditory pathway. We describe the early brainstem response to speech (waves I and III) in typically developing 8- to 12-year-old children and children with LD. We then focus on the early brainstem responses in children with LD found to show abnormal components of the rostral speech-evoked ABR (waves V and A). We found that wave I was not reliably evoked using our speech stimulus and recording parameters in either typically developing children or those with LD. Wave III was reliably evoked in the large majority of subjects in both groups and its timing did not differ between them. These data are consistent with the view that the auditory deficits in the majority of LD children with abnormal speech-evoked ABR originate from corticofugal modulation of subcortical activity.
The interaural level difference (ILD) is an important cue for the localization of sound sources. The sensitivity to ILD was measured in 10 users of a cochlear implant (CI) in one ear and a hearing aid (HA) in the other severely impaired ear. For simultaneous presentation of a pulse train on the CI side and a sinusoid on the HA side the just noticeable difference (JND) in ILD and loudness growth functions were measured. The mean JND for pitch-matched electric and acoustic stimulation was 1.7 dB. A linear fit of the loudness growth functions on a decibel-versus-microampere scale shows that the slope depends on the subject's dynamic ranges.
It has previously been demonstrated that the carriers of the German waltzing guinea pig are less susceptible to noise trauma. To explore whether this represents a general resistance to inner ear trauma, carriers of the German waltzing guinea pig were exposed to the ototoxic agent cisplatin. Two doses of cisplatin were injected intravenously into anesthetized carriers and weight-matched control animals. Prior to and 96 h after the injections hearing thresholds were established by recording the auditory brainstem responses at 3.5, 7, 14, and 28 kHz. The cochleae were harvested to estimate hair cell loss and to analyze total platinum content. The carriers of the German waltzing guinea pig strain suffered from a more pronounced cisplatin-induced hearing loss compared to the control animals. The results suggest that mechanisms responsible for the protection against acoustic stress do not provide any protection against cisplatin in carriers of the German waltzing guinea pig.

We describe a patient with Marchiafava-Bignami disease who showed, in addition to signs of callosal interruption, a peculiar form of diagonistic dyspraxia. Unlike the typical diagonistic dyspraxia, both of the patient's hands could simultaneously cooperate in a sequence of bimanual actions. More specifically, his right hand could start a commanded action with the cooperation of his left hand. However, once the action was completed, his left hand started an antagonistic action, undoing the result, with the cooperation of his right hand. Once this countermanding action was completed, the original action started again. These antagonistic actions repeated themselves alternately unless he was restrained. The patient's diagonistic dyspraxia was apparent in only some bimanual actions, and he showed no diagonistic dyspraxia when performing voluntary actions; the antagonistic actions occurred in response to oral commands or by imitation. Magnetic resonance imaging showed symmetrical demyelination with partial necrosis in the genu, body, and anterior splenium of the corpus callosum. We speculate that the bimanual coordination is possible because part of the corpus callosum is intact, whereas the antagonistic actions may be caused by conflict between the two hemispheres due to interhemispheric disinhibition elicited by the demyelinated part of the corpus callosum.
Freezing of gait (FoG), a transient halt in walking, is a major mobility problem for patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). This study examined the factors that induce FoG, and identified the cues and strategies that help overcome it through a postal survey of 130 PD patients. 72% reported FoG. The factors that commonly induced FoG were turning, fatigue, confined spaces and stressful situations, in addition to emotional factors. FoG was also ameliorated by various attentional and external cueing strategies. The concept of paradoxical kinesis, the potential neural substrates of such external cueing effects, and their importance for rehabilitation in PD are discussed.
Very few studies have investigated the development of visual search of aligned stimuli in relation to normal reading acquisition and in developmental dyslexia. In this study we used a new computerised experimental task which requires a visuo-motor response (RT) to a target appearing unpredictably in one out of seven different spatial positions on a horizontally aligned array of 18 geometrical figures. The aims of the study were to investigate: 1) the visual scanning development in normal children from pre-school to school age; 2) whether visual scanning performance in kindergarten children could predict reading acquisition; 3) the visual scanning abilities in a group of developmental dyslexic children. The main results were: 1) a significant decrement of RTs with age and a progressive increase of the left-to-right gradient with reading experience; 2) visual scanning abilities in kindergarten proved to be a good predictor of reading acquisition; 3) dyslexics were slow scanners and did not present the left-to-right strategy typical of normal readers. The results support the hypothesis of a relationship between visual scanning and reading abilities.
The &quot;frontal aging hypothesis&quot; predicts that brain senescence affects predominantly the prefrontal regions. Preliminary evidence has recently been gathered in favour of an age-related change in a typically frontal process, i.e. decision making, using the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), but overall findings have been conflicting. Following the traditional scoring method, coupled with a qualitative analysis, in the present study we compared IGT performance of 40 young (mean age: 27.9+/-4.7) and 40 old (mean age: 65.4+/-8.6) healthy adults and of 18 patients affected by frontal lobe dementia of mild severity (mean age: 65.1+/-7.4, mean MMSE score: 24.1+/-3.9). Quantitative findings support the notion that decision making ability declines with age; moreover, it approximates the impairment observed in executive dysfunction due to neurodegeneration. Results of the qualitative analysis did not reach statistical significance for the motivational and learning decision making components considered, but approached significance for the attentional component for elderly versus young normals, suggesting a possible decrease in the ability to maintain sustained attention during complex and prolonged tasks as the putative deficit underlying impaired decision making in normal aging.
It has been hypothesized that an internal model is involved in controlling and recognizing one's own actions (action attribution). This results from a comparison process between the predicted sensory feedback of the action and its real sensory consequences. The aim of the present study is to distinguish the respective importance of two action parameters (time and direction) on such an attribution judgment. We used a device that allows introduction of discordance between the movements actually performed and the sensory feedback displayed on a computer screen. Participants were asked to judge whether they were viewing 1) their own movements, 2) their own movements modified (spatially or temporally displaced), or 3) those of another agent (i.e, the experimenter). In fact, in all conditions they were only shown their own movements either unaltered or modified by varying amounts in space or time. Movements were only attributed to another agent when there was a high spatial discordance between participants' hand movements and sensory feedback. This study is the first to show that the direction of movements is a cardinal feature in action attribution, whereas temporal properties of movements play a less important role.
This study aims to investigate autonoetic consciousness associated with episodic autobiographical memory in patients who had undergone unilateral medial temporal lobe resection for intractable epilepsy. Autonoetic consciousness, defined as the conscious feeling of mentally travelling back in time to relive a specific event, was assessed using the Remember/Know (R/K) paradigm across different time periods as proposed in the autobiographical memory task developed by Piolino et al. (TEMPau task). Results revealed that the two patient groups (left and right temporal resection) gave reduced sense of reliving (R) responses and more familiarity (K) responses than healthy controls. This poor autonoetic consciousness was highlighted when patients were asked to justify their Remember responses by recalling sensory-perceptive, affective or spatiotemporal specific details across all life periods. These results support the bilateral MTL contribution to episodic autobiographical memory covering the entire lifespan, which is consistent with the multiple trace theory of MTL function. This study also demonstrates the bilateral involvement of MTL structures in recalling specific details of personal events characterized by autonoetic consciousness.
There is ongoing theoretical debate regarding episodic memory and how it can be accurately measured, in particular if the focus should be content-based recall of episodic details or something more experiential involving the subjective capacity to mentally travel back in time and &quot;re-live&quot; aspects of the original event. The autonoetic subscale of the Episodic Autobiographical Memory Interview (EAMI) is presented here as a new test instrument that attempts to redress theoretical and methodological shortcomings in autobiographical memory assessment. The EAMI merges a phenomenological detail-based approach with an assessment of autonoetic consciousness, departing considerably from traditional Remember/Know paradigms used within this field. We present findings from an initial pilot study investigating the potential markers of autonoetic consciousness that may accompany episodic retrieval. Key behavioural indices of autonoetic consciousness, notably those of viewer perspective, visual imagery, and emotional re-experiencing, emerged as being inextricably bound with the level of phenomenological detail recalled and the overall re-living judgment. The autonoetic subscale of the EAMI permits conceptually refined assessment of episodic personal memories and the accompanying subjective experience of mental re-living, characteristic of episodic memory.
The objective of this study was to compare performance on different versions of the running span task, and to examine the relationship between task performance and tests of episodic memory and executive function. We found that the average capacity of the running span was approximately 4 digits, and at long sequence lengths, performance was no longer affected by varying the running span window. Both episodic and executive function measures correlated with short and long running spans, suggesting that a simple dissociation between immediate memory and executive processes in short and long running digit span tasks may not be warranted.

Violence occurs in four to five million intimate relationships each year in the United States. Past research has investigated the concept of batterer subtypes based on the nature of the violent behavior. To extend this research, the present study used the Impulsive/Premeditated Aggression Scale (IPAS) along with a battery of relevant self-report measures in a sample of men (N = 113) convicted of domestic violence and court ordered into an intervention program. Batterers whose violence was classified as premeditated scored higher on psychopathic traits and a measure of treatment rejection. Batterers whose violence was classified as impulsive in nature reported a wider range of serious psychopathology. It is suggested that the use of a bimodal classification (Impulsive/Premeditated) in batterers may have significant clinical and legal policy implications.

The relationships between family history of substance use, executive functions, impaired decision making, and current substance dependence are the focus of this study. Thirty-eight substance-dependent inpatients were compared with 30 community controls on performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Trail-Making Test-B, the Stroop Color Word Test, the Wais-II Digit Span, and the Iowa Gambling Task. Recent alcohol use, depressive symptoms, and impulsivity were also assessed. As hypothesized, individuals with substance dependence exhibited poorer executive functioning. Family history status was modestly related to impaired performance on tests designed to measure the integrity of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. In particular, substance-dependent, family history positive individuals performed less well on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test than substance-dependent individuals without a family history. Digit Span performances were worse among family history positive controls when compared with family history negative controls. Impulsive personality traits--specifically, difficulty thinking before acting (Urgency)--were related, as hypothesized, to executive functioning. Results indicate that family history status confers an increased risk of impairment beyond that conferred by recent substance abuse, and that impulsive personality traits are related to performance on tests of executive functions. Implications for criminality are discussed.
Forensic psychiatry is concerned with the relationship between psychiatric abnormalities and legal violations and crimes. Due to the lack of available biological criteria, evaluation and therapy in forensic psychiatry have so far been restricted to psychosocial and mental criteria of offenders' personalities. Recent advances in neurosciences allow a closer approach to the neural correlates of personality, moral judgments and decision-making. We propose to discuss the introduction of biological criteria in the field of forensic psychiatry and to establish rules as to what extent such biological criteria will be a better and more reliable choice in judging mentally ill criminals by using all available information that can be obtained by biological means. Psychosocial and subjective criteria in forensic evaluation will be more and more accomplished by biopsychosocial and objective criteria. The responsibility of having committed a criminal act will no longer be exclusively defined by judging free and voluntary decision-making, but rather by brain-behavior relationships. What is often referred to as psychosocially determined mental processes thus could be complemented by estimating the degree of biopsychosocially determined neural processes. We conclude that such a process could contribute to a paradigm shift in forensic psychiatry, which will have profound implications for offenders, forensic psychologists and psychiatrists, the law and society in general.
Until very recently, comparatively few scientists were studying hallucinogenic drugs. Nevertheless, selective antagonists are available for relevant serotonergic receptors, the majority of which have now been cloned, allowing for reasonably thorough pharmacological investigation. Animal models sensitive to the behavioral effects of the hallucinogens have been established and exploited. Sophisticated genetic techniques have enabled the development of mutant mice, which have proven useful in the study of hallucinogens. The capacity to study post-receptor signaling events has lead to the proposal of a plausible mechanism of action for these compounds. The tools currently available to study the hallucinogens are thus more plentiful and scientifically advanced than were those accessible to earlier researchers studying the opioids, benzodiazepines, cholinergics, or other centrally active compounds. The behavioral pharmacology of phenethylamine, tryptamine, and ergoline hallucinogens are described in this review, paying particular attention to important structure activity relationships which have emerged, receptors involved in their various actions, effects on conditioned and unconditioned behaviors, and in some cases, human psychopharmacology. As clinical interest in the therapeutic potential of these compounds is once again beginning to emerge, it is important to recognize the wealth of data derived from controlled preclinical studies on these compounds.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptides (CART 55-102 and CART 62-102) are peptidergic neurotransmitters that are widely but specifically distributed throughout the brain, gut and other parts of the body. They are found in many brain regions associated with drug addiction including the nucleus accumbens, ventral tegmental area and ventral pallidum. Injections of CART 55-102 into the nucleus accumbens have no effect on basal locomotor activity. However, an injection of CART just before an i.p. injection of cocaine reduces the locomotor activating effects of cocaine. These and other data suggest that CART in the accumbens blunts the effects of cocaine. A hypothesis is that CART is homeostatic in the accumbens and tends to oppose large increases in dopamine signaling. These actions would therefore be able to regulate the effects of some abused drugs such as the psychostimulants.
Psychostimulants are a broadly defined class of drugs that stimulate the central and peripheral nervous systems as their primary pharmacological effect. The abuse liability of psychostimulants is well established and represents a significant public health concern. An extensive literature documents the critical importance of monoamines (dopamine, serotonin and norepinephrine) in the behavioral pharmacology and addictive properties of psychostimulants. In particular, the dopamine transporter plays a primary role in the reinforcing and behavioral-stimulant effects of psychostimulants in animals and humans. Moreover, both serotonin and norepinephrine systems can reliably modulate the neurochemical and behavioral effects of psychostimulants. However, there is a growing body of evidence that highlights complex interactions among additional neurotransmitter systems. Cortical glutamatergic systems provide important regulation of dopamine function, and inhibitory amino acid gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) systems can modulate basal dopamine and glutamate release. Repeated exposure to psychostimulants can lead to robust and enduring changes in neurobiological substrates, including monoamines, and corresponding changes in sensitivity to acute drug effects on neurochemistry and behavior. Significant advances in the understanding of neurobiological mechanisms underlying psychostimulant abuse and dependence have guided pharmacological treatment strategies to improve clinical outcome. In particular, functional agonist treatments may be used effectively to stabilize monoamine neurochemistry, influence behavior and lead to long-term abstinence. However, additional clinical studies are required in order to identify safe and efficacious pharmacotherapies.
Drug addiction is a chronic, relapsing disorder, characterized by an uncontrollable motivation to seek and use drugs. Converging clinical and preclinical observations implicate pathologies within the corticolimbic glutamate system in the genetic predisposition to, and the development of, an addicted phenotype. Such observations pose cellular factors regulating glutamate transmission as likely molecular candidates in the etiology of addiction. Members of the Homer family of proteins regulate signal transduction through, and the trafficking of, glutamate receptors, as well as maintain and regulate extracellular glutamate levels in corticolimbic brain regions. This review summarizes the existing data implicating the Homer family of protein in acute behavioral and neurochemical sensitivity to drugs of abuse, the development of drug-induced neuroplasticity, as well as other behavioral and cognitive pathologies associated with an addicted state.
Evidence that psychoactive substance use disorders, bulimia nervosa, pathological gambling, and sexual addiction share an underlying biopsychological process is summarized. Definitions are offered for addiction and addictive process, the latter being the proposed designation for the underlying biopsychological process that addictive disorders are hypothesized to share. The addictive process is introduced as an interaction of impairments in three functional systems: motivation-reward, affect regulation, and behavioral inhibition. An integrative review of the literature that addresses the neurobiology of addiction is then presented, organized according to the three functional systems that constitute the addictive process. The review is directed toward identifying candidate neurochemical substrates for the impairments in motivation-reward, affect regulation, and behavioral inhibition that could contribute to an addictive process.
Glycyrrhetinic acid (GE), a hydrolysis product of glycyrrhizic acid, one of the main constituents of licorice root, is able, depending on its concentration, to prevent or to induce the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) (a phenomenon related to oxidative stress) in rat heart mitochondria (RHM). In RHM, below a threshold concentration of 7.5 microM, GE prevents oxidative stress and MPT induced by supraphysiological Ca2+ concentrations. Above this concentration, GE induces oxidative stress by interacting with a Fe-S centre of Complex I, thus producing ROS, and amplifies the opening of the transition pore, once again induced by Ca2+. GE also inhibits Ca2+ transport in RHM, thereby preventing the oxidative stress induced by the cation. However, the reduced amount of Ca2+ transported in the matrix is sufficient to predispose adenine nucleotide translocase for pore opening. Comparisons between observed results and the effects of GE in rat liver mitochondria (RLM), in which the drug induces only MPT without exhibiting any protective effect, confirm that it interacts in a different way with RHM, suggesting tissue specificity for its action. The concentration dependence of the opposite effects of GE, in RHM but not RLM, is most probably due to the existence of a different, more complex, pathway by means of which GE reaches its target. It follows that high GE concentrations are necessary to stimulate the oxidative stress capable of inducing MPT, because of the above effect, which prevents the interaction of low concentrations of GE with the Fe-S centre. The reported results also explain the mechanism of apoptosis induction by GE in cardiomyocytes.
The design of strategies that improve the absorption of insulin through the gastrointestinal tract is a considerable challenge in the pharmaceutical sciences and would significantly enhance the treatment of diabetes mellitus. Several strategies have been devised to overcome physiologic and morphologic barriers to insulin absorption, including the inhibition of acidic and enzymatic degradation, enhancement of membrane permeability or widening of tight junctions, chemical modification of insulin, and the formulation of carrier systems. In particular, the concept of nanoparticulate carriers for oral insulin delivery has evolved through remarkable advances in nanotechnology. Investigations focused on uptake and translocation via Peyer's patches have demonstrated high levels of nanoparticle absorption based on significant alterations in the glycemic response to various glucogenic sources. This paper reviews the mechanisms for insulin and particle uptake and translocation through the gastrointestinal tract, and the potential barriers to this, outlines the design of nanoparticulate carriers for the oral delivery of insulin, and presents prospects for its clinical application.
This work reports an empirical examination of two key issues in theoretical neuroscience: distractibility in the context of working memory (WM) and its reward dependence. While these issues have been examined fruitfully in isolation (e.g. Macoveanu et al. in Biol Cybern 96(4): 407-19, 2007), we address them here in tandem, with a focus on how distractibility and reward interact. In particular, we parameterise an observation model that embodies the nonlinear form of such interactions, as described in a recent neuronal network model (Gruber et al. in J Comput Neurosci 20:153-166, 2006). We observe that memory for a target stimulus can be corrupted by distracters in the delay period. Interestingly, in contrast to our theoretical predictions, this corruption was only partial. Distracters do not simply overwrite target; rather, a compromise is reached between target and distracter. Finally, we observed a trend towards a reduced distractibility under conditions of high reward. We discuss the implications of these findings for theoretical formulations of basal and dopamine (DA)-modulated neural bump- attractor networks of working memory.
Recent experimental studies have shown that astrocytes respond to external stimuli with a transient increase of the intracellular calcium concentration or can exhibit self-sustained spontaneous activity. Both evoked and spontaneous astrocytic calcium oscillations are accompanied by exocytosis of glutamate caged in astrocytes leading to paroxysmal depolarization shifts (PDS) in neighboring neurons. Here, we present a simple mathematical model of the interaction between astrocytes and neurons that is able to numerically reproduce the experimental results concerning the initiation of the PDS. The timing of glutamate release from the astrocyte is studied by means of a combined modeling of a vesicle cycle and the dynamics of SNARE-proteins. The neuronal slow inward currents (SICs), induced by the astrocytic glutamate and leading to PDS, are modeled via the activation of presynaptic glutamate receptors. The dependence of the bidirectional communication between neurons and astrocytes on the concentration of glutamate transporters is analyzed, as well. Our numerical results are in line with experimental findings showing that astrocyte can induce synchronous PDSs in neighboring neurons, resulting in a transient synchronous spiking activity.




This work investigated the effect of the H1 receptor blockade in the forebrain of ablated Carassius auratus in a simple stimulus-response learning task using a T-maze test with positive reinforcement. The goldfish were submitted to surgery for removal of both telencephalic lobes five days before beginning the experiment. A T-shaped glass aquarium was employed, with two feeders located at the extremities of the long arm. One of the two feeders was blocked. The experimental trials were performed in nine consecutive days. Each fish was individually placed in the short arm and confined there for thirty seconds, then it was allowed to swim through the aquarium to search for food for ten minutes (maximum period). Time to find food was analysed in seconds. Animals were injected intraperitoneally with chlorpheniramine (CPA) at 16 mg/kg of body weight or saline after every trial, ten minutes after being placed back in the home aquarium. The results show that all the training latencies of the A-SAL group were higher than the latencies of the S-SAL group. The S-SAL group had decreased latencies from the second trial on, while the S-CPA group showed decreased latencies after the fourth trial. The A-SAL group showed reduced latencies after the fifth trial, but the A-CPA group maintained the latencies throughout the experiment. This suggests that CPA impairs the consolidation of learning both on telencephalon ablated animals and in sham-operated ones through its action on mesencephalic structures of the brain and/or on the cerebellum in teleost fish.
In the last few decades, several works on event related potentials (ERPs hereafter) during sleep have been reported. In spite of numerous studies, clear methodological rules for this kind of study are often missing, making it difficult to valorize the scope of these results. We propose here a description of methodological aspects to be considered when evaluating ERPs during sleep. The use of Rechtschaffen and Kales rules versus automatic methods is assessed, plus the additional use of certain quantitative measures. Additionally, two topics are discussed which must be controlled in ERPs sleep studies: the First Night Effect, and sleep disturbances. Better control of experimental paradigms is relevant for the growth of the neuroscience of sleep.
Computerized posturography systems are commonly used to evaluate postural equilibrium and balance, usually performing a static balance test in which the person being tested tries to minimize the sway of the body. Most variations of static test are part of the modified Clinical Test of Sensor Integration in Balance (mCTSIB) test protocol. Given its importance in clinical practice, a recurrent question is how repeatable are the posturographic measures obtained by these tests and what constitutes a significant change. To answer these questions an investigation was conducted using two models of the CAPStrade mark Computerized Posturography System. The repeatability of the two systems was assessed using fixed weights, and the repeatability of the posturographic measures was investigated by repeatedly testing one female and one male subject under controlled conditions. The most repeatable posturographic measure was found to be the Stability Score.
Structure-activity relationships (SAR) were analyzed within a library of diverse yet simple compounds prepared as histamine H3 antagonists. The libraries were constructed with a variety of low molecular weight pyrrolidines, selected from (R)-2-methylpyrrolidine, (S)-2-methylpyrrolidine, and pyrrolidine.
Bridgehead substituted derivatives of bicyclo[4.2.1]nonanes were synthesized and shown to be potent inhibitors of gamma-secretase. Two related series were synthesized to explore the SARs. More potent compounds were found in the non-benzofused series compared with the benzofused series. One compound from each series showed good exposure in the hepatic portal vein (HPV) following oral dosing to rats.


Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) is a multisystemic necrotising granulomatous vasculitis of small and medium sized vessels, that primarily involves the upper and lower respiratory tracts, lung tissues and kidneys. Serum antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) are a sensitive and specific marker of WG. Whereas the peripheral nervous system is often involved in WG, central nervous system manifestations are reported only in 2-8%, and are rarely present at onset. We report on a patient with atypical neurological presentation of ANCA negative WG in whom the diagnosis was made only after a meningeal biopsy.
The pedunculopontine nucleus is a promising new target for deep brain stimulation (DBS) in Parkinsonian patients with gait disturbance and postural instability refractory to other treatment modalities. This region of the brain is unfamiliar territory to most functional neurosurgeons and has been the subject of inaccurate descriptions and representations. This contribution reviews the anatomy of the human pedunculopontine nucleus as well as that of another brainstem nucleus that carries a vaguely similarly sounding name and with which the former has been confused--the peripeduncular nucleus. The stereotactic coordinates for both structures are reviewed, as are methods of anatomical localization in surgical practice. The precise understanding and use of anatomical terminology together with accurate postoperative lead localization are essential when reporting on the clinical effects of novel DBS targets.
Subthalamic deep brain stimulation is now well established as a treatment for the dopaminergic motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease. It has little effect on postural instability and &quot;on-state&quot; gait freezing. Animal experiments and early human pilot studies suggest that Pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation may alleviate these phenomenon, consistent with the hypothesis that these disabling symptoms are secondary to degeneration in non-dopaminergic pathways.
Large animal neuroscience enables the use of conventional clinical brain imagers and the direct use and testing of surgical procedures and equipment from the human clinic. The greater complexity of the large animal brain additionally enables a more direct translation to human brain function in health and disease. Economical, ethical, scientific and practical issues may on the other hand hamper large animal neuroscience. Large animal neuroscience should therefore either be performed in order to examine large animal species dependent problems or to complement promising small animal basic studies by constituting an intermediate research system, bridging small animal CNS research to the human CNS. We have, accordingly, during the last ten years used the Gottingen minipig to examine neuromodulatory treatment modalities such as stem cell transplantation and deep brain stimulation directed towards Parkinson disease. This has been accomplished by the development of a MPTP-based large animal model of Parkinson disease in the Gottingen minipig and the development of stereotaxic and surgical approaches needed to manipulate the Gottingen minipig CNS. The instituted changes in the CNS can be evaluated in the live animal by brain imaging (PET and MR), cystometry, gait analysis, neurological evaluation and by post mortem examination based on histology and stereological analysis.
Gait freezing and poor balance are two of the most disabling symptoms of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD), and also of other untreatable progressive neurological disorders, such as multi-system atrophy (MSA) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). In PD, these symptoms are currently inadequately managed by drugs and also the present surgical treatment of deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the sub-thalamic nucleus (STN) and the globus pallidus internus (GPi). The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) has been implicated in these symptoms. The PPN is in the upper brain stem. The major inhibitory input is from the GPi and substantia nigra reticulata (SNr), and bilateral output is to the substantia nigra compacta (SNc), thalamus and spinal cord. Stimulation of the PPN in the decerebrate rat, cat and dog induced gait-like movements. In autopsy studies in PD, MSA, PSP and the DYT-1 dystonic brain, the PPN is degenerate. Autoradiography of the MPTP-Parkinsonian primate shows excessive inhibition in the PPN. Lesions of the PPN in the normal primate induced PD-type bradykinesia, which was persistent with bilateral lesions. In the MPTP-primate model, microinjections of the gamma aminobutyric acid A (GABA) antagonist bicuculine into the PPN reversed Parkinsonian akinesia implying that stimulation of this region might have a therapeutic role in drug resistant PD. Low frequency (5-10Hz) stimulation of the PPN in the same model reversed akinesia independently of L-dopa; moreover, l-dopa and stimulation effects were additive, implying the involvement of non-dopaminergic pathways.
Cannabinoids suppress behavioural responses to noxious stimulation and suppress nociceptive transmission through activation of CB1 and CB2 receptor subtypes. CB1 receptors are expressed at high levels in the central nervous system (CNS), whereas CB2 receptors are found predominantly, but not exclusively, outside the CNS. CB2 receptors are also upregulated in the CNS and dorsal root ganglia by pathological pain states. Here, we review behavioural, neurochemical and electrophysiological data, which identify cannabinoid CB2 receptors as a therapeutic target for treating pathological pain states with limited centrally, mediated side effects. The development of CB2-selective agonists (with minimal affinity for CB1) as well as mutant mice lacking CB2 receptors has provided pharmacological and genetic tools required to evaluate the effectiveness of CB2 agonists in suppressing persistent pain states. This review will examine the efficacy of cannabinoid CB2-selective agonists in suppressing acute, inflammatory and neuropathic nociception following systemic and local routes of administration. Data derived from behavioural, neurochemical and neurophysiological approaches are discussed to better understand the relationship between antinociceptive effects induced by CB2-selective agonists in behavioural studies and neural mechanisms of pain suppression. Finally, the therapeutic potential and possible limitations of CB2-based pharmacotherapies for pathological pain states induced by tissue and nerve injury are discussed.
A wealth of literature has provided evidence that reactive tissue at the site of CNS injury is rich in chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans which may contribute to the non-permissive nature of the CNS. We have recently demonstrated using a murine model of human brachial plexus injury that the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans Neurocan and Brevican are differentially expressed by two subsets of astrocytes in the spinal cord dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) following dorsal root lesion (Beggah et al., Neuroscience 133: 749-762, 2005). However, direct evidence for a growth-inhibitory role of these proteoglycans in vivo is still lacking. We therefore performed dorsal root lesion (rhizotomy) in mice deficient in both Neurocan and Brevican. Rhizotomy in these animals resulted in no significant increase in the number of sensory fibres regenerating through the DREZ compared to genetically matched controls. Likewise, a conditioning peripheral nerve lesion prior to rhizotomy, which increases the intrinsic growth capacity of sensory neurons, enhanced growth to the same extent in transgenic and control mice, indicating that absence of these proteoglycans alone is not sufficient to further promote entry into the spinal cord. In contrast, when priming of the median nerve was performed at a clinically relevant time, i.e. 7 weeks post-rhizotomy, the growth of a subpopulation of sensory axons across the DREZ was facilitated in Neurocan/Brevican-deficient, but not in control animals. This demonstrates for the first time that (i) Neurocan and/or Brevican contribute to the non-permissive environment of the DREZ several weeks after lesion and that (ii) delayed stimulation of the growth program of sensory neurons can facilitate regeneration across the DREZ provided its growth-inhibitory properties are attenuated. Post-injury enhancement of the intrinsic growth capacity of sensory neurons combined with removal of inhibitory chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans may therefore help to restore sensory function and thus attenuate the chronic pain resulting from human brachial plexus injury.
Orbitofrontal Cortex (OFC) structural abnormality in schizophrenia has not been well characterized, probably due to marked anatomical variability and lack of consistent definitions. We previously reported OFC sulcogyral pattern alteration and its associations with social disturbance in schizophrenia, but OFC volume associations with psychopathology and cognition have not been investigated. We compared chronically treated schizophrenia patients with healthy control (HC) subjects, using a novel, reliable parcellation of OFC subregions and their association with cognition, especially the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), and with schizophrenic psychopathology including thought disorder. Twenty-four patients with schizophrenia and 25 age-matched HC subjects underwent MRI. OFC Regions of Interest (ROI) were manually delineated according to anatomical boundaries: Gyrus Rectus (GR); Middle Orbital Gyrus (MiOG); and Lateral Orbital Gyrus (LOG). The OFC sulcogyral pattern was also classified. Additionally, MiOG probability maps were created and compared between groups in a voxel-wise manner. Both groups underwent cognitive evaluations using the IGT, Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, and Trail Making Test (TMT). An 11% bilaterally smaller MiOG volume was observed in schizophrenia, compared with HC (F(1,47) = 17.4, P = 0.0001). GR and LOG did not differ, although GR showed a rightward asymmetry in both groups (F(1,47) = 19.2, P &lt; 0.0001). The smaller MiOG volume was independent of the OFC sulcogyral pattern, which differed in schizophrenia and HC (chi2 = 12.49, P = 0.002). A comparison of MiOG probability maps suggested that the anterior heteromodal region was more affected in the schizophrenia group than the posterior paralimbic region. In the schizophrenia group, a smaller left MiOG was strongly associated with worse 'positive formal thought disorder' (r = -0.638, P = 0.001), and a smaller right MiOG with a longer duration of the illness (r = -0.618, P = 0.002). While schizophrenics showed poorer performance than HC in the IGT, performance was not correlated with OFC volume. However, within the HC group, the larger the right hemisphere MiOG volume, the better the performance in the IGT (r = 0.541, P = 0.005), and the larger the left hemisphere volume, the faster the switching attention performance for the TMT, Trails B (r = -0.608, P = 0.003). The present study, applying a new anatomical parcellation method, demonstrated a subregion-specific OFC grey matter volume deficit in patients with schizophrenia, which was independent of OFC sulcogyral pattern. This volume deficit was associated with a longer duration of illness and greater formal thought disorder. In HC the finding of a quantitative association between OFC volume and IGT performance constitutes, to our knowledge, the first report of this association.
We have found that motor sequence learning and related brain activation is impaired in non-manifesting (nm) carriers of the DYT1 deletion for dystonia. In the present study we used a trial-and-error sequence-learning task in conjunction with an equiperformance study design to identify the neural substrates that support sequence learning in nmDYT1 mutation carriers. Six nmDYT1 mutation carriers and six control subjects were scanned with H215O PET during the performance of a trial-and-error guided, kinematically controlled motor sequence learning task and a matched motor execution task. Controls were matched for age and performance. PET data analysis was performed using statistical parametric mapping (SPM99). Although performing at matched levels, nmDYT1 mutation carriers overactivated the lateral cerebellum and the right inferotemporal cortex relative to age-matched controls (P &lt; 0.001). In contrast, they showed relative activation deficits in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex bilaterally, as well as in the left anterior cingulate and the dorsal premotor cortex (P &lt; 0.001). Prominent compensatory involvement of the cerebellum during target learning is consistent with our prior sequence-learning experiments in nmDYT1 mutation carriers. Contrasting to mutation carriers, normals used bilateral cerebellar activation in conjunction with a prominent prefrontal bilateralization only when confronted with a much higher task difficulty. nmDYT1 mutation carriers lack recruitment of these prefrontal regions that depend on modulation within the cortico-striato-pallido-thalamocortical (CSPTC) loops. Instead, they compensate solely using cerebellar activation. This observation is in keeping with recent evidence of impaired structure/function relationships within CSPTC networks in dystonia perhaps occurring on a neurodevelopmental basis. The inability to recruit the appropriate set of neocortical areas because of altered fronto-striatal connectivity may have led to the shift to cerebellar processing.
Like electrical wires, axons carry signals from place to place. However, unlike wires, because of the electrochemical mechanisms for generating and propagating action potentials, the performance of an axon is strongly linked to the costs of its construction and operation. As a consequence, the architecture of brain wiring is biophysically constrained to trade off speed and energetic efficiency against volume. Because the biophysics of axonal conduction is well studied, this tradeoff is amenable to quantitative analysis. In this framework, an examination of axon tract composition can yield insights into neural circuit function in regard to energetics, processing speed, spike timing precision, and average rates of neural activity.
The study of the evolution of brain structure and function, although fascinating, has been contentious, largely due to the correlative nature of neuroanatomical comparisons and the often ill-defined categorizations of habitat and behavior. We outline four conceptual approaches that will help the field of brain evolution emerge from a historical focus on descriptive comparative neuroanatomy. First, reliable, efficient and unbiased behavioral assays must be developed to characterize relevant cross-species differences in addition to focused studies of neuroanatomy. Second, developmental and physiological processes underlying neuroanatomical and behavioral differences can be analyzed using the comparative approach. Third, genome-wide comparisons including genome-wide linkage mapping, transcriptional profiling, and direct sequence comparisons, can be applied to identify the genetic basis for phenotypic differences. Finally, signatures of selection in DNA sequence can provide clues about adaptive genetic changes that affect the nervous system. These four approaches, which all depend on well-resolved phylogenies, will build on detailed neuroanatomical studies to provide a richer understanding of mechanistic and selective factors underlying brain evolution.

Studies on the crustacean nervous system have been responsible for advances in neuroscience and continue to play an important role in comparative neurobiology. The organization of crustacean brains provides clues about their phylogeny and might also offer some hints regarding their lifestyles. In this study, we compared the organization of specific brain regions of three species of marine shrimp with two species of freshwater prawns, making possible the identification of a pathway issuing from the periphery and cluster 9, which was not previously identified in freshwater prawns and shrimp. Although the brains of the species studied show the same general organization of other crustaceans, variations in the structural organization of the olfactory lobe, evidenced by different immuno-markers, were observed between shrimp species and prawns. In contrast to shrimp, the more well-defined organization of the olfactory lobe in freshwater prawns might reflect greater integration in the processing of olfactory information. Also, in freshwater prawns we described fibers organized as a tract similar to the deutocerebral commissure.
Neurogenesis and neuronal replacement in adulthood represent dramatic forms of plasticity that might serve as a substrate for behavioral flexibility. In songbirds, neurons are continually replaced in HVC (used as a proper name), a pre-motor region necessary for the production of learned vocalizations. There are large individual differences in HVC neuron addition. Some of this variation is probably due to individual differences in adult experience; however, it is also possible that heritability or experience early in development constrains the levels of adult neuron addition. As a step toward addressing the latter two possibilities, we explored the extent to which nest of origin predicts rates of HVC neuron addition in adult male zebra finches. One month after injections of [(3)H]-thymidine to mark dividing cells, neuron addition in HVC was found to co-vary among birds that had been nest mates, even when they were housed in different cages as adults. We also tested whether nest mate co-variation might be due to shared adult auditory experience by measuring neuron addition in nest mate pairs after one member was deafened. There were significant differences in neuron addition between hearing and deaf birds but nest mate relationships persisted. These results suggest that variation in genotype and/or early pre- or postnatal experience can account for a large fraction of adult variation in rates of neuron addition. These results also suggest that a major constraint on neurogenesis and the capacity to adjust rates of neuron addition in response to adult auditory experience is established early in development.
In many vertebrates, the production and reception of species-typical courtship signals occurs when gonadotropin and gonadal hormone levels are elevated. These hormones may modify sensory processing in the signal receiver in a way that enhances behavioral responses to the signal. We examined this possibility in female tngara frogs (Physalaemus pustulosus) by treating them with either gonadotropin (which elevated estradiol) or saline and exposing them to either mate choruses or silence. Expression of an activity-dependent gene, egr-1, was quantified within two sub-nuclei of the auditory midbrain to investigate whether gonadotropin plus chorus exposure induced greater egr-1 induction than either of these stimuli alone. The laminar nucleus (LN), a sub-nucleus of the torus semicircularis that contains steroid receptors, exhibited elevated egr-1 induction in response to chorus exposure and gonadotropin treatment. Further analysis revealed that neither chorus exposure nor gonadotropin treatment alone elevated egr-1 expression in comparison to baseline levels whereas gonadotropin + chorus exposure did. This suggests that mate signals and hormones together produce an additive effect so that together they induce more egr-1 expression than either alone. Our previously published studies of female tngara frogs reveal that (1) gonadotropin-induced estradiol elevations also increase behavioral responses to male signals, and (2) reception of male signals elevates estradiol levels in the female. Here, we report data that reveal a novel mechanism by which males exploit female sensory processing to increase behavioral responses to their courtship signals.
Different stressors likely elicit different physiological and behavioral responses. Previously reported differences in the effects of stressors on immune function may reflect qualitatively different physiological responses to stressors; alternatively, both large and subtle differences in testing protocols and methods among laboratories may make direct comparisons among studies difficult. Here we examine the effects of chronic stressors on plasma corticosterone concentrations, leukocyte redistribution, and skin delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH), and the effects of acute stressors on plasma corticosterone and leukocyte redistribution. The effects of several commonly used laboratory stressors including restraint, forced swim, isolation, and low ambient temperatures (4 degrees C) were examined. Exposure to each stressor elevated corticosterone concentrations, with restraint (a putative psychological stressor) evoking a significantly higher glucocorticoid response than other stressors. Chronic restraint and forced swim enhanced the DTH response compared to the handled, low temperature, or isolation conditions. Restraint, low temperature, and isolation significantly increased trafficking of lymphocytes and monocytes compared to forced swim or handling. Generally, acute restraint, low temperature, isolation, and handling increased trafficking of lymphocytes and monocytes. Considered together, our results suggest that the different stressors commonly used in psychoneuroimmunology research may not activate the physiological stress response to the same extent. The variation observed in the measured immune responses may reflect differential glucocorticoid activation, differential metabolic adjustments, or both processes in response to specific stressors.
Lymphoid organs have long been known to harbor neural fibers from the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system, but recent studies suggest a surprising degree of plasticity in the density of innervation. This review summarizes data showing that behavioral stress can increase the density of catecholaminergic neural fibers within lymphoid organs of adult primates. Stress-induced neural densification is associated with increased expression of neurotrophic factors, and functional consequences include alterations in lymph node cytokine expression and increased replication of a lymphotropic virus. The finding that behavioral stress can tonically alter lymph node neural structure suggests that behavioral factors could exert long-term regulatory influences on the initiation, maintenance, and resolution of immune responses.

INTRODUCTION: Quantitative fiber tracking with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) provides a new approach for assessing deficits in the microstructural integrity of white matter circuits that may underlie cognitive deficits associated with conditions affecting white matter, including chronic alcoholism. METHODS: Alcoholic men and women (n=87) and healthy controls (n=88) performed the Digit Symbol (DS) test and underwent structural and diffusion tensor imaging. Measures of fractional anisotropy (FA) of fibers passing through genu and splenium were computed, as were size of genu and splenium fiber target regions of interest (ROI). RESULTS: Alcoholics scored lower than controls on the DS and had even greater deficits in genu than splenium fiber FA. In alcoholics, fiber FA of the genu selectively predicted DS scores after accounting for splenium FA. Neither fiber FA measure predicted incidental recall of the symbols used in the task. Size of genu and splenium ROI, although reduced in alcoholics, did not predict DS score or incidental recall. CONCLUSIONS: Quantitative tractography of frontal fibers connecting left and right hemispheres selectively predicted performance by alcoholics on a coordinated psychomotor task and provide support for frontally based systems in Digit Symbol performance, both of which are compromised in recovering alcoholics.
Diffusion tensor imaging was used to study the combined effects of HIV-infection and alcoholism (ALC) on corpus callosum (CC) integrity in relation to processes of attentional allocation and conflict resolution assessed by a novel Stroop Match-to-Sample task. We tested 16 ALC, 19 HIV, 20 subjects with combined disorder and 17 controls. In ALC, low fractional anisotropy and high mean diffusivity throughout the CC correlated with poor Stroop-match performance, i.e., when the cue-color matched the color of the Stroop stimulus. By contrast, in the two HIV groups DTI relations were restricted to the genu and poor Stroop-nonmatch performance, i.e., when the cue-color was in conflict with the Stroop stimulus color. These results suggest that disruption of callosal integrity in HIV-infection and alcoholism differentially affects regionally-selective interhemispheric-dependent attentional processing. We speculate that callosal degradation in these diseases curtails the opportunity for collaboration between the two hemispheres that contributes to normal performance in HIV or alcoholic patients with higher callosal integrity.
Semantic errors are commonly found in semantic dementia (SD) and some forms of stroke aphasia and provide insights into semantic processing and speech production. Low error rates are found in standard picture naming tasks in normal controls. In order to increase error rates and thus provide an experimental model of aphasic performance, this study utilised a novel method- tempo picture naming. Experiment 1 showed that, compared to standard deadline naming tasks, participants made more errors on the tempo picture naming tasks. Further, RTs were longer and more errors were produced to living items than non-living items a pattern seen in both semantic dementia and semantically-impaired stroke aphasic patients. Experiment 2 showed that providing the initial phoneme as a cue enhanced performance whereas providing an incorrect phonemic cue further reduced performance. These results support the contention that the tempo picture naming paradigm reduces the time allowed for controlled semantic processing causing increased error rates. This experimental procedure would, therefore, appear to mimic the performance of aphasic patients with multi-modal semantic impairment that results from poor semantic control rather than the degradation of semantic representations observed in semantic dementia [Jefferies, E. A., &amp; Lambon Ralph, M. A. (2006). Semantic impairment in stoke aphasia vs. semantic dementia: A case-series comparison. Brain, 129, 2132-2147]. Further implications for theories of semantic cognition and models of speech processing are discussed.
Recent studies have revealed extensive cortical demyelination in patients with progressive multiple sclerosis (MS). Demyelination in gray matter lesions is associated with activation of microglia. Macrophages and microglia are known to express myeloperoxidase (MPO) and generate reactive oxygen species during myelin phagocytosis in the white matter. In the present study we examined the extent of microglial activation in the cerebral cortex and the relationship of microglial activation and MPO activity to cortical demyelination. Twenty-one cases of neuropathologically confirmed multiple sclerosis, with 34 cortical lesions, were used to assess microglial activation. HLA-DR immunolabeling of activated microglia was significantly higher in demyelinated MS cortex than control cortex and, within the MS cohort, was significantly greater within cortical lesions than in matched non-demyelinated areas of cortex. In homogenates of MS cortex, cortical demyelination was associated with significantly elevated MPO activity. Immunohistochemistry revealed MPO in CD68-positive microglia within cortical plaques, particularly toward the edge of the plaques, but not in microglia in adjacent non-demyelinated cortex. Cortical demyelination in MS is associated with increased activity of MPO, which is expressed by a CD68-positive subset of activated microglia, suggesting that microglial production of reactive oxygen species is likely to be involved in cortical demyelination.
Locomotion in mammals is to a large degree controlled directly by intrinsic spinal networks, called central pattern generators (CPGs). The overall function of these networks is governed by interaction between inhibitory and excitatory neurons. In the present review, we will discuss recent findings addressing the role of excitatory synaptic transmission for network function including the role of specific excitatory neuronal populations in coordinating muscle activity and in generating rhythmic activity.
During embryonic development chick and mouse spinal cords are activated by highly rhythmic episodes of spontaneous bursting activity at very early stages, while motoneurons are still migrating and beginning to extend their axons to the base of the limb. While such spontaneous activity has been shown to be important in refining neural projections once axons have reached their targets, early pathfinding events have been thought to be activity independent. However, in-ovo pharmacological manipulation of the transmitter systems that drive such early activity has shown that early motor axon pathfinding events are highly dependent on the normal pattern of bursting activity. A modest decrease in episode frequency resulted in dorsal-ventral pathfinding errors by lumbar motoneurons, and in the downregulation of several molecules required to successfully execute this guidance decision. In contrast, increasing the episode frequency was without effect on dorsal-ventral pathfinding. However, it prevented the subsequent motoneuron pool specific fasciculation of axons and their targeting to appropriate muscles, resulting in marked segmental pathfinding errors. These observations emphasize the need to better evaluate how such early spontaneous electrical activity may influence the molecular and transcription factor pathways that have been shown to regulate the differentiation of motor and interneuron phenotypes and the formation of spinal cord circuits. The intracellular signaling pathways by which episode frequency affects motor axon pathfinding must now be elucidated and it will be important to more precisely characterize the patterns with which specific subsets of motor and inter-neurons are activated normally and under conditions that alter spinal circuit formation.
The different neural control systems involved in goal-directed vertebrate locomotion are reviewed. They include not only the central pattern generator networks in the spinal cord that generate the basic locomotor synergy and the brainstem command systems for locomotion but also the control systems for steering and control of body orientation (posture) and finally the neural structures responsible for determining which motor programs should be turned on in a given instant. The role of the basal ganglia is considered in this context. The review summarizes the available information from a general vertebrate perspective, but specific examples are often derived from the lamprey, which provides the most detailed information when considering cellular and network perspectives.
This review summarises features of networks of commissural interneurones co-ordinating muscle activity on both sides of the body as an example of feline elementary spinal interneuronal networks. The main feature of these elementary networks is that they are interconnected and incorporated into more complex networks as their building blocks. Links between networks of commissural interneurones and other networks are quite direct, with mono- and disynaptic input from the reticulospinal and vestibulospinal neurones, disynaptic from the contralateral and ipsilateral corticospinal neurones and fastigial neurones, di- or oligosynaptic from the mesencephalic locomotor region and mono-, di- or oligosynaptic from muscle afferents. The most direct links between commissural interneurones and motoneurones are likewise simple: monosynaptic and disynaptic via premotor interneurones with input from muscle afferents. By such connections, a particular elementary interneuronal network may subserve a wide range of movements, from simple reflex and postural adjustments to complex centrally initiated phasic and rhythmic movements, including voluntary movements and locomotion. Other common features of the commissural and other interneuronal networks investigated so far is that input from several sources is distributed to their constituent neurones in a semi-random fashion and that there are several possibilities of interactions between neurones both within and between various populations. Neurones of a particular elementary network are located at well-defined sites but intermixed with neurones of other networks and distributed over considerable lengths of the spinal cord, which precludes the topography to be used as their distinguishing feature.
Different species maintain a particular body orientation in space (upright in humans, dorsal-side-up in quadrupeds, fish and lamprey) due to the activity of a closed-loop postural control system. We will discuss operation of spinal and supraspinal postural networks studied in a lower vertebrate (lamprey) and in two mammals (rabbit and cat). In the lamprey, the postural control system is driven by vestibular input. The key role in the postural network belongs to the reticulospinal (RS) neurons. Due to vestibular input, deviation from the stabilized body orientation in any (roll, pitch, yaw) plane leads to generation of RS commands, which are sent to the spinal cord and cause postural correction. For each of the planes, there are two groups of RS neurons responding to rotation in the opposite directions; they cause a turn opposite to the initial one. The command transmitted by an individual RS neuron causes the motor response, which contributes to the correction of posture. In each plane, the postural system stabilizes the orientation at which the antagonistic vestibular reflexes compensate for each other. Thus, in lamprey the supraspinal networks play a crucial role in stabilization of body orientation, and the function of the spinal networks is transformation of supraspinal commands into the motor pattern of postural corrections. In terrestrial quadrupeds, the postural system stabilizing the trunk orientation in the transversal plane was analyzed. It consists of two relatively independent sub-systems stabilizing orientation of the anterior and posterior parts of the trunk. They are driven by somatosensory input from limb mechanoreceptors. Each sub-system consists of two closed-loop mechanisms - spinal and spino-supraspinal. Operation of the supraspinal networks was studied by recording the posture-related activity of corticospinal neurons. The postural capacity of spinal networks was evaluated in animals with lesions to the spinal cord. Relative contribution of spinal and supraspinal mechanisms to the stabilization of trunk orientation is discussed.
An axon lesion to a bulbar or spinal motoneuron is followed by a typical retrograde response at the cell body level, including the removal or 'stripping' of synapses from the perikaryon and dendrites of affected cells. Both activated microglia and astrocytes have been attributed roles in this process. The signalling pathways for this 'synaptic stripping' have so far been unknown, but recently a classical set of immune recognition molecules, the MHC class I molecules, have been shown to have a strong influence on the strength and pattern of the synapse elimination response. Thus, when MHC class I signalling is severely impaired in mice lacking the MHC class I subunit beta2-microglobulin (beta2m) and transporter associated with antigen processing 1 (TAP 1) genes, both of which are necessary for surface expression of MHC class I, there is a stronger elimination of synapses from injured neurons, with the surplus elimination directed towards clusters of putatively inhibitory synapses. Moreover, the regenerative capacity of motoneurons in such mice is lower than in wild-type animals. The expression of MHC class I, as well as MHC class I-related receptors in both neurons and glia, lend support to a hypothesis that classical immune recognition signalling between neurons and glia underlie part of the 'stripping' response.
To understand how the spinal central pattern generators produce locomotor movements, it is necessary to characterize the network's connectivity, the intrinsic properties of the constituent neurons and the modulatory mechanisms. Modulation operating within spinal locomotor networks is required for the generation of the final motor output. In this review, we have summarized how endocannabinoids released by locomotor network neurons contribute to setting the baseline locomotor frequency. They are synthesized on demand as a result of activation of mGluR1 and act as retrograde messengers to depress inhibitory synaptic transmission. We also discuss how endogenous activation of mGluR1 contributes to the normal operation of the spinal locomotor network and the underlying cellular and synaptic mechanisms.
BrainMaps.org is an interactive high-resolution digital brain atlas and virtual microscope that is based on over 20 million megapixels of scanned images of serial sections of both primate and non-primate brains and that is integrated with a high-speed database for querying and retrieving data about brain structure and function over the internet. Complete brain datasets for various species, including Homo sapiens, Macaca mulatta, Chlorocebus aethiops, Felis catus, Mus musculus, Rattus norvegicus, and Tyto alba, are accessible online. The methods and tools we describe are useful for both research and teaching, and can be replicated by labs seeking to increase accessibility and sharing of neuroanatomical data. These tools offer the possibility of visualizing and exploring completely digitized sections of brains at a sub-neuronal level, and can facilitate large-scale connectional tracing, histochemical and stereological analyses.
Day Care Hospitals represent efficient structures for the treatment of various psychatric disorders through a large variety of medical care. In the litterature, multiple terms are used to define the various models of Day Care Hospitals, according to their use, their orientation and their therapeutic programmes. Our aim in this study is to compare, through a search on &quot;Medline&quot;, the various existing models of Day Care Hospitals in France and in Belgium. Thereafter, the &quot;specific&quot; model which exists at the Centre Hospitalier du Luxembourg will be described. Two main types of Day Care Hospitals are described in the litterature: the &quot;classical&quot; type, with mainly a support fuction, resides on the downstream side of hospitalisation and the &quot;specific&quot; type, with a care function for a short duration, resides on its upstream side. The model developed at the Centre Hospitalier du Luxembourg is upstream the hospital. From our study, it is concluded that, rather of being an inconvenience, the large number of existing Day Care Hospitals, which differ by various specificities, represent excellent complementary opportunities for the current care of mental diseases.
This article presents the findings from a doctoral research study that led to the development of an inductively derived substantive theory, &quot;Nursing Defensively&quot;. This theory describes the process of coping used by staff nurses when caring for family members of acquired brain injury (ABI) patients. This study was conducted in two acute care teaching and one non-teaching neuroscience wards in Toronto, Canada, using grounded theory method. A total of 20 registered nurses participated in the study. Supporting data are presented to permit the reader to &quot;hear&quot; the voices of the nurses caring for families of ABI patients in today's clinical environments. In addition, the author's interpretation of the significance of the findings for nursing is offered for the reader's reflection for applicability to relevant clinical environments and a call for clinical leadership in practice, education and research.

Patient-centred care (PCC) has been adopted as the approach to care in various health care institutions. The extent to which PCC is actually implemented by nurses and the extent to which PCC is associated with positive patient outcomes are not clear. The purpose of this pilot study is twofold: to examine the extent to which staff nurses provided PCC to patients admitted to a neuroscience unit, as perceived by the nurses and patients assigned to their care, and to examine the relationships between implementation of PCC and patient outcomes. A descriptive correlational design with repeated measures was used. Data were collected from 21 nurses and 14 patients from a neuroscience unit where PCC staff development initiatives had been implemented. PCC is operationalized as provision of individualized care, patient participation in care, patient education and counselling, and coordination of care. Patient outcome data related to symptom experience, functional status, self-care, and sense of personal control were gathered upon admission and one week after discharge. Results indicated that nurses reported the implementation of PCC to a slightly higher extent than did patients. Significant relationships were found between aspects of PCC and patient outcomes in terms of sense of personal control and satisfaction with care. Findings from this pilot study will guide further improvement in the implementation of PCC to continuously enhance quality of nursing care, the neuroscience patient's hospital experience and readiness for discharge.
Smell (olfactory) and taste (gustatory) are key senses in the regulation of nourishment and individual safety. Olfactory and gustatory dysfunctions have been infrequently reported together in patients following stroke (Landis et al., 2006; Leopold et al., 2006). This case report details two patients who experienced smell and taste dysfunction following minor stroke events. Symptoms reported included hyposmia (diminished sense of smell) and anosmia (complete loss of smell), and dysgeusia (distorted taste). Patients' sense of smell and taste were assessed in an ambulatory care stroke prevention clinic eight months following their strokes. Patient A presented with minor stroke due to a lesion in the anterior circulation, patient B with a lesion in the posterior circulation. Both patients reported intense olfactory and gustatory dysfunction immediately following their strokes. Examination revealed a general inability to detect subtle odours and the ability to identify only 'sweet' tastes for both patients. In addition, both patients reported heavily salting or sweetening their food to mask the distorted and unpleasant taste, which also impacted comorbid conditions such as hypertension and diabetes. Patients and their spouses reported a decrease in their appreciation of family-related activities due to the patients' olfactory and gustatory dysfunction. Patients reported weight loss, lack of energy and strength, likely due to poor nutrition. Olfactory and gustatory dysfunctions are potentially deleterious outcomes following minor stroke and should be assessed by health care professionals prior to patient discharge. Assistance may be required to promote the health and well-being of patients and their carers if smell and taste are impacted by the stroke event.




During the development of cerebral cortex, newborn pyramidal neurons originated from the ventricle wall migrate outwardly to the superficial layer of cortex under the guidance of radial glial filaments. Whether this radial migration of young neurons is guided by gradient of diffusible factors or simply driven by a mass action of newly generated neurons at the ventricular zone is entirely unknown, a potential guidance mechanism that has long been overlooked. Our recent study showed that a guidance molecule semaphorin-3A, which is expressed in descending gradient across cortical layers, may serve as a chemoattractive guidance signal for radial migration of newborn cortical neurons toward upper layers. We hypothesize the existence of four groups of extracellular factors that can guide the radial migration of young neurons: (1) attractive factors expressing in superficial layers of cortex, (2) repulsive factors enriched in the ventricular zone, (3) pro-migratory factors uniformly expressed in all cortical layers and (4) stop signals locally expressed in the outmost layer of cortex.
Stress is an important physiological regulator of brain function in young and adult mammals. The mechanisms underlying regulation of the consequences of stress, and in particular severe chronic stress, are thus important to investigate. These consequences most likely involve changes in synaptic function of brain areas being part of neural networks that regulate responses to stress. Cell adhesion molecules have been shown to regulate synaptic function in the adult and we were thus interested to investigate a regulatory mechanism that could influence expression of three adhesion molecules of the immunoglobulin superfamily (NCAM, L1 and CHL1) after exposure of early postnatal and adult mice to repeated stress. We hypothesized that reduction of adhesion molecule expression after chronic stress, as observed previously in vivo, could be due to gene silencing of the three molecules by DNA methylation. Although adhesion molecule expression was reduced after exposure of C57BL/6 mice to stress, thus validating our stress paradigm as imposing changes in adhesion molecule expression, we did not observe differences in methylation of CpG islands in the promoter regions of NCAM, L1 and CHL1, nor in the promoter region of the glucocorticoid receptor in the hippocampus, the expression of which at the protein level was also reduced after stress. We must therefore infer that severe stress in mice of the C57BL/6 strain downregulates adhesion molecule levels by mechanisms that do not relate to DNA methylation.
In order to assess the role of osteopontin (OPN) in leukocyte accumulation in inflammatory conditions, native OPN and its thrombin cleaved form (OPN+Thr) were studied in vivo using a rodent subcutaneous air pouch model (AP). Both forms of OPN-induced macrophage infiltration into the AP in wild-type mice. In animals lacking CD44, macrophage numbers were significantly reduced within the cavity, but cells still accumulated along the subcutaneous lining. In animals lacking endogenous OPN, no differences were found in exogenous OPN-induced macrophage accumulation, although macrophage exhibited increased alpha4 integrin expression. These studies reveal that both OPN and OPN+Thr attract macrophages in vivo through CD44.
Erythropoietin is a potent regulator of erythropoiesis. It acts via the specific membrane receptor (EpoR). Erythropoietin is also known to be present in the central nervous system, and its concentration and the expression of EpoR change during development, which raises the possibility that this modulator might be involved in the regulation of neuronal functions in the developing brain. The GABAergic system undergoes profound changes during development and is particularly susceptible to modulation by endogenous factors. Therefore, we decided to investigate the impact of Epo on GABAergic transmission in hippocampal neurons developing in vitro. An analysis of miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) revealed that a long-term treatment with Epo (48 or 72 h) resulted in a major acceleration of the decaying phase of these currents while the amplitude and current frequency remained unchanged. Interestingly, this effect was restricted to the youngest considered age group (6-8 DIV), indicating that Epomediated modulation of mIPSCs depends on the developmental stage of the neurons. We conclude that Epo may exert a modulatory action on GABAergic transmission in developing neural networks.
Neuroscience research in China has undergone rapid expansion since 1980. The Neuroscience Research Institute of Peking University, one of the most active neuroscience research groups in China, was founded in 1987. Currently, the institute is overseeing four research areas, i.e., (1) pain and analgesia, (2) drug abuse and acupuncture treatment for drug addiction, (3) the mechanism of neurological degenerative disorders, and (4) the role of neuroglia in central nervous system injury. The institute is simultaneously investigating both theoretical and clinical studies. Acupuncture remains the core of research, while pain and drug abuse form the two disciplines.
This article depicted how a young Chinese scientist got her training in China, how her training had impact on her scientific career in the US, and how she felt the prospect of Neuroscience in China.
In the present study, we compared brain activations produced by pleasant, neutral and unpleasant touch, to the anterior lateral surface of lower leg of human subjects. It was found that several brain regions, including the contralateral primary somatosensory area (SI), bilateral secondary somatosensory area (SII), as well as contralateral middle and posterior insula cortex were commonly activated under the three touch conditions. In addition, pleasant and unpleasant touch conditions shared a few brain regions including the contralateral posterior parietal cortex (PPC) and bilateral premotor cortex (PMC). Unpleasant touch specifically activated a set of pain-related brain regions such as contralateral supplementary motor area (SMA) and dorsal parts of bilateral anterior cingulated cortex, etc. Brain regions specifically activated by pleasant touch comprised bilateral lateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), intraparietal cortex and left dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). Using a novel functional connectivity model based on graph theory, we showed that a series of brain regions related to affectively different touch had significant functional connectivity during the resting state. Furthermore, it was found that such a network can be modulated between affectively different touch conditions.

The edition of a special issue entitled &quot;Neuroscience in China&quot; provides a unique opportunity to introduce neuroscience research undertakings in China today. Among the biological sciences at large, neuroscience is one of the most advanced fields in China. To take two examples, more than 70% of the articles published in the Chinese Journal of Physiology were in the category of neuroscience; among the members of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), scientists in the field of neuroscience outnumber scientists in other disciplines of basic medical sciences. This assay tries to analyze the historical and contemporary background underlying the current status.
GABAergic and glycinergic function is dependent on neuronal intracellular chloride. The neuron-specific electroneutral potassium (K(+)) and chloride (Cl(-)) cotransporter (KCC2), is a key regulator of neuronal Cl(-), yet little is known about KCC2 regulation. Using yeast two-hybrid, we identified Protein Associated with Myc (PAM) as a binding partner of KCC2. The RCC1 (Regulator of Chromatin Condensation) domain of PAM binds to the carboxyl terminus of KCC2, as demonstrated through yeast two-hybrid and GST-pull-down assays. RCC1/PAM and full-length KCC2 coimmunoprecipitate following heterologous co-expression in HEK293 cells. Additionally, (86)Rb/K(+) uptake assays in this model system show that RCC1/PAM causes increased KCC2-mediated flux. After narrowing down RCC1/PAM binding to a 20 amino acid region on the KCC2 carboxyl terminus, we created a point mutant in this region to eliminate interaction between the KCC2 carboxyl terminus and RCC1/PAM. This same mutation abolishes N-ethylmaleimide activation of KCC2, suggesting that PAM plays a role in modulating KCC2 function.
The activity of cells critically depends on the control of their cytosolic free calcium ion (Ca(2+)) concentration. The objective of the present study was to identify mechanisms of action underlying the control of the gain of intracellular Ca(2+) release by circulating gonadal steroid hormones. Acute stimulation of isolated neurons with progesterone led to IP(3)R-mediated Ca(2+) transients that depend on the activation of the PI3 kinase/Akt/PKB signaling pathway. These results were confirmed at the molecular level and phosphorylation of IP(3)R type 1 by Akt/PKB was identified as the mechanism of action. Hence, it is likely that circulating gonadal steroid hormones control neuronal activity including phosporylation status through receptor- and kinase-mediated signaling. With a direct control of the gain of the Ca(2+) second messenger system as a signaling gatekeeper for neuronal activity the present study identifies a novel pathway for interaction of the endocrine and central nervous system.
The identification of 2'-O-methyl substituted adenosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) analogs that activate the Epac family of cAMP-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factors (cAMP-GEFs, also known as Epac1 and Epac2), has ushered in a new era of cyclic nucleotide research in which previously unrecognized signalling properties of the second messenger cAMP have been revealed. These Epac-Selective Cyclic AMP Analogs (ESCAs) incorporate a 2'-O-methyl substitution on the ribose ring of cAMP, a modification that impairs their ability to activate protein kinase A (PKA), while leaving intact their ability to activate Epac (the Exchange Protein directly Activated by Cyclic AMP). One such ESCA in wide-spread use is 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP. It is a cell-permeant derivative of 2'-O-Me-cAMP, and it is a super activator of Epac. A wealth of newly published studies demonstrate that 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP is a unique tool with which to asses atypical actions of cAMP that are PKA-independent. Particularly intriguing are recent reports demonstrating that ESCAs reproduce the PKA-independent actions of ligands known to stimulate Class I (Family A) and Class II (Family B) GTP-binding protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). This topical review summarizes the current state of knowledge regarding the molecular pharmacology and signal transduction properties of Epac-selective cAMP analogs. Special attention is focused on the rational drug design of ESCAs in order to improve their Epac selectivity, membrane permeability, and stability. Also emphasized is the usefulness of ESCAs as new tools with which to assess the role of Epac as a determinant of intracellular Ca2+ signalling, ion channel function, neurotransmitter release, and hormone secretion.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common movement disorder. The neuropathology is characterized by the loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Transplants of fetal/embryonic midbrain tissue have exhibited some beneficial clinical effects in open-label trials. Neural grafting has, however, not become a standard treatment for several reasons. First, the supply of donor cells is limited, and therefore, surgery is accompanied by difficult logistics. Second, the extent of beneficial effects has varied in a partly unpredictable manner. Third, some patients have exhibited graft-related side effects in the form of involuntary movements. Fourth, in two major double-blind placebo-controlled trials, there was no effect of the transplants on the primary endpoints. Nevertheless, neural transplantation continues to receive a great deal of interest, and now, attention is shifting to the idea of using stem cells as starting donor material. In the context of stem cell therapy for PD, stem cells can be divided into three categories: neural stem cells, embryonic stem cells, and other tissue-specific types of stem cells, e.g., bone marrow stem cells. Each type of stem cell is associated with advantages and disadvantages. In this article, we review recent advances of stem cell research of direct relevance to clinical application in PD and highlight the pros and cons of the different sources of cells. We draw special attention to some key problems that face the translation of stem cell technology into the clinical arena.
A common assumption of classical neuroscience was that neurons and glial cells were derived from separate pools of progenitor cells and that, once development was completed, no new neurons were produced. The subsequent disproving of the &quot;no new neuron&quot; dogma suggested that ongoing adult neurogenesis was supported by a population of multipotent neural stem cells. Two germinal regions within the adult mammalian brain were shown to contain neural progenitor cells: the subventricular zone (SVZ) along the walls of the lateral ventricles, and the subgranular zone (SGZ) within the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Surprisingly, when the primary progenitors (stem cells) of the new neurons in these regions were identified, they exhibited structural and biological markers of astrocytes. The architecture of these germinal regions and the pattern of division of neural stem cells have raised fundamental questions about the mechanism of adult neurogenesis. This review describes studies on the origin of adult neural stem cells, the features distinguishing them from astrocytes in non-germinal regions, and the control mechanisms of the proliferation and differentiation of these cells. Astrocytic adult neural stem cells are part of a developmental lineage extending from the neuroepithelium to radial glia to germinal astrocytes. Adult neural stem cells appear to be strongly influenced by their local microenvironment, while also contributing significantly to the architecture of these germinal zones. However, environment alone does not seem to be sufficient to induce non-germinal astrocytes to behave as neural stem cells. Although emerging evidence suggests that significant heterogeneity exists within populations of germinal zone astrocytes, the way that these differences are encoded remains unclear. The further characterization of these cells should eventually provide a body of knowledge central to the understanding of brain development and disease.
The adult bone marrow contains a population of multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), defined by plastic adherence, expression of stromal cell surface markers, and differentiation into mesenchymal lineages. There has been much interest in the possible therapeutic use of MSCs in the treatment of demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system. One therapeutic possibility is that these cells may be able to remyelinate when directly injected into the demyelinated spinal cord. Here we examine the effects of direct transplantation of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-labeled MSCs into a model of focal spinal cord demyelination induced by ethidium bromide. We demonstrate that direct intralesional injection of undifferentiated MSCs does not lead to remyelination. Furthermore, we report that transplanted MSCs migrate into areas of normal tissue, deposit collagen, and are associated with axonal damage. These findings support the need for further experimental evaluation of the safety and efficacy of direct parenchymal injection of MSCs into demyelinated lesions and highlight an important issue regarding potential clinical consequences of culture heterogeneity of MSCs between centers.
Neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) capable of generating new neurons and glia reside in the adult mammalian spinal cord. Transplantation of NSPCs has therapeutic potential for spinal cord injury, although there is limited information on the ability of these cells to survive and differentiate in vivo. Neurospheres cultured from the periventricular region of the adult spinal cord contain NSPCs that are self-renewing and multipotent. We examined the survival, proliferation, migration, and differentiation of adult spinal cord NSPCs generated from green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgenic rats and transplanted into the intact spinal cord. The grafted GFP-expressing cells survived for at least 6 weeks in vivo and migrated from the injection site along the rostro-caudal axis of the spinal cord. Transplanted cells transiently proliferated following transplantation and approximately 17% of the GFP-positive cells were apoptotic at 1 day. Also, better survival was seen with NSPCs transplanted as neurospheres in comparison to NSPCs transplanted as dissociated cells. By 1 week posttransplantation, grafted cells primarily expressed an oligodendrocytic phenotype and only 2% differentiated into astrocytes. Approximately 75% versus 38% of the grafted cells differentiated into oligodendrocytes after transplantation into spinal white versus gray matter, respectively. This is the first report to examine the time course of cell survival, proliferation, apoptosis, and phenotypic differentiation of transplanted NSPSs in the spinal cord. This is also the first report to examine the differences between transplanted NSPCs grafted as neurospheres or dissociated cells, and to compare the differentiation potential after transplantation into spinal cord white versus gray matter.
We sought to map the time course of autobiographical memory retrieval, including brain regions that mediate phenomenological experiences of reliving and emotional intensity. Participants recalled personal memories to auditory word cues during event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Participants pressed a button when a memory was accessed, maintained and elaborated the memory, and then gave subjective ratings of emotion and reliving. A novel fMRI approach based on timing differences capitalized on the protracted reconstructive process of autobiographical memory to segregate brain areas contributing to initial access and later elaboration and maintenance of episodic memories. The initial period engaged hippocampal, retrosplenial, and medial and right prefrontal activity, whereas the later period recruited visual, precuneus, and left prefrontal activity. Emotional intensity ratings were correlated with activity in several regions, including the amygdala and the hippocampus during the initial period. Reliving ratings were correlated with activity in visual cortex and ventromedial and inferior prefrontal regions during the later period. Frontopolar cortex was the only brain region sensitive to emotional intensity across both periods. Results were confirmed by time-locked averages of the fMRI signal. The findings indicate dynamic recruitment of emotion-, memory-, and sensory-related brain regions during remembering and their dissociable contributions to phenomenological features of the memories.
Development and remodeling of synaptic networks occurs through a continuous turnover of dendritic spines. However, the mechanisms that regulate the formation and stabilization of newly formed spines remain poorly understood. Here, we applied repetitive confocal imaging to hippocampal slice cultures to address these issues. We find that, although the turnover rate of protrusions progressively decreased during development, the process of stabilization of new spines remained comparable both in terms of time course and low level of efficacy. Irrespective of the developmental stage, most new protrusions were quickly eliminated, in particular filopodia, which only occasionally lead to the formation of stable dendritic spines. We also found that the stabilization of new protrusions was determined within a critical period of 24 h and that this coincided with an enlargement of the spine head and the expression of tagged PSD-95. Blockade of postsynaptic AMPA and NMDA receptors significantly reduced the capacity of new spines to express tagged PSD-95 and decreased their probability to be stabilized. These results suggest a model in which synaptic development is associated with an extensive, nonspecific growth of protrusions followed by stabilization of a few of them through a mechanism that involves activity-driven formation of a postsynaptic density.
Grammatical class is a fundamental property of language, and all natural languages distinguish between nouns and verbs. Brain activation studies have provided conflicting evidence concerning the neural substrates of noun and verb processing. A major limitation of many previous imaging studies is that they did not disentangle the impact of grammatical class from the differences in semantic correlates. In order to tease apart the role of semantic and grammatical factors, we performed a functional magnetic resonance imaging study presenting Italian speakers with pictures of events and asked them to name them as 1) Infinitive Verb (e.g., mangiare [to eat]); 2) Inflected Verb (e.g., mangia [she/he eats]); and 3) Action Noun (e.g., mangiata [the eating]). We did not find any verb-specific activation. However, reliable left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) activations were found when contrasting the Action Noun with the Infinitive Verb condition. A second-level analysis indicated then that activation in left IFG was greatest for Action Nouns, intermediate for Inflected Verbs, and least for Infinitive Verbs. We conclude that, when all other factors are controlled, nouns and verbs are processed by a common neural system. In the present case, differences in left IFG activation emerge as a consequence of increasing linguistic and/or general processing demands.
Primates actively examine the visual world by rapidly shifting gaze (fixation) over the elements in a scene. Despite this fact, we typically study vision by presenting stimuli with gaze held constant. To better understand the dynamics of natural vision, we examined how the onset of visual fixation affects ongoing neuronal activity in the absence of visual stimulation. We used multiunit activity and current source density measurements to index neuronal firing patterns and underlying synaptic processes in macaque V1. Initial averaging of neural activity synchronized to the onset of fixation suggested that a brief period of cortical excitation follows each fixation. Subsequent single-trial analyses revealed that 1) neuronal oscillation phase transits from random to a highly organized state just after the fixation onset, 2) this phase concentration is accompanied by increased spectral power in several frequency bands, and 3) visual response amplitude is enhanced at the specific oscillatory phase associated with fixation. We hypothesize that nonvisual inputs are used by the brain to increase cortical excitability at fixation onset, thus &quot;priming&quot; the system for new visual inputs generated at fixation. Despite remaining mechanistic questions, it appears that analysis of fixation-related responses may be useful in studying natural vision.
Emotional facial expressions can engender similar expressions in others. However, adaptive social and motivational behavior can require individuals to suppress, conceal, or override prepotent imitative responses. We predicted, in line with a theory of &quot;emotion contagion,&quot; that when viewing a facial expression, expressing a different emotion would manifest as behavioral conflict and interference. We employed facial electromyography (EMG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate brain activity related to this emotion expression interference (EEI) effect, where the expressed response was either concordant or discordant with the observed emotion. The Simon task was included as a nonemotional comparison for the fMRI study. Facilitation and interference effects were observed in the latency of facial EMG responses. Neuroimaging revealed activation of distributed brain regions including anterior right inferior frontal gyrus (brain area [BA] 47), supplementary motor area (facial area), posterior superior temporal sulcus (STS), and right anterior insula during emotion expression-associated interference. In contrast, nonemotional response conflict (Simon task) engaged a distinct frontostriatal network. Individual differences in empathy and emotion regulatory tendency predicted the magnitude of EEI-evoked regional activity with BA 47 and STS. Our findings point to these regions as providing a putative neural substrate underpinning a crucial adaptive aspect of social/emotional behavior.
Exploration of the relationships between regional brain volume and anxiety-related personality traits is important for understanding preexisting vulnerability to depressive and anxiety disorders. However, previous studies on this topic have employed relatively limited sample sizes and/or image processing methodology, and they have not clarified possible gender differences. In the present study, 183 (male/female: 117/66) right-handed healthy individuals in the third and fourth decades of life underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging scans and Temperament and Character Inventory. Neuroanatomical correlates of individual differences in the score of harm avoidance (HA) were examined throughout the entire brain using voxel-based morphometry. We found that higher scores on HA were associated with smaller regional gray matter volume in the right hippocampus, which was common to both genders. In contrast, female-specific correlation was found between higher anxiety-related personality traits and smaller regional brain volume in the left anterior prefrontal cortex. The present findings suggest that smaller right hippocampal volume underlies the basis for higher anxiety-related traits common to both genders, whereas anterior prefrontal volume contributes only in females. The results may have implications for why susceptibility to stress-related disorders such as anxiety disorders and depression shows gender and/or individual differences.
Homozygous tottering mice are spontaneous ataxic mutants, which carry a mutation in the gene encoding the ion pore of the P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels. P/Q-type calcium channels are prominently expressed in Purkinje cell terminals, but it is unknown to what extent these inhibitory terminals in tottering mice are affected at the morphological and electrophysiological level. Here, we investigated the distribution and ultrastructure of their Purkinje cell terminals in the cerebellar nuclei as well as the activities of their target neurons. The densities of Purkinje cell terminals and their synapses were not significantly affected in the mutants. However, the Purkinje cell terminals were enlarged and had an increased number of vacuoles, whorled bodies, and mitochondria. These differences started to occur between 3 and 5 weeks of age and persisted throughout adulthood. Stimulation of Purkinje cells in adult tottering mice resulted in inhibition at normal latencies, but the activities of their postsynaptic neurons in the cerebellar nuclei were abnormal in that the frequency and irregularity of their spiking patterns were enhanced. Thus, although the number of their terminals and their synaptic contacts appear quantitatively intact, Purkinje cells in tottering mice show several signs of axonal damage that may contribute to altered postsynaptic activities in the cerebellar nuclei.
To understand the function of cerebellar granule cells, we need detailed knowledge about the information carried by their afferent mossy fibers and how this information is integrated by the granule cells. Recently, we made whole cell recordings from granule cells in the non-anesthetized, decerebrate cats. All recordings were made in the forelimb area of the C3 zone for which the afferent and efferent connections and functional organization have been investigated in detail. Major findings of the study were that the mossy fiber input to single granule cells was modality- and receptive field-specific and that simultaneous activity in two and usually more of the afferent mossy fibers were required to activate the granule cell spike. The high threshold for action potentials and the convergence of afferents with virtually identical information suggest that an important function of granule cells is to increase the signal-to-noise ratio of the mossy fiber-parallel fiber information. Thus a high-sensitivity, noisy mossy fiber input is transformed by the granule cell to a high-sensitivity, low-noise signal.
The cerebellar circuits comprise a limited number of neuronal phenotypes embedded in a defined cytoarchitecture and generated according to specific spatio-temporal patterns. The local GABAergic network is composed of several interneuron phenotypes that play essential roles in information processing by modulating the activity of cerebellar cortical inputs and outputs. A major issue in the study of cerebellar development is to understand the mechanisms that underlie the generation of different interneuron classes and regulate their placement in the cerebellar architecture and integration in the cortico-nuclear network. Recent findings indicate that the variety of cerebellar interneurons derives from a single population of multipotent progenitors whose fate choices are determined by instructive environmental information. Such a strategy, which is unique for the cerebellum along the neuraxis, allows great flexibility in the control of the quality and quantity of GABAergic interneurons that are produced, thus facilitating the adaptive shaping of the cerebellar network to specific functional demands.
The idea that cerebellar processing is required in a variety of cognitive functions is well accepted in the neuroscience community. Nevertheless, the definition of its role in the different cognitive domains remains rather elusive. Current data on perceptual and cognitive processing are reviewed with special emphasis on cerebellar sequencing properties. Evidences, obtained by neurophysiological and neuropsychological lesion studies, converge in highlighting comparison of temporal and spatial information for sequence detection as the key stone of cerebellar functioning across modalities. The hypothesis that sequence detection might represent the main contribution of cerebellar physiology to brain functioning is presented and the possible clinical significance in cerebellar-related diseases discussed.
Feed forward control and estimates of the future state of the motor system are critical for fast and coordinated movements. One framework for generating these predictive signals is based on the central nervous system implementing internal models. Internal models provide for representations of the input-output properties of the motor apparatus or their inverses. It has been widely hypothesized that the cerebellum acquires and stores internal models of the motor apparatus. The results of psychophysical, functional imaging and transcranial magnetic stimulation studies in normal subjects support this hypothesis. Also, the deficits in patients with cerebellar dysfunction can be attributed to a failure of predictive feed forward control and/or to accurately estimate the consequences of motor commands. Furthermore, the computation performed by the cerebellar-like electrosensory lobes in several groups of fishes is to predict the sensory consequences of motor commands. However, only a few electrophysiological investigations have directly tested whether neurons in the cerebellar cortex have the requisite signals compatible with either an inverse or forward internal model. Our studies in the monkey performing manual pursuit tracking demonstrate that the simple spike discharge of Purkinje cells does not have the dynamics-related signals required to be the output of an inverse dynamics model. However, Purkinje cell firing has several of the characteristics of a forward internal model of the arm. A synthesis of the evidence suggests that the cerebellum is involved in integrating the current state of the motor system with internally generated motor commands to predict the future state.
Pcp2(L7) is a Purkinje cell-specific GoLoco domain protein that modulates activation of Galphai/o proteins by G protein-coupled receptors. A likely downstream effector of this pathway is the P-type Ca(2+) channel, and thereby, the intrinsic electrophysiology of Purkinje cells could be modulated by Pcp2(L7). It has long been known that the Pcp2(L7) mRNA is abundantly localized in dendrites, suggesting the possibility of distal synthesis and local changes in levels of the protein. As a first step to uncover the trafficking and translational mechanisms for this mRNA, we have begun identifying the cis-acting sequences important for its localization in dendrites. Using expression of modified transgenes in vivo, we show that the 3'UTR, only 65 bases long, is necessary in this process.
The cerebellum has recently been discussed in terms of a possible involvement in reward-based associative learning. To clarify the cerebellar contribution, eight patients with focal vascular lesions of the cerebellum and a group of 24 healthy subjects matched for age and IQ were compared on a range of different probabilistic outcome-based associative learning tasks, assessing acquisition, reversal, cognitive transfer, and generalization as well as the effect of reward magnitude. Cerebellar patients showed intact acquisition of stimulus contingencies, while reward-based reversal learning was significantly impaired. In addition, the patients showed slower acquisition of new stimulus contingencies in a second reward-based learning task, which might reflect reduced carry-over effects. Reward magnitude affected learning only during initial acquisition, with better learning on trials with high rewards in patients and control subjects. Overall, the findings suggest that the cerebellum is implicated in reversal learning as a dissociable component of reward-based learning.
Schizophrenia and autism are neurodevelopmental diseases that have genetic as well as environmental etiologies. Both disorders have been associated with prenatal viral infection. Brain imaging and postmortem studies have found alterations in the structure of the cerebellum as well as changes in gene expression. Our laboratory has developed an animal model using prenatal infection of mice with human influenza virus that has demonstrated changes in behavior, pharmacology, structure, and gene expression in the brains of exposed offspring. In the current communication we describe altered expression of cerebellar genes associated with development of brain disorder in a mouse model for schizophrenia and autism and correlate these changes with those involved in the pathology of these two disorders.
The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCAs) are a genetically heterogeneous group of disorders. Clinical classification of the ADCAs into three types has facilitated defining phenotypes and in turn, linkage analysis, which has led to the discovery of 30 loci and 16 genes. The type III ADCAs are 'pure' spinocerebellar ataxias (SCA), those that appear to elude neurological features outside of the cerebellum. At present 3 ADCA type III SCA genes have been published, SCA5, SCA6, and SCA14, these three genes appear to have various roles suggesting involvement in both different and possibly overlapping neurodegenerative pathways. The known ADCAIII genes are thought to have such roles as involvement in signal transduction, cell proliferation, synaptic transmission, and channel regulation. Here we update readers on the current progress on SCA11 and the identification of the disease gene. We discuss the clinical, genetic, and pathological details of SCA11--a locus at chromosome 15q14-q21.3 in a Caucasian family of British ancestry. We also discuss the refining of this region, and methods used to prioritize the screening of the over 130 candidate genes in this genomic region.
Neurosteroids play an important role in the development of the cerebellum. In particular, estradiol and progesterone appear capable of inducing increases in dendritic spine density during development, and there is evidence that both are synthesized de novo in the cerebellum during critical developmental periods. In normal neonates and adults, there are few differences in the cerebellum between the sexes and most studies indicate that hormone and receptor levels also do not differ significantly during development. However, the sexes do differ significantly in risk of neuropsychological diseases associated with cerebellar pathology, and in animal models there are noticeable sex differences in the response to insult and genetic mutation. In both humans and animals, males tend to fare worse. Boys are more at risk for autism and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder than girls, and schizophrenia manifests at an earlier age in men. In rats males fare worse than females after perinatal exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls, and male mice heterozygous for the staggerer and reeler mutation show a more severe phenotype. Although very recent evidence suggests that differences in neurosteroid levels between the sexes in diseased animals may play a role in generating different disease phenotypes, the reason this hormonal difference occurs in diseased but not normal animals is currently unknown.

Increasing evidence suggests that sex differences exist in the etiology, presentation, treatment, and outcome from stroke. The reasons for these sex disparities are becoming increasingly explored, but large gaps still exist in our knowledge. Experimental studies over the past several years have demonstrated intrinsic sex differences both in vivo and in animal models which may have relevance to our understanding of stroke in clinical populations. A greater understanding of the differences and similarities between males and females with respect to the risk factors, pathophysiology, and response to stroke will facilitate the design of future clinical trials and enhance the development of treatment strategies to improve stroke care in both sexes. This article reviews the current literature on sex differences in stroke with an emphasis on the clinical data, incorporating an analysis of bench research as it pertains to the bedside.







The mechanism of action of gabapentin is still not well understood. It binds to the alpha(2)delta-1 and alpha(2)delta-2 subunits of voltage-gated calcium channels but has little acute effect on calcium currents in several systems. However, our recent results conclusively demonstrated that gabapentin inhibited calcium currents when applied chronically but not acutely, both in heterologous expression systems and in dorsal root ganglion neurons.(1) In that study we only examined a 40-hour time point of incubation with gabapentin, and here we have extended these results to include the effect of up to 6 and 20 hours incubation with gabapentin on calcium channel currents formed from Ca(V)2.1/beta(4)/alpha(2)delta-2 subunits. Gabapentin was significantly effective to inhibit the currents if included for 17-20 hours prior to recording, but it did not produce a significant inhibition if included for 3-6 hours. We previously concluded that gabapentin acts primarily at an intracellular location, requiring uptake into cells. However, this effect is mediated by alpha(2)delta subunits, being prevented by mutations in either alpha(2)delta-1 or alpha(2)delta-2 that abolish gabapentin binding.(1) Furthermore, we also showed that the trafficking of alpha(2)delta-2 and Ca(V)2 channels was disrupted by gabapentin. Here we have also extended that study, to show that the cell-surface expression of Ca(V)2.1 is not reduced by chronic gabapentin if it is co-expressed with alpha(2)delta-2 containing a point mutation (R282A) that prevents gabapentin binding.
What is the spatial and temporal nature of odor representations within primary olfactory networks at the threshold of an animal's ability to discriminate? Although this question is of central importance to olfactory neuroscience, it can only be answered in model systems where neural representations can be measured and discrimination thresholds between odors can be characterized. Here, we establish these thresholds for a panel of odors using a Pavlovian paradigm in the moth Manduca sexta. Moths were differentially conditioned to respond to one odor (CS+) but not another (CS-) using undiluted odorants to minimize salience-dependent learning effects. At 24 and 48 h postconditioning, moths were tested for the presence of a conditioned response (CR) with a blank, then the CS+ and CS- (pseudorandomly) across a 5-log step series of increasing concentration. Results identified discrimination thresholds and established that differential CRs to the CS+ and CS- increased with stimulus concentration. Next, 3 separate groups of moths were differentially conditioned at either one-log step below, at, or one log step above the identified discrimination threshold. At 24 and 48 h postconditioning, moths were tested sequentially with a blank, the concentration used for conditioning, and then undiluted odor. Conditioning at one log step below the discrimination threshold established a CR, indicating both stimulus detection and learning, but was insufficient to establish evidence of discrimination. Moths conditioned at the discrimination threshold were able to discriminate but only when stimulated with undiluted odors, indicating learning, but discrimination measures were hampered. When conditioned above the discrimination threshold, moths had no difficulty in discriminating. These results establish methods for psychophysical characterization of discrimination and indicate that differential conditioning at lowered concentrations biases threshold measures.
The cabbage moth, Mamestra brassicae L. (Lepidoptera, Noctuidae), is a polyphagous species that is often choosing plants of Brassica as hosts for oviposition. In the search for biologically relevant odorants used by these moths, gas chromatography linked to electrophysiological recordings from single receptor neurons (RNs) has been employed, resulting in classification of distinct types of neurons. This study presents specific olfactory RNs responding to methyl salicylate (MeS) as primary odorant and showing a weak response to methyl benzoate, the 2 aromatic compounds occurring together in several plant species. In 2 cases, the neuron was colocated with another RN type responding to 6 green leaf volatiles: 1-hexanol, (3Z)-hexen-1-ol, (2E)-hexen-1-ol, (3Z)-hexenyl acetate, (2Z)-hexen-1-ol, and an unidentified compound. Whereas the specific RNs detected the minor amounts of MeS in some plants, the compound was not found by gas chromatography linked to mass spectrometry in intact plants, but it was found after herbivore attack. The behavioral effect of MeS was studied in outdoor test arenas with Brassica napus and artificial plants. These experiments indicated that mated M. brassicae females avoid plants with dispensers emitting MeS. As it is induced by caterpillar feeding, this compound may mediate a message to mated M. brassicae females that the plant is already occupied.
The principle of respect for autonomy has proved very useful for bioethical arguments in favor of euthanasia. However unquestionable its theoretical efficacy, countless aporiae can be raised when conducting a detailed analysis of this concept, probably checkmating it. Based on such considerations, this paper investigates the principle of autonomy, starting with its origins in Greek and Christian traditions, and then charting some of its developments in Western cultures through to its modern formulation, a legacy of Immanuel Kant. The main paradoxes of this concept are then presented in the fields of philosophy, biology, psychoanalysis and politics, expounding several of the theoretical difficulties to be faced in order to make its applicability possible within the scope of decisions relating to the termination of life.

Endothelial cells that functionally express blood brain barrier (BBB) properties are useful surrogates for studying leukocyte-endothelial cell interactions at the BBB. In this study, we compared two different endothelial cellular models: transfected human brain microvascular endothelial cells (THBMECs) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). With each grow under optimal conditions, confluent THBMEC cultures showed continuous occludin and ZO-1 immunoreactivity, while HUVEC cultures exhibited punctate ZO-1 expression at sites of cell-cell contact only. Confluent THBMEC cultures on 24-well collagen-coated transwell inserts had significantly higher transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER) and lower solute permeability than HUVECs. Confluent THBMECs were more restrictive for mononuclear cell migration than HUVECs. Only THBMECs utilized abluminal CCL5 to facilitate T-lymphocyte migration in vitro although both THBMECs and HUVECs employed CCL3 to facilitate T cell migration. These data establish baseline conditions for using THBMECs to develop in vitro BBB models for studying leukocyte-endothelial interactions during neuroinflammation.
Constipation is a significant problem related to opioid medications used to manage pain. This review attempts to outline the latest findings related to the therapeutic usefulness of a  opioid receptor antagonist, methylnaltrexone in the treatment of opioid-induced constipation. The review highlights methylnaltrexone bromide (Relistor; Progenics/Wyeth) a quaternary derivative of naltrexone, which was recently approved in the United States, Europe and Canada. The Food and Drug Administration in the United States approved a subcutaneous injection for the treatment of opioid bowel dysfunction in patients with advanced illness who are receiving palliative care and when laxative therapy has been insufficient. Methylnaltrexone is a peripherally restricted,  opioid receptor antagonist that accelerates oral-cecal transit in patients with opioid-induced constipation without reversing the analgesic effects of morphine or inducing symptoms of opioid withdrawal. An analysis of the mechanism of action and the potential benefits of using methylnaltrexone is based on data from published basic research and recent clinical studies.
Coordinated regulation of the actin cytoskeleton is central to cell motility, invasion and metastasis. Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is a highly invasive disease displaying frequent lymph node metastasis, compounding patient management. HNSCC progression is characterized by frequent amplification of chromosome segments 3q26-29, 8q23-24 and 11q13, events that are associated with poor patient outcome. The relative frequency of these amplification events and correlation with invasive disease raises the potential that these regions harbor actin regulatory genes important in facilitating reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton to promote tumor invasion. Identification of the actin cytoskeletal regulatory genes located within the 3q26-29, 8q23-24 and 11q13 amplicons will provide an important first step towards the comprehensive understanding of the molecular events that govern invasion and metastasis in HNSCC and other tumors containing these amplifications. We utilized Ensembl MartView to conduct a gene mining analysis within chromosome segments 3q26-29, 8q23-24 and 11q13 to identify known and predicted regulators of actin-based cell movement, tumor invasion and metastasis. All examined chromosomal regions contain genes known that regulate the actin cytoskeleton, with several (PI3-kinase alpha, focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and cortactin) known to promote invasion in HNSCC and other carcinomas. Additional genes known to regulate motility and invasion were also identified. Amplification of chromosome 3q26-29, 8q23-24 and 11q13 therefore results in known or predicted overexpression of several key mediators that can act alone or potentially act in concert to promote actin-based cell invasion in HNSCC and other cancer types.
Intracranial aneurysms are rare in early childhood and there is little published information on their histology. We report a young boy who died of subarachnoid haemorrhage, 29 months after coiling of a giant vertebrobasilar aneurysm. Histology of the aneurysm revealed intramural inflammation with giant cells and fragmentation of the internal elastic lamina. The findings highlight the need for detailed examination in such cases, to elucidate the pathogenesis and pathology of cerebrovascular aneurysms in this age group.
Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania (CPH) is a rare primary headache syndrome, which is classified along with cluster headache and short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection and tearing as a trigeminal autonomic cephalalgia (TACs). Hemicrania continua (HC) was previously classified as one of the TACs, but in the recent second classification of the International Headache Society this disorder was moved to the group of other primary headaches. Both CPH and HC are characterised by moderate to excruciating pain requiring pharmacological treatment; furthermore, both conditions are characterised by an absolute response to indomethacin, which represents one of the current diagnostic criteria for these two syndromes. Unfortunately, in about one-fourth of cases treatment with indomethacin may cause adverse events, mostly gastrointestinal. We report one subject with CPH and another with HC intolerant to indomethacin, who responded remarkably well to topiramate.

Central nervous system manifestations of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in children differ strikingly from adults. Developmental delay, subacute AIDS encephalitis and basal ganglia calcification are common in children, in contrast to opportunistic infections and dementia in adults. Intracranial aneurysms are being recognized with increasing frequency in pediatric AIDS. Fusiform dilatation of vessels of circle of Willis to form large aneurysms, termed cerebral aneurysmal childhood arteriopathy, is an exceedingly rare complication of pediatric AIDS. We report a case of massive fusiform dilatation of vertebrobasilar system mimicking congenital dolichoectasia with evidence suggesting direct causation by HIV-1 Clade C virus. In view of scant literature that exists on this unusual complication of pediatric AIDS, we present a detailed review of all previously recorded cases and review the etiopathogenesis. There are 20 reports (32 cases) on record till date that have mostly involved the anterior circulation, occurring between 4-15 years of age. Occurrence is associated with profound immunosuppression, and perinatally acquired HIV with latent interval of 5.5-11 years to onset of symptoms. Direct causation by HIV is favored as reports demonstrate presence of virus in affected vessels, association with high viral load and, more conclusively, arrest in progression or reversal with early initiation of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). The fusiform nature and location of these aneurysms makes any form of surgical intervention or embolization impossible. High degree of clinical suspicion and awareness of this entity is, therefore, important as this can place young patients at risk for major cerebrovascular accidents.



Fatigue is a multidimensional concept covering both physiological and psychological aspects. Chronic fatigue is a typical symptom of diseases such as cancer, multiple sclerosis (MS), Parkinson's disease (PD) and cerebrovascular disorders but is also presented by people in whom no defined somatic disease has been established. If certain criteria are met, chronic fatigue syndrome can be diagnosed. The 4-item Abbreviated Fatigue Questionnaire allows the extent of the experienced fatigue to be assessed with a high degree of reliability and validity. Physiological fatigue has been well defined and originates in both the peripheral and central nervous system. The condition can be assessed by combining force and surface-EMG measurements (including frequency analyses and muscle-fibre conduction estimations), twitch interpolation, magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex and analysis of changes in the readiness potential. Fatigue is a well-known phenomenon in both central and peripheral neurological disorders. Examples of the former conditions are multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease and stroke. Although it seems to be a universal symptom of many brain disorders, the unique characteristics of the concomitant fatigue also point to a specific relationship with several of these syndromes. As regards neuromuscular disorders, fatigue has been reported in patients with post-polio syndrome, myasthenia gravis, Guillain-Barr syndrome, facioscapulohumeral dystrophy, myotonic dystrophy and hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type-I. More than 60% of all neuromuscular patients suffer from severe fatigue, a prevalence resembling that of patients with MS. Except for several rare myopathies with specific metabolic derangements leading to exercise-induced muscle fatigue, most studies have not identified a prominent peripheral cause for the fatigue in this population. In contrast, the central activation of the diseased neuromuscular system is generally found to be suboptimal. The reliability of the psychological and clinical neurophysiological assessment techniques available today allows a multidisciplinary approach to fatigue in neurological patients, which may contribute to the elucidation of the pathophysiological mechanisms of chronic fatigue, with the ultimate goal to develop tailored treatments for fatigue in neurological patients. The present report discusses the different manifestations of fatigue and the available tools to assess peripheral and central fatigue.

The present study aimed to develop a Chinese equivalence version of the Letter-Number (LN) Span Test and to explore the preliminary construct and discriminative validity of the developed version among a group of healthy Chinese volunteers and patients with stroke. A group of 165 (73 men and 92 women) healthy participants were recruited for the validation study, most of them were undergraduates or postgraduates. Moreover, a comparison was made between nine patients with stroke and the healthy controls. For the healthy sample, the Chinese version correlated significantly with the English version in total number of correct span (r = .6, p &lt; .00001) and the longest span (r = .5, p &lt; .00005). The Chinese version of LN Span Test was also found to be significantly associated with memory-loaded tests but not other tests. A series of ANCOVAs controlling for age, education, and IQ indicated that stroke patients performed significantly worse than the healthy controls in LN Span total number of correct responses (p &lt; .04), immediate recall (p &lt; .0005), and delayed recall (p &lt; .0005) of WMS-R, SART total number of correct response (p &lt; .0005), PASAT dyads correct response (p &lt; .01). The preliminary findings suggest that the Chinese version of the LN Span Test shows impressive preliminary validity among a group of healthy volunteers and an impressive clinical discriminative validity among a group of stroke cases.
This Position Statement is a summary of the literature and learning regarding current issues raised by the occurrence, treatment, and study of traumatic brain injury in military service members and veterans. The Report has been approved by the American Academy of Clinical Neuropsychology (AACN), Divisions 40 (Neuropsychology) and 22 (Rehabilitation Psychology) of the American Psychological Association (APA), and the National Academy of Neuropsychology (NAN), with the goal of providing information of relevance on an important public policy matter within their respective areas of expertise. The Report is not intended to establish guidelines or standards for the professional practice of psychology, nor has it been adopted as official policy by the American Psychological Association or any other division or subunit of APA.

Recent studies have suggested that currently available antipsychotic medications, while useful in treating some aspects of schizophrenia, still possess considerable limitations. Improving the treatment of negative symptoms and cognitive dysfunction, and decreasing adverse effects remain significant challenges. Many new drug strategies have been proposed in recent years and increasing evidence suggests that members of the phosphodiesterase (PDE) gene family may play a role in the aetiology or treatment of schizophrenia. PDEs are key enzymes responsible for the degradation of the second messengers cAMP (3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate) and cGMP (3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate). Mammalian PDEs are composed of 21 genes and are categorized into 11 families based on sequence homology, enzymatic properties and sensitivity to pharmacological inhibitors. Representatives from most families have been identified in the brain by the presence of protein or RNA, and numerous studies suggest that PDEs play an important role in the regulation of intracellular signalling downstream of receptor activation in neurons. Insights into the multiple brain processes to which PDEs contribute are emerging from the phenotype of genetically engineered mice that lack activity of specific PDEs (knockout mice), as well as from in vitro and in vivo studies with PDE inhibitors.This article provides a brief overview of recent studies implicating PDE inhibition, focusing on PDE4 and PDE10, as targets for treating the positive, negative or cognitive symptoms associated with schizophrenia.
Recent advances implicate amino acid neurotransmission in the pathophysiology and treatment of mood and anxiety disorders. Riluzole, which is approved and marketed for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, is thought to be neuroprotective through its modulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission. Riluzole has multiple molecular actions in vitro; the two that have been documented to occur at physiologically realistic drug concentrations and are therefore most likely to be clinically relevant are inhibition of certain voltage-gated sodium channels, which can lead to reduced neurotransmitter release, and enhanced astrocytic uptake of extracellular glutamate.Although double-blind, placebo-controlled trials are lacking, several open-label trials have suggested that riluzole, either as monotherapy or as augmentation of standard therapy, reduces symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder, unipolar and bipolar depression, and generalized anxiety disorder. In studies of psychiatrically ill patients conducted to date, the drug has been quite well tolerated; common adverse effects include nausea and sedation. Elevation of liver function tests is common and necessitates periodic monitoring, but has been without clinical consequence in studies conducted to date in psychiatric populations. Case reports suggest utility in other conditions, including trichotillomania and self-injurious behaviour associated with borderline personality disorder. Riluzole may hold promise for the treatment of several psychiatric conditions, possibly through its ability to modulate pathologically dysregulated glutamate levels, and merits further investigation.
A variety of newer antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are now available for treating patients with epilepsy in addition to the 'conventional' drugs that have been available throughout a large part of the last century. Since these drugs act to suppress the pathological neuronal hyperexcitability that constitutes the final substrate in many seizure disorders, it is not surprising that they are prone to causing adverse reactions that affect the CNS.Information on adverse effects of the older AEDs has been mainly observational. Equally, whilst the newer drugs have been more systematically studied, their long-term adverse effects are not clearly known. This is illustrated by the relatively late emergence of the knowledge of visual field constriction in the case of vigabatrin, which only became known after several hundred thousand patient-years of use. However, older drugs continue to be studied and there has been more recent comment on the possible effect of valproate (valproic acid) on cognition following exposure to this drug in utero.With most AEDs, there are mainly dose-related adverse effects that could be considered generic, such as sedation, drowsiness, incoordination, nausea and fatigue. Careful dose titration with small initial doses can reduce the likelihood of these adverse effects occurring. Adverse effects such as paraesthesiae are more commonly reported with drugs such as topiramate and zonisamide that have carbonic anhydrase activity. Weight loss and anorexia can also be peculiar to these drugs. Neuropsychiatric adverse effects are reported with a variety of AEDs and may not be dose related. Some drugs, such as carbamazepine when used to treat primary generalized epilepsy, can exacerbate certain seizure types. Rare adverse effects such as hyperammonaemia with valproate are drug specific. There are relatively very few head-to-head comparisons of AEDs and limited information is available in this regard.In this review, we discuss the available literature and provide a comprehensive summary of adverse drug reactions of AEDs affecting the CNS.
Borderline personality disorder is a pervasive pattern of instability of interpersonal relationships, affects and self-image, as well as marked impulsivity. Although psychotherapy is needed to attain lasting improvements in a patient's personality and overall functioning, practice guidelines state that pharmacotherapy is indicated to manage state symptoms and trait vulnerabilities. Three psychopathological dimensions are the main targets for pharmacotherapy of borderline personality disorder: affective dysregulation, impulsive-behavioural dyscontrol and cognitive-perceptual symptoms. Guidelines recommend the use of antidepressant agents and mood stabilizers for affective dysregulation and impulsive-behavioural dyscontrol, and antipsychotics for cognitive-perceptual symptoms. This review aims to report and discuss data from clinical trials, reviews and meta-analyses concerning drug efficacy and tolerability in the treatment of borderline personality disorder. Investigations that considered antidepressant agents mainly focused on SSRIs, which are recommended as first-line treatments for affective instability and impulse dyscontrol. Both open-label and randomized controlled studies have been performed, predominantly concerning the efficacy of fluoxetine and fluvoxamine. Other classes of antidepressants, such as TCAs and MAOIs, were investigated as alternative treatments for borderline personality disorder, but the risk of adverse effects and toxicity is a limitation to their use in clinical practice. Increasing amounts of data have recently been collected on the use of mood stabilizers to control mood instability and impulsivity in patients with borderline personality disorder. More substantial data were derived from controlled trials of valproate semisodium, although other drugs such as lithium, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine and lamotrigine were tested with promising results. Several first-generation antipsychotics were studied in open-label and controlled trials, with good effects on behavioural dyscontrol and psychotic-like symptoms. Selection biases and heterogeneity of drugs and methods somewhat limited the value of these results. More recent investigations have examined atypical antipsychotics, with most of these studies being open-label trials with small sample sizes; however, a few controlled studies have been performed using olanzapine, showing improvements in impulsivity, anger and hostility. In conclusion, a large number of different drugs have been evaluated in the treatment of patients with borderline personality disorder. Initial findings are encouraging for many of these drugs. However, data need to be replicated in further controlled studies with head-to-head comparisons and long-term follow-ups. Many questions remain to be answered.
Parkinson's disease is a common progressive neurodegenerative condition with multiple motor and nonmotor features contributing to impairment of health-related quality of life (HR-QOL). Pharmacological treatments have been directed primarily at dopamine replacement with levodopa and agents to improve its bioavailability, including DOPA decarboxylase inhibitors, catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitors and monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitors, as well as synthetic dopamine agonists. These treatments to restore motor function are often very successful in early Parkinson's disease, with objective improvement and concomitant improvement in subjective HR-QOL scores. However, as the disease progresses, motor complications and nonmotor symptoms predominate and are often refractory to therapeutic interventions. Antiparkinsonian medications have been shown to improve motor severity and motor complications of advancing disease, and there is increasing evidence that this can be translated into subjective improvement of HR-QOL from a patient's point of view. However, the degree of improvement is less marked on HR-QOL scores than on motor scores, and some studies do not show improvement of HR-QOL in parallel to motor improvements. A number of explanations are possible, including limitations of the scales used, trial designs and lack of clinical improvement from the patients' point of view. This review concentrates on clinical trials with an index of HR-QOL as an outcome measure, with particular emphasis on well designed, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled or active comparator-controlled methodology. Drugs that have been more recently added to the armamentarium of Parkinson's disease, including the oral (pramipexole, ropinirole and piribedil) and transdermal (rotigotine) non-ergotamine-derived dopamine agonists, the novel MAO-B inhibitor rasagiline and the COMT inhibitors tolcapone and entacapone, were included. The effect of each of these agents on overall HR-QOL and depression, a factor that has been shown to significantly contribute to HR-QOL in several multivariate analyses, is discussed.Overall, the literature search revealed 14 double-blind, placebo- or active comparator-controlled trials with an index of HR-QOL as an outcome measure. Entacapone resulted in HR-QOL improvement in nonfluctuating patients (one study) but not clearly in those with motor fluctuations (two studies). Tolcapone was only tested in patients with motor fluctuations and resulted in significant improvement in two of four studies using HR-QOL as an outcome measure. Rasagiline improved HR-QOL as monotherapy in early Parkinson's disease (one study), but not clearly in more advanced disease (one study). Rotigotine improved HR-QOL in both early Parkinson's disease (one study) and more advanced disease with motor fluctuations (one study). The impact of ropinirole and pramipexole on HR-QOL as monotherapy in early Parkinson's disease versus placebo has not been assessed, but both agents have resulted in improved HR-QOL in patients with motor fluctuations (ropinirole one study, pramipexole one study). The evidence for antidepressant efficacy of antiparkinsonian medications is limited.
Pathological laughing and crying (PLC) is characterized by frequent, brief, intense paroxysms of uncontrollable crying and/or laughing due to a neurological disorder. When sufficiently frequent and severe, PLC may interfere with the performance of activities of daily living, interpersonal functioning, or both, and is a source of distress for affected patients and their families. PLC is also often misunderstood by patients and their families, and is under-recognized by the clinicians caring for patients with this disorder. However, this syndrome is easily recognized when understood properly and is highly responsive to treatment with a variety of pharmacological agents. This review aims to facilitate the diagnosis and treatment of patients with PLC, and begins by providing definitions of mood and affect that will help clinicians distinguish between mood disorders, such as major depression and mania, and disorders of affect, such as PLC. In addition, the various terms used to describe this syndrome are reviewed and a recommendation for the use of the term PLC is made. The core clinical features of PLC are also presented and the epidemiology of this syndrome is reviewed. A discussion of the pathophysiology of PLC, including the neuroanatomic and neurochemical bases, is provided. Finally, the evaluation and treatment of patients with PLC is described. Based on the pathophysiology of PLC and on a detailed review of published treatment studies, SSRIs are recommended as first-line pharmacotherapy for this disorder. When SSRIs are ineffective or poorly tolerated, other treatment options, including TCAs, noradrenergic reuptake inhibitors, novel antidepressants, dopaminergic agents and uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists may be useful second-line treatments.
Medication for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is in widespread use globally. There is considerable data suggesting that overall, the adverse effect burden from this use is dose dependent and is in the mild to moderate category, but few comprehensive reviews exist of the epidemiology of adverse effects alone. This review provides a general and systems-specific summary of the scientific literature regarding adverse effect data for the drugs in general use for the treatment of ADHD. Although several areas lack definitive data, current evidence suggests that, for the majority of those treated for ADHD, the medications currently available pose little in the way of risk of significant harm. Epidemiological data suggest a low incidence of serious adverse effects, whilst the less serious adverse effects, such as insomnia and anorexia, are relatively common. Also, some specific areas of study suggest lower risks of harm than previously thought, e.g. tic disorders and seizures. However, pre-existing conditions and other interindividual differences may raise the risk of harmful adverse effects, which adds emphasis to the need for careful pretreatment assessment and monitoring. Potential but unlikely long-term treatment effects need to be investigated as carefully as possible, particularly with regard to cardiac sequelae and carcinogenesis. There are both overlaps and differences between the adverse effects of stimulants and nonstimulants, such as atomoxetine. For example, the latter shares the stimulant group's potential for changing cardiovascular parameters, but may not cause insomnia.
Alzheimer's disease is a complex neurodegenerative disorder, with aging, genetic and environmental factors contributing to its development and progression. The complexity of Alzheimer's disease presents substantial challenges for the development of new therapeutic agents. Alzheimer's disease is typified by pathological depositions of beta-amyloid peptides and neurofibrillary tangles within the diseased brain. It has also been demonstrated to be associated with a significant microglia-mediated inflammatory component, dysregulated lipid homeostasis and regional deficits in glucose metabolism within the brain. The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) is a prototypical ligand-activated nuclear receptor that coordinates lipid, glucose and energy metabolism, and is found in elevated levels in the brains of individuals with Alzheimer's disease. A recently appreciated physiological function of this type of receptor is its ability to modulate inflammatory responses. In animal models of Alzheimer's disease, PPARgamma agonist treatment results in the reduction of amyloid plaque burden, reduced inflammation and reversal of disease-related behavioural impairment. In a recent phase II clinical trial, the use of the PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone was associated with improved cognition and memory in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. Thus, PPARgamma may act to modulate multiple pathophysiological mechanisms that contribute to Alzheimer's disease, and represents an attractive therapeutic target for the treatment of the disease.
Despite an increasing emphasis on the importance of vocational success to the quality of life of individuals with mental illness (Bond, Drake, &amp; Becker, 2008), minimal work has examined the impact of cognitive behavioural interventions that focus on vocational stressors. Vocational stressors commonly faced by persons with mental illness include difficulties with work task completion, obtaining employment, and coping with interpersonal stressors (Becker et al., 1998). The purpose of this pilot study was to examine the effectiveness of a brief cognitive behavioural therapy group intervention that targets vocational stressors for individuals whose vocational functioning had been significantly impacted by mental illness. Participants included 16 individuals with mood and anxiety disorder diagnoses. After this intervention, it was found that employed persons reported an improved sense of mastery in the completion of work tasks, improved satisfaction with work supervision, and decreased satisfaction with advancement and job security. Unemployed participants reported improved expectancy for employment success.
To evaluate the Swedish version of the Motivational Interviewing Treatment Code (MITI), MITI coding was applied to tape-recorded counseling sessions. Construct validity was assessed using factor analysis on 120 MITI-coded sessions. Discriminant validity was assessed by comparing MITI coding of motivational interviewing (MI) sessions with information- and advice-giving sessions as well as by comparing MI-trained practitioners with untrained practitioners. A principal-axis factoring analysis yielded some evidence for MITI construct validity. MITI differentiated between practitioners with different levels of MI training as well as between MI practitioners and advice-giving counselors, thus supporting discriminant validity. MITI may be used as a training tool together with supervision to confirm and enhance MI practice in clinical settings. MITI can also serve as a tool for evaluating MI integrity in clinical research.

Grapheme-color synesthesia, when achromatic digits evoke an experience of a specific color (photisms), has been shown to be consistent, involuntary, and linked with number concept in adults, yet there have been no comparable investigations with children. We present a systematic study of grapheme-color synesthesia in children aged between 7 and 15 years. Here we show that such children (but not children with phoneme-color synesthesia) experience involuntary difficulties in numerical tasks when digits are presented in colors incongruent with their photisms. Synesthesia in children may thus have important consequences for certain aspects of numerical cognition.
Are small and large numbers represented similarly or differently on the mental number line? The size effect was used to argue that numbers are represented differently. However, recently it has been argued that the size effect is due to the comparison task and is not derived from the mental number line per se. Namely, it is due to the way that the mental number line is mapped onto the task-relevant output component. Here synesthesia was used to disentangle these two alternatives. In two naming experiments a digit-color synesthete showed that the congruity effect was modulated by number size. These results support the existence of a mental number line with a vaguer numerical representation as numbers increase in size. In addition, the results show that in digit-color synesthesia, colors can evoke numerical representation automatically.
The need of bilinguals to continuously control two languages during speech production may exert general effects on their attentional networks. To explore this issue we compared the performance of bilinguals and monolinguals in the attentional network task (ANT) developed by Fan et al. [Fan, J., McCandliss, B.D. Sommer, T., Raz, A., Posner, M.I. (2002). Testing the efficiency and independence of attentional networks. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 14, 340-347]. This task is supposed to tap into three different attentional networks: alerting, orienting and executive control. The results revealed that bilingual participants were not only faster in performing the task, but also more efficient in the alerting and executive control networks. In particular, bilinguals were aided more by the presentation of an alerting cue, and were also better at resolving conflicting information. Furthermore, bilinguals experienced a reduced switching cost between the different type of trials compared to monolinguals. These results show that bilingualism exerts an influence in the attainment of efficient attentional mechanisms by young adults that are supposed to be at the peak of their attentional capabilities.
Stem cells can divide symmetrically to generate two similar daughter cells and expand the stem cell pool or asymmetrically to self-renew and generate differentiating daughter cells. The proper balance between symmetric and asymmetric division is critical for the generation and subsequent repair of tissues. Furthermore, unregulated stem cell division has been shown to result in tumorous overgrowth. The Drosophila nervous system has proved to be a fruitful model system for studying the biology of neural stem cell division and uncovering the molecular mechanisms that, when disrupted, can lead to tumor formation. We are using the Drosophila embryonic and larval nervous systems as models to study the regulation of symmetric and asymmetric stem cell division.
Finding biomarkers of human neurological diseases is one of the most pressing goals of modern medicine. Most neurological disorders are recognized too late because of the lack of biomarkers that can identify early pathological processes in the living brain. Late diagnosis leads to late therapy and poor prognosis. Therefore, during the past decade, a major endeavor of clinical investigations in neurology has been the search for diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers of brain disease. Recently, a new field of metabolomics has emerged, aiming to investigate metabolites within the cell/tissue/ organism as possible biomarkers. Similarly to other &quot;omics&quot; fields, metabolomics offers substantial information about the status of the organism at a given time point. However, metabolomics also provides functional insight into the biochemical status of a tissue, which results from the environmental effects on its genome background. Recently, we have adopted metabolomics techniques to develop an approach that combines both in vitro analysis of cellular samples and in vivo analysis of the mammalian brain. Using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy, we have discovered a metabolic biomarker of neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs) that allows the analysis of these cells in the live human brain. We have developed signal-processing algorithms that can detect metabolites present at very low concentration in the live human brain and can indicate possible pathways impaired in specific diseases. Herein, we present our strategy for both cellular and systems metabolomics, based on an integrative processing of the spectroscopy data that uses analytical tools from both metabolomic and spectroscopy fields. As an example of biomarker discovery using our approach, we present new data and discuss our previous findings on the NPC biomarker. Our studies link systems and cellular neuroscience through the functions of specific metabolites. Therefore, they provide a functional insight into the brain, which might eventually lead to discoveries of clinically useful biomarkers of the disease.
Subplate zone (SP) is prominent, transient laminar compartment of the human fetal cerebral wall. The SP develops around 13 and gradually disappears after 32-34 postovulatory weeks. The SP neurons can be found as late as nine postnatal months, while remnants of the SP neurons can be traced until adult age in the form of interstitial neurons of the gyral white matter. SP is composed of postmigratory and migratory neurons, growth cones, loosely arranged axons, dendrites, glial cell and synapses. The remarkable feature of the SP is the presence of large amount of extracellular matrix. This feature can be used for delineation of SP in magnetic resonance images (MRI) of both, in vivo and post mortem brains. The importance of SP as the main synaptic zone of the human fetal cortex is based on the rich input of ,waiting,&lt; afferents from thalamus and cortex, during the crucial phase of cortical target area selection. SP increases during mammalian evolution and culminates in human brain concomitantly with increase in number and diversity of cortico-cortical fibers. The recent neurobiological evidence shows that SP is important site of spontaneous endogeneous activity, building a framework for development of cortical columnar organization. The SP which can be readily visualized on conventional and DTI (diffusion-tensor-imaging) MRI in vivo, today is in the focus of interest of pediatric neurology due to the following facts: (1) SP is the site of early neural activity, (2) SP is the major substrate for functional plasticity, and (3) selective vulnerability of SP may lead to cognitive impairment.
Echolocating bats are known to continuously generate high frequency sonar pulses and listen to the reflecting echoes to localize objects and orient in the environment. However, silent behavior has been reported in a recent paper, which demonstrated that the big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus) can fly a relative long distant (0.6 to 8 m) without echolocating when flying with another conspecific in a large flight room.1 Methodology and conclusion developed in this study have the potential for further experimental design to answer the question of how millions of bats navigate and orient in cohesive groups. In addition, the discovery of silent behavior suggests the possible use of cooperative sonar in echolocating animals.
Synapses are basic units that mediate the communication between neurons and their target cells. The formation of synapse is regulated by secreted factors, receptors, adhesion molecules and intracellular signaling molecules. The interplay between positive and negative factors determines synapse assembling, remodeling and elimination, resulting in the formation of precise synaptic connections. However, compared to the abundant identified positive factors, negative factors are largely unknown. We have recently shown that Wnt3a acts as a negative factor that inhibits postsynaptic differentiation at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), the synapse formed between motor neurons and skeletal muscle fibers. The clustering of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) guarantees efficient and accurate neurotransmission and is a hallmark for postsynaptic differentiation at the NMJ. We found that treatment with Wnt3a or upregulation of beta-catenin inhibited the formation of AChR clusters. Furthermore, we investigated the underlying mechanism and found that Wnt/beta-catenin signaling negatively regulated AChR clustering by downregulating the expression of Rapsyn, an AChR-associated protein required for formation and stabilization of AChR clusters.
It is a fundamental question in neuroscience how long-term memory formation is regulated at the molecular level. Although widely considered a highly complex process requiring numerous molecular players, it also has been speculated that a single protein could play a pivotal role. This &quot;astonishing hypothesis&quot; has made a significant impact on memory research and has led to a reevaluation of concepts regarding memory formation.1,2.

Minor physical anomalies (MPAs) and neurologic soft signs (NSSs) have been consistently reported to be more frequent in schizophrenia subjects and their first-degree relatives. We aimed at coassessing both these neurodevelopmental markers in neuroleptic-naive recent-onset schizophrenia (NRS) subjects in comparison to healthy control (HC) subjects to explore the predictive validity of this composite endophenotype. We administered the Modified Waldrop Scale (MWS) and the Neurological Evaluation Scale (NES) to evaluate MPAs and NSSs, respectively, in 40 NRS and 30 matched HC subjects. Schizophrenia subjects had significantly higher frequencies of MPAs and NSSs than HC. Minor physical anomaly total scores were correlated with greater severity of illness, whereas NES scores did not show any relationship with clinical variables. Schizophrenia and HC subjects were most accurately classified (82.9%) when MPAs and NSSs were considered as a composite phenotype rather than independently. Minor physical anomalies and NSSs constitute independent neurodevelopmental markers of schizophrenia and would afford greater predictive validity when used as a composite endophenotype in genetic association studies.

Monte Carlo (MC) based simulations of photon transport in living tissues have become the &quot;gold standard&quot; technique in biomedical optics. Three-dimensional (3D) voxel-based images are the natural way to represent human (and animal) tissues. It is generally believed that the combination of 3D images and MC based algorithms allows one to produce the most realistic models of photon propagation. In the present work, it is shown that this approach may lead to large errors in the MC data due to the &quot;roughness&quot; of the geometrical boundaries generated by the presence of the voxels. In particular, the computed intensity of the light detected on the tissue surface of a simple cubic tissue phantom may display errors from -80% to 120%. It is also shown that these errors depend in a complex manner on optical and geometrical parameters such as the interoptode distance, scattering coefficient, refractive index, etc. and on the degree of voxelization (&quot;roughness&quot;) of the boundaries. It is concluded that if one wants to perform reliable 3D Monte Carlo simulations on complex geometries, such as human brain, skin or trabecular bone, it is necessary to introduce boundary meshing techniques or other equivalent procedures in the MC code to eliminate the deleterious effect of voxelization.
We present a neural amplifier that optimizes the trade-off between power consumption and noise performance down to the best so far reported. In the perspective of realizing a fully autonomous implantable system we also address the problem of spike detection by using a new simple algorithm and we discuss the implementation with analog integrated circuits. Implemented in 0.35-microm CMOS technology and with total current consumption of about 20 microA, the whole circuit occupies an area of 0.18 mm(2). Reduced power consumption and small area make it suited to be used in chronic multichannel recording systems for neural prosthetics and neuroscience experiments.
A method to estimate the potential and current density distribution during transcranial DC stimulation (tDCS) is introduced. The volume conductor model consists of a realistic head model (concerning shape as well as conductivity), obtained from TI-, PD- and DT-MR images. The model includes five compartments with different conductivities. For the skull and the white matter compartments, the conductivities are anisotropic. Using this model, the potentials inside the head that are generated by tDCS electrodes positioned on the scalp were computed by using the Finite Element Method. The results show that this is a promising method for the study of the effects of tDCS.
This clinical study investigates whether the spatial patterns of hemiparetic stroke patients operating a non-invasive Motor Imagery-based Brain Computer Interface (MI-BCI) is comparable to healthy subjects. The spatial patterns for a specific frequency range are generated using the common spatial pattern (CSP) algorithm, of which is highly successful for discriminating two classes of EEG measurements in MI-BCI. The spatial patterns illustrate how the presumed sources project on the scalp and are effective in verifying the neurophysiological plausibility of the computed solution. The spatial patterns show focused activity in ipsilateral as well as contralateral hemisphere with respect to the hand by tapping or motor imagery in 2 BCI-artful healthy subjects and 12 BCI-nave hemiparetic stroke patients. The results also show that neurophysiologically interpretable spatial patterns is more common in performing motor imagery compared to finger tapping by hemiparetic stroke patients. Hence, this shows that hemiparetic stroke patients are capable of operating MI-BCI.
This paper introduces a Neuroelectromagnetic Forward Modeling Toolbox running under MATLAB (The Mathworks, Inc.) for generating realistic head models from available data (MRI and/or electrode locations) and for solving the forward problem of electro-magnetic source imaging numerically. The toolbox includes tools for segmenting scalp, skull, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and brain tissues from T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) images. After extracting the segmented tissue volumes, mesh generation can be performed using deformable models. When MR images are not available, it is possible to warp a template head model to measured electrode locations to obtain a better-fitting realistic model. The Boundary Element Method (BEM) is used for the numerical solution of the forward problem. Toolbox functions can be called from either a graphic user interface or from the command line. Function help messages and a tutorial are included. The toolbox is freely available under the GNU Public License for noncommercial use and open source development.
In this study, we developed numerical methods for investigating the dynamics of epilepsy from multi-scale EEG recordings acquired simultaneously from the scalp (sEEG) and intracranial subdural and/or depth electrodes (iEEG) in patients undergoing pre-surgical evaluation at the epilepsy center of the Mayo Clinic (Rochester, MN). The data are analyzed using independent component analysis (ICA), which identifies and isolates independent signal components from multi-channel recordings. A realistic individual head model was constructed for a patient undergoing pre-surgical evaluation. The forward problem of electro-magnetic source localization was solved using the Boundary Element Method (BEM). Using this approach, we investigated the relationships between noninvasive and invasive source localization of human electrical brain data sources. A difference of about 1 cm was observed between sources estimated from sEEG and iEEG measurements.
The development of statistical models that accurately describe the stochastic structure of neural oscillations is a fast growing area in quantitative research. In developing a novel statistical paradigm based on Bayes' theorem and the theory of point processes, we focused our recent research on two applications. The first studies how hippocampal neural activity represents and transmits information, whereas the second is aimed at characterizing activity of the central autonomic network as involved in cardiovascular control.
We present a new framework for the diagnosis of schizophrenia based on the spectro-temporal patterns selected by a support vector machine from multichannel magnetoencephalogram (MEG) recordings in a verbal working memory task. In the experimental paradigm, five letters appearing sequentially on a screen were memorized by subjects. The letters constituted a word in one condition and a pronounceable nonword in the other. Power changes were extracted as features in frequency subbands of 248 channel MEG data to form a rich feature dictionary. A support vector machine has been used to select a small subset of features with recursive feature elimination technique (SVM-RFE) and the reduced subset was used for classification. We note that the discrimination between patients and controls in the word condition was higher than in the non-word condition (91.8% vs 83.8%). Furthermore, in the word condition, the most discriminant patterns were extracted in delta (1-4 Hz), theta (4-8Hz) and alpha (12-16 Hz) frequency bands. We note that these features were located around the left frontal, left temporal and occipital areas, respectively. Our results indicate that the proposed approach can quantify discriminative neural patterns associated to a functional task in spatial, spectral and temporal domain. Moreover these features provide interpretable information to the medical expert about physiological basis of the illness and can be effectively used as a biometric marker to recognize schizophrenia in clinical practice.
In this paper we propose a new method to enhance prosthetics functionality, that integrates concepts extracted from the neuroscience background with the technology mainly exploited in prosthetic control. This new method allows controlling multi-degrees of freedom (d.o.f.) prostheses with signals having few d.o.f.
Dynamic changes in physiologic systems have become an increasingly important topic in biomedical signal processing. To demonstrate a novel approach to this type of analysis, we recorded the cardiac and respiratory rhythms of six normal subjects over 5 minutes. We used cross-wavelet transforms to identify any correlations between these signals and then a unique approach to surrogate data generation in the frequency domain to confirm the statistical significance of the correlations that were found. The cross-wavelet transform provides a means of statistically quantifying weak correlations between systems that might otherwise not show significant interactions, while the method of surrogate data generation is a robust way of confirming a true physiological relationship.
Accurate investigation of the sympathetic nervous system is important in the diagnosis and study of various autonomic and cardiovascular control and disorders. Sympathetic function associated with blood pressure regulation in humans can be evaluated by recording muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), which is characterised by synchronous neuronal discharges separated by periods of neural silence dominated by colored gaussian noise. In this paper two common methods for detecting filtered action potential in MSNA recordings is compared. These methods are based on stationary wavelet transform (SWT) and discrete wavelet transform (DWT). The performance analysis are evaluated using simulated MSNA using templates extracted from real MSNA recorded from three healthy subjects.
The Muscle Sympathetic Nerve Activity (MSNA) consists of synchronous neural discharges separated by periods of neural silence dominated by heavy background noise. During measurement with electrodes, the raw MSNA signal is amplified, band-pass filtered, rectified and integrated. This integration process removes much neurophysiological information. In this paper a method for detecting a raw action potential (before the pre-amplifier) and filtered action potential (after the band-pass filter) is presented. This method is based on stationary wavelet transform (SWT) and a peak detection algorithm. Also, the detected action potentials were clustered using the k-means method and the cluster averages were calculated. The action potential detector and classification algorithm are evaluated using real MSNA recorded from three healthy subjects.
Heartbeat intervals are known to have nonlinear and non-stationary dynamics. In this paper, we propose a nonlinear Volterra-Wiener expansion modeling of human heartbeat dynamics within a point process framework. Inclusion of second-order nonlinearity allows us to estimate dynamic bispectrum. The proposed probabilistic model was examined with two recorded heartbeat interval data sets. Preliminary results show that our model is beneficial to characterize the inherent nonlinearity of the heartbeat dynamics.
Efforts to understand and model the process of extracellular neural electric stimulation have been driven by the desire to intelligently design neural prostheses in order to minimize tissue damage and to maximize the success for stimulating targeted neural structures. Tissue damage and electrode corrosion have been associated with high charge density, which is the integral of the current density passing through the electrode surface over the duration of the stimulus. Importantly, the current density distribution on the surface of stimulating electrodes can be extremely nonuniform, especially when high voltages or frequencies cause a decrease in the electrode-electrolyte impedance. Large current densities are found locally in regions of high curvature, such as the edge of a disk electrode or the tip of a conical electrode. We use a time domain finite element model of a platinum disk electrode and a simplified retinal ganglion cell to explore the potential for Gaussian and sinusoidal voltage-controlled stimulus waveforms to reduce the nonuniformity of the current densities on the electrode surface while maintaining stimulation efficacy. We model an overpotential-dependent electrode-electrolyte interfacial impedance consistent with the platinum-saline interface. An excitable cell membrane is incorporated using the Fohlmeister-Coleman-Miller model of a retinal ganglion cell. Both the electrode-electrolyte interface and the cell membrane were incorporated into the finite element model using a thin layer approximation. All simulations were performed in the COMSOL Multiphysics modeling environment. Rectangular stimulus waveforms were compared to waveforms of Gaussian and sinusoidal shapes. The results suggest that Gaussian and Sinusoidal waveforms may significantly decrease the nonuniformity of the current density distribution while retaining stimulation efficacy.
This paper describes the fabrication and in vitro testing of a device capable of chemically stimulating individual neurons. Electrophoretic actuation is used to locally induce the release of the neurotransmitter L-glutamate in a network of hippocampal neurons cultured on top of the device. Cell activation by the neurotransmitter is visualized using calcium imaging. Single-cell stimulation is demonstrated close to the release site after application of a voltage of 500 mV. Such a device could provide a useful tool in both basic and clinical neuroscience. In a broader context, this device can be used to locally release small amounts of chemical compounds in Lab-on-Chip and drug delivery applications.
Thermo-responsive chitosan microbubbles were developed as new therapeutic device for vehiculating gases to tissues concomitantly to hyperthermic treatments. Aiming at applications to non-invasive temperature monitoring, microbubbles were characterized for acoustic attenuation properties in the 1-15 MHz range both by direct methods and by B-mode Ultrasound imaging up to 43 degrees C, which is the temperature used in clinical hyperthermia. The chitosan microbubbles showed a mean diameter of 1 microm at room temperature, which slightly decreases after heating, enhancing gas delivery. Acoustic attenuation monotonically increases with temperature, being the extent of such variation larger than that observed in tissues. Both the physico-chemical and the acoustic profiles showed reversible variations of microbubbles approaching 43 degrees C, which might be of interest for applications in hyperthermic therapies.
We present a high performance wideband receiver for multichannel wireless implantable neural recording systems (WINeR) utilizing pulse width modulation of time division multiplexed (PWM-TDM) samples. The receiver consists of a 50 MHz approximately 1 GHz tunable down-converter with 75 MHz bandwidth, frequency shift keying and PWM demodulators, and a high throughput USB interface. Several IF gain stages, passive LC filters, and an FPGA-based time-to-digital converter (TDC) with time interval resolution of 428 ps have significantly enhanced the receiver performance and extended its receiving range. A 2 MB SDRAM is used as a buffer between the TDC and USB to ensure continuous throughput for the digitized raw data at data rates up to 10 Mb/s. The receiver performance is evaluated with a 6-channel WINeR transmitter, showing that the entire system input referred noise with this receiver is 9.8 and 12.7 microV(rms) at 0.5 and 3.5 m distances, respectively, which are equivalent to 8.2 and 7.9 bits of resolution at 640 ksample/s.
EEG and LFP activity reflect the dynamic and organized interactions of neural ensembles; therefore, it may be possible to use the features of brain rhythms to determine the computational state of a neuronal network. When neuronal networks are activated, physical principles predict that the frequency content of the field potential should reflect the network state, per se, and ergo the state transition. A novel way for characterizing brain states is by quantifying the temporal structure of AM and FM activity (change in amplitude and frequency over time) for brain rhythms of interest. The concept of AM and FM, in the quantitative sense, is virtually unexplored in systems neuroscience. This is not surprising considering estimation of FM activity requires fine temporal and precise estimation of instantaneous frequency. For AM activity, the absolute value of the Hilbert transform is sufficient. Here, we outline a practical pole tracking algorithm which uses a Kalman filter for univariate AR processes to estimate instantaneous frequency. We demonstrate the filter performance using simulated chirp and real EEG/LFP data recorded from the rat hippocampus; and show that AM/FM activity in EEG/LFP is temporally structured and dependent on behavioral and cognitive state. This algorithm has the potential to be a practical tool for characterizing fundamental structure in electrophysiology data and classifying computational states in the brain.
Neuroengineering is emerging as an exciting new field with wide ranging research opportunities to contribute to both basic and clinical neurosciences. Armed with training and diverse research tools, engineers are now contributing to technologies to interface to neurons and to the whole brain. The research on modern neural and brain interface technologies has culminated in very recent, exciting programs to develop brain-machine interfaces such as neutrally controlled prostheses.
BCI research lacks a universal descriptive language among labs and a unique standard model for the description of BCI systems. This results in a serious problem in comparing performances of different BCI processes and in unifying tools and resources. In such a view we implemented a Unified Modeling Language (UML) model for the description virtually of any BCI protocol and we demonstrated that it can be successfully applied to the most common ones such as P300, mu-rhythms, SCP, SSVEP, fMRI. Finally we illustrated the advantages in utilizing a standard terminology for BCIs and how the same basic structure can be successfully adopted for the implementation of new systems.
A common problem in EEG recording sessions is that results can be heavily contaminated by artifacts. One of the main reasons is that eyes movements generate a noise signal that superimpose to the data. In some BCI protocols the user has generally to control the movement of a cursor on a PC screen by self-regulating his/her mu-rhythm. In general this requires the user to move the eyes to follow the same cursor, thus intrinsically generating a huge amount of noise. To overcome this problem a new feedback modality has been developed, which is able to dramatically reduce the artifacts as it does not require subjects to move their eyes.
In this paper, we propose a new method to make a quantitative evaluation for movement disorders. Based on the EMG signals, we analyzed the movement disorders for cerebellar patients at the motor command level. As an experimental task, we asked subjects to perform step-tracking wrist movements with a manipulandum, and simultaneously recorded wrist joint movements and muscle activities of four wrist prime movers with surface electrodes. In order to quantitatively evaluate the correspondence between the movement kinematics and the activities of the four muscles, we approximated the relationship between the wrist joint torque calculated from the kinematics and the four EMG signals using a dynamics model of wrist joint. Our surprising observation was that there was very high correlation between the wrist joint torque and the EMG signals. In fact, we identified causal abnormality of muscle activities for movement disorders of cerebellar patients, confirming effectiveness of our proposed method for analysis of movement disorders at the level of the motor command.
Neuroscience research is even more exploiting technologies developed for electronic engineering use: this is the case of Micro-Electrode Array (MEA) technology, an instrumentation which is able to acquire in vitro neuron spiking activity from a finite number of channels. In this work we present three models of synaptic neuronal network connections, called 'Full-Connected', 'Hierarchical' and 'Closed-Path'. Related to each one we implemented an index giving quantitative measures of similarity and of statistical dependence among neuron activities recorded in different MEA channels. They are based on Information Theory techniques as Mutual and Multi Information: the last one extending the pair-wise information to higher-order connections on the entire MEA neuronal network. We calculated indexes for each model in order to test the presence of self-synchronization among neurons evolving in time, in response to external stimuli such as the application of chemical neuron-inhibitors. The availability of such different models helps us to investigate also how much the synaptic connections are spatially sparse or hierarchically structured and finally how much of the information exchanged on the neuronal network is regulated by higher-order correlations.

We tested the ability of eight Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with clearly asymmetrical right-sided motor signs and eight control subjects to assess different levels of muscular forces. In Experiment 1, subjects had first to produce a target-force with one hand (the reference hand) with the assistance of visual feedback, and then match that force with the other hand (the matching hand) without any visual feedback. In Experiment 2, they had to produce a target-force with one hand and then estimate it by attributing a numerical value. In Experiment 1, the results showed that PD patients could normally reach the target-forces with the more affected left hand but they were impaired in inter-manual force transfer. They were also impaired, in Experiment 2, in estimating forces produced by their more affected hand. Our findings suggest that PD patients present a deficit in sensing motor effort. Effort awareness might be mediated by the basal ganglia.
Hierarchical figures in which large (global) forms are constructed from smaller (local) forms (Navon, 1977) have proved valuable in studies of perceptual organisation and hemispheric specialisation in both healthy volunteers and a wide range of neurological and psychiatric patients. In studies using Navon figures, normal young adults typically identify global forms faster than local forms. When the global and local forms are incongruent (e.g., a large E made of smaller Rs), global forms often interfere with local form identification more than vice versa. In two conditions on the same subjects, we contrasted the performance of young (mean age 22 years) and older (mean age 58 years) healthy volunteers on global and local processing. In the directed attention task, subjects were instructed to detect a target letter that occurred at the prespecified local or global level. The young subjects showed, as expected, faster reaction times (RTs) to detect global targets. In contrast, the older subjects showed significantly faster RTs to the local targets. Likewise, in a divided attention task, in which subjects were instructed to detect a target letter that could occur at either the local or the global level, the young adults were slightly quicker to detect the global targets and the older subjects were significantly quicker to detect the local targets. Error rates were generally low and there was no significant speed/accuracy trade-off in either condition. The observed local precedence effects in healthy older subjects were unexpected and are discussed in reference to previous work on differential hemispheric aging. That work has suggested that the left hemisphere is preferentially biased toward local processing and ages relatively slowly while the right hemisphere is biased toward global processing and ages relatively quickly. The implications of such putative differential aging for the interpretation of pathological local/global processing in neurological and psychiatric diseases are also emphasised.




Two fundamental properties of stem cells are their ability to self-renew and to differentiate. Self-renewal is an integration of proliferation control with the maintenance of an undifferentiated state. Stem cell self-renewal is regulated by the dynamic interplay between transcription factors, epigenetic control, microRNA (miRNA) regulators, and cell-extrinsic signals from the microenvironment in which stem cells reside. Recent progress in defining specific roles for cell-intrinsic factors and extrinsic factors in regulating stem cell self-renewal starts to unfold the multilayered regulatory networks. This review focuses on cell-intrinsic regulators, including orphan nuclear receptor TLX, polycomb transcriptional repressor Bmi1, high-mobility-group DNA binding protein Sox2, basic helix-loop-helix Hes genes, histone modifying enzymes and chromatin remodeling proteins, and small RNA modulators, as well as cell-extrinsic signaling molecules, such as Wnt, Notch, Sonic hedgehog (Shh), TGFalpha, EGF, and FGF. Unraveling the mechanisms by which neural stem cells renew themselves will provide insights into both basic neurosciences and clinical applications of stem cell-based cell replacement therapies for neurodegenerative diseases.
Hormesis is defined operationally as responses of cells or organisms to an exogenous or intrinsic factor (chemical, temperature, psychological challenge, etc.) in which the factor induces stimulatory or beneficial effects at low doses and inhibitory or adverse effects at high doses. The compendium of articles by Calabrese entitled &quot;Neuroscience and Hormesis&quot; provides a broad range of examples of neurobiological processes and responses to environmental factors that exhibit biphasic dose responses, the signature of hormesis. Nerve cell networks are the &quot;first responders&quot; to environmental challenges--they perceive the challenge and orchestrate coordinated adaptive responses that typically involve autonomic, neuroendocrine, and behavioral changes. In addition to direct adaptive responses of neurons to environmental stressors, cells subjected to a stressor produce and release molecules such as growth factors, cytokines, and hormones that alert adjacent and even distant cells to impending danger. The discoveries that some molecules (e.g., carbon monoxide and nitric oxide) and elements (e.g., selenium and iron) that are toxic at high doses play fundamental roles in cellular signaling or metabolism suggest that during evolution, organisms (and their nervous systems) co-opted environmental toxins and used them to their advantage. Neurons also respond adaptively to everyday stressors, including physical exercise, cognitive challenges, and dietary energy restriction, each of which activates pathways linked to the production of neurotrophic factors and cellular stress resistance proteins. The development of interventions that activate hormetic signaling pathways in neurons is a promising new approach for the preventation and treatment of a range of neurological disorders.
Dr. Edward Calabrese asserts that hormetic responses occur in neural systems, and provides ample review of evidence to support this claim. In this essay, we survey Dr. Calabrese's findings, illustrate the somewhat provocative premise of hormesis, and posit that while evidence suggests that amplification of low-dose effects are operative in neural systems, it is equally important to consider observations and claims of hormesis in greater detail, and framed within the &quot;cultural&quot; and epistemic contexts of science. We offer specific caveats to avoid the overgeneralization of findings, oversimplification of putative effects or mechanisms, and the dogmatic adherence to a restrictive methodologic orientation. Finally, we assert that any meaningful discussion of hormesis must be grounded to methodologic rigor, yet openness, and must allow for a self-critical and self-revisionist epistemic approach. We attempt to show that the work presented by Calabrese takes a first and important step toward the initiation of dialectic, allows for the exchange of ideas, strives toward reconciliation of differences and the amelioration of error, and seeks intellectual synthesis.

This article assesses pain within the context of the dose response. A substantial number of studies indicate that the dose response for pain-related endpoints is commonly biphasic, being independent of the type of biological model employed, endpoint measured, or agent tested. The quantitative features of the dose response are also remarkably consistent regardless of the receptor pathway that mediates the nociceptive response, indicating a likely downstream message convergence. These findings have important implications for drug discovery, development, and clinical evaluation.
This article provides a summary of an assessment of the occurrence and impact of hormesis in the neurosciences, including the areas of neuroprotection, neurite outgrowth, and drugs for Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, anxiety, pain, seizures, stroke, as well as in the areas of behavioral pharmacology, addictive drugs, stress biology including the Yerkes-Dodson law, and p-glycoprotein efflux activity. The findings indicate that the hormetic dose response has a common, if not dominant, presence in each of these diverse areas of neuroscience and further strengthens the conclusion that hormesis is highly generalizable, being independent of biological model, endpoint, and chemical class.
Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes (PNS) are remote effects of cancer that may involve any part of the nervous system. Rarity hinders their diagnosis and management and at least 60% of cases do not present a tumor at neurological symptoms onset. An important diagnostic element is detection, in patients' serum or cerebrospinal fluid, of onconeuronal antibodies which recognize antigens expressed by the nervous system and by neoplastic cells during de-differentiation. Their detection also implies that PNS have autoimmune origin and that immunomodulation could be an effective treatment. The lack of clinical trials due to the rarity of PNS makes it hard to test the efficacy of immunomodulatory therapy, but dividing the diseases into two groups permits preliminary analysis. A humoral immunoresponse prevails in group one and antibodies seem to have a pathogenetic role, indicating antibody removal strategies. Group two are mainly PNS of the central nervous system with autoantibodies directed against intracellular antigens, probably involving a cell-mediated mechanism. Immunotherapy with steroids or cytotoxic immunosuppressive agents may be useful here. Immunomodulatory treatment is always indicated when a tumor is not found but neurological symptoms are progressing, since first line treatment is tumor identification and, where possible, removal.
The motor-program concept, emphasizing how actions are represented in the brain, helped bring the study of motor control into the realm of cognitive psychology. However, interest in representational issues was in limbo for much of the past 30 years, during which time the focus was on biomechanical and abstract accounts of the constraints underlying coordinated movement. We review recent behavioral and neuroscientific evidence that highlights multiple levels of constraints in bimanual coordination, with an emphasis on work demonstrating that a primary source of constraint arises from the manner in which action goals are represented.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), a monoamine neurotransmitter of the central nervous and peripheral systems (CNS), plays a critical role in a wide variety of physiological and behavioral processes. In the serotonergic system, deregulation of the tightly controlled extracellular concentration of 5-HT appears to be at the origin of a host of metabolic and psychiatric disorders. A key step that regulates 5-HT external level is the re-uptake of 5-HT into cells by the 5-HT transporter (SERT), which is besides the target of numerous drugs interacting with the serotonergic system. Therapeutic strategies have mainly focused on the development of compounds that block the activity of SERT, for instance reuptake inhibitors (e.g. tricyclics, &quot;selective&quot; serotonin reuptake inhibitors) and in the past, specific substrate-type releasers (e.g. amphetamine and cocaine derivatives). Today, generation of new drugs targetting SERT with enhanced selectivity and reduced toxicity is one of the most challenging tasks in drug design. In this context, studies aiming at characterizing the physicochemical properties of 5-HT as well as the biological active conformation of SERT are a prerequisite to the design of new leads. However, the absence of a high-resolution 3D-structure for SERT has hampered the design of new transporter inhibitors. Using computational approaches, numerous efforts were made to shed light on the structure of 5-HT and its transporter. In this review, we compared several in silico methods dedicated to the modeling of 5-HT and SERT with an emphasis on i) quantum chemistry for study of 5-HT conformation and ii) ligand-based (QSAR and pharmacophore models) and transporter-based (homology models) approaches for studying SERT molecule. In addition, we discuss some methodological aspects of the computational work in connection with the construction of putative but reliable 3D structural models of SERT that may help to predict the mechanisms of neurotransmitter transport.
The inhibition of protein degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway is a recently developed approach to cancer treatment which extends the range of cellular targets for chemotherapy. This therapeutic strategy is very interesting since the proteasomes carry out the regulated degradation of unnecessary or damaged cellular proteins, a process that is dysregulated in many cancer cells. Based on this hypothesis, the proteasome complex inhibitor bortezomib was approved for use in multiple myeloma patients by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2003 and by the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) in 2004, and several new drugs with the same target and, sometimes, mechanism of action are currently under development. Interestingly, proteasome inhibitors have now also been tested in combination chemotherapy for the treatment of several solid tumors and it is likely that there will be more generalized use of these compounds in the near future. Despite its remarkable effectiveness, which led to it being rapidly approved for clinical use, some concern has been raised regarding the safety of bortezomib (and in general of proteasome inhibitors) since reduced degradation of damaged proteins has been postulated as being the basic mechanism of severe neurological diseases affecting the central nervous system. While this concern has not been confirmed by the clinical course of treated patients, from the first Phase I studies, it emerged that peripheral sensory neurotoxicity was one of the major dose-limiting toxicities. The main results from the use of proteasome inhibition in cancer chemotherapy and the implications for treatment on the nervous system will be reviewed.
The neuronal nicotinic receptor has gained considerable recognition as a target, not just for combating drug addiction but also for treating a number of illnesses ranging from neurodegenerative diseases to psychotic disorders like schizophrenia. This recognition has led to a burgeoning field examining the receptor at all levels. A class of nicotinic receptors that contains the alpha7 gene product, apparently as a homomer, illustrates this multidisciplinary approach. Here, we review recent progress in our understanding of this class of receptors based on data from molecular, structural, physiological and patho-physiological studies. These studies have set the stage for rational drug design to combat disorders of the central nervous system. The studies also exemplify the cautious approach needed in developing CNS therapies and the importance of physiology in tempering drug design.
Natural products have long been regarded as excellent sources for drug discovery given their structure diversity and wide variety of biological activities. Phenylethanoid glycosides are naturally occurring compounds of plant origin and are structurally characterized with a hydroxyphenylethyl moiety to which a glucopyranose is linked through a glycosidic bond. To date several hundred compounds of this type have been isolated from medicinal plants and further pharmacological studies in vitro or in vivo have shown that these compounds possess a broad array of biological activities including antibacterial, antitumor, antiviral, anti-inflammatory, neuro-protective, antioxidant, hepatoprotective, immunomodulatory, and tyrosinase inhibitory actions. Given their extensive activity profile, structure-activity relationships analyses of these compounds have been performed in a number of studies to reveal potential leads for future drug design. This article will summarize the major developments in phenylethanoid glycosides-based research in the past decade. The progresses made in phytochemistry and biological activity studies of these compounds will be reviewed. Particular attention will be given to the novel structures identified to date and the prominent therapeutic values associated with these molecules.
The identification and characterization of potential pharmacological targets in neurology and psychiatry is a fundamental problem at the intersection between medicinal chemistry and the neurosciences. Exciting new techniques in proteomics and genomics have fostered rapid progress, opening numerous questions as to the functional consequences of ligand binding at the systems level. Psycho- and neuro-active drugs typically work in nerve cells by affecting one or more aspects of electrophysiological activity. Thus, an integrated understanding of neuropharmacological agents requires bridging the gap between their molecular mechanisms and the biophysical determinants of neuronal function. Computational neuroscience and bioinformatics can play a major role in this functional connection. Robust quantitative models exist describing all major active membrane properties under endogenous and exogenous chemical control. These include voltage-dependent ionic channels (sodium, potassium, calcium, etc.), synaptic receptor channels (e.g. glutamatergic, GABAergic, cholinergic), and G protein coupled signaling pathways (protein kinases, phosphatases, and other enzymatic cascades). This brief review of neuromolecular medicine from the computational perspective provides compelling examples of how simulations can elucidate, explain, and predict the effect of chemical agonists, antagonists, and modulators in the nervous system.

Invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells are an attractive therapeutic target in autoimmune diseases, since they play a major role in immune regulation. iNKT cells recognize glycolipid antigens presented by CD1d molecules that resemble the non-polymorphic MHC class I protein. alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GalCer) isolated from marine sponge has long been used as a prototype iNKT cell ligand in the laboratory. As alpha-GalCer is the most efficacious ligand for iNKT cells, its potential to treat autoimmune disease has been evaluated in animal models. Previous studies showed that alpha-GalCer effectively suppressed disease in some autoimmunity models, but not in others. This inconsistency may be attributed to the ability of alpha-GalCer to induce the production of both proinflammatory Th1 and anti-inflammatory Th2 cytokines by iNKT cells. To overcome this issue, we and other groups have synthesized new, unnatural glycolipids by modifying the structure of alpha-GalCer. These efforts have led to an identification of glycolipid compounds that provoke the production of Th2 (but not Th1) cytokines by iNKT cells. Among these novel ligands, an alpha-GalCer analogue named OCH, which contains a truncated sphingosine chain, induces a Th2 biased response by murine iNKT cells. Here we describe that OCH also polarizes human iNKT cells towards Th2, which opens up a new avenue for the clinical application of glycolipid compounds in treating of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis. The pursuit of synthetic glycolipid antigens has the great potential to lead to a better understanding of the regulatory effects of human iNKT cells and development of a new therapeutic agent for autoimmune diseases.


New insights into the physiopathological correlates of arousal and sleep fragmentation have recently been gained through experimental and clinical studies in healthy individuals and in patients with sleep disorders. The development of new analyses of autonomic system during sleep, has enriched the knowledge of sleep fragmentation derived from electroencephalographic analysis and has made possible the characterization of other phasic events arising from sleep, such as autonomic arousals. All of these studies provide evidence in support of the hypothesis that autonomic activations without cortical involvement are an epiphenomena of sleep fragmentation and altered sleep continuity, similar to that induced by cortical activation. This review begins by describing the latest findings on type of arousal response, with regards to the effect of arousing stimuli on the brain and the autonomic system. It then focuses on the hotly debated issue on experimental and clinical physiopathology of the arousals without cortical activation, highlighting the results of novel studies on the neural substrates mediating these response. Finally, we address the current question on clinical significance of sleep fragmentation to understand if arousal per se, cortical or autonomic, has an impact on daytime functioning, cardiovascular consequences and cognitive sequelae.
This review presents sleep disturbances and their underlying pathophysiology in three categories of neurodegenerative disorders namely tauopathies, synucleinopathies, and Huntington's disease (HD) and prion-related diseases. Sleep abnormalities are a major and early feature of neurodegenerative disorders, especially for synucleinopathies, HD and prion-related diseases, in which the sleep-related brainstem regions are severely altered and impaired sooner than in most of the tauopathies. In synucleinopathies, HD and prion-related diseases, specific sleep disturbances, different from those observed in tauopathies, are considered as core manifestations of the disease and in some cases, as preclinical signs. For this reason, the evaluation of sleep components in these neurodegenerative disorders may be useful to make a diagnosis and to assess the efficacy of pharmacotherapy. Since sleep disruption may occur early in the course of neurodegeneration, sleep disturbance may serve as groundwork to study the efficacy of neuroprotective agents to prevent or delay the development of a full-blown neurodegenerative disorder. The cause of sleep disturbances in neurodegenerative disorders may be attributed to several factors, including age-related modifications, symptoms of the disease, comorbid conditions and the neurodegenerative process itself.

Insulin resistance and obesity are intimately related to a chronic low grade systemic inflammation. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) may influence the pathogenesis of obesity-related diseases. The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of body's fat mass on the relationships between -174G/C IL-6 promoter gene polymorphism, IL-6 circulating level and insulin resistance. A population of 150 Caucasian women was studied, subdivided according to their body composition in non-obese (NW), Normal Weight Obese (NWO) and preobese-obese (OB). The NWO subjects were found in an intermediate position between the NW and OB subjects in terms of body weight, fat mass percentage (FM%), abdominal FAT%, hs-CRP and plasma triglyceride level. Fasting plasma IL-6 concentration was positively correlated with the homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) in all subjects analyzed (P=0.0014). In NWO and OB women a significantly increased IL-6 mean value was observed compared with NW subjects. In G/G population, the IL-6 plasma level of NWO and OB was significantly higher with respect to NW. No significant differences of IL-6 concentrations were observed in the three groups carrying G/C genotype. NWO and OB women homozygous for the allele C have significantly lower value of IL-6 with respect to NW subjects. IL-6 concentration was positively correlated with FM% in G/G (R(2)=0.397, P&lt;0.001) and was negatively correlated in C/C (R(2)=0.459, P=0.002). No significant correlation was observed in G/C genotype (R(2)=0.041, P=0.173). In conclusion our study confirms that, at least in Italian Caucasian females, the FM% is a major determinant of an increase in IL-6 production and insulin resistance. -174 G/C IL-6 promoter polymorphism represents a marker which could help to identify, time in advance, &quot;vulnerable&quot; individuals at risk of age and obesity related diseases.
The purpose of this review is to enlighten the mechanisms of skeletal muscle dysfunction in heart failure. The muscle hypothesis suggests that chronic heart failure (CHF) symptoms, dyspnoea and fatigue are due to skeletal muscle alterations. Hyperventilation due to altered ergoreflex seems to be the cause of shortness of breath. Qualitative and quantitative changes occurring in the skeletal muscle, such as muscle wastage and shift from slow to fast fibers type, are likely to be responsible for fatigue. Mechanisms leading to muscle wastage in chronic heart failure, include cytokine-triggered skeletal muscle apoptosis, but also ubiquitin/proteasome and non-ubiquitin-dependent pathways. The regulation of fibre type involves the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor 1/calcineurin/ transcriptional coactivator PGC1 cascade. The imbalance between protein synthesis and degradation plays an important role. Protein degradation can occur through ubiquitin-dependent and non-ubiquit-independent pathways. Systems controlling ubiquitin/ proteasome activation have been described. These are triggered by tumour necrosis factor and growth hormone/ insulin-like growth factor 1. However, an important role is played by apoptosis. In humans, and experimental models of heart failure, programmed cell death has been found in skeletal muscle and interstitial cells. Apoptosis is triggered by tumour necrosis factor and in vitro experiments have shown that it can be induced by its second messenger sphingosine. Apoptosis correlates with the severity of the heart failure syndrome. It involves activation of caspases 3 and 9 and mitochondrial cytochrome c release. Sarcomeric protein oxidation and its consequent contractile impairment can form another cause of skeletal muscle dysfunction in CHF.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neurodegenerative disease that is characterised by repeated inflammatory/demyelinating events within the central nervous system (CNS). In addition to relapsing-remitting neurological insults, leading to loss of function, patients are often left with residual, troublesome symptoms such as spasticity and pain. These greatly diminish &quot;quality of life&quot; and have prompted some patients to self-medicate with and perceive benefit from cannabis. Recent advances in cannabinoid biology are beginning to support these anecdotal observations, notably the demonstration that spasticity is tonically regulated by the endogenous cannabinoid system. Recent clinical trials may indeed suggest that cannabis has some potential to relieve, pain, spasms and spasticity in MS. However, because the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor mediates both the positive and adverse effects of cannabis, therapy will invariably be associated with some unwanted, psychoactive effects. In an experimental model of MS, and in MS tissue, there are local perturbations of the endocannabinoid system in lesional areas. Stimulation of endocannabinoid activity in these areas either through increase of synthesis or inhibition of endocannabinoid degradation offers the positive therapeutic potential of the cannabinoid system whilst limiting adverse events by locally targeting the lesion. In addition, CB(1) and CB(2) cannabinoid receptor stimulation may also have anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective potential as the endocannabinoid system controls the level of neurodegeneration that occurs as a result of the inflammatory insults. Therefore cannabinoids may not only offer symptom control but may also slow the neurodegenerative disease progression that ultimately leads to the accumulation of disability.
In the last few years the role and significance of the glia in CNS function and pathology have been drastically reassessed. Glial cells physiology appears very different in healthy versus pathological brain and the recent identification of cannabinoid receptors and their endogenous ligands in glia has triggered a number of studies exploring the role of (endo)cannabinoid system in glia functionality and disease. (Endo)cannabinoids exert their effects in these cells directly affecting some important peculiar functions of the glia and actively promoting biochemical signals ending in a pro-survival fate for these cells. By contrast, (endo)cannabinoids induce a selective death in glia-derived tumor cells. Of special physiological and therapeutic relevance is the reported ability of glial cells during neuropathological conditions to release an increased amount of endocannabinoids and to overexpress cannabinoid receptors. This evidence has suggested that the endocannabinoids production by glial cells may constitute an endogenous defense mechanism preventing the propagation of neuroinflammation and cell damage. The present paper will review the evidence supporting the regulatory role of (endo)cannabinoids in glia function, holding in consideration their therapeutic potential as neuroprotective and/or anticancer agents.
The endocannabinoid system can be manipulated pharmacologically in a variety of ways, including directly acting agonists and inverse agonists, and indirectly acting compounds which affect the synthesis, cellular accumulation and metabolism of the two main endocannabinoids, anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol. In this overview, the most commonly used compounds are discussed, primarily with respect to their targets of action and to their selectivities vis a vis &quot;off targets&quot;. For direct acting compounds such as cannabinoid receptor agonists, it is suggested that the use of several compounds with different chemical structures at relevant doses or concentrations is likely to minimise the risk of misinterpreting an &quot;off target&quot; effect as being an action mediated by cannabinoid receptors. For indirectly acting compounds, the same reasoning applies, and in the case of compounds affecting the accumulation of anandamide, it is important to recognize that the molecular target of these compounds is far from clear. Nonetheless, judicious use of the array of pharmacological tools currently available, and combination of these tools with RNA interference techniques and the use of genetically modified animals, provides a powerful approach with which to characterize the endocannabinoid system in the body.
The interest on targeting adenosine A(2A) receptors in the realm of psychiatric diseases first arose based on their tight physical and functional interaction with dopamine D(2) receptors. However, the role of central A(2A) receptors is now viewed as much broader than just controlling D(2) receptor function. Thus, there is currently a major interest in the ability of A(2A) receptors to control synaptic plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. This is due to a combined ability of A(2A) receptors to facilitate the release of glutamate and the activation of NMDA receptors. Therefore, A(2A) receptors are now conceived as a normalizing device promoting adequate adaptive responses in neuronal circuits, a role similar to that fulfilled, in essence, by dopamine. This makes A(2A) receptors particularly attractive targets to manage psychiatric disorders since adenosine may act as go-between glutamate and dopamine, two of the key players in mood processing. Furthermore, A(2A) receptors also control glia function and brain metabolic adaptation, two other emerging mechanisms to understand abnormal processing of mood, and A(2A) receptors are important players in controlling the demise of neurodegeneration, considered an amplificatory loop in psychiatric disorders. Current data only provide an indirect confirmation of this putative role of A(2A) receptors, based on the effects of caffeine (an antagonist of both A(1) and A(2A) receptors) in psychiatric disorders. However, the introduction of A(2A) receptors antagonists in clinics as anti-parkinsonian agents is hoped to bolster our knowledge on the role of A(2A) receptors in mood disorders in the near future.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), a rate-limiting enzyme converting arachidonic acid to prostaglandins and a key player in neuroinflammation, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, and in traumatic brain injury- and ischemia-induced neuronal damage, and epileptogenesis. Accumulated information suggests that the contribution of COX-2 to neuropathology is associated with its involvement in synaptic modification. Inhibition or elevation of COX-2 has been shown to suppress or enhance excitatory glutamatergic neurotransmission and long-term potentiation (LTP). These events are mainly mediated via PGE(2), the predominant reaction product of COX-2, and the PGE(2) subtype 2 receptor (EP(2))-protein kinase A pathway. Recent evidence shows that endogenous cannabinoids are substrates for COX-2 and can be oxygenated by COX-2 to form new classes of prostaglandins (prostaglandin glycerol esters and prostaglandin ethanolamides). These COX-2 oxidative metabolites of endocannabinoids, as novel signaling mediators, modulate synaptic transmission and plasticity and cause neurodegeneration. The actions of these COX-2 metabolites are likely mediated by mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) signal transduction pathways. These discoveries suggest that the contributions of COX-2 to neurotransmission and brain malfunction result not only from its conversion of arachidonic acid to classic prostaglandins but also from its oxidative metabolism of endocannabinoids to novel prostaglandins. Thus, elucidation of COX-2 in synaptic signaling may provide a mechanistic basis for designing new drugs aimed at preventing, treating or alleviating neuroinflammation-associated neurological disorders.
Non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are therapeutic agents of first choice for the treatment of inflammation, pain, and fever. Neuroscience research of the last decades has pointed out the important role of inflammation in the pathogenesis of several brain disorders, and epidemiological and experimental evidence has suggested a beneficial role of NSAIDs in both chronic and acute neuropathologies. More recently NSAIDs have gained further attention as potential tools to enhance neuroregenerative processes in the adult mammalian brain. The rational behind their use arises from the notion that inflammatory processes that accompany brain damage would exert a major detrimental effect on endogenous neurogenesis. However, inflammation and glial responses to acute or chronic injuries constitute a complex and multifaceted process by which, besides potentially harmful and cytotoxic activities, beneficial responses can be initiated in the attempt to re-establish the lost tissue integrity. The individuation of optimal timing and type of pharmacological intervention able to potentiate the beneficial aspects of inflammation rather than to suppress it as a whole, would allow the achievement of enhanced and successful regenerative responses. In the present article, we will review the current literature on the effects of NSAIDs on neurogenesis and briefly discuss the cellular or molecular mechanisms by which these drugs can modulate brain restorative processes.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are the most primordial, least committed cells of the nervous system, and transplantation of these multipotent cells holds the promise of regenerative therapy for many central nervous system (CNS) diseases. This unit describes methods for NSC transplantation into neonatal mouse pups, embryonic mouse brain, and adult mouse brain. A description of options for detection of labeled donor cells in engrafted mouse brain is provided along with an example protocol for detecting lacZ-expressing cells in situ. Also included is a protocol for preparing NSCs for transplantation.
Many animal models used in neuroscience research must be surgically created and/or anesthetized for imaging studies. The purpose of this unit is to review the advantages and disadvantages of various anesthetic and analgesic agents in rodents; to discuss state-of-the-art methods for monitoring anesthesia; and to provide tips for troubleshooting problems with anesthesia.
During evolution vertebrates had to evolve in order to perform more and more complex tasks. To achieve this goal, they developed specialized tissues: a highly branched vascular system to ensure that all tissues receive adequate blood supply, and an intricate nervous system in which nerves branch to transmit electrical signals to peripheral organs. The development of both systems is tightly controlled by a series of developmental cues, which ensure the accomplishment of a complex and highly stereotyped mature network. Vessels and nerves use similar signals and principles to grow, differentiate, and navigate toward their final targets. Both systems share several molecular pathways, highlighting an important link between vascular biology and neuroscience. Moreover, the vascular and the nervous system crosstalk and, when deregulated, contribute to medically relevant diseases. This new phenomenon, named the neurovascular link, promises to accelerate the discovery of new pathogenetic insights and therapeutic strategies for the treatment of both vascular and neurological diseases. To study the development of both systems, scientists are taking advantage of the use of several vertebrate and invertebrate animal models. In the first part of this chapter, we will discuss the more commonly used animal models; in the second part, the striking similarities occurring during the development of the vascular and the neural systems will be revised.
The fundamental purpose of sleep remains one of the most compelling questions yet to be answered in the area of neuroscience, if not all of biology. A pervasive behavior among members of the animal kingdom, the functional necessity of engaging regularly in sleep is best demonstrated by showing that failing to do so leads to a broad repertoire of pathological outcomes including cognitive, immunological, hormonal, and metabolic outcomes, among others. Indeed, an absolute requirement for sleep has been shown in studies that have demonstrated that continuous total deprivation of sleep for as short a period as 15 days is generally lethal in some species. The most common clinical sleep disorder, insomnia, is both a principal disease (primary insomnia) as well as a co-morbidity of a large number of other ostensibly unrelated diseases including chronic pain, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and depression. From a treatment perspective, restoring normal healthy sleep delivers subsequent benefits in waking cognitive function and mood with the potential for beneficial therapeutic impact on daily functioning across multiple diseases for which restorative healthy sleep is compromised. Our remarkable escalation in understanding the anatomy and physiology of sleep/wake control mechanisms provides new opportunities to modify the neurobiology of sleep and wake-related behaviors in novel and exciting ways. In parallel, expansion of sleep research into novel interfaces between sleep-wake biology and disease states is revealing additional extensive implications of lost sleep. Current investigational and conventional pharmacological approaches for the treatment of sleep and wake disorders are discussed based on their mechanism of action within the CNS and their effect on sleep and wake. This review of recent sleep biology and sleep pharmacology peers into the future of sleep therapeutics to highlight both mechanistic safety and functional outcomes as key for differentiating and establishing success for the next generation of arousal modifying therapeutics.
Genetic and biochemical evidence continues to implicate the production and accumulation of the Abeta42 peptide as the causative factor in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Thus, a variety of strategies have been developed to decrease the production and/or aggregation of this peptide, which may be clinically useful for the treatment of this devastating disorder. Recently, the discovery that some non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) appear to selectively decrease the production of Abeta42 has opened a novel therapeutic avenue for AD treatment that may circumvent potential toxicity associated with long-term global inhibition of gamma-secretase activity. One drug from this class of compounds, R-flurbiprofen, has advanced to phase 3 clinical trials and may soon provide insight into the viability of this strategy for the prevention or treatment of AD. Delineating the target and mechanism of these compounds is essential for developing new agents with increased potency and optimized pharmacologic properties. The evidence indicating that these chemicals modulate the production of Abeta peptides by directly interacting with the gamma-secretase complex is summarized.
The genetics of Alzheimer's disease (AD) implies that restoring non-pathological levels or ratios of different amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide species in the brain could prevent the onset or delay the progression of this neurodegenerative disease. In particular, a selective reduction of the longer Abeta(1-42) peptide which is widely believed to be causative of AD is currently seen as an attractive approach for a disease-modifying therapy. Based on the knowledge that Abeta(1-42) and various shorter Abeta peptides are generated by the same gamma secretase enzyme, the concept of allosteric modulation of the cleavage specificity of this aspartic protease has been introduced to the field of protease drug discovery and fuelled novel medicinal chemistry efforts. Gamma-secretase modulation holds the promise that chemical entities can be synthesized which restore non-pathological enzyme activity by shifting the actual substrate cleavage towards the generation of shorter Abeta peptides. It can be assumed that this approach has gained considerable attraction for pharmaceutical drug discovery since the development of non-selective protease inhibitors for gamma-secretase has been proven to be difficult due to inherent mechanism-based liabilities.
The role of immune-mediated axonal injury in the induction of nonremitting functional deficits associated with multiple sclerosis is an area of active research that promises to substantially alter our understanding of the pathogenesis of this disease and modify or change our therapeutic focus. This review summarizes the current state of research regarding changes in axonal function during demyelination, provides evidence of axonal dysmorphia and degeneration associated with demyelination, and identifies the cellular and molecular effectors of immune-mediated axonal injury. Finally, a unifying hypothesis that links neuronal stress associated with demyelination-induced axonal dysfunction to immune recognition and immunopathology is provided in an effort to shape future experimentation.
Evidence-based treatment algorithms are needed for managing headache during conception, pregnancy, and the postpartum period. Whereas most studies seem to indicate that headaches improve for most women during pregnancy (as estrogen levels increase), this often is not the case in women with more severe, frequent migraine. Few pharmacologic studies include pregnant women, so evidence-based treatments are lacking. Pregnancy registries to record adverse outcomes for various medications and large, population-based studies are needed to analyze the behavior of chronic headache, particularly chronic migraine, during pregnancy. Collaboration between headache specialists and obstetricians is needed to promote research and education for the optimal management of headache during pregnancy.







We assessed the role of the APOE genotype and prion protein polymorphism at codon 129 in predicting the clinical duration of 92 neuropathologically confirmed sporadic Alzheimer's disease patients. Analyses of survival showed that the absence of the APOE epsilon 4 allele in heterozygous codon 129 PRNP carriers is a negative predictor of survival. When this subgroup of patients was stratified by sex, the effect of APOE was observed in women, but not in men.


Is obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) best categorized as an anxiety disorder? This question has been raised previously, but advances in the psychobiology of OCD and the anxiety disorders, and preparations for Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-V and International Classification of Diseases-11, make reconsideration timely. The debate in turn raises the more general issue of how best to address any question of the form &quot;is disorder x in category or spectrum y?&quot; Such questions are related to a number of key debates in philosophy of science and language and have also increasingly been addressed by the cognitive-affective neuroscience of categorization. Here, we review this background debate and use OCD as a relevant exemplar.
This study examined sex differences in the use of coping strategies and their relationship to depression and anxiety-related psychopathology. Responses on measures of coping strategies, depression, and anxiety were obtained from a carefully screened nonclinical sample (N = 107). The results demonstrated that women who used less positive reframing had higher levels of depressive symptoms compared with women who used more positive reframing and to men irrespective of their use of more or less positive reframing. In addition, women who reported the use of more self-blame had elevated levels of trait anxiety, although a similar effect was not found for men. The observed sex differences in the use of coping strategies and their association with depression and anxiety-related problems underscores differences in the clinical presentation of anxiety and depression between women and men.
Memory function was studied in combat veterans with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), combat veterans without PTSD, and noncombat veterans. The Vocabulary and Digit Span subtests of the WAIS and Logical Memory (LMS) and Verbal Paired Associates (VPAS) subtests of the Wechsler Memory Scale III were administered. Combat veterans with PTSD showed impaired memory on the LMS and VPAS compared to combat veterans without PTSD or noncombat veterans. Veterans with PTSD also showed lower WAIS Vocabulary subtest scores--but not digit span subtest scores--than combat veterans without PTSD or noncombat veterans. Medication status, co-morbid diagnosis, and age all failed to account for these memory differences, but when self-assessed depression--as measured by the Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale--or anxiety--as measured by the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Scale--was statistically removed, group differences on these memory measures were no longer significant. However, using a stepwise regression procedure, in which both anxiety and depression were employed to predict the LMS and VPAS scores, only the Zung scale reliably predicated performance. The present results, showing that PTSD is associated with general learning and memory impairments, is an important finding, but the specific effects of depression as a mediator of these deficits should be further studied.
Previous research has suggested that 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; ecstasy) users have elevated depressive symptomatology, although it is not clear whether this is due to MDMA or other drug use. This study aimed to investigate the contributions of MDMA and cannabis use to Major Depressive Disorder in MDMA users. A total of 226 MDMA users were studied. Participants (65% male) reported an average number of 35.8 uses of MDMA (SD = 45.6, range = 2-400). Participants were administered a Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV. Twenty-six individuals (11.5%) met lifetime criteria for Major Depressive Disorder. High rates of lifetime Cannabis Abuse (30.1%) and Cannabis Dependence (12.4%) were reported. No association was found between number of uses of MDMA and Major Depressive Disorder. Those with lifetime major depression were found, however, to have higher rates of lifetime cannabis use disorder (adjusted OR = 2.40). A logistic regression indicated that lifetime cannabis use disorder, but not MDMA use, was significantly associated with lifetime Major Depressive Disorder. Stratified analyses suggested that for males, neither drug use variable was associated with major depression. For females, a lifetime cannabis use disorder (adjusted OR = 4.99), but not MDMA use, was associated with lifetime Major Depressive Disorder. Results of this study suggest that although MDMA use was not found to be significantly associated with major depression for either gender, a lifetime cannabis use disorder was significantly associated with lifetime major depression for female, but not male, users of MDMA.
The purpose of this study was to explore possible differences in the experience and expression of anger across four anxiety disorder groups and non-clinical controls. Anger was assessed by two measures, the Reaction Inventory and the Aggression Questionnaire, in 112 individuals who met DSM-IV criteria for panic disorder (PD) with or without agoraphobia (n=40), obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD; n=30), social phobia, (SOC; n=28), and specific phobia (SPC; n=14) as well as non-clinical controls (n=49). Patients with PD, OCD, and SOC reported a significantly greater propensity to experience anger than controls, whereas patients with SPC exhibited no differences in anger experience in comparison to controls. In addition, patients with PD reported significantly greater levels of anger aggression compared to both controls and patients with OCD, and patients with SOC reported significantly lower levels of verbal aggression than controls. Most, but not all, of these differences disappeared when symptoms of depression were controlled in the analyses. The implications of these findings and future directions for research are discussed.
The generation of Cajal-Retzius (CR) neurons is restricted to discrete sites in the telencephalon. Most of these sites do not express Foxg1, a transcription factor that inhibits transforming growth factor (TGF)beta-dependent upregulation of p21. We tested the hypothesis that TGFbeta signaling triggers CR neurogenesis in Foxg1-deficient zones through p21 induction. In Foxg1(+/+) mice, p21 (a) was expressed in select cycling cells in CR neuron-producing areas and (b) was co-localized in newly generated CR neurons. Zones of CR neuronal production and p21 expression were expanded in the forebrains of Foxg1(Cre/Cre) mice. Manipulation of TGFbeta signaling in explants from cortical hems of wild-type mice altered p21 expression and the production of CR neurons. Furthermore, despite continued TGFbeta activity, p21 immunoreactivity diminished in CR neurons with distance from their generation site. This implicated a second pathway controlling p21 expression. We provide evidence that Foxo3a, which has been shown to translocate into the nucleus to act as a transcriptional co-activator of TGFbeta-dependent upregulation of p21, is strategically expressed to be involved in controlling p21 expression in CR neurons. Specifically, Foxo3a was nuclear in p21+/reelin+ cells in sites of CR neuronal generation, however, nuclear Foxo3a immunoreactivity was absent in p21-/reelin+ cells distal from sites of CR neurogenesis. Thus, TGFbeta and Foxo3a may work in concert to regulate expression of p21 during CR neuronal generation.
In neurosciences, rabies virus (CVS strain) has become a very powerful tool for studying multisynaptic neuronal connections, due to its ability to function as a self-replicating marker and to propagate exclusively between connected neurons by transneuronal transfer, which is strictly time-dependent. In this laboratory, transneuronal tracing studies of rabies virus propagation in primates and rodent models during the asymptomatic period have provided valuable information on rabies pathogenesis. We have shown that rabies virus propagates by fast axonal transport at similar speeds in primates and rodents, after inoculation into the peripheral or central nervous system (CNS). Intracellulartransport of rabies virus is preferentially addressed to neuronal dendrites rather than axons, since transneuronal transfer occurs only retrogradely, i.e., from dendrites of first infected neurons to presynaptic terminals of connected neurons. Rabies virus propagation occurs at chemical synapses, but not via gap junctions or local spread. The results of our studies show that rabies virus receptors have a ubiquitous distribution on neurons within the CNS. Conversely, in the peripheral nervous system, rabies virus receptors are present only on motor endings, since uptake is restricted to motor endplates and axons, whereas sensory and autonomic endings are not infected. Thus, after peripheral inoculations, motoneurons are the only gateway for rabies virus transmission to the CNS. Infection of sensory and autonomic neurons requires longer incubation times, since it reflects centrifugal propagation of rabies virus from the CNS to the periphery, i.e., it is the result of retrograde transneuronal transfer to sensory and autonomic terminals within the CNS.
Rabies virus (RABV) infection is characterized by the rapid neuronal spread of RABV into the CNS before a protective immune response is raised. Therefore, a typical feature of RABV infection is the paucity of inflammatory reactions in the brain. Here we examined whether the induction of immunosuppressive neuropeptides, in particular CGRP, may contribute to the ability of RABV to evade immune responses. RABV infection of mice caused a strong induction of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in neurons and fibres in the neocortex as well as in the dentate gyrus and CA1 region of the hippocampus although RABV did not infect neurons in which CGRP expression was upregulated. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) or vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) expressing neurons also were not infected by RABV. In contrast, somatostatin neurons were infected by RABV. There was evidence for an RABV-induced increase of VIP and somatostatin but not of NPY. To test how CGRP expression is related to TNFalpha-induced enhancement of CNS innate and adaptive immunity during RABV infection, we used recombinant RABVs that contained either an active (SPBN-TNFalpha(+)) or an inactive (SPBN-TNFalpha(-)) TNFalpha gene. As compared to SPBN-TNFalpha(-), infection with SPBN-TNFalpha(+) attenuated the induction of CGRP but simultaneously enhanced induction of the invariant chain of MHC II, microglial activation and T cell infiltration. In conclusion, distinct neuropeptidergic neurons in the brain are remarkably spared from RABV infection suggesting a pivotal role of neuropeptides during CNS virus infection. Given the inhibitory effect of CGRP on antigen presentation, we propose that the strong RABV-induced upregulation of CGRP in the brain may contribute to the mechanism by which RABV escapes immune detection. Targeting the expression of neuropeptides, in particular CGRP, that are induced during RABV infection may open a new avenue for therapeutic intervention in human rabies.
While endocytosis can regulate morphogen distribution, its precise role in shaping these gradients is unclear. Even more enigmatic is the role of retromer, a complex that shuttles proteins between endosomes and the Golgi apparatus, in Wnt gradient formation. Here we report that DPY-23, the C. elegans mu subunit of the clathrin adaptor AP-2 that mediates the endocytosis of membrane proteins, regulates Wnt function. dpy-23 mutants display Wnt phenotypes, including defects in neuronal migration, neuronal polarity, and asymmetric cell division. DPY-23 acts in Wnt-expressing cells to promote these processes. MIG-14, the C. elegans homolog of the Wnt-secretion factor Wntless, also acts in these cells to control Wnt function. In dpy-23 mutants, MIG-14 accumulates at or near the plasma membrane. By contrast, MIG-14 accumulates in intracellular compartments in retromer mutants. Based on our observations, we propose that intracellular trafficking of MIG-14 by AP-2 and retromer plays an important role in Wnt secretion.
Cognitive neuroscience studies of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) suggest multiple loci of pathology with respect to both cognitive domains and neural circuitry. Cognitive deficits extend beyond executive functioning to include spatial, temporal, and lower-level &quot;nonexecutive&quot; functions. Atypical functional anatomy extends beyond frontostriatal circuits to include posterior cortices, limbic regions, and the cerebellum. Pathophysiology includes dopaminergic as well as noradrenergic neurotransmitter systems. We review the major insights gained from functional brain imaging studies in ADHD and discuss working hypotheses regarding their neurochemical underpinnings.
The Cadm (cell adhesion molecule) family of cell adhesion molecules (also known as IGSF4, SynCAM, Necl and TSLC) has been implicated in a multitude of physiological and pathological processes, such as spermatogenesis, synapse formation and lung cancer. The precise mechanisms by which these adhesion molecules mediate these diverse functions remain unknown. To investigate mechanisms of action of these molecules during development, we have identified zebrafish orthologs of Cadm family members and have examined their expression patterns during development and in the adult. Zebrafish possess six cadm genes. Sequence comparisons and phylogenetic analysis suggest that four of the zebrafish cadm genes represent duplicates of two tetrapod Cadm genes, whereas the other two cadm genes are single orthologs of tetrapod Cadm genes. All six zebrafish cadms are expressed throughout the nervous system both during development and in the adult. The spatial and temporal patterns of expression suggest multiple roles for Cadms during nervous system development.
Developmental language disorders are characterized by a maturational trajectory that deviates or lags that of normal children. Given the wide variation in the rate of normal language development, diagnosis and classification of these disorders poses severe problems for the clinician. Our laboratory has been searching for anatomical signatures that could aid the development of a neurobiologically based classification. Quantitative analysis of the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain scans of a series of samples of children and adults with reading and language disorders has identified two clusters with contrasting anatomical and reading profiles. Individuals with small symmetrical brain structures tend to have deficits in multiple domains of written and oral language whereas those with larger asymmetrical structures are more likely to have the isolated phonological deficits seen in adults with compensated dyslexia. Surprisingly, the anatomical risk factors that define these clusters do not form a continuum of increasing severity but deviate in opposite directions from normal. Individuals with moderate brain size and asymmetry typically demonstrate the best overall performance. Further research should determine if phonological impairments in the two clusters are associated with differing genetic and environmental risk factors requiring different types of intervention.

The aim of the present study was to determine whether individuals with Williams syndrome (WS) are able to recognize facial expressions of emotion and objects missing on the basis of contextual cues. Sixteen individuals with WS were compared to typically developing individuals matched on chronological and mental age. WS group performed significantly lower than both control groups in object recognition. By contrast, no such group differences were found in facial expression recognition, suggesting that individuals with WS do have the ability to process contextual cues. However, this ability seems to be boosted when they are to process socially relevant cues.

The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of fetal asphyxia (FA) on anxiety and serotonergic neurons in young adult and middle-aged rats. FA was induced at embryonic day 17 by clamping the uterine circulation for 75 min. Anxiety-related behavior was tested in an open field, and design-based stereology was used for counting serotonergic (5-hydroxytryptamine/serotonin, 5-HT) neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). The open field revealed increased anxiety in the 19-month-old FA rats in comparison to control animals. No significant differences were found in DRN 5-HT neuron numbers at 6 months. At 19 months, however, FA significantly lowered the mean density and volume of 5-HT neurons in the DRN as compared to controls. Further, an age-related reduction was found in the total number, the mean density and the mean volume of 5-HT neurons within the FA group. In conclusion, FA is associated with increased anxiety and age-related changes in 5-HT immunohistochemistry within the DRN. These results support the notion that insults caused by asphyxiation during critical periods of brain development could create a predisposition to serotonergic abnormalities and anxiety deficits in adulthood.
Microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B) is the first microtubule-associated protein to be expressed during nervous system development. MAP1B belongs to a large family of proteins that contribute to the stabilization and/or enhancement of microtubule polymerization. These functions are related to the control of the dynamic properties of microtubules. The C-terminal domain of the neuronal alpha-tubulin isotype is characterized by the presence of an acidic polypeptide, with the last amino acid being tyrosine. This tyrosine residue may be enzymatically removed from the protein by an unknown carboxypeptidase activity. Subsequently, the tyrosine residue is again incorporated into this tubulin by another enzyme, tubulin tyrosine ligase, to yield tyrosinated tubulin. Because neurons lacking MAP1B have a reduced proportion of tyrosinated microtubules, we analyzed the possible interaction between MAP1B and tubulin tyrosine ligase. Our results show that these proteins indeed interact and that the interaction is not affected by MAP1B phosphorylation. Additionally, neurons lacking MAP1B, when exposed to drugs that reversibly depolymerize microtubules, do not fully recover tyrosinated microtubules upon drug removal. These results suggest that MAP1B regulates tyrosination of alpha-tubulin in neuronal microtubules. This regulation may be important for general processes involved in nervous system development such as axonal guidance and neuronal migration.
In the developing brain the majority of neurons migrate from their birthplace to their final destination. This active movement is essential for the formation of cortical layers and nuclei. The impairment of migration does not affect the viability of neurons but often results in abnormal differentiation. The proper migration of neurons requires the orchestrated activities of multiple cellular and molecular events, such as pathway selection, the activation of specific receptors and channels, and the assembly and disassembly of cytoskeletal components. The migration of neurons is very vulnerable to exposure to environmental toxins, such as alcohol. In this article, we will focus on recent developments in the migration of cerebellar granule cells. First, we will describe when, where and how granule cells migrate through different cortical layers to reach their final destination. Second, we will present how internal programs control the sequential changes in granule cell migration. Third, we will review the roles of external guidance cues and transmembrane signals in granule cell migration. Finally, we will reveal mechanisms by which alcohol exposure impairs granule cell migration.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is sensitive to structural ordering in brain tissue particularly in the white matter tracts. Diffusion anisotropy changes with disease and also with neural development. We used high-resolution DTI of fixed rabbit brains to study developmental changes in regional diffusion anisotropy and white matter fiber tract development. Imaging was performed on a 4.7-tesla Bruker Biospec Avance scanner using custom-built solenoid coils and DTI was performed at various postnatal ages. Trace apparent diffusion coefficient, fractional diffusion anisotropy maps and fiber tracts were generated and compared across the ages. The brain was highly anisotropic at birth and white matter anisotropy increased with age. Regional DTI tractography of the internal capsule showed refinement in regional tract architecture with maturation. Interestingly, brains with congenital deficiencies of the callosal commissure showed selectively strikingly different fiber architecture compared to age-matched brains. There was also some evidence of subcortical to cortical fiber connectivity. DTI tractography of the anterior and posterior limbs of the internal capsule showed reproducibly coherent fiber tracts corresponding to known corticospinal and corticobulbar tract anatomy. There was some minor interanimal tract variability, but there was remarkable similarity between the tracts in all animals. Therefore, ex vivo DTI tractography is a potentially powerful tool for neuroscience investigations and may also reveal effects (such as fiber tract pruning during development) which may be important targets for in vivo human studies.
Mossy cells are the major class of excitatory neurons in the dentate hilus. Although mossy cells are involved in a range of physiological and pathological conditions, very little is known about their ontogeny. To gain insight into this issue, we first determined the developmental stage at which mossy cells can be reliably identified with the molecular markers calretinin and GluR2/3 and found that hilar mossy cells were first identifiable around the end of the 1st postnatal week. Birthdating studies combined with staining for these markers revealed that the appearance of mossy cells coincided with the first wave of dentate granule cell production during mid-gestation. Since mossy cells are born as the first granule cells are produced and it is believed that mossy cells originate from the neuroepithelium adjacent to the dentate progenitor zone, we examined to what extent the development of mossy cells is controlled by the same molecular pathways as that of granule cells. To do this, we analyzed the production of mossy cells in Lef1 and NeuroD mutant animals, in which granule cell production is disrupted during precursor proliferation or neuronal differentiation, respectively. The production of mossy cells was almost entirely lost in both mutants. Collectively, these data suggests that hilar mossy cells, unlike CA subfield pyramidal cells, are influenced by many of the same developmental cues as dentate granule cells.
This study examined twenty two 11- and 13-month-old infants' approach and grasp of two objects-one symmetric and one asymmetric-in an effort to understand infants' use of shape information to plan motor action. At first contact, all infants grasped the asymmetrical object further from its center of mass than the symmetrical object. In addition, results highlighted developmental differences in infants' abilities to correct for less stable hand placements, to maintain control of the objects without dropping, strategies used to obtain the objects, and latencies to grasp the objects. Older infants showed more effective skills in each of the aforementioned areas. Implications for our understanding of the development of processing of visual information for action are discussed.
Identifying how individual differences in risk for disease emerge is a major target for biomedical research. In many cases, however, the most lightly traversed avenues of this type of basic and clinical research are those that begin with a focus on early development. It appears likely that early influences may be pivotal in lifetime risk of disease and other adverse outcomes. Nonetheless, understanding the constellation of interacting biological, experiential, social factors that influence this risk has proved a relatively elusive target. Better specification of routes of interplay between these factors, as well as definitions of the mechanisms by which they affect change, are essential goals for numerous research areas. Furthermore, progress towards these goals is unlikely without meaningful integration of diverse disciplines, among them biology and developmental science.
Two studies explored the nature of phonological awareness (PA) in Chinese. In Study 1, involving 146 children, awareness of phoneme onset did not differ from chance levels at ages 3-5 years in preschool but increased to 70% correct in first grade, when children first received phonological coding (Pinyin) instruction. Similarly, tone awareness was at better than chance levels from second year kindergarten (age 4), but increased strongly and significantly in first grade to 74% accuracy. In contrast, syllable and rime awareness increased gradually and steadily across ages 3-6 years. Patterns suggest different influences of age and literacy instruction for different PA levels. In Study 2, involving 202 preschoolers, variance in Chinese character recognition was best explained by tasks of syllable awareness, tone awareness, and speeded naming. Findings underscore the unique importance of both tone and syllable for early character acquisition in Chinese children.
Theoretical considerations, and findings from computational modeling, comparative neuroanatomy and developmental neuroscience, motivate the hypothesis that a deviant brain growth trajectory will lead to deviant patterns of change in cortico-cortical connectivity. Differences in brain size during development will alter the relative cost and effectiveness of short- and long-distance connections, and should thus impact the growth and retention of connections. Reduced brain size should favor long-distance connectivity; brain overgrowth should favor short-distance connectivity; and inconsistent deviations from the normal growth trajectory - as occurs in autism - should result in potentially disruptive changes to established patterns of functional and physical connectivity during development. To explore this hypothesis, neural networks which modeled inter-hemispheric interaction were grown at the rate of either typically developing children or children with autism. The influence of the length of the inter-hemispheric connections was analyzed at multiple developmental time-points. The networks that modeled autistic growth were less affected by removal of the inter-hemispheric connections than those that modeled normal growth - indicating a reduced reliance on long-distance connections - for short response times, and this difference increased substantially at approximately 24 simulated months of age. The performance of the networks showed a corresponding decline during development. And direct analysis of the connection weights showed a parallel reduction in connectivity. These modeling results support the hypothesis that the deviant growth trajectory in autism spectrum disorders may lead to a disruption of established patterns of functional connectivity during development, with potentially negative behavioral consequences, and a subsequent reduction in physical connectivity. The results are discussed in relation to the growing body of evidence of reduced functional and structural connectivity in autism, and in relation to the behavioral phenotype, particularly the developmental aspects.
Sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P), a lysophospholipid, plays an important chemotactic role in the migration of lymphocytes and germ cells, and is known to regulate aspects of central nervous system development such as neurogenesis and neuronal migration. Its role in axon guidance, however, has not been examined. We show that sphingosine kinase 1, an enzyme that generates S1P, is expressed in areas surrounding the Xenopus retinal axon pathway, and that gain or loss of S1P function in vivo causes errors in axon navigation. Chemotropic assays reveal that S1P elicits fast repulsive responses in retinal growth cones. These responses require heparan sulfate, are sensitive to inhibitors of proteasomal degradation, and involve RhoA and LIM kinase activation. Together, the data identify downstream components that mediate S1P-induced growth cone responses and implicate S1P signalling in axon guidance.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a large conserved family of extracellular proteases, a number of which are expressed during neuronal development and upregulated in nervous system diseases. Primarily on the basis of studies using pharmaceutical inhibitors, MMPs have been proposed to degrade the extracellular matrix to allow growth cone advance during development and hence play largely permissive roles in axon extension. Here we show that MMPs are not required for axon extension in the Drosophila embryo, but rather are specifically required for the execution of several stereotyped motor axon pathfinding decisions. The Drosophila genome contains only two MMP homologs, Mmp1 and Mmp2. We isolated Mmp1 in a misexpression screen to identify molecules required for motoneuron development. Misexpression of either MMP inhibits the regulated separation/defasciculation of motor axons at defined choice points. Conversely, motor nerves in Mmp1 and Mmp2 single mutants and Mmp1 Mmp2 double mutant embryos are loosely bundled/fasciculated, with ectopic axonal projections. Quantification of these phenotypes reveals that the genetic requirement for Mmp1 and Mmp2 is distinct in different nerve branches, although generally Mmp2 plays the predominant role in pathfinding. Using both an endogenous MMP inhibitor and MMP dominant-negative constructs, we demonstrate that MMP catalytic activity is required for motor axon fasciculation. In support of the model that MMPs promote fasciculation, we find that the defasciculation observed when MMP activity is compromised is suppressed by otherwise elevating interaxonal adhesion -- either by overexpressing Fas2 or by reducing Sema-1a dosage. These data demonstrate that MMP activity is essential for embryonic motor axon fasciculation.

Basic scientific advances in understanding the neuropsychobiology of bipolar disorder have given us a multitude of opportunities to explore and exploit new avenues of therapeutics. Pharmacotherapeutic approaches include: neuropeptides (agonists such as thyrotropin-releasing hormone and antagonists such as corticotropin-releasing hormone), neurotrophic factors (especially brain-derived neurotrophic factor), and glutamatergic mechanisms (such as riluzole, ketamine, and antagonists of the NR-2B subunit of the glutamate receptor). Physiological interventions that would offer alternatives to electroconvulsive therapy include: repeated transcranial magnetic stimulation, especially at more intense stimulation parameters; magnetic stimulation therapy (seizures induced more focally by magnetic rather than electrical stimulation with resulting reduced meaning loss); vagal nerve stimulation, and deep brain stimulation. However, these, as well as the panoply of existing treatments, require further intensive investigation to place each of them in the proper therapeutic sequence and combination for the individual patient, based on development of better clinical and biological predictors of response. Large clinical trial networks and development of systematic research in clinical practice settings, such as that featured by the National Cancer Institute for cancer chemotherapy, would greatly accelerate the progress in incorporating new, as well as existing, agents into the best treatment strategies. The bipolar disorders, which are increasingly recognized as complex, highly comorbid conditions with a high morbidity and mortality, of which the majority start in childhood and adolescence, are not likely to respond completely to any single new treatment agent, and new public health initiatives and research strategies are needed as much as any new single treatment advance.
The treatment of mania starts with a correct diagnosis and elementary measures to prevent risks for the patient, relatives, and others. Sometimes, compulsory admission and treatment may be required for a few days. Patients with psychotic or mixed mania may be more difficult to treat. At the present time, there is solid evidence supporting the use of lithium, the anticonvulsants valproate and carbamazepine, and the antipsychotics chlorpromazine, haloperidol, risperidone, olanzapine, quetiapine, ziprasidone, aripiprazole, and asenapine in acute mania, and some evidence supporting the use of clozapine or electroconvulsive therapy in treatment-refractory cases. However, in clinical practice, combination therapy is the rule rather than the exception. The treatment of acute mania deserves a long-term view, and the evidence base for some treatments may be stronger than for others. When taking decisions about treatment, tolerability should also be a major concern, as differences in safety and tolerability may exceed differences in efficacy for most compounds. Psychoeducation of patients and caregivers is a powerful tool that should be used in combination with medication for optimal long-term outcome. Functional recovery should be the ultimate goal.
Bipolar disorder is characterized by a combination of state-related changes in psychological function that are restricted to illness episodes, coupled with trait-related changes that persist through periods of remission, irrespective of symptom status. This article reviews studies that have investigated the brain systems involved in these state- and trait-related changes, using two techniques: (i) indirect measures of neurocognitive function, and (ii) direct neuroimaging measures of brain function during performance of a cognitive task. Studies of neurocognitive function in bipolar disorder indicate deficits in three core domains: attention, executive function, and emotional processing. Functional imaging studies implicate pathophysiology in distributed neural circuitry that includes the prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices, as well as subcortical limbic structures including the amygdala and the ventral striatum. Whilst there have been clear advances in our understanding of brain changes in bipolar disorder, there are limited data in bipolar depression, and there is limited understanding of the influence of clinical variables including medication status, illness severity, and specific symptom dimensions.

Malformations of cortical development (MCDs) are macroscopic or microscopic abnormalities of the cerebral cortex that arise as a consequence of an interruption to the normal steps of formation of the cortical plate. The human cortex develops its basic structure during the first two trimesters of pregnancy as a series of overlapping steps, beginning with proliferation and differentiation of neurons, which then migrate before finally organizing themselves in the developing cortex. Abnormalities at any of these stages, be they environmental or genetic in origin, may cause disruption of neuronal circuitry and predispose to a variety of clinical consequences, the most common of which is epileptic seizures. A large number of MCDs have now been described, each with characteristic pathological, clinical, and imaging features. The causes of many of these MCDs have been determined through the study of affected individuals, with many MCDs now established as being secondary to mutations in cortical development genes. This review will highlight the best-known of the human cortical malformations associated with epilepsy. The pathological, clinical, imaging, and etiologic features of each MCD will be summarized, with representative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) images shown for each MCD. The malformations tuberous sclerosis, focal cortical dysplasia, hemimegalencephaly, classical lissencephaly, subcortical band heterotopia, periventricular nodular heterotopia, polymicrogyria, and schizencephaly will be presented.

Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is thought to be involved in the regulation of gastric and mesenteric blood flow, in the control of gastric acid secretion and in the modulation of intestinal motility, yet the precise physiological roles of CGRP remain to be elucidated. To further examine the role(s) of CGRP in gastrointestinal function, we examined mutant mice lacking alphaCGRP or betaCGRP expression. Mutant mice did not demonstrate any overt phenotypic changes, yet exhibited a spontaneous, adult-onset colitis and increased colonic damage using a dextran sulfate sodium model of experimental colitis. Surprisingly, mice lacking betaCGRP show no obvious alterations in CGRP immunoreactivity in the gut, accompanied by an increase in alphaCGRP messenger RNA expression, suggesting an adaptive mechanism to compensate for the lack of betaCGRP. These data demonstrate that both alphaCGRP and betaCGRP play a protective role in the generation of spontaneous colitis, supporting a role for both extrinsic and intrinsic CGRP-containing neurons.

Traumatic injury to the adult spinal cord results in a massive loss of cells and permanent functional deficits. However, recent studies demonstrate that there is a proliferative response of endogenous glial precursors and progenitors and perhaps also pluripotent neural stem cells. These cells may prove to be an important new therapeutic target to improve recovery after injury to the spinal cord and brain.


Neurons have been the focus of neuroscience research. Only recently, however, astrocytes, a subset of glial cells, have been on the neurobiology &quot;radar&quot; owing to their Ca(2+) excitability, which allows them to signal to other astrocytes and neurons. This review summarizes the models for studying astrocytic Ca(2+) dynamics and the consequential Ca(2+)- dependent glutamate release, which plays a role in astrocytic-neuronal signaling and have been implicated in epilepsy.
Propofol (2, 6-diisopropylphenol) is a potent intravenous hypnotic agent that is widely used in adults and children for sedation and the induction and maintenance of anaesthesia. Propofol has gained popularity for its rapid onset and rapid recovery even after prolonged use, and for the neuroprotection conferred. However, a review of the literature reveals multiple instances in which prolonged propofol administration (&gt;48 hours) at high doses (&gt;4 mg/kg/h) may cause a rare, but frequently fatal complication known as propofol infusion syndrome (PRIS). PRIS is characterized by metabolic acidosis, rhabdomyolysis of both skeletal and cardiac muscle, arrhythmias (bradycardia, atrial fibrillation, ventricular and supraventricular tachycardia, bundle branch block and asystole), myocardial failure, renal failure, hepatomegaly and death. PRIS has been described as an 'all or none' syndrome with sudden onset and probable death. The literature does not provide evidence of degrees of symptoms, nor of mildness or severity of signs in the clinical course of the syndrome. Recently, a fatal case of PRIS at a low infusion rate (1.9-2.6 mg/kg/h) has been reported. Common laboratory and instrumental findings in PRIS are myoglobinuria, downsloping ST-segment elevation, an increase in plasma creatine kinase, troponin I, potassium, creatinine, azotaemia, malonylcarnitine and C5-acylcarnitine, whereas in the mitochondrial respiratory electron transport chain, the activity of complex IV and cytochrome oxidase ratio is reduced. Propofol should be used with caution for sedation in critically ill children and adults, as well as for long-term anesthesia in otherwise healthy patients, and doses exceeding 4-5 mg/kg/h for long periods (&gt;48 h) should be avoided. If PRIS is suspected, propofol must be stopped immediately and cardiocirculatory stabilization and correction of metabolic acidosis initiated. So, PRIS must be kept in mind as a rare, but highly lethal, complication of propofol use, not necessarily confined to its prolonged use. Furthermore, the safe dosage of propofol may need re-evaluation, and new studies are needed.
Although often less recognized than motor symptoms, non-motor effects represent an important source of disability for many parkinsonian patients. Of these non-motor symptoms, sialorrhoea, defined as the inability to control oral secretions resulting in excessive saliva accumulation in the oropharynx, constitutes perhaps one of the most bothersome and troubling problems, often causing social embarrassment and isolation. In patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), this symptom is thought to be due to restricted swallowing and dysfunction, rather than to hypersecretion of saliva. Only a few well designed studies have been conducted to determine the optimal treatment for sialorrhoea in PD. A combination of approaches appears to be necessary to obtain successful results.
Ischaemic stroke is a devastating disease in the elderly with 30-50% 90-day mortality. Thrombolysis for stroke is potentially life saving and disability sparing in this group but the number of elderly patients studied in clinical trials, particularly those aged &gt; or = 80 years, has been small. Indeed, &lt; 50 patients aged &gt; 80 years have been treated in clinical thrombolytic trials of ischaemic stroke. However, there is no evidence of a differential treatment effect by age. Multiple cohort studies have suggested that the risk of symptomatic intracerebral haemorrhage among octogenarians is no different from that in younger patients. Thrombolysis can be safely offered to acute ischaemic stroke patients aged &gt; or = 80 years, although robust data from randomized clinical trials are relatively scarce.

L-carnitine plays a role in physiological reactions throughout the body, including sugar aerobic metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation and, most importantly, fatty acid oxidation. In addition, L-carnitine has antiapoptotic, antioxidative and osmolytic properties, which may be useful in the treatment of ocular pathologies (e.g. retinitis pigmentosa [RP] and keratoconus), in corneal tissue repair and in ophthalmic procedures (e.g. photorefractive keratectomy and laser-assisted subepithelial keratectomy [LASEK]). Preliminary studies have suggested that L-carnitine supplementation may be useful in patients with RP. Although studies are warranted to ascertain the benefit of L-carnitine in the LASEK procedure, potentially it could be used instead of alcohol to facilitate epithelial detachment and as a hypo-osmotic solution in the fluid filler used in therapeutic photoablation. Furthermore, its antiapoptotic properties may improve cellular migration, proliferation and adhesion of keratocytes, epithelial cells and endothelial cells, which may be useful in the corneal repair process. Similarly, L-carnitine in high concentrations may prove useful in cross-linking parasurgical treatment of keratoconus, owing to its osmolytic and non-cytotoxic properties.
L-carnitine has a wide-ranging role in several physiological processes, but perhaps most significantly in long-chain fatty acid oxidation in the mitochondrial matrix. Osmolytic (or osmoprotective) properties have also been suggested for the compound. Importantly, the ability of L-carnitine to improve insulin sensitivity in insulin-resistant diabetic patients may, together with the agent's antioxidant and antiapoptotic activity, provide some degree of protection against the progression of diabetic retinopathy. L-carnitine may also protect against the deleterious effects of ocular ischaemic syndrome, and, indeed, acetyl-L-carnitine has been shown to significantly improve retinal damage and visual acuity in patients with monolateral or bilateral retinal artery occlusion. The antioxidant, antiapoptotic and osmolytic properties of L-carnitine also suggest that this agent may have valuable clinical utility in neurotrophic keratopathy and bullous keratopathy. Thus, further detailed investigation of the important clinical potential of L-carnitine in various ocular conditions (e.g. diabetic retinopathy, ocular ischaemic syndrome, neurotrophic keratopathy and bullous keratopathy) that occur secondary to systemic diseases is now clearly warranted.
The majority of ocular pathologies originate from a functional deterioration of intraocular tissues. This age-related deterioration often occurs as a result of changes within the eye. There is growing interest in the role of natural or synthetic compounds, such as carnitine, for blocking, or slowing, the progress of this deterioration. L-carnitine and its derivatives are involved in numerous physiological reactions, including sugar aerobic metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, fatty acid oxidation and osmosis. While carnitine levels in human ocular tissue are unknown, animal studies indicate that carnitine is differentially distributed within the eye with the highest concentrations reported in the iris, ciliary body and the choroid-retina. In patients with age-related macular degeneration (AMD), acetyl-L-carnitine improved four parameters of visual function, including visual field mean defect, visual acuity, foveal sensitivity and ocular fundus alterations. L-carnitine has also demonstrated antioxidant properties in animal models of oxidative damage. This article reviews the potential use of L-carnitine and its derivatives in age-related ocular pathologies, such as AMD, cataract, glaucoma and dry eye syndrome.

Lacosamide, (R)-2-acetamido-N-benzyl-3-meth- oxypropionamide, is a new chemical entity specifically synthesized as an anticonvulsive drug candidate, which appears to have a novel dual mode of action. Its pharmacokinetic characteristics have been studied in young and elderly healthy adults, as well as in adults with epilepsy or diabetic neuropathic pain. After oral administration, lacosamide is rapidly and completely absorbed. An elimination half-life of 13 hours allows for twice-daily dosing. Lacosamide has a low potential for drug-drug interactions. Both oral and intravenous formulations of lacosamide are being developed. In completed placebo-controlled clinical trials, lacosamide has demonstrated efficacy as adjunctive therapy for reduction of seizure frequency in patients with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures, and has been generally well tolerated. For patients treated with lacosamide, the most frequently reported adverse events in placebo-controlled trials include dizziness, headache, nausea and diplopia. When used as short-term replacement for oral lacosamide, intravenous lacosamide has a comparable safety profile to oral lacosamide. Results from clinical trials to date suggest that lacosamide may be a useful pharmacological treatment option for patients with partial-onset seizures.
The aim was to assess the prevalent defense mechanisms in a sample of obese subjects; since specific defensive styles may interfere with the management of stressors and emotions, they may also influence the onset, the severity, and the maintenance of obesity. 70 obese subjects and 70 healthy normal-weight volunteers were assessed using the Defense Mechanisms Inventory -- DMI. Significant differences between groups have emerged at Turning Against Object (t=-5.30; p&lt;0.0001), Projection (t=-5.55; p&lt;0.0001), Turning Against Self (t=-4.87; p&lt;0.0001) and Reversal (t=-3.61; p&lt;0.0001) variables. Within the obese group, significant differences have been found at Turning Against Object (U=264; p=.001) and Projection (U=359; p=.042) scales, both higher in males. No significant differences on DMI scores in relation to the severity of obesity have been observed. An inadequate defensive structure might represent a vulnerability to emotional states and stressful life events. The assessment of defense mechanisms may provide a valid tool for long-term treatments of obesity.
If Neuroscience is to contribute to Economics, it will do so by the way of Psychology. Neural data can and do lead to better psychological theories, and psychological insights can and do lead to better economic models. Hence, Neuroscience can in principle contribute to Economics. Whether it actually will do so is an empirical question and the jury is still out. Economics currently faces theoretical and empirical challenges analogous to those faced by Physics at the turn of the 20(th) century and ultimately addressed by quantum theory. If &quot;quantum Economics&quot; will emerge in the coming decades, it may well be founded on such concepts as cognitive processes and brain activity.
Previous research has shown that exposure to circumcerebral weak magnetic fields with different rates of acceleration applied in a counterclockwise rotation around the head was associated with increased estimations of subjective time and as much as a 30% increase in power within the theta range within quantitative electroencephalographic (QEEG) recordings. The largest effect was associated with magnetic fields applied with 20 ms rates of change through each of the successively stimulated, equally spaced, 8 circumcerebral solenoids. The purpose of the present study was to compare the intracerebral power spectra associated with the rotation of the same patterns in either the clockwise or counterclockwise direction. The results generally replicated previous reports and showed enhanced power over regions of the left hemisphere during clockwise rotations and over the right hemisphere during counterclockwise rotations. These results were considered congruent with the creation of &quot;interference patterns&quot; between the rostral-caudal generation of endogenous cerebral magnetic fields putatively associated with consciousness and the spatial direction of the applied rotating magnetic fields.
Fifty men and women were exposed to only one of four experimentally generated magnetic fields over the left prefrontal region (above the eyebrow) or to a sham field immediately after the words &quot;true&quot; or &quot;false&quot; were presented following statements of definitions of words for a &quot;foreign language&quot;. Three of the patterns (25 Hz, 50 Hz, or burst-firing) with intensities between 1 and 10 microT were presented for 1 s during the refutation process (immediately after the offset of &quot;true&quot; or &quot;false&quot;) for specific statements from a total of 28 statements. The fourth pattern was a variable approximately 7-10 Hz (10 nT) field generated from the circuitry that was present continuously during the entire experiment. When the statements were presented again, the groups who had received the burst-firing (&quot;limbic&quot;) or 25 Hz pulsed magnetic fields during the refutation process accepted about twice the number of false statements as true compared to those exposed to the 50 Hz field or sham-field conditions. The treatments did not significantly affect the numbers of true statements accepted as false. These results suggest that the appropriately pulsed magnetic field during the refutation process of what one has been told or has heard can increase the probability a person will accept a false statement as true.
More than 100 adult male and female albino Wistar rats that had been exposed during their entire prenatal development to one of two patterns of magnetic fields and one of four intensities (reference: 5 to 20 nT; low: 30 to 50 nT; medium: 90 to 580 nT; high: 590 nT to 1.2 microT) were tested for their capacity for two forms of classical conditioning. The rats exposed for 10 sec every 50 sec to a field composed of successive 200 msec sequences of several different patterns known to produce physiological effects exhibited significantly more intense conditioned fear and taste aversion than those exposed continuously to a single frequency-modulated pattern. The behavioral differences, relative to the reference group (&quot;controls&quot;), were greatest for rats exposed to the 30 to 50 nT or 90 to 580 nT (low to medium intensities) for both patterns of fields. These results suggest that prenatal exposure to physiologically-patterned magnetic fields within a specific &quot;window&quot; of intensities that overlap with values found in many human habitats may produce long-term changes in behaviors.

In the central nervous system, CRH regulates several affective states. Dysregulation of neuronal crh expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus correlates with some forms of depression, and amygdalar crh expression may modulate levels of anxiety. Because estrogens modulate these states, we sought to determine 17beta-estradiol (E2) effects on crh expression. CRH mRNA levels were measured in the AR-5 amygdaloid cell line by RT-PCR analysis. They increased by 1 min of E2 treatment, suggesting that crh behaves as an immediate-early gene. After peaking at 3 min, CRH mRNA returned to basal levels and then increased by 60 min. To dissect some of the molecular mechanisms underlying these events, we measured occupancy of the crh promoter by estrogen receptors (ERs) and coactivators, using chromatin immunoprecipitation. Because this promoter does not contain palindromic estrogen response elements, we targeted the region of a cAMP regulatory element (CRE), implicated in crh regulation. The temporal pattern of the mRNA response was mimicked by recruitment of ERalpha and -beta, phospho-CRE-binding protein, coactivators steroid receptor coactivator-1 and CRE-binding protein-binding protein (CBP), and an increase in histone 3 and 4 acetylation. Lastly, ERalpha and -beta loading were temporally dissociated, peaking at 1 and 3 min, respectively. The ER peaks were associated with coactivators and acetylation patterns. ERalpha associated with phospho-CRE-binding protein, CBP, steroid receptor coactivator-1, and increased acetylated histone 3. ERbeta associated with CBP and increased acetylated histone 4. The tight temporal correlation between E2-induced CRH mRNA levels and promoter occupancy by ERs strongly suggest that E2 regulates crh expression through an ERalpha- and/or ERbeta-CRE alternate pathway.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) activates locus coeruleus (LC)-norepinephrine neurons during stress. Previous stress or CRF administration attenuates the magnitude of this response by decreasing postsynaptic sensitivity to CRF. Here we describe the fate of CRF receptors (CRFr) in LC neurons after stress. Rats were exposed to swim stress or handling and perfused 1 or 24 h later. Sections through the LC were processed for immunogold-silver labeling of CRFr. CRFr in LC dendrites was present on the plasma membrane and within the cytoplasm. In control rats, the ratio of cytoplasmic to total dendritic labeling was 0.55 +/- 0.01. Swim stress increased this ratio to 0.77 +/- 0.01 and 0.80 +/- 0.02 at 1 and 24 h after stress, respectively. Internalized CRFr was associated with different organelles at different times after stress. At 1 h after stress, CRFr was often associated with early endosomes in dendrites and perikarya. By 24 h, more CRFr was associated with multivesicular bodies, suggesting that some of the internalized receptor is targeted for degradation. In perikarya, more internalized CRFr was associated with Golgi apparatus 24 vs. 1 h after stress. This is suggestive of changes in CRFr synthesis. Alternatively, this may indicate communication between multivesicular bodies and Golgi apparatus in the process of recycling. Administration of the selective CRF(1) antagonist, antalarmin, before swim stress attenuated CRFr internalization. The present demonstration of stress-induced internalization of CRFr in LC neurons provides evidence that CRF is released in the LC during swim stress to activate this system and initiate cellular trafficking of the receptor that determines subsequent sensitivity of LC neurons to CRF.

The process of spermatogenesis is a unique form of cellular differentiation and is regulated by genetic and epigenetic factors. Recent studies have shown that some epigenetic factors (histone variants and histone modifying enzymes) are exclusively expressed during spermatogenesis; the disruption of these factors leads to spermatogenic defects. Also, during spermatogenesis a key epigenetic process termed meiotic sex chromosomes inactivation (MSCI) occurs; MSCI leads to the inactivation of most genes on the X and Y chromosomes; however, the mechanism of MSCI is distinct from X inactivation in female somatic cells. Furthermore, a new class of non-coding RNAs (i.e., piRNAs) has recently been identified which is exclusively expressed during spermatogenesis. This review discusses recent advances in our understanding of epigenetic mechanisms that operate during spermatogenesis with specific emphasis on histone modifications, MSCI and non-coding RNAs. Finally, we propose that spermatogenesis can be a powerful experimental system to dissect epigenetic mechanisms of gene regulation.
Interest in temporal lobe seizure pathways has a long history based initially on the human condition of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). This interest in TLE has extended more recently into explorations of experimental models. In this review, the network structures in the temporal lobe that are recruited in animal models during various forms of limbic seizures and status epilepticus are described. Common to all of the various models is recruitment of the parahippocampal cortices, including the piriform, perirhinal, and entorhinal areas. This cortical involvement is seen in in vitro and in vivo electrophysiological recordings throughout the network, in trans-synaptic neuroplastic changes in associated network structures manifest at the molecular level, in network energy utilization visualized by 14C2-deoxyglucose uptake, and finally, in the behavioral consequences of network lesions. The conclusions of the animal models reviewed here are very similar to those described for the human condition presented recently in the 2006 Lennox lecture by Warren Blume, and addressed 53 years ago in the quadrennial meeting of the ILAE in 1953 by Henri Gastaut.
Currently available anticonvulsant drugs and complementary therapies are insufficient to control seizures in about a third of epileptic patients. Thus, there is an urgent need for new treatments that prevent the development of epilepsy and control it better in patients already afflicted with the disease. A prerequisite to reach this goal is a deeper understanding of the cellular basis of hyperexcitability and synchronization in the affected tissue. Epilepsy is often accompanied by massive reactive gliosis. Although the significance of this alteration is poorly understood, recent findings suggest that modified astroglial function may have a role in the generation and spread of seizure activity. Here we summarize properties of astrocytes as well as their changes that can be associated with epileptic tissue. The goal is to provide an understanding of the current knowledge of these cells with the long-term view of providing a foundation for the development of novel hypotheses about the role of glia in epilepsy.
Evidence-based care (EBC) is an explicit approach to applying the best evidence to the care of individual patients. We outline the basic principles of EBC and apply them to various clinical questions pertaining to a patient presenting with a first seizure, providing a summary of the best available evidence for each question. Depending on the question at hand, the evidence derives from retrospective, prospective, and randomized controlled studies in children and adults. There is solid evidence that early seizure recurrence is reduced by early initiation of AEDs. A meta-analysis of six randomized trials revealed an average absolute risk reduction of 34% (95% CI 15-52) with AED therapy. However, the prognosis for the development of epilepsy is not altered by early intervention. EEG epileptiform abnormalities, family history of epilepsy, imaging lesions, and remote symptomatic seizures increase the risk of recurrence, and impact the risk-benefit ratio of treatment after a single event. In the end, clinicians must evaluate patients with a first unprovoked seizure on a case-by-case basis to determine the appropriateness of treatment with a given AED.

The potential for antiepileptic drugs to negatively impact cognitive abilities has generated renewed interest in herbal drugs and formulations in the treatment of epilepsy. Bacopa monnieri is one such widely used revitalizing herb that purportedly strengthens nervous function and also possesses memory-enhancing, antioxidative, antiepileptic, and anti-inflammatory properties. We investigated the neuroprotective role of B. monnieri extract in alteration of glutamate receptor binding and gene expression of NMDA R1 in hippocampus of temporal lobe epileptic rats. In association with pilocarpine-induced epilepsy, there was significant downregulation of NMDA R1 gene expression and glutamate receptor binding without any change in its affinity. B. monnieri treatment of epileptic rats significantly reversed the expression of NMDA R1 and glutamate receptor binding alterations to near-control levels. Also, in the epileptic rats, we measured a significant increase in the activity of glutamate dehydrogenase, which neared the control level after B. monnieri treatment. The therapeutic effect of B. monnieri was also observed in the Morris water maze experiment. These data together indicate the neuroprotective role of B. monnieri extract in glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity during seizures and cognitive damage occurring in association with pilocarpine-induced epilepsy.
In most chronic conditions, better health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is associated with higher socioeconomic status (SES) and ethnic majority status, with disadvantaged groups typically reporting lower HRQOL. In 163 children with intractable epilepsy, we evaluated the relationship between HRQOL and a broad spectrum of demographic variables (SES, parental education, gender, age, marital status, family size, and ethnic and linguistic status), in relation to known neurological and behavioral correlates of HRQOL. No demographic variable was found to be related to child HRQOL, except for marital status, where children from divorced/separated parents had lower HRQOL. However, marital status was not uniquely predictive of HRQOL when neurological and behavioral variables were taken into account. Exploratory analyses indicated that children of separated/divorced parents were more likely to have early epilepsy onset, lower adaptive/developmental levels, and worse seizure frequency, suggesting that severe epilepsy may be a risk factor for marital stress. In sum, contrary to research in other chronic conditions, sociodemographic variables in pediatric epilepsy were weak predictors of HRQOL in comparison to neurological and behavioral variables. The results are discussed with respect to epilepsy-specific determinants of HRQOL.
The most informative neurophysiological techniques available in the neurosurgical intensive care unit are electroencephalograph and somatosensory evoked potentials. Such tools, which give an evaluation of cerebral function in comatose patients, support clinical evaluation and are complementary to neuroimaging. They serve both diagnostic/prognostic and monitoring purposes. While for the former, discontinuous monitoring is sufficient, for the latter, to obtain increased clinical impact, continuous monitoring is necessary. To perform and interpret these examinations in the neurosurgical intensive care unit, both the technician and the neurophysiologist need specific training in the intensive care field. There is sufficient evidence to show that somatosensory evoked potentials are the best single indicator of early prognosis in traumatic and hypoxic-ischaemic coma compared to the Glasgow Coma Score, computed tomography scan and electroencephalograph. Indeed, somatosensory evoked potentials should always be combined with clinical examination to determine the prognosis of coma. Despite widespread use of somatosensory evoked potentials and their prognostic utility in acute brain injury, few studies exist on continuous somatosensory evoked potential monitoring in the intensive care unit. We carried out a pilot study of continuous electroencephalograph-somatosensory evoked potential monitoring in the neurosurgical intensive care unit (traumatic brain injury and intracranial haemorrhage, Glasgow Coma Score &lt;9, intracranial pressure monitoring). All patients stable from a clinical and computed tomography scan point of view showed no significant somatosensory evoked potential modifications, while in the case of clinical deterioration (23%), somatosensory evoked potentials always showed significant modifications. While somatosensory evoked potentials correlated with short-term outcome, intracranial pressure showed a poor correlation. We believe neurophysiological monitoring is an ideal complement to the other parameters monitored in the neurosurgical intensive care unit. Whereas intracranial pressure is simply a pressure index, electroencephalograph-somatosensory evoked potential monitoring reflects to what extent cerebral parenchyma still remains metabolically active during acute brain injury.
It is widely acknowledged that the quality of research is greatly improved when nurses are involved at the investigators' site. Many papers highlight the knowledge, skills and expertise required by nurses for the conduct of trials. The known skills include reliability, organization, communication, motivation, self-discipline and critical thought. The responsibilities of nurses in the conduction of research trials are wide ranging from the collection and recording of data, recruitment and screening of patients, ensuring informed consent has been gained, randomization of drugs, the follow-up of patients to development and training for staff to the required international standards. In the past, clinical research nurses have been considered as data collectors by their peers, due to the lack of knowledge of the true extent of the role of the clinical research nurse. The rise in popularity of the role and the publication of an employment brief for clinical research nurses by the Royal College of Nursing (RCN) and the UK Clinical Research Collaboration (UKCRC) publication on 'Developing the best research professionals' has readdressed this prior imbalance; recognizing in detail their role, knowledge, skills, expertise with appropriate grading and remuneration. The role of the clinical research nurse in the neuroscience setting is equally as diverse with the added requirement of a higher level of knowledge and understanding of the pathophysiology of neurological diseases and specific skills required to work in the intensive care environment. This paper will attempt to explore the role of the specialized neurosciences intensive care nurse and the relationship with high-quality neuroscience research.
Follow-up studies on individuals who suffer severe head injury give a picture of poor cognitive and psychosocial outcome. However, recent evidence suggests that with the passage of time, many individuals make adjustments that compensate for early disability, leading to a reduction in social handicap with a corresponding improvement in life quality and personal satisfaction. This article will attempt to briefly review the main sources of evidence contributing to long-term outcome following serious head trauma.
This article will discuss the challenges related to the demonstration of the efficacy of monitoring in an intensive care environment. It will address interpretation, therapeutic intervention, sample size and compare efficacy to effectiveness in the context of the developing field of neurocritical care.
Postanoxic coma is a state of unconsciousness caused by global anoxia of the brain, most commonly due to cardiac arrest. Outcome after postanoxic coma lasting more than several hours is generally, but not invariably, poor. Recovery of consciousness reported in the literature varies from 8% to 72% of patients, but is mostly thought to be around 20-30% in patients surviving in coma for at least 24 h. Research is directed at defining factors that reliably predict poor outcome in these patients. Favourable outcome proves impossible to predict. Studies on outcome prediction have focussed mostly on neurological examination, clinical neurophysiological tests and biochemical parameters. The most recent and extensive study in this respect was the PROPAC study in The Netherlands (407 patients). This study confirmed earlier findings that bilaterally absent early cortical response after median nerve somatosensory potentials (absent somatosensory evoked potentials) is the most reliable predictor of poor outcome (no recovery of consciousness). A serum neuron-specific-enolase level &gt;33 microg L(-1) seemed equally reliable. In 2006, the American Practice Parameter on anoxic-ischaemic coma was published, summarizing the findings from the different studies. Poor outcome was defined as death, coma or severe disability after 6 months. The following factors were found to reliably predict this outcome: myoclonic status epilepticus within the first 24 h, absent pupillary responses after 24 h, absent corneal reflexes after 48 h, motor response to pain absent or extensor after 72 h and absent somatosensory evoked potentials (as defined above) after 1-3 days. Results for biochemical parameters (such as neuron-specific enolase) and neuroimaging are inconclusive.


To evaluate information preferences and information seeking behaviour in ALS patients and caregivers. Sixty ALS patients and caregivers couples were interviewed using a structured questionnaire about the content of diagnosis communication and their information seeking behaviour. The patients (35 men and 25 women) had a mean age of 63.4 years (SD 9.5). The caregivers (21 men and 39 women) had a mean age of 53.3 years (SD 14.9). The overall satisfaction with bad news communication and the impression that the physician had understood their feelings were higher amongst patients. Both parties indicated that the most important aspects to be informed were current researches, disease-modifying therapies and ALS outcome. Approximately 55% of patients and 83.3% of caregivers searched for information from sources outside the healthcare system. The most frequently checked source was internet, although its reliability was rated low. The caring neurologist should better attune the content of communication to patients' and caregivers' preferences, trying to understand what they want to know and encouraging them to make precise questions. Health professionals should be aware that ALS patients and caregivers often use internet to obtain information and should help them to better sort-out and interpret the news they found.
Pitx3 deficiency in mice causes a dramatic loss of dopaminergic neurones located in the substantia nigra pars compacta during development. This early disruption of the nigrostriatal pathway in Pitx3-deficient mice is characterized by increased spontaneous home-cage activity levels during the habitual sleep phase of these animals. These findings are reminiscent of the spontaneous hyperactivity in mice neonatally lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine, which is caused by an extensive serotonergic hyperinnervation of the striatum. The present study investigated whether an imbalance between dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) signalling is involved in the behavioural phenotype of Pitx3-deficient mice. Serotonergic hyperinnervation was demonstrated by increased [3H]-citalopram autoradiographic binding specifically in the dorsal striatum of adult Pitx3-deficient mice, indicating alterations in 5-HT transporter levels that correlated to DA dysfunction in Pitx3 deficiency. In addition, stimulus-induced release of DA and 5-HT indicated an altered balance between these neurotransmitters in the dorsal striatum of Pitx3-/- mice. To determine whether the increased 5-HT signalling was involved in the spontaneous hyperactivity during the light phase observed in Pitx3 deficiency, we treated Pitx3-deficient and control mice with the selective irreversible tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor p-chlorophenylalanine to decrease 5-HT levels. Reduction of 5-HT levels in Pitx3-deficient mice decreased their locomotor activity to normal levels, whereas the same treatment increased the locomotor activity levels of control mice. Taken together, our results indicate alterations in 5-HT signalling in Pitx3-deficient mice that underlie their spontaneous hyperactivity.
Recent experiments suggest that brainstem GABAergic neurons may control rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep. However, understanding their pharmacology/physiology has been hindered by difficulty in identification. Here we report that mice expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the GAD67 promoter (GAD67-GFP knock-in mice) exhibit numerous GFP-positive neurons in the central gray and reticular formation, allowing on-line identification in vitro. Small (10-15 microm) or medium-sized (15-25 microm) GFP-positive perikarya surrounded larger serotonergic, noradrenergic, cholinergic and reticular neurons, and &gt; 96% of neurons were double-labeled for GFP and GABA, confirming that GFP-positive neurons are GABAergic. Whole-cell recordings in brainstem regions important for promoting REM sleep [subcoeruleus (SubC) or pontine nucleus oralis (PnO) regions] revealed that GFP-positive neurons were spontaneously active at 3-12 Hz, fired tonically, and possessed a medium-sized depolarizing sag during hyperpolarizing steps. Many neurons also exhibited a small, low-threshold calcium spike. GFP-positive neurons were tested with pharmacological agents known to promote (carbachol) or inhibit (orexin A) REM sleep. SubC GFP-positive neurons were excited by the cholinergic agonist carbachol, whereas those in the PnO were either inhibited or excited. GFP-positive neurons in both areas were excited by orexins/hypocretins. These data are congruent with the hypothesis that carbachol-inhibited GABAergic PnO neurons project to, and inhibit, REM-on SubC reticular neurons during waking, whereas carbachol-excited SubC and PnO GABAergic neurons are involved in silencing locus coeruleus and dorsal raphe aminergic neurons during REM sleep. Orexinergic suppression of REM during waking is probably mediated in part via excitation of acetylcholine-inhibited GABAergic neurons.
Neuronal activity regulates neurogenesis and neuronal differentiation in the mammalian brain. The commencement of neurotransmitter expression establishes the neuronal phenotype and enables the formation of functional connectivity between neurons. In addition, release of neurotransmitters from differentiating neurons may modulate the behaviour of neural precursors. Here, we show that neuronal activity regulates gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) expression in neurons generated from stem cells of the striatum and adult subventricular zone (SVZ). Differentiating neurons display spontaneous Ca2+ events, which are voltage-gated calcium channel (VGCC) dependent. Depolarization increases both the frequency of Ca2+ transients and the amount of Ca2+ influx in differentiating neurons. We show that depolarization-dependent GABA expression is regulated by the amplitude and not by the frequency of Ca2+ influx. Brief activation of VGCCs leads to Ca2+ influx that in turn promotes a rapid expression of GABA. Depolarization-dependent GABA expression does not require changes in gene expression. Instead, it involves cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and Ca2+ and phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (PKC) signalling. Activity increases the number of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 65-immunoreactive neurons in a PKA-dependent manner, without altering the expression of GAD 65, suggesting that depolarization promotes recruitment of GAD 65 by a post-translational mechanism. In line with this, depolarization does not permanently increase the expression of GABA in neurons derived from neural stem cells of the embryonic striatum, cortex and adult SVZ. Thus, neuronal activity does not merely accelerate neuronal differentiation but it may alter the mechanism of GABA synthesis in newly generated neurons.
Mutations in the gene for parkin, a 52-kDa E3 ubiquitin ligase, are a major cause of hereditary Parkinson's disease (PD). In vitro studies have identified a large number of parkin-interacting proteins. Whether parkin exists as a monomer or as part of a stable protein complex in vivo is uncertain. Here we demonstrate that endogenous parkin occurs in a stable, non-covalent, approximately 110-kDa complex in native extracts from mouse brain, heart and skeletal muscle, while monomeric parkin is undetectable. Partial denaturation experiments indicate that this complex is at least a tetramer. Reported parkin-binding partners do not show detectable association with the parkin complex on native gels. Upon overexpression in COS1, SH-SY5Y or CHO cells, parkin accumulates predominantly as a monomer, suggesting that the interactors required for complex formation are available in limiting amounts in these cells. Importantly, PD-linked parkin mutations significantly impair parkin complex formation. These data demonstrate that parkin oligomerizes into a stable, non-covalent, heteromeric complex in vivo, and suggest that parkin may have as yet unidentified stable binding partners.
Binocular rivalry occurs when separate incompatible images are presented, one to each eye. The subjective experience of viewing these stimuli is not of a fused image, rather the perceiver experiences either one or the other percept alternating across time. Manipulation of rivalry transfer, through an abrupt focal contrast change, causes the emerging percept to radiate across the declining image. This spreading percept transition has been likened to a wave of neural excitation propagating across the excitable medium of the visual cortex [H.R. Wilson et al. (2001) Nature, 412, 907-910; S.H. Lee et al. (2005) Nat. Neurosci., 8, 22-23]. Electrophysiologically, scalp-recorded gamma oscillations (30-70 Hz) have been reported to persist for several hundred milliseconds in response to changes in the subjective experience induced by alterations in incoming sensory information (moving-bar stimuli). Here, we used electroencephalographic recordings in the human and binocular rivalry transition to assess the role of scalp-recorded gamma in purely subjective changes in the visual experience. Despite the protraction of perceptual binding over a 900 ms period, no deviation in the pattern of induced gamma was observed from that reported during the perceptual closure of static images. These results suggest that localized scalp-recorded gamma oscillations are dissociable from the subjective visual experience.
Copulatory behaviors are generally dependent on testicular androgens in male vertebrates, being eliminated by castration and reinstated by testosterone administration. It is postulated that a critical factor in this hormonal gating is up-regulation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in the preoptic area, and consequent enhanced nitric oxide synthesis in response to stimuli associated with a receptive female. Previous studies have suggested that nNOS protein is more abundant in behaviorally relevant preoptic regions of testosterone-exposed animals than in hormone-deprived controls. This study sought to elucidate the molecular events underlying this apparent up-regulation by examining preoptic nNOS mRNA abundance at several time points following testosterone administration in a castration and replacement paradigm. Castrated male whiptails (Cnemidophorus inornatus) were implanted with testosterone, and at four time points over the subsequent 18 days their sexual behavior was tested. A rostral periventricular area previously implicated in hormonal gating of male-typical copulatory behavior was then excised by laser microdissection, and nNOS transcript abundance was assessed by quantitative PCR. As neither this technique nor nNOS mRNA measurements have previously been performed in this area of the brain, expression was concomitantly assayed on adjacent sections by in situ hybridization or NADPH diaphorase histochemistry. Results are consistent with transcriptional up-regulation of nNOS by testosterone and a central role for the enzyme in mediating hormonal gating of copulatory behavior.
NO-mediated toxicity contributes to neuronal damage after hypoxia; however, the molecular mechanisms involved are still a matter of controversy. Since mitochondria play a key role in signalling neuronal death, we aimed to determine the role of nitrative stress in hypoxia-induced mitochondrial damage. Therefore, we analysed the biochemical and ultrastructural impairment of these organelles in the optic lobe of chick embryos after in vivo hypoxia-reoxygenation. Also, we studied the NO-dependence of damage and examined modulation of mitochondrial nitric oxide synthase (mtNOS) after the hypoxic event. A transient but substantial increase in mtNOS content and activity was observed at 0-2 h posthypoxia, resulting in accumulation of nitrated mitochondrial proteins measured by immunoblotting. However, no variations in nNOS content were observed in the homogenates, suggesting an increased translocation to mitochondria and not a general de novo synthesis. In parallel with mtNOS kinetics, mitochondria exhibited prolonged inhibition of maximal complex I activity and ultrastructural phenotypes associated with swelling, namely, fading of cristae, intracristal dilations and membrane disruption. Administration of the selective nNOS inhibitor 7-nitroindazole 20 min before hypoxia prevented complex I inhibition and most ultrastructural damage. In conclusion, we show here for the first time that hypoxia induces NO-dependent complex I inhibition and ultrastructural damage by increasing mitochondrial NO in the developing brain.
Exposure to drugs of abuse activates gene expression and protein synthesis that result in long-lasting adaptations in striatal signaling. Therefore, identification of the transcription factors that couple drug exposure to gene expression is of particular importance. Members of the nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NFATc) family of transcription factors have recently been implicated in shaping neuronal function throughout the rodent nervous system. Here we demonstrate that regulation of NFAT-mediated gene expression may also be a factor in drug-induced changes to striatal functioning. In cultured rat striatal neurons, stimulation of D1 dopamine receptors induces NFAT-dependent transcription through activation of L-type calcium channels. Additionally, the genes encoding inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 and glutamate receptor subunit 2 are regulated by striatal NFATc4 activity. Consistent with these in-vitro data, repeated exposure to cocaine triggers striatal NFATc4 nuclear translocation and the up-regulation of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 and glutamate receptor subunit 2 gene expression in vivo, suggesting that cocaine-induced increases in gene expression may be partially mediated through activation of NFAT-dependent transcription. Collectively, these findings reveal a novel molecular pathway that may contribute to the enduring modifications in striatal functioning that occur following the administration of drugs of abuse.
The leaner mouse mutation of the Cacna1a gene leads to a reduction in P-type Ca2+ current, the dominant Ca2+ current in Purkinje cells (PCs). Here, we compare the electro-responsiveness and structure of PCs from age-matched leaner and wild-type (WT) mice in pharmacological isolation from synaptic inputs in cerebellar slices. We report that compared with WT, leaner PCs exhibit lower current threshold for Na+ spike firing, larger subthreshold membrane depolarization, rapid adaptation followed by complete block of Na+ spikes upon strong depolarization, and fail to generate Ca2+-Na+ spike bursts. The Na+ spike waveforms in leaner PCs have slower kinetics, reduced spike amplitude and afterhyperpolarization. We show that a deficit in the P-type Ca2+ current caused by the leaner mutation accounts for most but not all of the changes in mutant PC electro-responsiveness. The selective P-type Ca2+ channel blocker, omega-agatoxin-IVA, eliminated differences in subthreshold membrane depolarization, adaptation of Na+ spikes upon strong current-pulse stimuli, Na+ spike waveforms and Ca2+-Na+ burst activity. In contrast, a lower current threshold for eliciting repetitive Na+ spikes in leaner PCs was still observed after blockade of the P-type Ca2+ current, suggesting secondary effects of the mutation that render PCs hyper-excitable. Higher input resistance, reduced whole-cell capacitance and smaller dendritic size accompanied the enhanced excitability in leaner PCs, indicative of developmental retardation in these cells caused by P/Q-type Ca2+ channel malfunction. Our data indicate that a deficit in P-type Ca2+ current leads to complex functional and structural changes in PCs, impairing their intrinsic and integrative properties.
Neural responses are most often characterized in terms of the sets of environmental or internal conditions or stimuli with which their firing rate [corrected]increases or decreases are correlated [corrected] Their transient (nonstationary) temporal profiles of activity have received comparatively less attention. Similarly, the computational framework of attractor neural networks puts most emphasis on the representational or computational properties of the stable states of a neural system. Here we review a couple of neurophysiological observations and computational ideas that shift the focus to the transient dynamics of neural systems. We argue that there are many situations in which the transient neural behaviour, while hopping between different attractor states or moving along 'attractor ruins', carries most of the computational and/or behavioural significance, rather than the attractor states eventually reached. Such transients may be related to the computation of temporally precise predictions or the probabilistic transitions among choice options, accounting for Weber's law in decision-making tasks. Finally, we conclude with a more general perspective on the role of transient dynamics in the brain, promoting the view that brain activity is characterized by a high-dimensional chaotic ground state from which transient spatiotemporal patterns (metastable states) briefly emerge. Neural computation has to exploit the itinerant dynamics between these states.
Repeated cocaine administration to rats outside their home cage induces behavioral sensitization that is strongly modulated by the drug administration environment. We hypothesized that stimuli in the drug administration environment activate specific sets of striatal neurons, called neuronal ensembles, for further cocaine-enhanced activation, and that repeated activation of these neuronal ensembles underlies context-specific sensitization. In the present study, we repeatedly administered cocaine or saline to rats on alternate days in two distinct environments outside the home cage, one paired with cocaine and the other with saline. On test day, cocaine challenge injections in the cocaine-paired environment produced strongly enhanced levels of locomotor activity, while cocaine challenge injections in the saline-paired environment did not. The corresponding record of past neuronal activation in nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen during repeated drug administration was assessed using FosB immunohistochemistry, while acute neuronal activation on test day was assessed using c-fos in situ hybridization. Although only 2% of striatal neurons were FosB labeled, 87% of these FosB-labeled neurons were co-labeled with c-fos when cocaine was injected in the cocaine-paired environment. The degree of co-labeling was significantly less following cocaine or saline challenge injections in the saline-paired environment. Furthermore, the total number of c-fos-labeled neurons was greater with either cocaine or saline challenge injections in the cocaine-paired environment than in the saline-paired environment. These findings demonstrate that the drug administration environment partly determines which striatal neuronal ensembles are activated, and to what extent, following context-specific sensitization to cocaine.
Genetic deafness is one of the most common human genetic birth defects. To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying human hereditary deafness, deaf animal strains have proved to be invaluable models. The German waltzing guinea pig is a new strain of animals with unidentified gene mutation(s), displaying recessively inherited cochleovestibular impairment. Histological investigations of the homozygous animals (gw/gw) revealed a collapse of the endolymphatic compartment and malformation of stria vascularis. RT-PCR showed a significant reduction in expression of the strial intermediate cell-specific gene Dct and the tight-junction gene Cldn11 in the embryonic day (E)40 and adult gw/gw cochlear lateral wall. Immunohistochemical analysis of the gw/gw cochlea showed loss of the tight junction protein CLDN11 in strial basal cells from E40, loss of the potassium channel subunit KCNJ10 in strial intermediate cells from E50, and loss of the Na-K-Cl cotransporter SLC12A2 in strial marginal cells from E50. In addition, a temporary loss of the gap junction protein GJB2 (connexin 26) between fibrocytes in the spiral ligament of the E50 gw/gw cochlea was observed. The barrier composed of tight junctions between strial basal cells was disrupted in the gw/gw cochlea as indicated by a biotin tracer permeability assay. In conclusion, spatiotemporal loss of K+ transport proteins in the cochlear lateral wall is caused by malformation of the stria vascularis in the developing German waltzing guinea pig inner ear. This new animal strain may serve as a good model for studying human genetic deafness due to disruption of inner ear ion homeostasis.




The mechanisms behind the development of chronic trapezius myalgia in patients with whiplash associated disorders (WAD) appear to involve both peripheral and central components, but the specific contribution of alterations in muscle is not clear. Female patients with WAD and involvement of trapezius (N=22) and female controls (N=20; CON) were studied during an experiment compromised of rest (baseline), 20min repetitive low-force exercise and 120min recovery. Their interstitial concentrations of serotonin (5-HT), glutamate, lactate, pyruvate, potassium, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and blood flow were determined in the trapezius muscle using a microdialysis technique. Pressure pain thresholds (PPT) over trapezius and tibialis anterior muscles were also assessed. In WAD, we found signs of generalized hypersensitivity according to PPT. The WAD group had significantly higher interstitial [IL-6] and [5-HT] in the trapezius than the CON. [Pyruvate] was overall significantly lower in WAD, and with lactate it showed another time-pattern throughout the test. In the multivariate regression analysis of pain intensity [5-HT] was the strongest regressor and positively correlated with pain intensity in WAD. In addition, blood flow, [pyruvate], and [potassium] influenced the pain intensity in a complex time dependent way. These findings may indicate that peripheral nociceptive processes are activated in WAD with generalized hypersensitivity for pressure and they are not identical with those reported in chronic work-related trapezius myalgia, which could indicate different pain mechanisms.

Henry Dale received the Nobel prize in physiology or medicine in 1936 with Otto Loewi for their research which proved chemical synaptic transmission in the peripheral nervous system. Subsequently there was an extended period of controversy between advocates of chemical and electrical transmission before the chemical process was established in the central and peripheral nervous system. This debate and its final resolution was one of the most crucial in the history of neuroscience in the 20th century.

An impression that sculpted a lasting memory on the mind of the great neuroanatomist Santiago Ramn y Cajal, an 8-year-old boy at the time, was the total solar eclipse of 18 July 1860. This short article provides a translation of the relevant passage, found in a 1933 Buenos Aires schoolbook, and places the celestial event at the crossroads of neuroscience, astronomy and literature.
To evaluate the efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in children and adolescents with depressive disorder, the main electronic databases and the reference lists of retrieved articles and reviews were searched up to January 2007. Randomized controlled studies (RCT) were assessed for methodological quality, taking into consideration the specific diagnostic and severity evaluation tools used, and a meta-analysis on the efficacy of SSRIs compared placebo was undertaken. In all, 13 studies were included, covering a total of 2530 children and adolescents. Eleven studies met the criteria for inclusion in the meta-analysis. The pooled odds ratio was 1.57 (95% C.I. 1.29-1.91). Only fluoxetine appeared to offer a moderately significant benefit profile (OR=2.39). All studies differed in diagnostic tools and primary efficacy measures. SSRI treatment, especially with fluoxetine, may be effective on child and adolescent depression. Nevertheless, additional RCTs with sound methodological designs, validated diagnostic instruments, large sample sizes, and consistent outcomes are necessary to determine the role of SSRIs, alone or in combination with psychological interventions in the treatment of depression in children and adolescents.
Previous studies have reported negative findings for the association among brain monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) and suicidal behaviour. However those studies did not adequately control their main results for the influence of confounding variables such as age at death. We have evaluated the association of MAO-B density (assessed by [3H]Ro 19-6327 - lazabemide - binding) with type of death (suicide victims vs non-suicide controls) after controlling for age at death. Frontal cortex samples from 43 subjects (21 suicides, 22 controls) were assayed for MAO-B density at a single concentration of lazabemide (8 nM). A linear regression modelling approach comparing nested models resulted with both type of death (p&lt;0.05) and age of death (p&lt;0.01) as main explanatory variables for the variability of MAO-B density. Suicide victims had &gt;30% more binding sites for lazabemide than controls. Contrary to previous reports, MAO-B density seems to increase in suicide victims.
The development of schizophrenia may include an early neurodevelopmental stress component which increases vulnerability to later stressful life events, in combination leading to overt disease. We investigated the effect of an early stress, in the form of maternal deprivation, combined with a later stress, simulated by chronic periadolescent corticosterone treatment, on behaviour in rats. Acute treatment with apomorphine caused disruption of prepulse inhibition (PPI) in controls and in rats that had undergone either maternal deprivation or corticosterone treatment, but was surprisingly absent in rats that had undergone the combined early and late stress. Amphetamine treatment significantly disrupted PPI in both non-deprived groups, but was absent in both maternally deprived groups. The serotonin-1A receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT, induced a significant disruption of PPI in all groups. Amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity was similar in all groups. These results show an inhibitory interaction of early stress, caused by maternal deprivation, combined with 'adolescent' stress, simulated by corticosterone treatment, on dopaminergic regulation of PPI. The altered effects of apomorphine and amphetamine could indicate differential changes in dopamine receptor signalling leading to functional desensitisation, or altered modulation of sensory gating in the nucleus accumbens by limbic structures such as the hippocampus.


The current study assessed neurotrophin protein levels in male and female rat brain tissues at four different ages ranging from postpuberty to senescence. In both sexes nerve growth factor (NGF) increased, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) decreased, from 4 to 24 months of age. Using a slightly older age for the young group, or a slightly younger age for the aged group, had profound effects on whether age effects were realized. There were no sex differences in the pattern of change in neurotrophin levels across age, and neurotrophin levels did not correlate with estrogen levels in females or estrogen or testosterone levels in males. The current findings suggest that profound changes in neurotrophin protein levels can occur within only a few months time, and that these changes influence whether age-related neurotrophin alterations are realized.
Using a precision grip-lifting task, we examined how sensorimotor memory for weight asymmetry transfers across changes in hand and object configuration. We measured object tilt when participants lifted a visually symmetric box with an offset centre of mass. Transfer was assessed after participants lifted the box 10 times, during which the large tilt observed in the first lift was reduced. Consistent with previous work of Salimi et al. (J Neurophysiol 84:2390-2397, 2000), we found that when the object was rotated 180 degrees , participants failed to update their sensorimotor memory appropriately. Instead, participants acted as if the object did not rotate and negative transfer was observed. However, when the hand was rotated 180 degrees around the object, participants were able to correctly update sensorimotor memory and positive transfer was observed. This finding argues against the hypothesis that sensorimotor memory is digit-specific because the rotation of the hand (like rotation of the object) changes the forces that each digit must generate to prevent tilt. Positive transfer was also observed when both the hand and object were rotated. This suggests that the rotation of the hand may facilitate rotation of an internal representation of the object. Finally, we found positive transfer of weight asymmetry across the two hands but only when the second hand was rotated such that homologous digits of each hand gripped the same contact surfaces. We suggest that good transfer is observed under these conditions because, when we pass objects from hand to hand, we typically place homologous digits of the two hands in similar locations on the object.
The vestibular system analyses angular and linear accelerations of the head that are important information for perceiving the location of one's own body in space. Vestibular stimulation and in particular galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) that allow a systematic modification of vestibular signals has so far mainly been used to investigate vestibular influence on sensori-motor integration in eye movements and postural control. Comparatively, only a few behavioural and imaging studies have investigated how cognition of space and body may depend on vestibular processing. This study was designed to differentiate the influence of left versus right anodal GVS compared to sham stimulation on object-based versus egocentric mental transformations. While GVS was applied, subjects made left-right judgments about pictures of a plant or a human body presented at different orientations in the roll plane. All subjects reported illusory sensations of body self-motion and/or visual field motion during GVS. Response times in the mental transformation task were increased during right but not left anodal GVS for the more difficult stimuli and the larger angles of rotation. Post-hoc analyses suggested that the interfering effect of right anodal GVS was only present in subjects who reported having imagined turning themselves to solve the mental transformation task (egocentric transformation) as compared to those subjects having imagined turning the picture in space (object-based mental transformation). We suggest that this effect relies on shared functional and cortical mechanisms in the posterior parietal cortex associated with both right anodal GVS and mental imagery.
Stimuli occurring in multiple sensory modalities that are temporally synchronous or spatially coincident can be integrated together to enhance perception. Additionally, the semantic content or meaning of a stimulus can influence cross-modal interactions, improving task performance when these stimuli convey semantically congruent or matching information, but impairing performance when they contain non-matching or distracting information. Attention is one mechanism that is known to alter processing of sensory stimuli by enhancing perception of task-relevant information and suppressing perception of task-irrelevant stimuli. It is not known, however, to what extent attention to a single sensory modality can minimize the impact of stimuli in the unattended sensory modality and reduce the integration of stimuli across multiple sensory modalities. Our hypothesis was that modality-specific selective attention would limit processing of stimuli in the unattended sensory modality, resulting in a reduction of performance enhancements produced by semantically matching multisensory stimuli, and a reduction in performance decrements produced by semantically non-matching multisensory stimuli. The results from two experiments utilizing a cued discrimination task demonstrate that selective attention to a single sensory modality prevents the integration of matching multisensory stimuli that is normally observed when attention is divided between sensory modalities. Attention did not reliably alter the amount of distraction caused by non-matching multisensory stimuli on this task; however, these findings highlight a critical role for modality-specific selective attention in modulating multisensory integration.
We assessed the expression of Bcl-2 family members at both mRNA and protein levels as well as the Caspase-3 activity, in order to investigate the occurrence of apoptosis in hippocampus of STZ-induced diabetic rats. We selected twenty-four Wistar rats; half of them were made diabetic by intraperitoneal injection of a single 60 mg/kg dose of streptozotocin (STZ, IP), while the others received normal saline and served as controls. The expressions of Bcl-2, Bcl-x(L), and Bax mRNA and proteins were measured using RT-PCR and western blotting, respectively. Caspases-3 activity was determined by using the Caspase-3/CPP32 Fluorometric Assay Kit. The result showed that mRNA and protein levels of Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L) were lower in hippocampus of diabetic group than that of the control group, whereas expressions of Bax in hippocampus of diabetic rats were higher than that of controls at both mRNA and protein levels (P &lt; .01). Hyperglycemia was found to raise 6.9-fold hippocampal caspase-3 activity in diabetic group compared with control group (P &lt; .001). Therefore, the induction of diabetes is associated with increased ratios of Bax/Bcl-2, Bax/Bcl-x(L), and increased caspase-3 activity in hippocampus which shows that apoptosis is favored in hippocampal region.
Tobacco smoking and aging are among the few factors linked to age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a major cause of blindness in the elderly. Recent studies indicate that cadmium (Cd), an environmental toxic trace metal, is approximately four-fold higher in the retinas of smokers compared to non-smokers. In this study, we determined the effects of age and gender on Cd accumulation in human retinal tissues, specifically the neural retina, retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), and choroid. Cadmium levels in cultured RPE cells or retinal tissues isolated from frozen donor eyes were measured using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrophotometry (GF-AAS). Cadmium uptake in cultured human RPE cells (ARPE-19) was also assessed using GF-AAS. Toxic effects of cadmium were determined from cell loss (measured as a decrease in cell density) and lactate dehydrogenase release (an indicator of membrane disruption). In &quot;young&quot; eyes (&lt; 55 years) Cd was highest in the retinal pigment epithelium and lowest in the neural retina. Cd was higher in all tissues in aged eyes (&gt;or=55 years) and was significantly higher in the neural retina and RPE in older females. Cultured RPE cells exposed to Cd showed altered cell morphology, decreased cell survival, elevated ROS levels and concentration-dependent disruption of membrane integrity. We conclude that cadmium is accumulated differently in the neural retinal and RPE of older men and women. The deleterious effects of Cd on RPE cells indicate that this environmental toxin is a potentially important factor in age-related retinal disease.
Accumulating evidence has shown that both phosphorylated c-Jun (pc-Jun) and activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) were upregulated in a variety of tissue injuries and proposed to play an important role in cell death/survival. To elucidate the significance and functional role of these immediate-early genes during neuronal damage in the central nervous system, we examined temporal and spatial profiles of pc-Jun and ATF3 in dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra (SN) following transection of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) in adult rats. Morphological characteristics of pc-Jun-positive dopaminergic neurons as well as microglial reaction in response to the axotomy-induced neurodegeneration were also investigated. Following MFB transection, both c-Jun phosphorylation and ATF3 were found in the nuclei of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir) neurons of the ipsilateral SN, but not in those of the contralateral SN. In the ipsilateral SN, the number of pc-Jun- and ATF3-positive nuclei was increased by 5-7 days post-lesion, and then progressively decreased probably due to the loss of neurons. Retrograde tracing with FluoroGold (FG) in hemi-axotomized rat brain demonstrated that none of the intact, unaxotomized (FG-ir) neurons was pc-Jun-positive, indicating phosphorylation of c-Jun occurs only in axotomized neurons. Concomitant co-localization of pc-Jun and ATF3 in the same TH-ir neuron was also demonstrated by triple immunofluorescence labeling. Many TH-ir neurons that underwent various steps of consecutive neurodegenerative changes retained pc-Jun in the condensed or fragmented nuclei. Moreover, numerous activated microglia, identified by both phagocytic (ED1) and MHC II (OX6) markers, closely apposed to these neurons throughout the entire neurodegenerative process, suggesting that they are actively phagocytosing dying neurons. Taken together, these results support the idea that pc-Jun and its putative dimeric partner ATF3 may be closely participating in axotomy-induced neurodegeneration.
PD gene therapy clinical trials have primarily focused on increasing the production of dopamine (DA) through supplemental amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) expression, neurotrophic support for surviving dopaminergic neurons (DAN) or altering brain circuitry to compensate for DA neuron loss. The future of PD gene therapy will depend upon resolving a number of important issues that are discussed in this special issue. Of particular importance is the identification of novel targets that are amenable to early intervention prior to the substantial loss of DAN. However, for the most part the etiopathogenesis of PD is unknown making early intervention a challenge and the development of early biomarker diagnostics imperative.
During the last decade, identification of the genes involved in familial forms of Parkinson's disease (PD) has advanced our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the development of different aspects of PD. However the available animal models still remain as the main limiting factor for the development of neuroprotective therapies that can halt the progression of the disease, through which we wish to provide a better quality of life for the PD patients. Here, we review the recently developed animal models based on overexpression of PD-associated genes using recombinant viral vectors. Recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors, in particular, have been very useful in targeting the nigral dopamine neurons both in the rodent and the primate brain. In order to provide insights into the establishment of these models in the laboratory, we will not only give an overview of the results from these studies but also cover practical issues related to the production and handling of the viral vectors, which are critical for the successful application of this approach.
The adult mammalian CNS undergoes plastic changes in response to injury. To investigate such changes in spinal cord, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was applied in rats subjected to complete transection of the mid-thoracic spinal cord. Blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) contrasts were recorded in the distal spinal cord different times after injury (3, 7, and 14 days, and 1, 3, and 6 months) in response to electrical hind limb stimulation. Functional MRI demonstrated a substantial increase of neuronal activation in the ipsilateral dorsal horn after injury. Notably, 0.5 mA, which did not evoke activation in the normal spinal cord and was considered a non-painful stimulus, induced significant BOLD responses in the dorsal horn after injury. Increased sensitivity was also seen in response to 1.0 mA stimulation. Our results suggest exaggerated responsiveness of spinal neurons after spinal cord injury. Reorganization in the injured spinal cord has been shown to involve the amplification of peripheral inputs and implicated as one underlying mechanism causing neuropathic pain and autonomic dysreflexia. Since BOLD signals can demonstrate such plastic changes in spinal cord parenchyma, we propose fMRI as a method to monitor functional reorganization in the spinal cord after injury. Combining brain and spinal cord fMRI allows the visualization of neuronal activities along the entire neuroaxis and thereby an evaluation of the different plastic responses to CNS injuries that occur in the brain and the spinal cord.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and presenilin (PSEN) 1 and 2 genes are regulated during development as well as in pathological conditions associated to hypoxia. In this study, we investigated their patterns of expression during the first 2 weeks of postnatal life in a rat model of moderate global perinatal asphyxia that we have previously reported to be characterized by early oxidative stress and delayed behavioral alterations. In the hippocampus, global perinatal asphyxia induced an early up-regulation COX-2 mRNA (postnatal day, pnd, 1), which preceded those of PSEN 1 and 2 genes, observed at pnd 4. At pnd 11, the expression of all three genes was decreased compared to control animals. In addition, we analyzed the expression of the scavenging enzymes catalase, copper/zinc- and manganese-superoxide dismutase. As for COX-2, the three enzymes were up-regulated in the hippocampus at pnd 1 and returned at or below baseline by pnd 4. In the cortex, only PSEN 1 and 2 showed a moderate up-regulation at pnd 1 followed by a down-regulation at pnd 11. These findings suggest that moderate perinatal hypoxic episodes are associated with a dysregulation of the several genes involved in brain development and anti-oxidant defenses, which follows a rapid and transient oxidative stress. Such alterations are particularly evident in the hippocampus and could represent an adaptive response to the hypoxic condition. The delayed down-regulation of the scavenging enzymes could set the ground for brain damage and delayed behavioral alterations and further support the potential benefit of early anti-oxidant treatments in a short therapeutic window soon after birth.
The main pathology underlying disease symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive degeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons. No effective disease-modifying treatment currently exists. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has neuroprotective and neuroregenerative effects and it enhances dopaminergic function in animal models of PD. These findings raise the possibility that intrastriatal administration of GDNF might be developed into a new clinical strategy for functional preservation and restoration also in PD patients. Gene therapy is a novel tool to increase local levels of GDNF. Transplantation of encapsulated, GDNF-secreting cells is one strategy for ex vivo cell-based gene delivery which has the advantage to allow for removal of the cells if untoward effects occur. Here we summarize studies with such cells in animals, and discuss the results from previous trials with GDNF in PD patients and their implications for the further development of neuroprotective/neuroregenerative therapies. Finally, we describe the different scientific and regulatory issues that need to be addressed in order to reach the clinic and start the first trial in patients.
Excessive synchronization of basal ganglia neural activity at low frequencies is considered a hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, few studies have unambiguously linked this activity to movement impairment through direct stimulation of basal ganglia targets at low frequency. Furthermore, these studies have varied in their methodology and findings, so it remains unclear whether stimulation at any or all frequencies &lt; or = 20 Hz impairs movement and if so, whether effects are identical across this broad frequency band. To address these issues, 18 PD patients chronically implanted with deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrodes in both subthalamic nuclei were stimulated bilaterally at 5, 10 and 20 Hz after overnight withdrawal of their medication and the effects of the DBS on a finger tapping task were compared to performance without DBS (0 Hz). Tapping rate decreased at 5 and 20 Hz compared to 0 Hz (by 11.8+/-4.9%, p=0.022 and 7.4+/-2.6%, p=0.009, respectively) on those sides with relatively preserved baseline task performance. Moreover, the coefficient of variation of tap intervals increased at 5 and 10 Hz compared to 0 Hz (by 70.4+/-35.8%, p=0.038 and 81.5+/-48.2%, p=0.043, respectively). These data suggest that the susceptibility of basal ganglia networks to the effects of excessive synchronization may be elevated across a broad low-frequency band in parkinsonian patients, although the nature of the consequent motor impairment may depend on the precise frequencies at which synchronization occurs.
The pyramidal neurons of the hippocampal CA1 region are essential for spatial learning and memory and are almost entirely destroyed 7-14 days after transient cerebral ischemia (DAI). Recently, we found that CA1 neurons reappeared at 21-90 DAI, in association with a recovery of ischemia-induced deficits in spatial learning and memory. However, at 125 DAI the number of neurons was fewer than at 90 DAI, suggesting that the new nerve cells undergo neurodegeneration during this time period. We therefore investigated whether neuronal degeneration occurred between 90 and 250 DAI and how this related to learning and memory performance. We found that many of the new CA1 neurons previously seen at 90 DAI had disappeared at 250 DAI. In parallel, large mineralized calcium deposits appeared in the hippocampus and thalamus, in association with neuroinflammatory and astroglial reactions. In spite of the extensive CA1 damage, the ischemic rats showed no deficiencies in spatial learning and memory, as analyzed in the Morris water maze and a complimentary water maze test based on sequential left-right choices. However, ischemia rats showed a general increase in swim length in the Morris water maze suggesting altered search behaviour. Taken together, these results indicate that the CA1 neurons that reappear after transient global ischemia to a large extent degenerate at 125-250 DAI, in parallel with the appearance of a less efficient search strategy.
Because Parkinson's disease is a progressive degenerative disorder that is mainly confined to the basal ganglia, gene transfer to deliver therapeutic molecules is an attractive treatment avenue. The present review focuses on direct in vivo gene transfer vectors that have been developed to a degree that they have been successfully used in animal model of Parkinson's disease. Accordingly, the properties of recombinant adenovirus, recombinant adeno-associated virus, herpes simplex virus, and lentivirus are described and contrasted. In order for viral vectors to be developed into clinical grade reagents, they must be manufactured and tested to precise regulatory standards. Indeed, clinical lots of viral vectors can be produced in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMPs) regulations using industry accepted manufacturing methodologies, manufacturing controls, and quality systems. The viral vector properties themselves combined with physiological product formulations facilitate long-term storage and direct in vivo administration.
Cerebral small vessel disease results from ischaemia in the perforating arteries supplying the white matter and deep grey matter nuclei. It results in both focal lacunar infarction and more diffuse areas of chronic ischaemia (leukoaraiosis). Two subtypes may exist. One subtype (isolated lacunar infarction) is associated with single or a few larger lacunar infarcts without leukoaraiosis, and may result from microatheroma in the larger perforating arteries. The second subtype (ischaemic leukoaraiosis) results in multiple small lacunar infarcts with leukoaraiosis secondary to a diffuse arteriopathy affecting the smaller perforating arteries, usually occurring in the presence of hypertension. In this subtype, chronic hypoperfusion and impaired cerebral autoregulation have been reported. A number of lines of evidence support a pathogenic role of endothelial activation and dysfunction. Genetic predisposition has also been implicated. Associations with genes involved in endothelial function, including those regulating the renin-angiotensin system, endothelial nitric oxide and homocysteine levels, have been reported. However, not all results have been replicated and there are few robust replicable associations. Larger studies are required to determine definitively which associations represent important risk factors.
The effect of imagery on featural and configural face processing was investigated using blurred and scrambled faces. By means of blurring, featural information is reduced; by scrambling a face into its constituent parts configural information is lost. Twenty-four participants learned ten faces together with the sound of a name. In following matching-to-sample tasks participants had to decide whether an auditory presented name belonged to a visually presented scrambled or blurred face in two experimental conditions. In the imagery condition, the name was presented prior to the visual stimulus and participants were required to imagine the corresponding face as clearly and vividly as possible. In the perception condition name and test face were presented simultaneously, thus no facilitation via mental imagery was possible. Analyses of the hit values showed that in the imagery condition scrambled faces were recognized significantly better than blurred faces whereas there was no such effect for the perception condition. The results suggest that mental imagery activates featural representations more than configural representations.
Germline and somatic genomic rearrangement play a relevant role in the pathogenesis of genetic disorders, and their identification is a fundamental task in molecular diagnosis. However, screening for structural genomic abnormalities is often not included in routine mutational analyses and consequently the proportion of rearrangements playing a pathogenic role in several genetic disorders is likely to be underestimated. A wide range of molecular techniques for the detection of large genomic rearrangements has been developed: some methods have the power to screen the whole genome, others are designed to analyze one or few loci that are known to be involved in a specific disease; some may detect balanced rearrangements, while others only unbalanced rearrangements; some are suitable for detection of germline abnormalities, yet others also detect somatic abnormalities. This review provides a brief summary of principles, applications and limitations of the methods available for the screening of genomic rearrangements, focusing on multiplex PCR-based protocols that are currently employed in routine detection of extended germline genomic deletions or duplications. Future developments based on microarray platforms and high-throughput sequencing are also discussed.
Bipolar disorder is one of the most severely debilitating of all medical illnesses. It can lead to significant suffering for patients and their families, limit functioning and workplace productivity, and with its risks of increased morbidity and mortality, it is increasingly recognized as a major public health problem. For a large number of patients, outcomes are poor. Patients with bipolar disorder generally experience high rates of relapse, a chronic recurrent course, lingering residual symptoms, functional impairment, psychosocial disability and diminished well-being. Despite this, little is known about the specific pathophysiology of bipolar disorder. A better understanding of the neurobiological underpinnings of this condition, informed by preclinical and clinical research, will be essential for the future development of specific targeted therapies that are more effective, achieve their effects more quickly and are better tolerated than currently available treatments. An abundance of research has implicated specific neuroendocrine, neurotransmitter and intracellular signaling systems in the pathophysiology and treatment of this illness. More recently, genetic association studies have identified numerous genes that confer vulnerability to the disorder, many of which are known to function in the signaling pathways previously identified as relevant to the etiology of the illness. In this article, we will review current knowledge regarding the neurotransmitter systems, signaling networks, neuroendocrine systems and genetics of bipolar disorder; all of these allow insight into the mechanism of illness and thus offer potential novel directions for the development of novel therapeutics.
Gliomas constitute the most frequent and malignant primary brain tumors. Current standard therapeutic strategies (surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapeutics, e.g., temozolomide, carmustin or carboplatin) for their treatment are only palliative and survival diagnosis is normally 6-12 months. The development of new therapeutic strategies for the management of gliomas is therefore essential. Interestingly, cannabinoids have been shown to exert antiproliferative effects on a wide spectrum of cells in culture. Of interest, cannabinoids have displayed a great potency in reducing glioma tumor growth either in vitro or in animal experimental models, curbing the growth of xenografts generated by subcutaneous or intratecal injection of glioma cells in immune-deficient mice. Moreover, cannabinoids appear to be selective antitumoral agents as they kill glioma cells without affecting the viability of nontransformed counterparts. A pilot clinical trial on patients with glioblastoma multiforme demonstrated their good safety profile together and remarkable antitumor effects, and may set the basis for further studies aimed at better evaluating the potential anticancer activity of cannabinoids.
We investigated the role and mechanism of action of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) produced by the spinal cord (SC) in pain modulation in sciatic-neuropathic and control rats. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) after reverse transcription revealed cytochrome P450c17 (DHEA-synthesizing enzyme) gene repression in neuropathic rat SC. A combination of pulse-chase experiments, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and flow-scintillation detection showed decreased DHEA biosynthesis from pregnenolone in neuropathic SC slices. Radioimmunoassays demonstrated endogenous DHEA level drop in neuropathic SC. Behavioral analysis showed a rapid pronociceptive and a delayed antinociceptive action of acute DHEA treatment. Inhibition of DHEA biosynthesis in the SC by intrathecally administered ketoconazole (P450c17 inhibitor) induced analgesia in neuropathic rats. BD1047 (sigma-1 receptor antagonist) blocked the transient pronociceptive effect evoked by acute DHEA administration. Chronic DHEA treatment increased and maintained elevated the basal nociceptive thresholds in neuropathic and control rats, suggesting that androgenic metabolites generated from daily administered DHEA exerted analgesic effects while DHEA itself (before being metabolized) induced a rapid pronociceptive action. Indeed, intrathecal administration of testosterone, an androgen deriving from DHEA, caused analgesia in neuropathic rats. Together, these molecular, biochemical, and functional results demonstrate that DHEA synthesized in the SC controls pain mechanisms. Possibilities are opened for pain modulation by drugs regulating P450c17 in nerve cells.
Cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by beta- and gamma-secretases results in generation of the amyloid-beta protein (Abeta), which is characteristically deposited in the brain of Alzheimer's disease patients. Inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl (HMG)-CoA reductase (the statins) reduce levels of cholesterol and isoprenoids such as geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP). Previous studies have demonstrated that cholesterol increases and statins reduce Abeta levels mostly by regulating beta-secretase activity. In this study, we focused on the role of geranylgeranyl isoprenoids GGPP and geranylgeraniol (GGOH) in regulating Abeta production. Our data show that the inhibition of GGPP synthesis by statins plays an important role in statin-mediated reduction of Abeta secretion. Consistent with this finding, the geranylgeranyl isoprenoids preferentially increase the yield of Abeta of 42 residues (Abeta42) in a dose-dependent manner. Our studies further demonstrated that geranylgeranyl isoprenoids increase the yield of APP-CTFgamma (a.k.a. AICD) as well as Abeta by stimulating gamma-secretase-mediated cleavage of APP-CTFalpha and APP-CTFbeta in vitro. Furthermore, GGOH increases the levels of the active gamma-secretase complex in the detergent-insoluble membrane fraction along with its substrates, APP-CTFalpha and APP-CTFbeta. Our results indicate that geranylgeranyl isoprenoids may be an important physiological facilitator of gamma-secretase activity that can foster production of the pathologically important Abeta42.
The study describes an effort to evaluate the speech difficulties as perceived by individuals with dysarthria. A self-report questionnaire, Living with Neurologically Based Speech Difficulties (Living with Dysarthria), was answered by 55 individuals with varying types and degrees of dysarthria. Results show that both type and degree of subjectively perceived communicative difficulties varied. Degree of communicative difficulties was not related to age, gender, diagnosis, disease duration or employment status in this group. Generally, the overriding problems were related to restrictions in communicative participation, possibilities to actively take part in work and studies and to express one's personality were particularly affected. Communication was also affected by emotions and by the number and familiarity of people present in communicative encounters. The dominating speech difficulties were related to reduced speech rate and a need for repetition as a consequence of misunderstandings. A statistically nonsignificant difference was found between the higher mean of the group with moderate dysarthria compared to the groups with severe and mild dysarthria, indicating that severity of dysarthria does not necessarily predict extent of perceived communicative difficulties. It is concluded that systematic subjective reports should always be included in the assessment of individuals with acquired dysarthria.
Squirrel monkeys, like most Neotropical primates, display a sex-linked colour vision polymorphism. Here we assess the colour perception of 8 Saimiri ustus by a behavioural paradigm using Munsell colour chips as discriminating stimuli. A random variation in brightness assured that discriminations were based on colour rather than brightness cues. Results indicate that all males showed random performances when presented with stimuli which, in previous experiments with human colour-blind individuals and dichromatic non-human primates, proved to be difficult to discriminate. Females behaved as trichromats. The different phenotypes in S. ustus may offer diverse advantages in feeding ecology and are in agreement with the existence of vision polymorphism, as described for other species of squirrel monkeys.

Plasticity of cortical circuits is maximal during critical periods of postnatal development. Ocular dominance plasticity is a classical model to understand the role of experience in development of the visual cortex. Recent studies are beginning to unravel the synaptic mechanisms underlying this form of plasticity and to elucidate the different plasticity of juvenile and adult animals at mechanistic and molecular level. These investigations indicate that this form of plasticity is regulated by factors located at extracellular and intracellular level. The molecular composition of the extracellular environment in which synaptic plasticity occurs changes during development becoming less permissive for plasticity. In addition, visual experience activates epigenetic mechanisms of regulation of gene transcription that becomes downregulated in adult animals.
Suicide cancer gene therapy with retroviral vector-producing cells was in the way of an adjuvant to the surgical resection of recurrent glioblastoma, although any benefit appeared to be marginal. It is likely that this therapeutic approach may have better outcomes if the vectors and transgenes are delivered more efficiently to the tumor cells. We have shown previously that tumor cells engineered by adenovirus-retrovirus hybrid vectors to produce retroviral progeny destroy satellite tumor cells. Whether the systemic delivery of vector-producing cells can effectively treat aggressive tumors remains to be determined. Effective retroviral vector delivery vehicles may be multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), which have been shown to home to tumor cells in vivo and deliver cancer-killing gene or immune products with minimal host rejection. Therefore, it may be possible to transduce tumors with recombinant progeny vectors delivered by MSCs. This may be particularly suitable for treating diffuse cancers like glioblastoma multiforme. While this strategy remains to be tested in various orthotopic or metastatic tumor models, it has the potential to greatly improve the outcome of suicide gene therapy.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are ligand-activated transcription factors of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily. The 3 PPAR isoforms (alpha, delta/beta and gamma) are known to control many physiological functions including glucose absorption, lipid balance, and cell growth and differentiation. Of interest, PPAR-gamma activation was recently shown to mitigate the inflammation associated with chronic and acute neurological insults. Particular attention was paid to test the therapeutic potential of PPAR agonists in acute conditions like stroke, spinal cord injury (SCI) and traumatic brain injury (TBI), in which massive inflammation plays a detrimental role. While 15d-prostaglandin J2 (15d PGJ2) is the natural ligand of PPAR-gamma, the thiazolidinediones (TZDs) are potent exogenous agonists. Due to their insulin-sensitizing properties, 2 TZDs rosiglitazone and pioglitazone are currently FDA-approved for type-2 diabetes treatment. Recent studies from our laboratory and other groups have shown that TZDs induce significant neuroprotection in animal models of focal ischemia and SCI by multiple mechanisms. The beneficial actions of TZDs were observed to be both PPAR-gamma-dependent as well as -independent. The major mechanism of TZD-induced neuroprotection seems to be prevention of microglial activation and inflammatory cytokine and chemokine expression. TZDs were also shown to prevent the activation of pro-inflammatory transcription factors at the same time promoting the anti-oxidant mechanisms in the injured CNS. This review article discusses the multiple mechanisms of TZD-induced neuroprotection in various animal models of CNS injury with an emphasis on stroke.
In this short review, we highlight and reference the new developments in the newly emerged field of Interventional Neurophysiology in relation to neurosurgery, particularly the functional neurosurgery. The review covers clinical aspects of neurophysiological interventions into investigation, treatment and research on the pathophysiological mechanisms of neurological disorders.
Estradiol and progesterone are two steroid hormones that target a variety of organ systems, including the heart, the bone and the brain. With respect to the latter, a large volume of basic science studies support the neuroprotective role of estradiol and/or progesterone. In fact, the results of such studies prompted the assessment of these hormones as protective agents against such disorders as Alzheimer's disease, stroke and traumatic brain injury. Interestingly, results from the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) yielded results that appeared to be inconsistent with the data derived from in vitro and in vivo models. However, we argue that the results from the basic science studies were not inconsistent with the clinical trials, but rather, are consistent with, and may even have predicted, the results from the WHI. To illustrate this point, we review here certain in vivo paradigms that have been used to assess the protective effects of estrogens and progesterone, and describe how the results from these animal models point to the importance of the type of hormone, the age of the subjects and the method of hormone administration, in determining whether or not hormones are neuroprotective.
Two (amyloid and presenilin) hypotheses have been proposed to explain the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). According to amyloid hypothesis, the main amyloid plaques which are hallmark of AD are generated by beta- and gamma-secretase mediated proteolytic processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP). The amyloid hypothesis does not adequately address the pathogenesis of the disease, however, since transgenic mice that express the pathologic mutations of the APP and presenilin-1 (PS1) genes produce amyloid plaques but fail to exhibit neurodegeneration and memory loss observed in AD patients. According to presenilin hypothesis, loss of essential functions of PS due to decreased PS expression or mutations in the PS genes better explains the pathogenesis of AD. Recent studies have revealed that forebrain specific conditional knockouts of PS1 and PS2 genes (cPSKO) cause both neuronal degeneration and memory loss without evidence of formation of amyloid plaques. Another potential mechanism for the pathogenesis of AD may reside at the transcriptional regulation of the presenilin-1 gene. In this review, a detailed analysis of transcription factors that regulate PS1 transcription will be discussed. An in depth understanding of the regulatory mechanism of PS1 transcription can identify the targets that can potentially be used in therapeutic intervention of AD.
Every year, a large number of children are exposed to smoking during pregnancy which increases the risk of decreased birth weight, fetal morbidity and behavioral abnormalities. Therefore, nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) is often considered as a treatment option. Despite a large number of epidemiological studies, there are conflicting reports about the long-term consequences of maternal smoking on cognitive function, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and other behavioral abnormalities. Animal studies are also often contradicting with respect to the effects of developmental nicotine, the psychoactive ingredient in tobacco. After a critical review of the literature, it appears that 1) maternal smoking causes low birth weight and nicotine, seems play a significant role in reducing body weight; 2) maternal smoking and developmental nicotine exposure have only minor effects on cognitive functions in children or animals, respectively; 3) maternal smoking is a risk factor for ADHD, but a causal link between nicotine and hyperactivity is not well established; 4) developmental nicotine increases anxiety-like behavior in animals but it remains to be seen if maternal smoking or NRT, would have similar long-term effects in children. Future studies should address if nicotine is involved in the increased risk to develop ADHD and how developmental nicotine leads to increased anxiety.
Both adult neural stem cells and embryonic stem cells have shown the capacity to differentiation into multiple cell types of the adult nervous system. They will therefore serve as valuable systems for basic investigations of cell fate choice mechanisms, as well as play important future roles in applications ranging from regenerative medicine to drug screening. However, there are significant challenges remaining, including the identification of signaling factors that specify cell fate in the stem cell niche, the analysis of intracellular targets and mechanisms of these extracellular signals, and the development of ex vivo culture systems that can exert efficient control over cell function. This review will discuss progress in the identification of signaling mechanisms and culture systems that regulate neural differentiation, neuronal differentiation, and neuronal subtype specification.
The neocortex generates rhythmic electrical activity over a frequency range covering many decades. Specific cognitive and motor states are associated with oscillations in discrete frequency bands within this range, but it is not known whether interactions and transitions between distinct frequencies are of functional importance. When coexpressed rhythms have frequencies that differ by a factor of two or more interactions can be seen in terms of phase synchronization. Larger frequency differences can result in interactions in the form of nesting of faster frequencies within slower ones by a process of amplitude modulation. It is not known how coexpressed rhythms, whose frequencies differ by less than a factor of two may interact. Here we show that two frequencies (gamma - 40 Hz and beta2 - 25 Hz), coexpressed in superficial and deep cortical laminae with low temporal interaction, can combine to generate a third frequency (beta1 - 15 Hz) showing strong temporal interaction. The process occurs via period concatenation, with basic rhythm-generating microcircuits underlying gamma and beta2 rhythms forming the building blocks of the beta1 rhythm by a process of addition. The mean ratio of adjacent frequency components was a constant - approximately the golden mean - which served to both minimize temporal interactions, and permit multiple transitions, between frequencies. The resulting temporal landscape may provide a framework for multiplexing - parallel information processing on multiple temporal scales.
Hebbian learning in cortical networks during development and adulthood relies on the presence of a mechanism to detect correlation between the presynaptic and the postsynaptic spiking activity. Recently, the calcium concentration in spines was experimentally shown to be a correlation sensitive signal with the necessary properties: it is confined to the spine volume, it depends on the relative timing of pre- and postsynaptic action potentials, and it is independent of the spine's location along the dendrite. NMDA receptors are a candidate mediator for the correlation dependent calcium signal. Here, we present a quantitative model of correlation detection in synapses based on the calcium influx through NMDA receptors under realistic conditions of irregular pre- and postsynaptic spiking activity with pairwise correlation. Our analytical framework captures the interaction of the learning rule and the correlation dynamics of the neurons. We find that a simple thresholding mechanism can act as a sensitive and reliable correlation detector at physiological firing rates. Furthermore, the mechanism is sensitive to correlation among afferent synapses by cooperation and competition. In our model this mechanism controls synapse formation and elimination. We explain how synapse elimination leads to firing rate homeostasis and show that the connectivity structure is shaped by the correlations between neighboring inputs.
Many prominent studies of infant cognition over the past two decades have relied on the fact that infants habituate to repeated stimuli - i.e. that their looking times tend to decline upon repeated stimulus presentations. This phenomenon had been exploited to reveal a great deal about the minds of preverbal infants. Many prominent studies of the neural bases of adult cognition over the past decade have relied on the fact that brain regions habituate to repeated stimuli - i.e. that the hemodynamic responses observed in fMRI tend to decline upon repeated stimulus presentations. This phenomenon has been exploited to reveal a great deal about the neural mechanisms of perception and cognition. Similarities in the mechanics of these two forms of habituation suggest that it may be useful to relate them to each other. Here we outline this analogy, explore its nuances, and highlight some ways in which the study of habituation in functional neuroimaging could yield novel insights into the nature of habituation in infant cognition - and vice versa.
The role of Broca's area in sentence processing remains controversial. According to one view, Broca's area is involved in processing a subcomponent of syntactic processing. Another view holds that it contributes to sentence processing via verbal working memory. Sub-regions of Broca's area have been identified that are more active during the processing of complex (object-relative clause) sentences compared to simple (subject-relative clause) sentences. The present study aimed to determine if this complexity effect can be accounted for in terms of the articulatory rehearsal component of verbal working memory. In a behavioral experiment, subjects were asked to comprehend sentences during concurrent speech articulation which minimizes articulatory rehearsal as a resource for sentence comprehension. A finger-tapping task was used as a control concurrent task. Only the object-relative clause sentences were more difficult to comprehend during speech articulation than during the manual task, showing that articulatory rehearsal does contribute to sentence processing. A second experiment used fMRI to document the brain regions underlying this effect. Subjects judged the plausibility of sentences during speech articulation, a finger-tapping task, or without a concurrent task. In the absence of a secondary task, Broca's area (pars triangularis and pars opercularis) demonstrated an increase in activity as a function of syntactic complexity. However, during concurrent speech articulation (but not finger-tapping) this complexity effect was eliminated in the pars opercularis suggesting that this region supports sentence comprehension via its role in articulatory rehearsal. Activity in the pars triangularis was modulated by the finger-tapping task, but not the speech articulation task.
The integration of the human brain with computers is an interesting new area of applied neuroscience, where one application is replacement of a person's real body by a virtual representation. Here we demonstrate that a virtual limb can be made to feel part of your body if appropriate multisensory correlations are provided. We report an illusion that is invoked through tactile stimulation on a person's hidden real right hand with synchronous virtual visual stimulation on an aligned 3D stereo virtual arm projecting horizontally out of their shoulder. An experiment with 21 male participants showed displacement of ownership towards the virtual hand, as illustrated by questionnaire responses and proprioceptive drift. A control experiment with asynchronous tapping was carried out with a different set of 20 male participants who did not experience the illusion. After 5 min of stimulation the virtual arm rotated. Evidence suggests that the extent of the illusion was also correlated with the degree of muscle activity onset in the right arm as measured by EMG during this period that the arm was rotating, for the synchronous but not the asynchronous condition. A completely virtual object can therefore be experienced as part of one's self, which opens up the possibility that an entire virtual body could be felt as one's own in future virtual reality applications or online games, and be an invaluable tool for the understanding of the brain mechanisms underlying body ownership.
The gene encoding the dipeptidyl peptidase-like protein DPP6 (also known as DPPX) has been associated with human neural disease. However, until recently no function had been found for this protein. It has been proposed that DPP6 is an auxiliary subunit of neuronal Kv4 K(+) channels, the ion channels responsible for the somato-dendritic A-type K(+) current, an ionic current with crucial roles in the regulation of firing frequency, dendritic integration and synaptic plasticity. This view has been supported mainly by studies showing that DPP6 is necessary to generate channels with biophysical properties resembling the native channels in some neurons. However, independent evidence that DPP6 is a component of neuronal Kv4 channels in the brain, and whether this protein has other functions in the CNS is still lacking. We generated antibodies to DPP6 proteins to compare their distribution in brain with that of the Kv4 pore-forming subunits. DPP6 proteins were prominently expressed in neuronal populations expressing Kv4.2 proteins and both types of protein were enriched in the dendrites of these cells, strongly supporting the hypothesis that DPP6 is an associated protein of Kv4 channels in brain neurons. The observed similarity in the cellular and subcellular patterns of expression of both proteins suggests that this is the main function of DPP6 in brain. However, we also found that DPP6 antibodies intensely labeled the hippocampal mossy fiber axons, which lack Kv4 proteins, suggesting that DPP6 proteins may have additional, Kv4-unrelated functions.
GABA(A) receptors are located on the majority of neurons in the central and peripheral nervous system, where they mediate important actions of the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid. Early in development the trophic properties of GABA allow a healthy development of the nervous system. Most neurons have a high intracellular Cl-concentration early in life due to the late functional expression of the Cl-pump KCC2, therefore GABA has excitatory effects at this stage. Upon higher expression and activation of KCC2 GABA takes on its inhibitory effects while glutamate functions as the major excitatory neurotransmitter. Like all multisubunit membrane proteins the GABA(A) receptor is assembled in the ER and travels through the Golgi and remaining secretory pathway to the cell surface, where it mediates GABA actions either directly at the synapses or at extrasynaptic sites responding to ambient GABA to provide a basal tonic inhibitory state. In order to adapt to changing needs and information states, the GABAergic system is highly dynamic. That includes subtype specific trafficking to different locations in the cell, regulation of mobility by interaction with scaffold molecules, posttranslational modifications, that either directly affect channel function or the interaction with other proteins and finally the dynamic exchange between surface and intracellular receptor pools, that either prepare receptors for recycling to the surface or degradation. Here we give an overview of the current understanding of GABA(A) receptor functional and molecular dynamics that play a major part in maintaining the balance between excitation and inhibition and in changes in network activity.
Studies in the basic neurosciences are heavily reliant upon rat and mouse models. The brain is one of the most distinguishing features of the human species, but is enough being done to fully understand the evolution of the human brain and brain diversity in general? Without a clear understanding of the evolution of the nervous system we may be investing a great deal of effort into some limited specific animal models that may prove to be erroneous in terms of the overall usefulness in clinically applied research. Here we present an analysis that demonstrates that 75% of our research efforts are directed to the rat, mouse and human brain, or 0.0001% of the nervous systems on the planet. This extreme bias in research trends may provide a limited scope in the discovery of novel aspects of brain structure and function that would be of importance in understanding both the evolution of the human brain and in selecting appropriate animal models for use in clinically related research. We offer examples both from the historical and recent literature indicating the usefulness of comparative neurobiological investigation in elucidating both normal and abnormal structure and function of the brain.
In this study, a 3D digital atlas of the live mouse brain based on magnetic resonance microscopy (MRM) is presented. C57BL/6J adult mouse brains were imaged in vivo on a 9.4 Tesla MR instrument at an isotropic spatial resolution of 100 mum. With sufficient signal-to-noise (SNR) and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), 20 brain regions were identified. Several atlases were constructed including 12 individual brain atlases, an average atlas, a probabilistic atlas and average geometrical deformation maps. We also investigated the feasibility of using lower spatial resolution images to improve time efficiency for future morphological phenotyping. All of the new in vivo data were compared to previous published in vitro C57BL/6J mouse brain atlases and the morphological differences were characterized. Our analyses revealed significant volumetric as well as unexpected geometrical differences between the in vivo and in vitro brain groups which in some instances were predictable (e.g. collapsed and smaller ventricles in vitro) but not in other instances. Based on these findings we conclude that although in vitro datasets, compared to in vivo images, offer higher spatial resolutions, superior SNR and CNR, leading to improved image segmentation, in vivo atlases are likely to be an overall better geometric match for in vivo studies, which are necessary for longitudinal examinations of the same animals and for functional brain activation studies. Thus the new in vivo mouse brain atlas dataset presented here is a valuable complement to the current mouse brain atlas collection and will be accessible to the neuroscience community on our public domain mouse brain atlas website.
Although there is now a substantial literature on the putative neuroprotective effects of estrogen on cognitive functioning in postmenopausal women, it is replete with inconsistencies. The critical period hypothesis, posited several years ago, attempts to account for the discrepancies in this literature by positing that estrogen treatment (ET) will protect aspects of cognition in older women only when treatment is initiated soon after the menopause. Indeed, evidence from basic neuroscience and from the animal and human literature reviewed herein provides compelling support for the critical period hypothesis. Although it is not known with certainty why estrogen does not protect cognition and may even cause harm when administered to women over the age of 65years, it is likely that the events that characterize brain aging, such as a reduction in brain volume and in neuronal size, alterations in neurotransmitter systems, and a decrease in dendritic spine numbers, form an unfavorable background that precludes a neuroprotective effects of exogenous estrogen on the brain. Other factors that have likely contributed to the discrepancies in the estrogen-cognition literature include differences in the estrogen compounds used, their route of administration, cyclic versus continuous regimens, and the concomitant use of progestins. This critical analysis attempts to define conditions under which ET may protect aspects of cognition in aging women while also considering the cost/benefit ratio for the treatment of women aged 50-59years. Suggestions for specific future research questions are also addressed.
The neural simulation tool NEST (http://www.nest-initiative.org) is a simulator for heterogeneous networks of point neurons or neurons with a small number of compartments. It aims at simulations of large neural systems with more than 10(4) neurons and 10(7) to 10(9) synapses. NEST is implemented in C++ and can be used on a large range of architectures from single-core laptops over multi-core desktop computers to super-computers with thousands of processor cores. Python (http://www.python.org) is a modern programming language that has recently received considerable attention in Computational Neuroscience. Python is easy to learn and has many extension modules for scientific computing (e.g. http://www.scipy.org). In this contribution we describe PyNEST, the new user interface to NEST. PyNEST combines NEST's efficient simulation kernel with the simplicity and flexibility of Python. Compared to NEST's native simulation language SLI, PyNEST makes it easier to set up simulations, generate stimuli, and analyze simulation results. We describe how PyNEST connects NEST and Python and how it is implemented. With a number of examples, we illustrate how it is used.
PsychoPy is a software library written in Python, using OpenGL to generate very precise visual stimuli on standard personal computers. It is designed to allow the construction of as wide a variety of neuroscience experiments as possible, with the least effort. By writing scripts in standard Python syntax users can generate an enormous variety of visual and auditory stimuli and can interact with a wide range of external hardware (enabling its use in fMRI, EEG, MEG etc.). The structure of scripts is simple and intuitive. As a result, new experiments can be written very quickly, and trying to understand a previously written script is easy, even with minimal code comments. PsychoPy can also generate movies and image sequences to be used in demos or simulated neuroscience experiments. This paper describes the range of tools and stimuli that it provides and the environment in which experiments are conducted.
Electrophysiology is increasingly moving towards highly parallel recording techniques which generate large data sets. We record extracellularly in vivo in cat and rat visual cortex with 54-channel silicon polytrodes, under time-locked visual stimulation, from localized neuronal populations within a cortical column. To help deal with the complexity of generating and analysing these data, we used the Python programming language to develop three software projects: one for temporally precise visual stimulus generation (&quot;dimstim&quot;); one for electrophysiological waveform visualization and spike sorting (&quot;spyke&quot;); and one for spike train and stimulus analysis (&quot;neuropy&quot;). All three are open source and available for download (http://swindale.ecc.ubc.ca/code). The requirements and solutions for these projects differed greatly, yet we found Python to be well suited for all three. Here we present our software as a showcase of the extensive capabilities of Python in neuroscience.
Computational neuroscience has produced a diversity of software for simulations of networks of spiking neurons, with both negative and positive consequences. On the one hand, each simulator uses its own programming or configuration language, leading to considerable difficulty in porting models from one simulator to another. This impedes communication between investigators and makes it harder to reproduce and build on the work of others. On the other hand, simulation results can be cross-checked between different simulators, giving greater confidence in their correctness, and each simulator has different optimizations, so the most appropriate simulator can be chosen for a given modelling task. A common programming interface to multiple simulators would reduce or eliminate the problems of simulator diversity while retaining the benefits. PyNN is such an interface, making it possible to write a simulation script once, using the Python programming language, and run it without modification on any supported simulator (currently NEURON, NEST, PCSIM, Brian and the Heidelberg VLSI neuromorphic hardware). PyNN increases the productivity of neuronal network modelling by providing high-level abstraction, by promoting code sharing and reuse, and by providing a foundation for simulator-agnostic analysis, visualization and data-management tools. PyNN increases the reliability of modelling studies by making it much easier to check results on multiple simulators. PyNN is open-source software and is available from http://neuralensemble.org/PyNN.
Modular toolkit for Data Processing (MDP) is a data processing framework written in Python. From the user's perspective, MDP is a collection of supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms and other data processing units that can be combined into data processing sequences and more complex feed-forward network architectures. Computations are performed efficiently in terms of speed and memory requirements. From the scientific developer's perspective, MDP is a modular framework, which can easily be expanded. The implementation of new algorithms is easy and intuitive. The new implemented units are then automatically integrated with the rest of the library. MDP has been written in the context of theoretical research in neuroscience, but it has been designed to be helpful in any context where trainable data processing algorithms are used. Its simplicity on the user's side, the variety of readily available algorithms, and the reusability of the implemented units make it also a useful educational tool.
Neuropeptides and hormones are signaling molecules that support cell-cell communication in the central nervous system. Experimentally characterizing neuropeptides requires significant efforts because of the complex and variable processing of prohormone precursor proteins into neuropeptides and hormones. We demonstrate the power and flexibility of the Python language to develop components of an bioinformatic analytical pipeline to identify precursors from genomic data and to predict cleavage as these precursors are en route to the final bioactive peptides. We identified 75 precursors in the rhesus genome, predicted cleavage sites using support vector machines and compared the rhesus predictions to putative assignments based on homology to human sequences. The correct classification rate of cleavage using the support vector machines was over 97% for both human and rhesus data sets. The functionality of Python has been important to develop and maintain NeuroPred (http://neuroproteomics.scs.uiuc.edu/neuropred.html), a user-centered web application for the neuroscience community that provides cleavage site prediction from a wide range of models, precision and accuracy statistics, post-translational modifications, and the molecular mass of potential peptides. The combined results illustrate the suitability of the Python language to implement an all-inclusive bioinformatics approach to predict neuropeptides that encompasses a large number of interdependent steps, from scanning genomes for precursor genes to identification of potential bioactive neuropeptides.
&quot;Brian&quot; is a new simulator for spiking neural networks, written in Python (http://brian. di.ens.fr). It is an intuitive and highly flexible tool for rapidly developing new models, especially networks of single-compartment neurons. In addition to using standard types of neuron models, users can define models by writing arbitrary differential equations in ordinary mathematical notation. Python scientific libraries can also be used for defining models and analysing data. Vectorisation techniques allow efficient simulations despite the overheads of an interpreted language. Brian will be especially valuable for working on non-standard neuron models not easily covered by existing software, and as an alternative to using Matlab or C for simulations. With its easy and intuitive syntax, Brian is also very well suited for teaching computational neuroscience.
We describe in this paper the structure and main features of a domain specific ontology for neuroscience, the BAMS Neuroanatomical Ontology. The ontology includes a complete set of concepts that describe the parts of the rat nervous system, a growing set of concepts that describe neuron populations identified in different brain regions, and relationships between concepts. The ontology is linked with a complex representation of structural and physiological variables used to classify neurons, which is encoded in BAMS. BAMS Neuroanatomical Ontology is accessible on the web and includes an interface that allows browsing terms, viewing criteria for classification, and accessing associated information.
Is there any hope of achieving a thorough understanding of higher functions such as perception, memory, thought and emotion or is the stunning complexity of the brain a barrier which will limit such efforts for the foreseeable future? In this perspective we discuss methods to handle complexity, approaches to model building, and point to detailed large-scale models as a new contribution to the toolbox of the computational neuroscientist. We elucidate some aspects which distinguishes large-scale models and some of the technological challenges which they entail.
A FUNDAMENTAL CHALLENGE FOR SYSTEMS NEUROSCIENCE IS TO QUANTITATIVELY RELATE ITS THREE MAJOR BRANCHES OF RESEARCH: brain-activity measurement, behavioral measurement, and computational modeling. Using measured brain-activity patterns to evaluate computational network models is complicated by the need to define the correspondency between the units of the model and the channels of the brain-activity data, e.g., single-cell recordings or voxels from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Similar correspondency problems complicate relating activity patterns between different modalities of brain-activity measurement (e.g., fMRI and invasive or scalp electrophysiology), and between subjects and species. In order to bridge these divides, we suggest abstracting from the activity patterns themselves and computing representational dissimilarity matrices (RDMs), which characterize the information carried by a given representation in a brain or model. Building on a rich psychological and mathematical literature on similarity analysis, we propose a new experimental and data-analytical framework called representational similarity analysis (RSA), in which multi-channel measures of neural activity are quantitatively related to each other and to computational theory and behavior by comparing RDMs. We demonstrate RSA by relating representations of visual objects as measured with fMRI in early visual cortex and the fusiform face area to computational models spanning a wide range of complexities. The RDMs are simultaneously related via second-level application of multidimensional scaling and tested using randomization and bootstrap techniques. We discuss the broad potential of RSA, including novel approaches to experimental design, and argue that these ideas, which have deep roots in psychology and neuroscience, will allow the integrated quantitative analysis of data from all three branches, thus contributing to a more unified systems neuroscience.

The etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) was long thought to be due to environmental factors. Following the discovery of autosomal-dominant mutations in the -synuclein gene, and later recessive mutations in the DJ-1, Parkin and PINK-1 genes, the field of PD genetics exploded. In 2004, it was discovered that mutations in the PARK8 locus - leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2, Lrrk2) - are the most important genetic cause of autosomal-dominant PD. Lrrk2 substitutions also account for sporadic PD in certain ethnic populations and have been shown to increase the risk of PD in Asian populations. Drug therapies targeting Lrrk2 activity may therefore be beneficial to both familial and sporadic PD patients, hence understanding the role of Lrrk2 in health and disease is critical. This review aims to highlight the research effort concentrated on elucidating the functional biological role of Lrrk2, and to provide some future therapeutic perspectives.
The first aim of this study was to analyse the effect of elite training, linked to expertise, in gymnastics on postural performance and control. For this purpose, body sway of expert gymnasts was compared to other sportsmen, non-experts and non-gymnasts, in two different postures: bipedal (easy and unspecific to gymnasts) and unipedal (difficult and fairly specific). The second aim was to compare the groups in the same tasks but in a visual condition for which they were not trained, i.e. with eyes closed. Postural performance was assessed by centre of gravity motion, which was computed from centre of pressure motion, estimating postural control. A significant difference between the two groups was observed for postural performance in the unipedal posture and with eyes open only. Regardless of their posture, the groups were similarly affected by removal of vision. Expertise in gymnastics seemed to improve postural performances only in situations for which their practise is related to, i.e. unipedal with eyes open. These reveal the importance of choosing a relevant postural configuration and visual condition according to the people's training or by extension experience.
Long-lived and structural proteins that become old and unneeded are degraded by the autophagy-lysosomal system. In mammalian cells, such proteins, together with part of the cytoplasm, are sequestered by the endoplasmic reticulum- like isolation membrane, resulting in the formation of autophagic vacuoles/autophagosomes. These nascent autophagic vacuoles receive lysosomal enzymes by fusing with transporting vesicles from the trans-Golgi network or lysosomes, and they become autolysosomes that start to degrade the enwrapped materials. In the cells that are unable to perform autophagy since they lackessential autophagy machineries such as Atg5 and Atg7, ubiquitin aggregates and unneeded and old organelles are stored in the cytoplasm. Moreover, in the cells that lacklysosomal proteinases undegraded substrates are stored in lysosomes, resulting in lysosomal storage disorder. Such cells undergo cell death.
Ethanol is a significant neuroteratogen. We previously used fetal cortical-derived neurosphere cultures as an ex vivo model of the second trimester ventricular neuroepithelium, and showed that ethanol directly induced fetal stem and progenitor cell proliferation and maturation without inducing death. However, ethanol is defined as a teratogen because of its capacity to persistently disrupt neural maturation beyond a specific exposure period. We therefore utilized a simplified neuronal maturation paradigm to examine the immediate and persistent changes in neuronal migration following ethanol exposure during the phase of neuroepithelial proliferation. Our data indicate that mRNA transcripts for migration-associated genes RhoA, Paxillin (Pxn), and CDC42 were immediately induced following ethanol exposure, whereas dynein light chain, LC8-type 1 (DYNLL1), and growth-associated protein (Gap)-43 were suppressed. With the exception of Gap43, ethanol did not induce persistent changes in the other mRNAs, suggesting that ethanol had an activational, rather than organizational, impact on migration-associated mRNAs. However, despite this lack of persistent effects on these mRNAs, ethanol exposure during the proliferation period significantly increased subsequent neuronal migration. Moreover, differentiating neurons, pretreated with ethanol during the proliferation phase, exhibited reduced neurite branching and an increased length of primary neurites, indicating a persistent destabilization of neuronal maturation. Collectively, our data indicate that ethanol-exposed proliferating neuroepithelial precursors exhibit subsequent differentiation-associated increases in migratory behavior, independent of mRNA transcript levels. These data help explain the increased incidence of cerebral cortical neuronal heterotopias associated with the fetal alcohol syndrome.
Transcription factors are pivotal in regulating cell fate and development. We analyzed five transcription factors - FoxN4, Ptf1a, Prox1, Isl1 and Lim1 - with putative functions in the formation of early-generated retinal interneurons. A full-length chicken FoxN4 cDNA was characterized and in situ as well as RT-PCR showed that FoxN4 expression commenced already in the stage 12-14 optic vesicles. Ptf1a, Prox1, Isl1 and Lim1 expression appeared later by stage 20-24, concomitant with the first post-mitotic ganglion-, amacrine- and horizontal cells. The FoxN4 and Ptf1a expression was transient with peak levels by stage 32-35. Expression disappeared as the retinal progenitor cells differentiated. Prox1, Isl1 and Lim1 expression remained in several differentiated cells including the horizontal cells. The order of expression supports a scheme where Ptf1a and Prox1 is downstream of FoxN4 and that FoxN4 and Ptf1a have transient roles during fate specification while Prox1, Isl1 and Lim1 have roles that are important for the generation of the neuronal subtypes.
Blood-brain barrier (BBB) formed by brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMVEC) regulates the passage of molecules and leukocytes in and out of the brain. Activation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and alteration of basement membrane (BM) associated with BBB injury was documented in stroke patients. While chronic alcoholism is a risk factor for developing stroke, underlying mechanisms are not well understood. We hypothesized that ethanol (EtOH)-induced protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) signaling resulted a loss of BBB integrity via MMPs activation and degradation of BM component, collagen IV. Treatment of BMVEC with EtOH or acetaldehyde (AA) for 2-48 h increased MMP-1, -2 and -9 activities or decreased the levels of tissue inhibitors of MMPs (TIMP-1, -2) in a PTK-dependent manner without affecting protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Enhanced PTK activity after EtOH exposure correlated with increased phosphorylated proteins of selective receptor and nonreceptor PTKs. Up-regulation of MMPs activities and protein contents paralleled a decrease in collagen IV content, and inhibitors of EtOH metabolism, MMP-2 and -9, or PTK reversed all these effects. Using human BMVEC assembled into BBB models, we found that EtOH/AA diminished barrier tightness, augmented permeability, and monocyte migration across the BBB via activation of PTKs and MMPs. These findings suggest that alcohol associated BBB injury could be mediated by MMPs via BM protein degradation and could serve as a comorbidity factor for neurological disorders like stroke or neuroinflammation. Furthermore, our preliminary experiments indicated that human astrocytes secreted high levels of MMP-1 and -9 following exposure to EtOH, suggesting the role of BM protein degradation and BBB compromise as a result of glial activation by ethanol. These results provide better understanding of multifaceted effects of alcohol on the brain and could help develop new therapeutic interventions.
Chemokine CXCL1 is abundantly present in proliferative zones during brain development and in regions of remyelination, suggesting that it influences development of oligodendrocyte progenitors (OPC) in these regions. We studied in vitro the effects and possible mechanisms by which CXCL1 acts on human fetal OPC. In organotypic slice cultures of human fetal cortical ventricular/subventricular (VZ/SVZ) zones, blocking of CXCL1 signaling reduced significantly the proliferation of OPC. Moreover, exogenously added CXCL1 induced increase of OPC proliferation. Treatments of purified OPC cultures and cell depletion experiments demonstrated that this effect of CXCL1 was mainly indirect, mediated through astrocytes. We identified that CXCL1 acted through the extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK1/2) pathway, activated primarily in astrocytes. In vitro, astrocytes stimulated with CXCL1 released several cytokines, but only the release of interleukin-6 (IL-6) was completely blocked by inhibition of ERK1/2 pathway. When released IL-6 was neutralized in slices, a decrease in OPC proliferation was demonstrated, while addition of IL-6 was able to return OPC proliferation in astrocyte-depleted slices to the control level. These results suggest that in the human fetal brain CXCL1 promotes proliferation of early OPC, acting in part through an ERK1/2-dependent pathway and release of IL-6 from astrocytes.
Astrocytes release a variety of transmitter molecules, which mediate communication between glial cells in the brain and modulate synaptic transmission. ATP is a major glia-derived transmitter, but the mechanisms and kinetics of ATP release from astrocytes remain largely unknown. Here, we combined epifluorescence and total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy to monitor individual quinacrine-loaded ATP-containing vesicles undergoing exocytosis in cultured astrocytes. In resting cells, vesicles exhibited three-dimensional motility, spontaneous docking and release at low rate. Extracellular ATP application induced a Ca(2+)-dependent increase in the rate of exocytosis, which persisted for several minutes. Using UV flash photolysis of caged Ca(2+), the threshold [Ca(2+)](i) for ATP exocytosis was found to be approximately 350 nM. Subthreshold [Ca(2+)](i) transients predominantly induced vesicle docking at plasma membrane without subsequent release. ATP exocytosis triggered either by purinergic stimulation or by Ca(2+) uncaging occurred after a substantial delay ranging from tens to hundreds of seconds, with only approximately 4% of release occurring during the first 30 s. The time course of the cargo release from vesicles had two peaks centered on &lt;or=10 s and 60 s. These results demonstrate that: (1) [Ca(2+)](i) elevations in cultured astrocytes trigger docking and release of ATP-containing vesicles; (2) vesicle docking and release have different Ca(2+) thresholds; (3) ATP exocytosis is delayed by several minutes and highly asynchronous; (4) two populations of ATP-containing vesicles with distinct (fast and slow) time course of cargo release exist in cultured astrocytes.






















Nonimmobilizing, inhalational anesthetic-like compounds are experimental agents developed as a tool to investigate the mechanism of action of general anesthetics. Clinically used for more than 150 years, general anesthesia has until now defied all attempts to formulate a theory of its mechanisms that would link, in an uninterrupted logical chain, observations on the molecular level-via effects on the cellular and network levels-to the in vivo phenomenon. Nonimmobilizers, initially termed nonanesthetics, are substances that disobey the Meyer-Overton rule. Theoretically, in appropriately designed experiments, nonanesthetics can serve as a type of Ockham's razor to separate important from irrelevant observations: processes that, at comparable concentrations, are affected to a similar degree by inhalational anesthetics and by nonanesthetics, do not contribute to anesthesia (the nonanesthetic algorithm). In practice, however, this appealing algorithm has been rather difficult to apply. On one hand, nonanesthetics are not inert on the behavioral level: they cause, inter alia, amnesia. This discovery required not only the introduction of the more precise term &quot;nonimmobilizers,&quot; but also excluded one important component of anesthesia, i.e., amnesia, from application of the algorithm. On the other hand, compared to inhalational anesthetics, nonimmobilizers interact with relatively few molecular targets, also limiting the usefulness of the nonimmobilizer algorithm. Nevertheless, nonimmobilizers have not only yielded useful results but can, by virtue of those very properties that make them less than ideal for anesthesia research, be used as experimental tools in the neurosciences far beyond anesthetic mechanisms.
Modulation of neurotransmitter release by G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) is a prominent presynaptic mechanism for regulation of synaptic transmission. Activation of GPCRs located at the presynaptic terminal can decrease the probability of neurotransmitter release. This presynaptic depression involves activation of Gi/o-type G-proteins that mediate different inhibitory mechanisms, including inhibition of voltage-gated calcium channels, activation of potassium channels, and direct inhibition of the vesicle fusion process. A variety of neurotransmitters and modulatory agents can activate GPCRs that produce presynaptic depression. Among these are lipid metabolites that serve as agonists for GPCRs. The discovery of endocannabinoids and their cognate receptors, including the CB1 receptor, has stimulated intense investigation into the neurophysiological roles of these lipid metabolites. It is now clear that presynaptic depression is the major physiological role for the CB1 receptor. Endocannabinoids activate this receptor mainly via a retrograde signaling process in which these compounds are synthesized in and released from postsynaptic neuronal elements, and travel back to the presynaptic terminal to act on the CB1 receptor. This retrograde endocannabinoid modulation has been implicated in short-term synaptic depression, including suppression of excitatory or inhibitory transmission induced by postsynaptic depolarization and transient synaptic depression induced by activation of postsynaptic GPCRs during agonist treatment or synaptic activation. Endocannabinoids and the CB1 receptor also play a key role in one form of long-term synaptic depression (LTD) that involves a longlasting decrease in neurotransmitter release.
Neurotransmission in the nervous system is initiated at presynaptic terminals by fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane and subsequent exocytic release of chemical transmitters. Currently, there are multiple methods to detect neurotransmitter release from nerve terminals, each with their own particular advantages and disadvantages. For instance, most commonly employed methods monitor actions of released chemical substances on postsynaptic receptors or artificial substrates such as carbon fibers. These methods are closest to the physiological setting because they have a rapid time resolution and they measure the action of the endogenous neurotransmitters rather than the signals emitted by exogenous probes. However, postsynaptic receptors only indirectly report neurotransmitter release in a form modified by the properties of receptors themselves, which are often nonlinear detectors of released substances. Alternatively, released chemical substances can be detected biochemically, albeit on a time scale slower than electrophysiological methods. In addition, in certain preparations, where presynaptic terminals are accessible to whole cell recording electrodes, fusion of vesicles with the plasma membrane can be monitored using capacitance measurements. In the last decade, in addition to electrophysiological and biochemical methods, several fluorescence imaging modalities have been introduced which report synaptic vesicle fusion, endocytosis, and recycling. These methods either take advantage of styryl dyes that can be loaded into recycling vesicles or exogenous expression of synaptic vesicle proteins tagged with a pH-sensitive GFP variant at regions facing the vesicle lumen. In this chapter, we will provide an overview of these methods with particular emphasis on their relative strengths and weaknesses and discuss the types of information one can obtain from them.
Neurons send out a multitude of chemical signals, called neurotransmitters, to communicate between neurons in brain, and between neurons and target cells in the periphery. The most important of these communication processes is synaptic transmission, which accounts for the ability of the brain to rapidly process information, and which is characterized by the fast and localized transfer of a signal from a presynaptic neuron to a postsynaptic cell. Other communication processes, such as the modulation of the neuronal state in entire brain regions by neuromodulators, provide an essential component of this information processing capacity. A large number of diverse neurotransmitters are used by neurons, ranging from classical fast transmitters such as glycine and glutamate over neuropeptides to lipophilic compounds and gases such as endocannabinoids and nitric oxide. Most of these transmitters are released by exocytosis, the i.e. the fusion of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane, which exhibits distinct properties for different types of neurotransmitters. The present chapter will provide an overview of the process of neurotransmitter release and its historical context, and give a reference point for the other chapters in this book.
While the functions of sleep remain largely unknown, one exciting hypothesis is that sleep contributes importantly to processes of memory and brain plasticity. Over the last decade, a large body of work has provided substantive evidence supporting this role of sleep in what is becoming known as sleep-dependent memory processing. This review offers a summary of these data, focusing specifically on the role of sleep in (1) memory encoding, (2) memory consolidation (along with the brain basis of this process), and (3) neural plasticity. The clinical ramifications of such findings are also explored.

Two patients with spontaneous intracranial hypotension (SIH) subsequently developed cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) when their headache lost its distinctive orthostatic characteristic. In addition to typical MRI features of tonsillar descent, subdural fluid collections, and diffuse pachymeningeal enhancement, hyperintense thrombi were detected in the dural sinuses, and filling defects on magnetic resonance venography. Knowledge of the typical neuroimaging features of SIH and CVT and change in headache characteristics are important for prompt diagnosis and treatment.


How entorhinal grids generate hippocampal place fields remains unknown. The simplest hypothesis-that grids of different scales are added together-cannot explain a number of place field phenomena, such as (1) Summed grids form a repeating, dispersed activation pattern whereas place fields are focal and nonrepeating; (2) Grid cells are active in all environments but place cells only in some, and (3) Partial environmental changes cause either heterogeneous (&quot;partial&quot;) remapping in place cells whereas they result in all-or-nothing &quot;realignment&quot; remapping in grid cells. We propose that this dissociation between grid cell and place cell behavior arises in the entorhinal-dentate projection. By our view, the grid-cell/place-cell projection is modulated by context, both organizationally and activationally. Organizationally, we propose that when the animal first enters a new environment, the relatively homogeneous input from the grid cells becomes spatially clustered by Hebbian processes in the dendritic tree so that inputs active in the same context and having overlapping fields come to terminate on the same sub-branches of the tree. Activationally, when the animal re-enters the now-familiar environment, active contextual inputs select (by virtue of their clustered terminations) which parts of the dendritic tree, and therefore which grid cells, drive the granule cell. Assuming this pattern of projections, our model successfully produces focal hippocampal place fields that remap appropriately to contextual changes.
Individual medial entorhinal cortex (mEC) 'grid' cells provide a representation of space that appears to be essentially invariant across environments, modulo simple transformations, in contrast to multiple, rapidly acquired hippocampal maps; it may therefore be established gradually during rodent development. We explore with a simplified mathematical model the possibility that the self-organization of multiple grid fields into a triangular grid pattern may be a single-cell process, driven by firing rate adaptation and slowly varying spatial inputs. A simple analytical derivation indicates that triangular grids are favored asymptotic states of the self-organizing system, and computer simulations confirm that such states are indeed reached during a model learning process, provided it is sufficiently slow to effectively average out fluctuations. The interactions among local ensembles of grid units serve solely to stabilize a common grid orientation. Spatial information, in the real mEC network, may be provided by any combination of feedforward cortical afferents and feedback hippocampal projections from place cells, since either input alone is likely sufficient to yield grid fields.
This article presents a model of grid cell firing based on the intrinsic persistent firing shown experimentally in neurons of entorhinal cortex. In this model, the mechanism of persistent firing allows individual neurons to hold a stable baseline firing frequency. Depolarizing input from speed-modulated head direction cells transiently shifts the frequency of firing from baseline, resulting in a shift in spiking phase in proportion to the integral of velocity. The convergence of input from different persistent firing neurons causes spiking in a grid cell only when the persistent firing neurons are within similar phase ranges. This model effectively simulates the two-dimensional firing of grid cells in open field environments, as well as the properties of theta phase precession. This model provides an alternate implementation of oscillatory interference models. The persistent firing could also interact on a circuit level with rhythmic inhibition and neurons showing membrane potential oscillations to code position with spiking phase. These mechanisms could operate in parallel with computation of position from visual angle and distance of stimuli. In addition to simulating two-dimensional grid patterns, models of phase interference can account for context-dependent firing in other tasks. In network simulations of entorhinal cortex, hippocampus, and postsubiculum, the reset of phase effectively replicates context-dependent firing by entorhinal and hippocampal neurons during performance of a continuous spatial alternation task, a delayed spatial alternation task with running in a wheel during the delay period (Pastalkova et al., Science, 2008), and a hairpin maze task.
Grid cells are topographically organized in the sense that, within the dorsal part of the medial entorhinal cortex, the scale of the grid increases systematically with anatomical distance from the dorsal border of this brain area. The ventral limit of the spatial map is currently not known. To determine if the grid map extends into the intermediate and ventral parts of the medial entorhinal cortex, we recorded activity from entorhinal principal cells at multiple dorsoventral levels while rats shuttled back and forth on an 18 m long linear track. The recordings spanned a range of more than 3 mm, covering approximately three quarters of the dorsoventral extent of the medial entorhinal cortex. Distinct periodic firing fields were observed at all recording levels. The average interpeak distance between the fields increased from approximately 50 cm in the most dorsal part to approximately 3 m at the most ventral recording positions. The increase in grid scale was accompanied by a decrease in the frequency of theta modulation and the rate of phase precession. The increase in average spacing and field size was approximately linear but this relationship coincided with a substantial increase in the variability of each measure. Taken together, the observations suggest that the spatial scale of the grid representation increases progressively along most of the dorsoventral axis of the medial entorhinal cortex, mirroring the topographical scale expansion observed in place cells in the hippocampus.
The oscillatory interference model [Burgess et al. (2007) Hippocampus 17:801-802] of grid cell firing is reviewed as an algorithmic level description of path integration and as an implementation level description of grid cells and their inputs. New analyses concern the relationships between the variables in the model and the theta rhythm, running speed, and the intrinsic firing frequencies of grid cells. New simulations concern the implementation of velocity-controlled oscillators (VCOs) with different preferred directions in different neurons. To summarize the model, the distance traveled along a specific direction is encoded by the phase of a VCO relative to a baseline frequency. Each VCO is an intrinsic membrane potential oscillation whose frequency increases from baseline as a result of depolarization by synaptic input from speed modulated head-direction cells. Grid cell firing is driven by the VCOs whose preferred directions match the current direction of motion. VCOs are phase-reset by location-specific input from place cells to prevent accumulation of error. The baseline frequency is identified with the local average of VCO frequencies, while EEG theta frequency is identified with the global average VCO frequency and comprises two components: the frequency at zero speed and a linear response to running speed. Quantitative predictions are given for the inter-relationships between a grid cell's intrinsic firing frequency and grid scale, the two components of theta frequency, and the running speed of the animal. Qualitative predictions are given for the properties of the VCOs, and the relationship between environmental novelty, the two components of theta, grid scale and place cell remapping.
Not all areas of neuronal systems investigation have matured to the stage where computation can be understood at the microcircuit level. In mammals, insights into cortical circuit functions have been obtained for the early stages of sensory systems, where signals can be followed through networks of increasing complexity from the receptors to the primary sensory cortices. These studies have suggested how neurons and neuronal networks extract features from the external world, but how the brain generates its own codes, in the higher-order nonsensory parts of the cortex, has remained deeply mysterious. In this terra incognita, a path was opened by the discovery of grid cells, place-modulated entorhinal neurons whose firing locations define a periodic triangular or hexagonal array covering the entirety of the animal's available environment. This array of firing is maintained in spite of ongoing changes in the animal's speed and direction, suggesting that grid cells are part of the brain's metric for representation of space. Because the crystal-like structure of the firing fields is created within the nervous system itself, grid cells may provide scientists with direct access to some of the most basic operational principles of cortical circuits.

Recordings in awake, behaving animals demonstrate that cells in medial entorhinal cortex (mEC) show &quot;grid cell&quot; firing activity when a rat explores an open environment. Intracellular recording in slices from different positions along the dorsal to ventral axis show differences in intrinsic properties such as subthreshold membrane potential oscillations (MPO), resonant frequency, and the presence of the hyperpolarization-activated cation current (h-current). The differences in intrinsic properties correlate with differences in grid cell spatial scale along the dorsal-ventral axis of mEC. Two sets of computational models have been proposed to explain the grid cell firing phenomena: oscillatory interference models and attractor-dynamic models. Both types of computational models are briefly reviewed, and cellular experimental evidence is interpreted and presented in the context of both models. The oscillatory interference model has variations that include an additive model and a multiplicative model. Experimental data on the voltage-dependence of oscillations presented here support the additive model. The additive model also simulates data from ventral neurons showing large spacing between grid firing fields within the limits of observed MPO frequencies. The interactions of h-current with synaptic modification suggest that the difference in intrinsic properties could also contribute to differences in grid cell properties due to attractor dynamics along the dorsal to ventral axis of mEC. Mechanisms of oscillatory interference and attractor dynamics may make complementary contributions to the properties of grid cell firing in entorhinal cortex.
The oscillatory interference model (Burgess et al. (2007) Hippocampus 17:801-812) explains the generation of spatially stable, regular firing patterns by medial entorhinal cortical (mEC) grid cells in terms of the interference between velocity-controlled oscillators (VCOs) with different preferred directions. This model predicts specific relationships between the intrinsic firing frequency and spatial scale of grid cell firing, the EEG theta frequency, and running speed (Burgess,2008). Here, we use spectral analyses of EEG and of spike autocorrelograms to estimate the intrinsic firing frequency of grid cells, and the concurrent theta frequency, in mEC Layer II in freely moving rats. The intrinsic firing frequency of grid cells increased with running speed and decreased with grid scale, according to the quantitative prediction of the model. Similarly, theta frequency increased with running speed, which was also predicted by the model. An alternative Moir interference model (Blair et al.,2007) predicts a direction-dependent variation in intrinsic firing frequency, which was not found. Our results suggest that interference between VCOs generates the spatial firing patterns of entorhinal grid cells according to the oscillatory interference model. They also provide specific constraints on this model of grid cell firing and have more general implications for viewing neuronal processing in terms of interfering oscillatory processes.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is known to regulate phosphorylation of substrates such as MARCKS, GAP-43, and the NMDA receptor, all of which have been linked to synaptic plasticity underlying information storage processes. Here we report on three transgenic mice isoforms differentiated both by mutation of the PKC site on GAP-43 as well as by their performance in three learning situations: (1) a radial arm maze task, which evaluates spatial memory and its retention, (2) fear conditioning which assesses contextual memory, and (3) the water maze which also evaluates spatial memory and its retention. The present results show, for the first time to our knowledge, that the phosphorylation state of a single site on an identified brain growth- and plasticity-associated protein differentially regulates performance of three different memory-associated tasks.
The medial entorhinal cortex (EC) is a part of the neural network for the representation of self-location in the rat. The key cell type of this system is the grid cell, whose multiple firing fields span the environment in a remarkably regular triangular or hexagonal pattern. The basic properties of grid cells and other cell types have been described, but the neuronal mechanisms responsible for the formation and maintenance of the place code remain elusive. These mechanisms can be investigated by genetic intervention strategies, where specific components of the entorhinal-hippocampal network are activated or silenced. Because of the common use of knockout mice for such targeted interventions, we asked if grid activity is expressed also in the mouse. Principal neurons in the superficial layers of mouse medial EC had stable grid fields similar to those of the rat. Neighboring grid cells shared a common spacing and orientation but had a different spatial phase, such that a small number of grid cells collectively represented all locations in the environment. The spacing of the grid increased with distance from the dorsal border of the medial EC. The lowest values for grid spacing, recorded at the dorsal end, were comparable to those of the rat, suggesting that grid fields do not scale up proportionally with body size. Grid cells were colocalized with head-direction cells and conjunctive place x head-direction cells, as in the rat. The demonstration of grid cells in mice prepares the ground for transgenic analyses of the entorhinal-hippocampal network.
Overall dietary energy intake, particularly the consumption of simple sugars such as fructose, has been increasing steadily in Western societies, but the effects of such diets on the brain are poorly understood. Here, we used functional and structural assays to characterize the effects of excessive caloric intake on the hippocampus, a brain region important for learning and memory. Rats fed with a high-fat, high-glucose diet supplemented with high-fructose corn syrup showed alterations in energy and lipid metabolism similar to clinical diabetes, with elevated fasting glucose and increased cholesterol and triglycerides. Rats maintained on this diet for 8 months exhibited impaired spatial learning ability, reduced hippocampal dendritic spine density, and reduced long-term potentiation at Schaffer collateral--CA1 synapses. These changes occurred concurrently with reductions in levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the hippocampus. We conclude that a high-calorie diet reduces hippocampal synaptic plasticity and impairs cognitive function, possibly through BDNF-mediated effects on dendritic spines.
Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia in North America today. Though many risk factors have been suggested to increase the likelihood of developing this disease, an accurate etiology has yet to be described. One of these risk factors commonly associated with Alzheimer's disease is the loss of cholinergic neurons of the medial septum that project to the hippocampus, leading to depletion in cholinergic activity. A second risk factor is the presence of seizures, which can increase the risk of excitotoxic cell death. To examine the interaction between these two common risk factors, we gave rats a focal cholinergic lesion of the medial septum using the specific immunotoxin 192-IgG Saporin, followed 2 weeks later by a non-convulsive dose of kainic acid. We then assessed the rats for seizure severity, hippocampal damage and performance on a spatial memory task. The combination of the two factors resulted in a trend towards increased seizure severity in the cholinergic depleted rats, but more importantly, the lesioned rats that had non-convulsive seizures were significantly impaired on a spatial version of the Morris water maze when compared with either the rats with a cholinergic depletion or non-convulsive seizure alone. This result could not be explained by seizure severity or the extent of hippocampal damage, suggesting a more subtle interaction between these two risk factors in the development of a hippocampal based memory impairment.
Adult hippocampal neurogenesis (AHN) is modulated by a variety of factors through effects on the proliferation-differentiation-survival regulatory axis. We have employed growth hormone receptor knockout (GH-R-/-) and suppressor of cytokine signaling-2 transgenic (SOCS-2 Tg) mice as models of altered GH-signaling to assess their affects on basal and exercised-induced hippocampal neurogenesis. Assessment of proliferation 24-h after 7-days of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling with or without voluntary running showed that the density of BrdU(+) cells in the subgranular zone remained unchanged between genotypes in control housing, while running induced significant increases in BrdU-labeled cells in WT, GH-R-/-, and SOCS-2 Tg mice. The proportion of BrdU/doublecortin and BrdU/S100beta cells did not vary between genotype or running conditions at this time-point. Assessment of cell survival 28-days after BrdU labeling showed that SOCS-2 Tg animals had significantly higher BrdU(+) cell densities in the granule cell layer compared to WT and GH-R-/- animals in control housing and after voluntary running. There were no differences in cell survival between WT and GH-R-/- mice with or without running. Mature phenotype analysis showed similar proportions of BrdU/NeuN and BrdU/S100beta in all groups. While SOCS-2 Tg mice had similar social interaction behaviors and sensorimotor gating, they appeared to be less anxious with heightened basal locomotor activity and showed enhanced performance in the Morris watermaze test. Overall, our data indicated that mice over-expressing SOCS-2 showed increased survival of neurons generated during AHN, which correlated with improved performance in a hippocampal-dependent cognitive task. Furthermore, voluntary running increased AHN in WT, SOCS-2 Tg, and serum-IGF-1-deficient GH-R-/- mice.
HuD is a neuronal RNA-binding protein associated with the stabilization of mRNAs for GAP-43 and other neuronal proteins that are important for nervous system development and learning and memory mechanisms. To better understand the function of this protein, we generated transgenic mice expressing human HuD (HuD-Tg) in adult forebrain neurons. We have previously shown that expression of HuD in adult dentate granule cells results in an abnormal accumulation of GAP-43 mRNA via posttranscriptional mechanisms. Here we show that this mRNA accumulation leads to the ectopic expression of GAP-43 protein in mossy fibers. Electrophysiological analyses of the mossy fiber to CA3 synapse of HuD-Tg mice revealed increases in paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) at short interpulse intervals and no change in long-term potentiation (LTP). Presynaptic calcium transients at the same synapses exhibited faster time constants of decay, suggesting a decrease in the endogenous Ca(2+) buffer capacity of mossy fiber terminals of HuD-Tg mice. Under resting conditions, GAP-43 binds very tightly to calmodulin sequestering it and then releasing it upon PKC-dependent phosphorylation. Therefore, subsequent studies examined the extent of GAP-43 phosphorylation and its association to calmodulin. We found that despite the increased GAP-43 expression in HuD-Tg mice, the levels of PKC-phosphorylated GAP-43 were decreased in these animals. Furthermore, in agreement with the increased proportion of nonphosphorylated GAP-43, HuD-Tg mice showed increased binding of calmodulin to this protein. These results suggest that a significant amount of calmodulin may be trapped in an inactive state, unable to bind free calcium, and activate downstream signaling pathways. In conclusion, we propose that an unregulated expression of HuD disrupts mossy fiber physiology in adult mice in part by altering the expression and phosphorylation of GAP-43 and the amount of free calmodulin available at the synaptic terminal.
Both vitamin A deficiency and high doses of retinoids can result in learning and memory impairments, depression as well as decreases in cell proliferation, neurogenesis and cell survival. Physical activity enhances hippocampal neurogenesis and can also exert an antidepressant effect. Here we elucidate a putative link between running, retinoid signaling, and neurogenesis in hippocampus. Adult transgenic reporter mice designed to detect ligand-activated retinoic acid receptors (RAR) or retinoid X receptors (RXR) were used to localize the distribution of activated RAR or RXR at the single-cell level in the brain. Two months of voluntary wheel-running induced an increase in hippocampal neurogenesis as indicated by an almost two-fold increase in doublecortin-immunoreactive cells. Running activity was correlated with neurogenesis. Under basal conditions a distinct pattern of RAR-activated cells was detected in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus (DG), thalamus, and cerebral cortex layers 3-4 and to a lesser extent in hippocampal pyramidal cell layers CA1-CA3. Running did not change the number of RAR-activated cells in the DG. There was no correlation between running and RAR activation or between RAR activation and neurogenesis in the DG of hippocampus. Only a few scattered activated retinoid X receptors were found in the DG under basal conditions and after wheel-running, but RXR was detected in other areas such as in the hilus region of hippocampus and in layer VI of cortex cerebri. RAR agonists affect mood in humans and reduce neurogenesis, learning and memory in animal models. In our study, long-term running increased neurogenesis but did not alter RAR ligand activation in the DG in individually housed mice. Thus, our data suggest that the effects of exercise on neurogenesis and other plasticity changes in the hippocampal formation are mediated by mechanisms that do not involve retinoid receptor activation.
Adult neurogenesis is a key feature of the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG). Neurogenesis is accompanied by synaptogenesis as new cells become integrated into the circuitry of the hippocampus. However, little is known to what extent the embedding of new neurons rewires the pre-existing network. Here we investigate synaptic rewiring in the DG of gerbils (Meriones unguiculatus) under different rates of adult cell proliferation caused by different rearing conditions as well as juvenile methamphetamine treatment. Surprisingly, we found that an increased cell proliferation reduced the amount of synaptic rewiring. To help explain this unexpected finding, we developed a novel model of dentate network formation incorporating neurogenesis and activity-dependent synapse formation and remodelling. In the model, we show that homeostasis of neuronal activity can account for the inverse relationship between cell proliferation and synaptic rewiring.
PAK1 and PAK3 belong to a family of protein kinases that are effectors of small Rho GTPases. In humans, mutations of PAK3 have been associated with mental retardation and result in in vitro studies in defects of spine morphogenesis. The functional specificities of PAK1 and PAK3 remain, however, unclear. Here, we investigated using loss and gain of function experiments how PAK1 and PAK3 affect spine morphology in hippocampal slice cultures. We find that while knockdown of PAK3 is associated with an increase in thin, elongated, immature-type spines, downregulation of PAK1 does not alter spine morphology. Conversely, expression of a constitutively active form of PAK3 remains without effect, while expression of constitutively active PAK1 results in the formation of spines with smaller head diameters. Interestingly, expression of constitutively active PAK1 can rescue the long spine phenotype induced by suppression of PAK3. We conclude that while PAK1 and PAK3 share distinct roles in the regulation of spine morphogenesis, their activity may overlap allowing the compensation of the PAK3 deficit by PAK1. This result opens interesting perspectives in the context of reversing the spine defects associated with PAK3 mutations.
Although the parahippocampal cortex (PHc) is known to be critical for memory formation, little is known about what is encoded by this area. Using multi-voxel pattern analysis of high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data, we examined responses to blocks of categorically coherent stimuli and found that patterns of activity in PHc were selective for not only scenes, but also for other nonspatial object categories (e.g., faces and toys). This pattern of results was also found in the parahippocampal place area (PPA), indicating that this region is not sensitive exclusively to scenes. In contrast, neither the hippocampus nor perirhinal cortex (PRc) were found to be selective for category information. The results indicate that regions within the medial temporal lobe may support distinct functions, and that the PHc appears to be particularly sensitive to category-level information.
We examined the effects of dorsal, ventral, or complete damage to the hippocampus on long-term retention of a Pavlovian conditioned fear response to a tone and a context paired with foot shock. Rats received a fear conditioning episode, in which a tone and context or context-alone were paired with foot shock. Two days or 12 weeks later, they received sham, dorsal, ventral, or complete NMDA-induced damage of the hippocampus. During a retention test conducted 2 weeks after surgery, the sham control rats exhibited high levels of freezing in the context and in the presence of the tone. Rats with dorsal, ventral, or complete hippocampal damage displayed very little freezing in the context at either learning-surgery intervals. Partial hippocampal damage tended to cause a smaller but consistent deficit in conditioned responding to context at the shorter (2 day) learning-surgery interval. Rats with hippocampal damage did not display less severe retrograde amnesia for more remote (12 weeks) memories. A similar pattern of results was observed for freezing to the tone. We find that the severity of retrograde amnesia for fear conditioning is related to the extent of the damage and that there is consistent and severe retrograde amnesia for remote contextual and cued fear memories. These findings support the idea that the hippocampal formation plays an essential and possibly permanent role in fear memories.
Epidemiological studies suggest that multiple developmental disruptions are involved in the etiology of psychiatric illnesses including schizophrenia. In addition, altered expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been implicated in these illnesses. In the present study, we examined the combined long-term effect of an early stress, in the form of maternal deprivation, and a later stress, simulated by chronic young-adult treatment with the stress hormone, corticosterone, on BDNF expression in the hippocampus of rats. To assess whether there were behavioral effects, which may correlate with the BDNF changes, learning and memory was tested in the Y-maze test for short term spatial memory, the Morris water maze for long-term spatial memory, and the T-maze test for working memory. Four groups of rats received either no stress, maternal deprivation, corticosterone treatment, or both. Dorsal hippocampus sections obtained from parallel groups were used for BDNF mRNA in situ hybridization. Rats which had undergone both maternal deprivation and corticosterone treatment displayed a unique and significant 25-35% reduction of BDNF expression in the dentate gyrus (DG), and similar trends in the CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus. These &quot;two-hit&quot; animals exhibited a learning delay in the Morris water maze test, a marked deficit in the Y-maze, but little change in the T-maze test. However, some aspects of cognition were also altered in rats with either maternal deprivation or corticosterone treatment. This study demonstrates a persistent effect of two developmental disruptions on BDNF expression in the hippocampus, with parallel, but not completely correlative changes in learning and memory.
Recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vector-induced neuropeptide Y (NPY) overexpression in the hippocampus exerts powerful antiepileptic and antiepileptogenic effects in rats. Such gene therapy approach could be a valuable alternative for developing new antiepileptic treatment strategies. Future clinical progress, however, requires more detailed evaluation of possible side effects of this treatment. Until now it has been unknown whether rAAV vector-based NPY overexpression in the hippocampus alters normal synaptic transmission and plasticity, which could disturb learning and memory processing. Here we show, by electrophysiological recordings in CA1 of the hippocampal formation of rats, that hippocampal NPY gene transfer into the intact brain does not affect basal synaptic transmission, but slightly alters short-term synaptic plasticity, most likely via NPY Y2 receptor-mediated mechanisms. In addition, transgene NPY seems to be released during high frequency neuronal activity, leading to decreased glutamate release in excitatory synapses. Importantly, memory consolidation appears to be affected by the treatment. We found that long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 area is partially impaired and animals have a slower rate of hippocampal-based spatial discrimination learning. These data provide the first evidence that rAAV-based gene therapy using NPY exerts relative limited effect on synaptic plasticity and learning in the hippocampus, and therefore this approach could be considered as a viable alternative for epilepsy treatment.
The selective lesion of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs) is an unestimable tool to study the implication of these neurons in cognition, an interest widely motivated by their degeneration in Alzheimer's disease. Here we evaluated the histochemical and behavioral effects of a selective lesion of BFCNs in C57BL/6J mice treated intracerebroventricularly (ICV) with a novel version of the immunotoxin mu p75-saporin (0.4 mug/mouse). There was a 100% postsurgical survival rate, no abnormal loss of weight, no disruption of sensorimotor coordination, and no noncognitive bias in a water-maze test. This immunotoxin induced a loss of choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in the medial septum (-82%) and in the nucleus basalis (-55%). Preserved parvalbumine-immunostaining suggests that the lesion was specific to BFCNs. Septo-hippocampal and basalo-cortical projections of BFCNs degenerated as suggested by massive loss of acetylcholinesterase-positive staining in the hippocampus and the cortical mantle. Moreover, anticalbindin immunostaining showed no damage to cerebellar Purkinje cells. Lesioned mice displayed increased diurnal and nocturnal locomotor activity. Their spatial learning/memory performances in a water maze and in a Barnes maze were significantly impaired: learning was substantially slowed down, although not obliterated, and memory retention was altered. These behavioral consequences are comparable, with fewer side effects, to those reported after ICV 192 IgG-saporin in rats. In conclusion, the new version of mu p75-saporin provides a safe and powerful tool for BFCN lesion in mice.
Fe, Cu, and Zn are of widespread neurobiological importance, but must be regulated closely as too much or too little of these metals can have adverse effects on brain function. Recent evidence from nutritional models notes that the hippocampus is particularly vulnerable to Fe and Zn deficiencies. We recently performed a quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis as a preliminary step in identifying genes that contribute to natural variation in hippocampal Fe, Cu, and Zn content. We used ICP-MS to measure the concentrations of these metals in 120-day-old mice from 30 strains of the BXD/TY panel. The BXD/Ty recombinant inbred strain panel is well-suited for complex trait analysis, as all strains are genotyped with a dense marker set and have been phenotyped extensively for neurobehavioral traits and hippocampal gene expression. We observed a wide-range of hippocampal Fe, Cu, and Zn concentrations across the BXD strains. These concentrations were related to systemic Fe status, but not to Fe, Cu, and Zn elsewhere in the brain. The three metals also showed strong covariance, suggestive of overlap in their regulatory pathways. We identified two QTL, on chromosomes 14 and 9, most strongly associated with Cu but also suggestively associated with Fe (chr. 14) and Zn (chr. 9). We also performed genetic correlational analyses with existing data on these strains and revealed associations with cognitive, anxiety-related, and alcohol-related phenotypes. Covariance of these metals with gene expression is also discussed. This work shows that hippocampal Fe, Cu, and Zn are under polygenic influence and that trace metal regulation is associated with hippocampus-related behaviors. Future work will elucidate the genes underlying the two QTL identified, to aid in identifying homologous genetic variants in human populations, which may underlie altered trace metal homeostasis and related neurological disease.
To further explore the roles of medial temporal structures in mediating sensory gating of incoming irrelevant or redundant auditory input, twenty-seven patients with intractable epilepsy with depth electrodes implanted in the medial temporal lobe for presurgery evaluation underwent evoked response recording to auditory paired-stimuli (S1-S2). Seventeen subjects were diagnosed with left medial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) and 10 with right MTLE. Only data from the nonlesion side were included. Twenty-three records from rhinal and anterior hippocampal regions, and 21 from posterior hippocampal regions were included in the analysis. The rhinal region had two prominent components (a negativity peaking around 200 ms followed by a positivity peaking around 400 ms). Both the anterior and posterior hippocampal regions exhibited a dominant negative potential peaking around 400 ms. These components were all composed predominantly of slower frequencies. In contrast, a negativity in the posterior hippocampus at around 100 ms was composed of slow and fast frequencies. All components but the early rhinal negativity were attenuated by stimulus repetition. This is the first report documenting that different regions of the medial temporal area are differentially involved in the processing of auditory input, most likely reflecting separate steps of processing. The data support the need for further exploration of the contribution of these regions to sensory gating. This information helps to increase our understanding of this basic but important and complex function.
Cells sort into regions and groups in part by their selective surface expression of particular classic cadherins during development. In the nervous system, cadherin-based sorting can define axon tracts, restrict axonal and dendritic arbors to particular regions or layers, and may encode certain aspects of synapse specificity. The underlying model has been that afferents and their targets hold in common the expression of a particular cadherin, thereby providing a recognition code of homophilic cadherin binding. However, most neurons express multiple cadherins, and it is not clear whether multiple cadherins all act similarly in shaping neural circuitry. Here we asked how two such cadherins, cadherin-8 and N-cadherin, influence the guidance and differentiation of hippocampal mossy fibers. Using organotypic hippocampal cultures, we find that cadherin-8 regulates mossy fiber fasciculation and targeting, but has little effect on CA3 dendrites. In contrast, N-cadherin regulates mossy fiber fasciculation, but has little impact on axonal growth and targeting. However, N-cadherin is essential for CA3 dendrite arborization. Both cadherins are required for formation of proper numbers of presynaptic terminals. Mechanistically, such differential actions of these two cadherins could, in theory, reflect coupling to distinct intracellular binding partners. However, we find that both cadherins bind beta-catenin in dentate gyrus (DG). This suggests that cadherins may engage different intracellular signaling cascades downstream of beta-catenin, coopt different extracellular binding partners, or target distinct subcellular domains. Together our findings demonstrate that cadherin-8 and N-cadherin are critical for generating the mossy fiber pathway, but that each contributes differentially to afferent and target differentiation, thereby complementing one another in the assembly of a synaptic circuit.
Anesthetic protocols for behavioral neuroscience experiments are evolving as new anesthetics are developed and surgical procedures are refined to improve animal welfare. We tested whether neurotoxic dorsal hippocampal lesions produced under two different anesthetic protocols would have different behavioral and/or histo-pathological effects. Rats were anesthetized with either propofol, an intravenous anesthetic, or isoflurane, a gaseous anesthetic, and multiple injections of an excitotoxin (N-methyl-D-aspartate) were stereotaxically placed in the dorsal hippocampus bilaterally. Intraoperative physiological parameters were similar in the two surgical groups, as were the volumes of the lesions, although the profile of postoperative impairment in a spatial learning task differed between the lesion groups depending on the anesthetic regimen used. These results show that the choice of anesthetic protocol is a critical variable in designing behavioral neuroscience experiments using neurosurgical procedures. This factor should be considered carefully in experimental design and in cross-study comparisons of lesion effects on behavior.
The entorhinal cortex (EC) conveys information to hippocampal field CA1 either directly by way of projections from principal neurons in layer III, or indirectly by axons from layer II via the dentate gyrus, CA3, and Schaffer collaterals. These two pathways differentially influence activity in CA1, yet conclusive evidence is lacking whether and to what extent they converge onto single CA1 neurons. Presently we studied such convergence. Different neuroanatomical tracers injected into layer III of EC and into CA3, respectively, tagged simultaneously the direct entorhino-hippocampal fibers and the indirect innervation of CA1 neurons by Schaffer collaterals. In slices of fixed brains we intracellularly filled CA1 pyramidal cells and interneurons in stratum lacunosum-moleculare (LM) and stratum radiatum (SR). Sections of these slices were scanned in a confocal laser scanning microscope. 3D-reconstruction was used to determine whether boutons of the labeled input fibers were in contact with the intracellularly filled neurons. We analyzed 12 pyramidal neurons and 21 interneurons. Perforant path innervation to pyramidal neurons in our material was observed to be denser than that from CA3. All pyramidal neurons and 17 of the interneurons received contacts of both perforant pathway and Schaffer input on their dendrites and cell bodies. Four interneurons, which were completely embedded in LM, received only labeled perforant pathway input. Thus, we found convergence of both projection systems on single CA1 pyramidal and interneurons with dendrites that access the layers where perforant pathway fibers and Schaffer collaterals end.
The mechanisms of goal-directed behavior have been studied using reinforcement learning theory, but these theoretical techniques have not often been used to address the role of memory systems in performing behavioral tasks. This work addresses this shortcoming by providing a way in which working memory (WM) and episodic memory may be included in the reinforcement learning framework, then simulating the successful acquisition and performance of six behavioral tasks, drawn from or inspired by the rat experimental literature, that require WM or episodic memory for correct performance. With no delay imposed during the tasks, simulations with WM can solve all of the tasks at above the chance level. When a delay is imposed, simulations with both episodic memory and WM can solve all of the tasks except a disambiguation of odor sequences task.
Adolescent humans who abuse alcohol are more vulnerable than adults to the development of memory impairments. Memory impairments often involve modifications in the ability of hippocampal neurons to establish long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatory neurotransmission; however, few studies have examined how chronic ethanol exposure during adolescence affects LTP mechanisms in hippocampus. We investigated changes in LTP mechanisms in hippocamal slices from rats exposed to intoxicating concentrations of chronic intermittent ethanol (CIE) vapors in their period of early-adolescent (i.e., prepubescent) or late-adolescent (i.e., postpubescent) development. LTP was evaluated at excitatory CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices at 24 h after the cessation of air (control) or CIE vapor treatments. CA1 synapses in control slices showed steady LTP following induction by high-frequency stimulation, which was fully dependent on NMDAR function. By contrast, slices from early-adolescent CIE exposed animals showed a compound form of LTP consisting of an NMDAR-dependent component and a slow-developing component independent of NMDARs. These components summated to yield LTP of robust magnitude above LTP levels in age-matched control slices. Bath-application of the sigma-receptor antagonist BD1047 and the neuroactive steroid pregnenolone sulfate, but not acute ethanol application, blocked NMDAR-independent LTP, while leaving NMDAR-dependent LTP intact. Analysis of presynaptic function during NMDAR-independent LTP induction demonstrated increased presynaptic function via a sigma-receptor-dependent mechanism in slices from early-adolescent CIE-exposed animals. By contrast, CIE exposure after puberty onset in late-adolescent animals produced decrements in LTP levels. The identification of a role for sigma-receptors and neuroactive steroids in the development of NMDAR-independent LTP suggests an important pathway by which hippocampal synaptic plasticity, and perhaps memory, may be uniquely altered by chronic ethanol exposure during the prepubescent phase of adolescent development.
In the adult murine hippocampus, dentate gyrus (DG), neurogenesis and neural cell death are thought to affect learning and memory in incompletely understood mechanism(s). Because cholinergic neurotransmission influences both of these functions, we hypothesized that cholinergic signaling, affected by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, expression level, and alternative splicing, may provide a link between these processes. To challenge this hypothesis, we compared DG neurogenesis in transgenic mice overexpressing engineered &quot;synaptic&quot; AChE-S, incapable of acetylcholine (ACh) hydrolysis (TgSin) with strain-matched controls. In control mice, we observed increasing AChE gene expression with progressing neurogenesis. This involved dividing DG neurons expressing proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Tuj1-positive committed neurons compared with neighboring cells. However, TgSin hippocampi with lower hydrolytic AChE activity showed more PCNA-labeled cells than controls. In contrast, TgS mice overexpressing catalytically active AChE-S, with higher than control levels of AChE hydrolytic activity, presented elevated cell labeling by both bromodeoxyuridine and caspase-3, reflecting facilitated survival of newly born neurons as well as increased neural apoptosis. In comparison, overexpression of the stress-induced &quot;readthrough&quot; AChE-R variant in TgR mice resulted in higher hydrolytic activities but unchanged neurogenesis and apoptosis parameters, while all strains presented similar granule cell layer areas, cell density, and neuron numbers. Importantly, this homeostasis was maintained at a cognitive cost: in the hippocampal-dependent socially transmitted food preference task, TgS and TgSin mice showed impaired acquisition and retention, respectively. Our findings suggest that replacement of AChE-S with AChE-R serves to maintain DG homeostasis and associated cognitive tasks, highlighting the role of cholinergic signaling in adult hippocampal neurogenesis and functioning.
For medial temporal lobe (MTL) involvement in memory formation, it is as yet unclear whether the MTL represents a single or dual (recollection/familiarity) memory system. A further controversial issue is whether or not the hippocampus is critical for the familiarity component of recognition memory. The present prospective fMRI study aimed to investigate changes of MTL involvement in recollection and familiarity at three time points following new learning: immediately after encoding, after 3 weeks and after 6 weeks. Significant hippocampal activation was observed for recollection relative to correct rejection responses at all three intervals. In addition, a decrease of signal changes in the perirhinal cortex was observed for the familiarity versus correct rejection contrasts. These findings support the idea that the MTL is a dual memory system. They also indicate a lasting hippocampal involvement in the recollection component of recognition memory and a decrease of perirhinal cortex activation associated with familiarity for time periods up to 6 weeks after new learning.
Neuroendocrine responses to an emotional or arousing experience modulate memory for the event. Extensive evidence suggests that epinephrine plays an important role in the regulation of memory formation by emotions and arousal. Some forms of synaptic plasticity are similarly responsive to modulation by stress and arousal. The present experiment examined the effects of epinephrine on induction and maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP) in awake rats. Rats were prepared with bilaterally implanted electrodes for recording evoked field potentials in dentate granule cells following perforant pathway stimulation. LTP was induced with high-frequency stimulation parameters that resulted in modest early potentiation of the EPSP that decayed within 20 min. Epinephrine enhanced the magnitude of early LTP induction and also extended the durability of LTP from minutes to at least several days. Epinephrine did not alter baseline responses or modulate pre-LTP input-output curves. The enhancement of LTP by epinephrine was dose-dependent, following an inverted-U dose-response curve similar to that seen in memory enhancement experiments, suggesting considerable convergence of epinephrine modulation of memory and LTP. In extending substantially the maintenance of LTP after induction, the present finding offer potential means to study the neurobiology of rapid forgetting seen in aged rodents and other animals and the neurobiology of the impaired forgetting seen in post-traumatic stress disorder.
Remodeling of synaptic networks is believed to contribute to synaptic plasticity and long-term memory performance, both of which are modulated by chronic stress. We here examined whether chronic stress modulates dendritic complexity of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells, under conditions of basal as well as elevated corticosteroid hormone levels. Slices were prepared from nave, handled or chronically stressed animals and briefly treated with vehicle or corticosterone (100 nM); neurons were visualized with a fluorescent dye injected into individual CA1 pyramidal cells. We observed that 21 days of unpredictable stress did not affect hippocampal CA1 apical or basal dendritic morphology compared with nave animals when corticosteroid levels were low. Only when slices from stressed animals were also exposed to elevated corticosteroid levels, a significant reduction in apical (but not basal) dendritic length became apparent. Unexpectedly, animals that were handled or 3 weeks showed a reduction in both apical dendritic length and number of apical branch points when compared with nave animals. Apical dendritic length and number of branch points were restored to levels found in nave animals several hours after in vitro treatment with 100 nM corticosterone. All effects of acute corticosterone administration could be prevented by the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU38486 given during the last 4 days of the stress or handling protocol. We conclude that brief exposure to high concentrations of corticosterone can differently affect apical dendritic structure, depending on the earlier history of the animal, a process that critically depends on involvement of the glucocorticoid receptor.
The inferior performance of DBA/2 mice when compared to C57BL/6 mice in hippocampus-dependent behavioral tasks including contextual fear conditioning has been attributed to impaired hippocampal function. However, DBA/2J mice have been reported to perform similarly or even better than C57BL/6J mice in the passive avoidance (PA) task that most likely also depends on hippocampal function. The apparent discrepancy in PA versus fear conditioning performance in these two strains of mice was investigated using an automated PA system. The aim was to determine whether these two mouse strains utilize different strategies involving a different contribution of hippocampal mechanisms to encode PA. C57BL/6J mice exhibited significantly longer retention latencies than DBA/2J mice when tested 24 h after training irrespective of the circadian cycle. Dorsohippocampal NMDA receptor inhibition by local injection of the selective antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP5, 3.2 microg/mouse) before training resulted in impaired PA retention in C57BL/6J but not in DBA/2J mice. Furthermore, nonreinforced pre-exposure to the PA system before training caused a latent inhibition-like reduction of retention latencies in C57BL/6J, whereas it improved PA retention in DBA/2J mice. These pre-exposure experiments facilitated the discrimination of hippocampal involvement without local pharmacological intervention. The results indicate differences in PA learning between these two strains based on a different NMDA receptor involvement in the dorsal hippocampus in this emotional learning task. We hypothesize that mouse strains can differ in their PA learning performance based on their relative ability to form associations on the basis of unisensory versus multisensory contextual/spatial cues that involve hippocampal processing.
Estradiol has been shown to interact with the cholinergic system to affect cognition in postmenopausal women. This study further investigated the interaction of estradiol and cholinergic system functioning on verbal memory and attention in two groups of healthy younger (ages 50-62) and older (ages 70-81) postmenopausal women. Twenty-two postmenopausal women were randomly and blindly placed on 1 mg of 17-beta estradiol orally for 1 month then 2 mg for 2 months or matching placebo pills after which they participated in three anticholinergic challenge sessions when verbal memory and attention were assessed. Subjects were administered either the antimuscarinic drug scopolamine (SCOP), the antinicotinic drug mecamylamine (MECA), or placebo. After the first challenge phase, they were crossed over to the other hormone treatment for another 3 months and repeated the challenges. Results showed that estradiol pretreatment significantly attenuated the anticholinergic drug-induced impairments on a test of episodic memory (the Buschke Selective Reminding Task) for the younger group only, while estradiol treatment impaired performance of the older group. The results suggest that younger subjects may experience more cholinergic benefit from estradiol treatment than older subjects, supporting the concept of a critical period for postmenopausal estrogen use.

The combination of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) with functional neuroimaging has expanded the potential of TMS for human brain mapping. The precise and reliable positioning of the TMS coil is not a simple task, however. Modern frameless stereotaxic systems allow investigators to base navigation either on the subject's structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), functional MRI data, or the use of functional neuroimaging data from the literature, so-called &quot;probabilistic approach.&quot; The latter assumes consistency across individuals in the location of task-related &quot;activations&quot; in standardized stereotaxic space. Conventional nonstereotaxic localization of brain areas is also a common method for defining the coil position. Our aim was to evaluate the accuracy of five different localization strategies in one single study. The left primary motor cortex (left M1-Hand) was used as target region. Three approaches were based on real-time frameless stereotaxy using information based on either anatomical or functional MRI. The remaining two strategies relied either on standard cranial landmarks (i.e., the International 10-20 EEG system) or a standardized function-guided procedure (i.e., the spatial relationship between the left and right M1-Hand). The results were compared to a TMS-based mapping of the primary motor cortex; center of gravity of motor-evoked potentials (MEP-CoG) was calculated for each subject (n = 10). Our findings suggest that highest precision can be achieved with fMRI-guided stimulation, which was accurate within the range of millimeters. Very consistent results were also obtained with the &quot;probabilistic&quot; approach. In view of these findings, we discuss the methods and special characteristics of each localization strategy.
This paper reviews the main neurological complications of psychiatric drugs, in particular antipsychotics and antidepressants. Extrapyramidal syndromes include acute dystonia, parkinsonism, akathisia, tardive dyskinesia and tardive dystonia. Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) are less frequent with atypical than with conventional antipsychotics but remain common in clinical practice partly due to lack of screening by health professionals. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) consists of severe muscle rigidity, pyrexia, change in conscious level and autonomic disturbance but partial forms also occur. NMS is particularly associated with the initiation and rapid increase in dose of high-potency antipsychotics but it has been reported with all the atypical antipsychotics and rarely with other drugs including antidepressants. Serotonin toxicity comprises altered mental state (agitation, excitement, confusion), neuromuscular hyperactivity (tremor, clonus, myoclonus, hyper-reflexia) and autonomic hyperactivity and occurs on a spectrum. Severe cases, termed serotonin syndrome, usually follow the co-prescription of drugs that increase serotonergic transmission by different pathways, for example a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) and a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Most antipsychotics and antidepressants lower the seizure threshold and can cause seizures; the risk is greater with clozapine than with other atypical antipsychotics and greater with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) than with SSRIs. In randomised controlled trials in elderly patients with dementia atypical antipsychotics are associated with a higher risk of stroke and death than placebo. Cohort studies suggest that conventional drugs carry at least the same risk. Cessation of treatment with antipsychotics and antidepressants can lead to a wide range of discontinuation symptoms which include movement disorders and other neurological symptoms. Clinicians need to be familiar with strategies to reduce the risk of these adverse events and to manage them when they arise. Their occurrence needs to be balanced against the benefits of psychiatric drugs in terms of efficacy and improved quality of life in a range of disorders.

Noninvasive functional neuroimaging, as an important tool for basic neuroscience research and clinical diagnosis, continues to face the need of improving the spatial and temporal resolution. While existing neuroimaging modalities might approach their limits in imaging capability mostly due to fundamental as well as technical reasons, it becomes increasingly attractive to integrate multiple complementary modalities in an attempt to significantly enhance the spatiotemporal resolution that cannot be achieved by any modality individually. Electrophysiological and hemodynamic/metabolic signals reflect distinct but closely coupled aspects of the underlying neural activity. Combining fMRI and EEG/MEG data allows us to study brain function from different perspectives. In this review, we start with an overview of the physiological origins of EEG/MEG and fMRI, as well as their fundamental biophysics and imaging principles, we proceed with a review of the major advances in the understanding and modeling of neurovascular coupling and in the methodologies for the fMRI-EEG/MEG simultaneous recording. Finally, we summarize important remaining issues and perspectives concerning multimodal functional neuroimaging, including brain connectivity imaging.
This overview covers recent advances in the field of EEG/MEG signal processing and modeling in epilepsy regarding both interictal and ictal phenomena. In the first part, the main methods used in the analysis of interictal EEG/MEG epileptiform spikes are presented and discussed. Source and volume conductor models are passed in review, namely the equivalent dipole source concept, the requirements for adequate time and spatial sampling, the question of how to validate source solutions, particularly by comparing solutions obtained using scalp and intracranial EEG signals, EEG &amp; MEG data, or EEG simultaneously recorded with fMRI (BOLD signals). In the second part, methods used for the characterization of seizures are considered, namely dipolar modeling of spikes at seizure onset, decomposition of seizure EEG signals into sets of orthogonal spatio-temporal components, and also methods (linear and nonlinear) of estimating seizure propagation. In the third part, the crucial issue of how the transition between interictal and seizure activity takes place is examined. In particular the vicissitudes of the efforts along the road to seizure prediction are shortly reviewed. It is argued that this question can be reduced to the problem of estimating the excitability state of neuronal populations in the course of time as a seizure approaches. The value of active probing methods in contrast with passive analytical methods is emphasized. In the fourth part modeling aspects are considered in the light of two special kinds of epilepsies, absences characterized by spike-and-wave discharges and mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. These two types correspond to different scenarios regarding the transition to epileptic seizures, namely the former is a case of a jump transition and the latter is a typical case of gradual transition. In conclusion, the necessity of developing comprehensive computational models of epileptic seizures is emphasized.
Exploration of an object by arm movement and somatosensation is a serial process that relies on memories and expectations. The present experiments tested the hypothesis that this process involves breaking the object into component shapes (primitives). This was tested by having human subjects explore shapes composed of semicircular arcs, as well as quarter circles or quarter ellipses. The subjects' perception was reported using a visual display. In the first experiment, in which a series of semicircular arcs was presented, with offsets that differed from trial to trial, performance was consistent with the perception of two (left and right) semicircles. In the second experiment, subjects often failed to detect the quarter circles or quarter ellipses and again behaved as if the object was composed of two (top and bottom) semicircles. The results suggest that the synthesis of haptically sensed shapes is biased toward simple geometric objects and that it can be strongly influenced by expectations.
Dendritic cells (DCs) play a key role in the orchestration of the immune system by virtue of their capacity to control both immunity and tolerance induction. The functions of DCs depend on the subset as well as their location and activation state. A number of in vitro protocols, developed to recapitulate DC generation from hematopoietic precursors, have suggested the importance of microenvironment and cytokine milieu in driving the generation of DCs endowed with peculiar phenotypic and functional features. Recently, some important concepts on the development of DCs from human blood monocytes have been challenged. The finding that human DCs can be generated from monocytes in the presence of granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) alone points to this cytokine as a direct player, rather than a survival-promoting factor, in the development of DCs with distinct properties. This review summarizes the role of different cytokine cocktails in the in vitro generation of human DCs from blood monocyte precursors, focusing on GM-CSF as a direct player in the generation of functionally distinct DCs.
Statins' recently discovered anti-inflammatory effects place them at the forefront of the new therapies for chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Our recent study demonstrated that simvastatin exerts an independent immunomodulatory effect on the human monocytes and CD4+ cells. In addition to the statin-mediated effect on the monocyte cytokine production, which regulates Th17 cell differentiation, simvastatin directly inhibits IL-17 production in CD4+ cells, which may collectively inhibit the autoimmune response in multiple sclerosis (MS), a central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory demyelinating disease.


The coordination between visual and manual domains is a cornerstone of learning in early development. If infants anticipate an object's physical characteristics prior to contact (i.e., from visual inspection), they could learn more about the physical world through visual observation only than if manual exploration is required. In this experiment, infants grasped a series of four round balls quite similar in size and overall shape, but different in structure. Two were composed of solid hard plastic (one transparent, one opaque) in a rigid structure, and two were composed of more flexible plastic in a nonrigid structure. This nonrigid structure afforded grasping using a precision grasp with fingertips extending inside the ball's outer edge. In contrast, the rigid balls could be grasped only by a full-hand power grasp (due to the relative sizes of ball and infants' hands). The infants' manual anticipations were assessed in their first reach for each ball, prior to their first contact with the ball. In addition, grasping and other exploratory behaviors were assessed after contact with the ball. Results from this study suggest that infants from 5 to 15 months of age incorporate visible information about an object's structure into their action on the object. This provides evidence that visuomotor connections are present as soon as infants start reaching for objects, allowing them to select the appropriate grasp for an object's structure, even if they are not always capable of executing a pickup of the object using this grasp. Further research should investigate the discrepancies between infants' grasp planning and their grasp execution.

A growing body of evidence supports a central role for biometals in neurodegenerative disorders. Biometals induce oxidative stress through the generation of reactive oxygen species and contribute to neuronal cell dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease (AD), prion disorders and Parkinson's disease (PD). Therapies based on modulation of biometal metabolism are currently being developed and the metal ligand, 5-chloro-7-iodo-8-hydroxyquinoline (clioquinol or CQ) has been investigated for the treatment of AD. CQ has also shown therapeutic benefits in an animal model of PD. However, little is known about the neuroprotective processes of CQ in vivo. In this study, we examined the effect of CQ in BE(2)-M17 human neuroblastoma cells exposed to increased oxidative stress (hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) treatment). Although CQ alone induced a moderate toxic effect on cells, when added to H2O2-treated M17 cells, CQ induced a significant inhibition of H2O2 toxicity. This correlated with up-regulation of phosphoinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) activity in CQ-treated cells. The protective action of CQ was not observed in murine N2a neuroblastoma cells treated with H2O2 and this cell-line did not reveal CQ-mediated increases in PI3K activation. The protective effect was specific for CQ and was not induced by a number of different metal ligands. Inhibition of PI3K activity with LY294002 prevented CQ protection against H2O2 toxicity, demonstrating a crucial role for CQ activation of PI3K in protection against oxidative stress. Furthermore, CQ inhibited H2O2-mediated up-regulation of p53 activity in the M17 cells and this was dependent on PI3K activation. Our studies demonstrate that in human M17 cells, CQ can protect against oxidative stress by activating the PI3K-dependent survival pathway and blocking p53-mediated cell death. These findings have important implications for the development of protective metal ligand-based therapies for treatment of disorders involving oxidative stress.
In microvessels, periendothelial cells expressing alpha smooth muscle actin (alphaSMA) interact with the endothelial cells and are essential for vessel maturation and stabilization. In adult tissues, the cellular origin of the periendothelial cells is still not clear, in particular in humans. To determine the origin of human periendothelial cells, we used a recently developed 3D co-culture system that mimics human skin connective tissue. This system is composed of normal human dermal fibroblasts (NHDF), human dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HMEC-1), and a collagen matrix. In this system, &quot;microvessels&quot; composed of an endothelial lumen associated with periendothelial cells develop. Using this co-culture system, we (i) labelled fibroblasts with the vital dye CFDA-SE, cultured them with unlabelled endothelial cells, and observed that only endothelium-associated CFDA-SE-labelled cells express alphaSMA; (ii) infected endothelial cells with a retrovirus stably expressing eGFP, cultured them with unlabelled fibroblasts, and observed that cells expressing alphaSMA did not co-express eGFP, but were associated with the eGFP-expressing endothelial cells of the microvessels. Together, these results indicate that periendothelial cells arise by differentiation from fibroblasts and that they require interaction with endothelial cells to do so.
Ryanodine receptors (RyRs) amplify intracellular Ca(2+) signals by massively releasing Ca(2+) from intracellular stores. Exaggerated chronic Ca(2+) release can trigger cellular apoptosis underlying a variety of neurodegenerative diseases. Aberrant functioning of presenilin-1 (PS1) protein instigates Ca(2+)-dependent apoptosis, providing a basis for the &quot;calcium hypothesis&quot; of Alzheimer's disease (AD). To get insight into this problem, we hypothesized that the previously reported physical interaction between RyR and PS1 modulates functional properties of the RyR. We generated a soluble cytoplasmic N-terminal fragment of PS1 comprising the first 82 amino acid (PS1 NTF(1-82)), the candidate for interaction with putative cytoplasmic modulatory sites of the RyR, and studied its effect on single channel currents of mouse brain RyRs incorporated in lipid bilayers. PS1 NTF(1-82) strongly increased both mean currents (EC(50)=12nM, Hill coefficient (n(H)) approximately 1) and open probability for higher sublevels for single RyR channels (EC(50)=7nM, n(H) approximately 2). Bell-shaped Ca(2+)-activation curve remained unchanged, suggesting that PS1 NTF(1-82) allosterically potentiates RyRs, but that the channel still requires Ca(2+) for activation. Corroborating such an independent mechanism, the RyR potentiation by PS1 NTF(1-82) was overridden by receptor desensitization at high [Ca(2+)] (pCa&gt;5). This potentiation of RyR by PS1 NTF(1-82) reveals a new mechanism of physiologically relevant PS1-regulated Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores, which could be alternative or additional to recently reported intracellular Ca(2+) leak channels formed by PS1 holoproteins.
Previous studies in nonhuman primates and cats have shown that the pulvinar receives input from various cortical and subcortical areas involved in vision. Although the contribution of the pulvinar to human vision remains to be established, anatomical tracer and electrophysiological animal studies on cortico-pulvinar circuits suggest an important role of this structure in visual spatial attention, visual integration, and higher-order visual processing. Because methodological constraints limit investigations of the human pulvinar's function, its role could, up to now, only be inferred from animal studies. In the present study, we used an innovative imaging technique, Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) tractography, to determine cortical and subcortical connections of the human pulvinar. We were able to reconstruct pulvinar fiber tracts and compare variability across subjects in vivo. Here we demonstrate that the human pulvinar is interconnected with subcortical structures (superior colliculus, thalamus, and caudate nucleus) as well as with cortical regions (primary visual areas (area 17), secondary visual areas (area 18, 19), visual inferotemporal areas (area 20), posterior parietal association areas (area 7), frontal eye fields and prefrontal areas). These results are consistent with the connectivity reported in animal anatomical studies.
Noninvasive techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) have provided insight into understanding how neural connections are altered in consequence to cerebrovascular injury. The first part of this review will briefly survey some of the methodological issues and limitations related to noninvasive poststroke motor recovery studies. The second section will investigate some of the different neural mechanisms that underlie neurorehabilitation in stroke patients. The third part will explore our current understanding of motor memory processing, describe the neural structures that subserve motor memory consolidation, and discuss the current literature related to memory reconsolidation in healthy adults. Lastly, this paper will suggest the potential therapeutic applications of integrating noninvasive tools with memory consolidation and reconsolidation theories to enhance motor recovery. The overall objective of this work is to demonstrate how noninvasive technologies have been utilized in the multidisciplinary field of clinical behavioral neuroscience and to highlight their potential to be employed as clinical tools to promote individualized motor recovery in stroke patients.
Attention binds psychology to the techniques of neuroscience and exemplifies the links between brain and behavior. Associated with attentional networks, at least 3 brain modules govern control processes by drawing on disparate functional neuroanatomy, neuromodulators, and psychological substrates. Guided by data-driven brain theories, researchers have related specific genetic polymorphisms to well-defined phenotypes, including those associated with different attentional efficiencies and hypnosis. Because attention can modulate both cognitive and affective processes, genetic assays together with neuroimaging data have begun to elucidate individual differences. Findings from genetic assays of both attention and hypnotizability pave the way to answering questions such as how high hypnotizable individuals may differ from less-hypnotizable persons. These exploratory findings may extend to the identification of placebo responders.
Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) affects both leptomeningeal and parenchymal blood vessels and is common in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In some vessels, CAA is accompanied by localized neuritic dystrophy around the affected blood vessel. The aim of this study was to assess the distribution and severity of perivascular neuritic dystrophy in primary visual and visual association cortices. The severity of perivascular neuritic dystrophy and Abeta deposition was scored in an association cortex (Brodmann area 18) and a primary cortex (Brodmann area 17) with double labeling immunohistochemistry for tau and Abeta in 31 cases of AD with severe CAA. The perivascular tau neuritic dystrophy score was significantly worse in visual association cortex than in primary visual cortex. On the other hand, there was no difference in the perivascular Abeta score between the two cortices. There were positive correlations between the severity of perivascular tau and perivascular Abeta scores for both primary and association cortices. The results suggest that the local neuronal environment determines the severity and nature of the perivascular neuritic pathology more than the severity of the intrinsic vascular disease and suggest a close association between perivascular amyloid deposits, so-called dyshoric angiopathy, and perivascular neuritic dystrophy.
This study assessed the factor structure, internal consistency, and discriminatory validity of the World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule (WHODAS) version used in the European Study of the Epidemiology of Mental Disorders (ESEMeD). In total 8796 adults were assessed using the ESEMeD WHODAS (22 severity and 8 frequency items). An Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA) with promax rotation was done with a random 50%. The other half was used for confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) comparing models (a) suggested by EFA; (b) hypothesized a priori; and (c) reduced with four items. A CFA model with covariates was conducted in the whole sample to assess invariance across Mediterranean (Spain, France and Italy) and non-Mediterranean (Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands) countries. Cronbach's alphas and discriminatory validity were also examined. EFA identified seven factors (explained variance: 80%). The reduced model (six factors, four frequency items excluded) presented the best fit [Confirmatory Fit Index (CFI) = 0.992, Tucker-Lewis Index (TLI) = 0.996, Root Mean Square Error of Approximation (RMSEA) = 0.024]. The second-order factor structure also fitted well (CFI = 0.987, TLI = 0.991, RMSEA = 0.036). Measurement non-invariance was found for Embarrassment. Cronbach's alphas ranged from 0.84 for Participation to 0.93 for Mobility. Preliminary data suggest acceptable discriminatory validity. Thus, the ESEMeD WHODAS may well be a valuable shortened version of the WHODAS-II, but future users should reconsider the filter questions.
The Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety (NESDA) is a multi-site naturalistic cohort study to: (1) describe the long-term course and consequences of depressive and anxiety disorders, and (2) to integrate biological and psychosocial research paradigms within an epidemiological approach in order to examine (interaction between) predictors of the long-term course and consequences. Its design is an eight-year longitudinal cohort study among 2981 participants aged 18 through 65 years. The sample consists of 1701 persons with a current (six-month recency) diagnosis of depression and/or anxiety disorder, 907 persons with life-time diagnoses or at risk because of a family history or subthreshold depressive or anxiety symptoms, and 373 healthy controls. Recruitment took place in the general population, in general practices (through a three-stage screening procedure), and in mental health organizations in order to recruit persons reflecting various settings and developmental stages of psychopathology. During a four-hour baseline assessment including written questionnaires, interviews, a medical examination, a cognitive computer task and collection of blood and saliva samples, extensive information was gathered about key (mental) health outcomes and demographic, psychosocial, clinical, biological and genetic determinants. Detailed assessments will be repeated after one, two, four and eight years of follow-up. The findings of NESDA are expected to provide more detailed insight into (predictors of) the long-term course of depressive and anxiety disorders in adults. Besides its scientific relevance, this may contribute to more effective prevention and treatment of depressive and anxiety disorders.
Recently, a late positive component (LPCt) with prefrontal dominance was identified in a duration discrimination task as a marker of decision-making processes (Paul et al., 2003). In the present study, LPCt amplitudes and latencies were measured in visual and size discrimination tasks for the purpose of determining the selectivity of this phenomenon. LPCt amplitudes were larger and latencies shorter for longer stimulus pairs, at a time of maximal behavioral performances. Wave amplitudes were also larger for smaller stimuli, but were not directly related to behavioral performances. These results indicate that the LPCt is not specific to temporal discrimination but can reflect more general decision-making processes.
This study provides further evidence for the impact of the aromas of plant essential oils on aspects of cognition and mood in healthy participants. One hundred and forty-four volunteers were randomly assigned to conditions of ylang-ylang aroma, peppermint aroma, or no aroma control. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Cognitive Drug Research computerized assessment battery, with mood scales completed before and after cognitive testing. The analysis of the data revealed significant differences between conditions on a number of the factors underpinning the tests that constitute the battery. Peppermint was found to enhance memory whereas ylang-ylang impaired it, and lengthened processing speed. In terms of subjective mood peppermint increased alertness and ylang-ylang decreased it, but significantly increased calmness. These results provide support for the contention that the aromas of essential oils can produce significant and idiosyncratic effects on both subjective and objective assessments of aspects of human behavior. They are discussed with reference to possible pharmacological and psychological modes of influence.
A large family with six individuals exhibiting the Unertan syndrome (UTS) was identified residing in southern Turkey. All of the individuals had mental impairments and walked on all four extremities. The practice of intra-familial marriages suggested that the UTS may be an autosomal recessive disorder, similar to previously described cases. The inferior portions of the cerebellum and vermis were absent as evidenced by MRI and CT scans. The height and head circumference of those affected were within normal ranges. Barany's test suggested normal vestibular system function. The subjects could not name objects or their close relatives. The males (n = 4) could understand simple questions and commands, but answered questions with only one or two sounds. The females (n = 2) were superior to the males with respect to language skills and walking, suggesting an association between walking and speaking abilities. One male exhibited three walking patterns at the same time: quadripedal, tiptoe, and scissor walking. Another male used two walking styles: quadripedal and toe-walking. It is emphasized that there are important differences between the UTS and the disequilibrium syndrome. It is suggested that the inability to walk upright in those affected with the UTS may be best explained by a disturbance in lateral-balance mechanisms, without being related to the cerebello-vestibular system. An interruption of locomotor development during the transition from quadripedality to bipedality may result in habitual walking on all four extremities and is normal in some children. Because quadripedal gait is an ancestral trait, individuals with the UTS, exhibiting a manifestation of reverse evolution in humans, may be considered an experiment of nature, useful in understanding the mechanisms underlying the transition from quadripedality to bipedality during human evolution. The proposed mutant gene or gene pool playing a role in human quadrupedality may also be responsible for human bipedality at the same time. Herein there is no intent to insult or injure; rather, this report is an endeavor to better understand human beings. Supplementary materials are available for this article. Go to the publisher's online edition of International Journal of Neuroscience for the following free supplemental resource(s): video clips.
The study was conducted to analyse possible interactions between noise and shift work, and fatigue as a function of age. In a large questionnaire survey, we assessed personal and environmental risk factors related to fatigue. Noise exposure at work (L(Aeq, 8hr)) was measured with personal noise dosimetry. The sample included 254 day and shift workers, and was divided into 2 age groups (&lt;40- and &gt;40-year-olds). Noise exposure had a main effect on fatigue. The highest noise exposure resulted in an increase in the fatigue level of older shift workers. The quantity of sleep mainly depended on the type of shift and age. Our data suggest that the most important factor generating fatigue could be related to industrial noise exposure, a factor which seems to aggravate work-related fatigue generated in a synergic manner by shift work and ageing. Senior workers should be prevented from cumulating those occupational stressors.
Event-related potentials (31-channel ERPs) were recorded from 38 depressed, unmedicated outpatients and 26 healthy adults (all right-handed) in tonal and phonetic oddball tasks developed to exploit the perceptual challenge of a dichotic stimulation. Tonal nontargets were pairs of complex tones (corresponding to musical notes G and B above middle C) presented simultaneously to each ear (L/R) in an alternating series (G/B or B/G; 2-s fixed SOA). A target tone (note A) replaced one of the pair on 20% of the trials (A/B, G/A, B/A, A/G). Phonetic nontargets were L/R pairs of syllables (/ba/, /da/) with a short voice onset time (VOT), and targets contained a syllable (/ta/) with a long VOT. Subjects responded with a left or right button press to targets (counterbalanced across blocks). Target detection was poorer in patients than controls and for tones than syllables. Reference-free current source densities (CSDs; spherical spline Laplacian) derived from ERP waveforms were simplified and measured using temporal, covariance-based PCA followed by unrestricted Varimax rotation. Target-related N2 sinks and mid-parietal P3 sources were represented by CSD factors peaking at 245 and 440 ms. The P3 source topography included a secondary, left-lateralized temporal lobe maximum for both targets and nontargets. However, a subsequent hemispheric spatiotemporal PCA disentangled temporal lobe N1 and P3 sources as distinct factors. P3 sources were reduced in patients compared with controls, even after using performance as a covariate. Results are consistent with prior reports of P3 reduction in depression and implicate distinct parietal and temporal generators of P3 when using a dichotic oddball paradigm.
Drug-resistant tuberculosis is an increasing problem worldwide. There are few reports of drug susceptibility patterns of Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolated from cases of tuberculous meningitis. A 5-year retrospective study aimed at analysing the drug susceptibility profile of M. tuberculosis isolated from tuberculous meningitis cases was conducted. A total of 366 isolates were analysed. Among these, 301 (82.2%) were sensitive to all the four primary drugs tested, while 65 (17.8%) showed resistance. There were 46 (12.5%) isolates resistant to isoniazid (INH), while 9 (2.4%) demonstrated multidrug resistance. These data suggest that multidrug resistance in tuberculous meningitis is not yet a serious problem. However, a periodic review is required to ascertain the global incidence of drug-resistant tuberculous meningitis.
There are sex differences and effects of steroid hormones, such as androgens, estrogens, and progestogens, that influence seizures. Androgens exert early organizational and later activational effects that can amplify sex/gender differences in the expression of some seizure disorders. Female-typical sex steroids, such as estrogen (E2) and progestins, can exert acute activational effects to reduce convulsive seizures and these effects are mediated in part by the actions of steroids in the hippocampus. Some of these anticonvulsive effects of sex steroids are related to their formation of ligands which have agonist-like actions at gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptors or antagonist actions at glutamatergic receptors. Differences in stress, developmental phase, reproductive status, endocrine status, and treatments, such as anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs), may alter levels of these ligands and/or the function of target sites, which may mitigate differences in sensitivity to, and/or tolerance of, steroids among some individuals. The evidence implicating sex steroids in differences associated with hormonal, reproductive, developmental, stress, seizure type, and/or therapeutics are discussed.
We report a case of a 52-year-old woman with Behcet's disease who presented with dysarthria and right-sided hemiparesis. T2-weighted and diffusion-weighted images (DWI) showed a hyperintense lesion in the left pons with a relatively decreased apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC). Imaging showed almost complete resolution of the lesion after treatment with prednisolone. The atypical DWI and ADC findings in this case may reflect cytotoxic edema due to excitotoxic brain injury. This case thus illustrates the radiological diversity of neuro-Behcet's lesions.

Many signaling proteins change their location within cells in response to external stimuli. In photoreceptors, this phenomenon is remarkably robust. The G protein of rod photoreceptors and rod transducin concentrates in the outer segments (OS) of these neurons in darkness. Within approximately 30 minutes after illumination, rod transducin redistributes throughout all of the outer and inner compartments of the cell. Visual arrestin concurrently relocalises from the inner compartments to become sequestered primarily within the OS. In the past several years, the question of whether these proteins are actively moved by molecular motors or whether they are redistributed by simple diffusion has been extensively debated. This review focuses on the most essential works in the area and concludes that the basic principle driving this protein movement is diffusion. The directionality and light dependence of this movement is achieved by the interactions of arrestin and transducin with their spatially restricted binding partners.
The relative potency of onset/offset and envelope-based ongoing interaural time delays (ITDs) was assessed using high-frequency stimuli. A two-cue, two-alternative, forced-choice adaptive task was employed to measure threshold ITDs with 100% sinusoidally amplitude-modulated tones centered at 4 kHz. Modulation rates of 125, 250, and 350 Hz were tested with durations of 32, 90, or 240 ms. In the first experiment, ITDs to be detected were imposed only at the onset/offset, only within the ongoing portion, or within both the onset/offset and ongoing portions of the stimuli. Results indicated that ongoing ITDs dominated onset/offset ITDs. The relative potency of ongoing ITDs was directly proportional to duration and inversely proportional to modulation rate. Quantitative analysis suggested that listeners effectively combine onset/offset and ongoing ITDs. Furthermore, the data could be largely accounted for by assuming that listeners attend to the interaural decorrelation of the stimulus resulting from onset/offset and/or ongoing ITDs. A second experiment showed that, (1) overall, an ongoing ITD of one-half period of the envelope had little impact on listeners' sensitivity to delays of the onset/offset and (2) sensitivity to delays within the onset/offset portion of the waveform was reduced by roving the delay within the ongoing portion of the waveform.
Current literature has shown that heroin addiction is characterized by long periods of regular use persisting over the life course, whereas the course of stimulant use is less understood. The current study examined long-term trajectories of drug use for primary heroin, cocaine (crack/powder cocaine), and methamphetamine (meth) users. The analyses used data from five studies that collected longitudinal information using the Natural History Instrument, including 629 primary heroin users, 694 cocaine users, and 474 meth users. Drug use trajectories over the 10 years since initiation demonstrated the persistence of use over time for all three drugs, with heroin use at the highest level (13 to 18 days per month), cocaine at the lowest level (8 to 11 days), and meth in between (approximately 12 days per month). Application of growth mixture models revealed five distinctive groups: Consistently High Use (n = 545), Increasing Use (n = 260), Decreasing Use (n = 254), Moderate Use (n = 638), and Low Use (n = 100). Heroin users were disproportionately overrepresented in the Consistently High Use group and underrepresented in the Low Use group; cocaine and meth users were mostly in the Moderate Use group. Users in the High Use group also had earlier onsets of drug use and crime, longer incarceration durations, and were the least employed. Clinical/service policy and practice need to recognize and adapt to the specific patterns and needs of users of different drugs while being mindful of the stage drug users are at in their life course.








Free will is regarded by some as the most and by others as the least relevant concept for criminal responsibility. Contributions from religious and philosophical thinkers over the classical and medieval Christian eras demonstrate that, despite the passionate and historically consequential debates over the meaning of &quot;freedom,&quot; the unifying theme that joined the will with the intellect remained persistent and pervasive. Leading historical jurists in England eventually dropped the descriptor &quot;free,&quot; but retained the central importance of the will to criminal responsibility and emphasized its dependence on the intellect to function properly. Modern rationalist philosophers denied the will's metaphysical freedom, but not its existence. Today the neurosciences reveal more and more about how the will functions, even as lawyers and psychiatrists hesitate to utter the word. In properly avoiding metaphysical freedom within forensic inquiry and discourse, it is a grave conceptual mistake to overlook the will itself. Once greater conceptual clarity on the empirical nature of the will is achieved and accepted, the law itself could rediscover the core mental faculty behind human agency, the will.
Most H2 eliminations from cations in the gas phase are formally 1,1- or 1,2- processes. Larger ring size H2 eliminations are rare and little studied. Thus, whether the 6-center, 1,4- elimination CH3CH=N+HCH3--&gt;CH2=CHN+H=CH2+H2 is concerted and synchronous, as indicated by isotope effects and predicted by conservation of orbital symmetry, is a significant question. This reaction is characterized here by application of QCI and B3LYP theories. CH bond-breaking and H-H bond-making in this reaction are found by theory to be highly synchronized, consistent with previously established isotope effects and in contrast to &quot;forbidden&quot; 1,2-eliminations from organic cations in the gas phase. This reaction is made feasible by its conservation of orbital symmetry, the energy supplied by formation of the H-H bond, and a favorable geometry of the ion for eliminating H2.
Klippel-Feil syndrome and craniovertebral junction anomalies are known to pose challenges while the airway is being secured. These anomalies may occur in association with dermoid and epidermoid cysts in the posterior fossa. We present a case of posterior fossa dermoid with extracranial extension that caused severely restricted neck movement. As these anomalies seem to form part of a single, unnamed syndrome, the possibility of upper cervical spine abnormality leading to a difficult airway should be anticipated in patients with posterior fossa dermoid.
We report a patient with Parkinson's disease undergoing craniotomy for a brain tumor, who had clinically adequate hypnosis at a very low concentration of isoflurane. While the raw EEG showed low-voltage slow electrical activity, the EEG analyzer of the monitor displayed high burst suppression ratios. The role of intracranial pathology and drug therapy as possible causes of the low anesthetic requirement for adequate hypnosis are discussed. This report also draws attention to the possibility of erroneous analysis of burst suppression by EEG modules.
We report a rare case of the development of tension pneumocephalus after the placement of an external ventricular drain in a 4-year-old child with gross hydrocephalus and residual posterior fossa tumor. The child had developed hydrocephalus in the postoperative period after being operated for the posterior fossa tumor. The tension pneumocephalus resulted in delayed recovery in the child. The possible mechanism of the cause of pneumocephalus is discussed.
A positive reinforcement contingency increased opioid abstinence during outpatient dose tapering (4, 2, then 0 mg/day during Weeks 1 through 3) in non-treatment-seeking heroin-dependent volunteers who had been maintained on buprenorphine (8 mg/day) during an inpatient research protocol. The control group (n=12) received $4.00 for completing assessments at each thrice-weekly visit during dose tapering; 10 of 12 lapsed to heroin use 1 day after discharge. The abstinence reinforcement group (n=10) received $30.00 for each consecutive opioid-free urine sample; this significantly delayed heroin lapse (median, 15 days).
Prospective follow-up study of 70 males with Asperger syndrome (AS), and 70 males with autism more than 5 years after original diagnosis. Instruments used at follow-up included overall clinical assessment, the Diagnostic Interview for Social and Communication Disorders, Wechsler Intelligence Scales, Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales, and Global Assessment of Functioning Scale. Specific outcome criteria were used. Outcome in AS was good in 27% of cases. However, 26% had a very restricted life, with no occupation/activity and no friends. Outcome in the autism group was significantly worse. Males with AS had worse outcomes than expected given normal to high IQ. However, outcome was considerably better than for the comparison group of individuals with autism.
The PilE pilin subunit protein of Neisseria gonorrhoeae undergoes unique covalent modifications with phosphoethanolamine (PE) and phosphocholine (PC). The pilin phospho-form transferase A (PptA) protein, required for these modifications, shows sequence relatedness with and architectural similarities to lipopolysaccharide PE transferases. Here, we used regulated expression and mutagenesis as means to better define the relationships between PptA structure and function, as well as to probe the mechanisms by which other factors impact the system. We show here that pptA expression is coupled at the level of transcription to its distal gene, murF, in a division/cell wall gene operon and that PptA can act in a dose-dependent fashion in PilE phospho-form modification. Molecular modeling and site-directed mutagenesis provided the first direct evidence that PptA is a member of the alkaline phosphatase superfamily of metalloenzymes with similar metal-binding sites and conserved structural folds. Through phylogenetic analyses and sequence alignments, these conclusions were extended to include the lipopolysaccharide PE transferases, including members of the disparate Lpt6 subfamily, and the MdoB family of phosphoglycerol transferases. Each of these enzymes thus likely acts as a phospholipid head group transferase whose catalytic mechanism involves a trans-esterification step generating a protein-phospho-form ester intermediate. Coexpression of PptA with PilE in Pseudomonas aeruginosa resulted in high levels of PE modification but was not sufficient for PC modification. This and other findings show that PptA-associated PC modification is governed by as-yet-undefined ancillary factors unique to N. gonorrhoeae.
P75NTR (or CD271) is a member of the Tumor Necrosis Factor receptor (TNFR) super family of transmembrane proteins that share significant homology in their extracellular domains. Subsets of TNF receptors, including CD271, have a cytoplasmic death domain, although CD271 has unique intracellular structure and downstream signaling partners. CD271 is also differentiated from other members of the TNFR receptor family in that it binds pro and mature neurotrophins and affects the growth, differentiation and death of the nervous system. The ligands for CD271 are neurotrophins, which are Nerve Growth Factor (NGF), Brain-Derived Growth factor (BDNF), Neurotrophin 3 (NT3) and Neurotrophin 4/5 (NT4/5). Recent studies have provided evidence that CD271 also serves as a receptor for the pro-forms of these neurotrophins.
Many patients with low back and/or pelvic girdle pain feel relief after application of a pelvic belt. External compression might unload painful ligaments and joints, but the exact mechanical effect on pelvic structures, especially in (active) upright position, is still unknown. In the present study, a static three-dimensional (3-D) pelvic model was used to simulate compression at the level of anterior superior iliac spine and the greater trochanter. The model optimised forces in 100 muscles, 8 ligaments and 8 joints in upright trunk, pelvis and upper legs using a criterion of minimising maximum muscle stress. Initially, abdominal muscles, sacrotuberal ligaments and vertical sacroiliac joints (SIJ) shear forces mainly balanced a trunk weight of 500N in upright position. Application of 50N medial compression force at the anterior superior iliac spine (equivalent to 25N belt tension force) deactivated some dorsal hip muscles and reduced the maximum muscle stress by 37%. Increasing the compression up to 100N reduced the vertical SIJ shear force by 10% and increased SIJ compression force with 52%. Shifting the medial compression force of 100N in steps of 10N to the greater trochanter did not change the muscle activation pattern but further increased SIJ compression force by 40% compared to coxal compression. Moreover, the passive ligament forces were distributed over the sacrotuberal, the sacrospinal and the posterior ligaments. The findings support the cause-related designing of new pelvic belts to unload painful pelvic ligaments or muscles in upright posture.
Receptor occupancy (RO) PET is a non-invasive way to determine drug on target. Given the complexity of procedures, long acquisition times, and high cost, ligand displacement imaging trials often have a limited size and produce sparse RO results over the time course of the blocking drug. To take the best advantage of the available data, we propose a Bayesian hierarchical model to analyze RO as a function of the displacing drug. The model has three components: the first estimates RO using brain regional time-radioactivity concentrations, the second shapes the pharmacokinetic profile of the blocking drug, and the last relates PK to RO. Compared to standard 2-steps RO estimation methods, our Bayesian approach quantifies the variability of the individual RO measures. The model has also useful prediction capabilities: to quantify brain RO for dosage regimens of the drug that were not tested in the experiment. This permits the optimal dose selection of neuroscience drugs at a limited cost. We illustrate the method in the prediction of RO after multiple dosing from a single-dose trial.
Reduced signal on [(11)C]]flumazenil (FMZ) positron emission tomography (PET) is associated with epileptogenic foci. Linear correlations within individuals between parametric and nonparametric images of FMZ binding have been shown, and various methods have been used, without comparison of diagnostic usefulness. Using hippocampal sclerosis (HS) as a test case, we formally compare the diagnostic yield of parametric images obtained either with a parent tracer arterial plasma input function and spectral analysis (yielding volume-of-distribution (VD) images), or with an image-based input function and the simplified reference tissue model (binding potential images, BP-SRTM) with the diagnostic yield of semiquantitative-integrated (ADD) images from 10 to 20 or 20 to 40 mins (ADD1020 and ADD2040). Dynamic 90-min [(11)C]FMZ PET datasets and arterial plasma input functions were available for 15 patients with medically refractory medial temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and histologically verified unilateral HS and for 13 control subjects. SPM2 was used for analysis. ADD1020 and ADD2040 images showed decreased FMZ uptake ipsilateral to the epileptogenic hippocampus in 13/15 cases; 6/13 had bilateral decreases in the ADD1020 analysis and 5/13 in the ADD2040 analysis. BP-SRTM images detected ipsilateral decreases in 12/15 cases, with bilateral decreases in three. In contrast, VD images showed ipsilateral hippocampal decreases in all 15 patients, with bilateral decreases in three patients. Bilateral decreases in the ADD images tended to be more symmetrical and in one case were more marked contralaterally. Full quantification with an image-independent input should ideally be used in the evaluation of FMZ PET; at least in TLE, intrasubject correlations do not predict equivalent clinical usefulness.
Disodium 2,4-sulphophenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (NXY-059) is a novel free radical-trapping compound that is neuroprotective in both rodent and primate models of acute ischaemic stroke. Neuroprotection in vitro by NXY-059 has not been reported previously, and we have now investigated whether such an effect can be detected using a simple cell culture model of neurotoxicity. Neuron-like cells of the neuroblastoma-derived clonal cell line N1E-115 were exposed to the free radical-generating agent sodium nitroprusside (SNP), which produced a concentration-dependent reduction in mitochondrial complex II activity 24 h later (EC(50) approximately 100 micromolar). Cell death induced by SNP (100 micromolar), assessed either by an increased proportion of apoptotic nuclear morphology or by mitochondrial complex II activity, was inhibited by a cocktail of known antioxidants (ascorbate, reduced glutathione, and dithiothreitol, all at 100 micromolar) but not by NXY-059 at a concentration known to be neuroprotective in vivo (300 micromolar). Disodium 2,4-sulphophenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone was also without effect on H(2)O(2)-mediated cytotoxicity. These results support recent data suggesting that in vivo NXY-059 probably acts at the neurovascular unit rather than at an intracellular site as a neuroprotective agent.
The 1908 Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to Luxembourgeois Gabriel Lippmann (1848-1921), Professor of Mathematical and Experimental Physics at la Sorbonne, for his method of reproducing colors photographically based on the theory of wave interference. In the preceding several years, the eminent neurohistologist - and avid photographer - Santiago Ramn y Cajal (1852-1934) had been experimenting with Lippmann heliochromes, studying under the microscope the structure of the laminae of Zenker that produce mixed colors, and especially white. Those studies led to a series of technical papers by Cajal, the culmination being an article published 100 years ago in the Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC. A few years later, Cajal published Photography in Colors, his classic monograph on the physicochemical principles of the 'art of Daguerre,' bearing further testimony to his exuberant productivity, far-reaching interests, and scientific genius. The present article reflects on the workings of the mind of Cajal and his fundamental knowledge that was a precondition for his success in neurohistology. It highlights the links between the early photographic studies of Cajal and Lippmann, masters of the biological and physical sciences, respectively. Special emphasis is placed on Lippmann's discovery of heliochromes and the microscopic analyses performed on them by Cajal, including elements from relevant contemporary studies and discoveries.
The authors report the rare association of Prader-Willi syndrome and short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase gene variant. Prader-Willi syndrome, associated with paternal chromosome 15q11-q13 silencing, is characterized by neonatal/infantile hypotonia, growth failure, and neurodevelopmental delays in the first 1 to 2 years of life, typically followed by hyperphagia and obesity. Short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase gene variant, with 625 G-to-A and 511 C-to-T changes, impairs C4-C6 fatty acid metabolism and variably causes neonatal/infantile hypotonia with developmental delays. The authors' patient continues to exhibit the classic severe growth failure of early infancy Prader-Willi syndrome at 40 months. Extensive laboratory investigations indicate that the short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase gene variant is likely preventing or delaying the normal expression of the Prader-Willi syndrome phenotype.
The purpose of this study was to determine if reduction in spike frequency in children with benign epilepsy of childhood with centrotemporal spikes treated with sulthiame correlates with improved neuropsychologic function. Six untreated children (5 boys, 1 girl) with a mean (standard deviation) age of 9.1 years (1.5 years) underwent overnight ambulatory electroencephalograph recording and neuropsychologic evaluation at baseline and after 6 months of sulthiame monotherapy. The Reliable Change Index was used to determine whether a statistically reliable change in neuropsychologic function occurred. All children continued receiving sulthiame monotherapy (dose range, 8.0-9.3 mg/kg per day) for the study period without further seizures. Although spike frequency was reduced in all 6 children (3 showing a decrease to less than 10% of baseline), they all demonstrated significant deterioration in their reading ability, 5 had significant declines in general memory, and more than half had reduction in attention skills and mathematics ability. Although sulthiame was effective at seizure control and significantly reduced spike frequency in children, it was also associated with deterioration in cognitive function.
Individuals with autism spectrum disorder are heterogeneous in clinical presentation, concurrent disorders, and developmental outcomes. This study characterized the clinical co-occurrences and potential subgroups in 160 children with autism spectrum disorders who presented to The Autism Center between 1999 and 2003. Medical and psychiatric co-occurrences included sleep disorders, epilepsy, food intolerance, gastrointestinal dysfunction, mood disorder, and aggressive and self-injurious behaviors. Sleep disorders were associated with gastrointestinal dysfunction (P &lt; .05) and mood disorders (P &lt; .01). Food intolerance was associated with gastrointestinal dysfunction (P = .001). Subjects with mood disorder tended to develop aggressive or self-injurious behaviors (P &lt; .05). Developmental regression was not associated with increased co-occurrence of medical or psychiatric disorders. Medical co-occurrence did not present as a risk factor for psychiatric co-occurrence, and vice versa. These results showed a high prevalence of multiple medical and psychiatric co-occurrences. There may be common pathophysiologic mechanisms resulting in clinical subgroups of autism spectrum disorders. Recognition of the co-occurrence of concurrent disorders may provide insight into the therapeutic strategy.
The objective of this study was to obtain normative data for naming and semantic memory (SM) tests in the elderly Spanish population. A total of 121 Spanish-speaking senior citizens were assessed with the Boston Naming Test (BNT). Of these, 79 were assessed with the Semantic Fluency Test (Sem-Flu) and 72 with the Pyramids and Palm Trees Test (PPT). Mean scores were 49.6 (SD = 5.6) for the BNT, 49.6 (SD = 2.2) for the PPT, and 16.9 (SD = 4.9) for the Sem-Flu. All SM tests were significantly influenced by participants' level of education (p &lt; .01). The BNT was also significantly influenced by gender. A significant positive association was found between naming and SM tests (p &lt; .01). Normative data for naming and SM tests could be useful in clinical assessment and research in Spanish-speaking dementia patients.

Abstract Previous imaging work has shown that the superior temporal sulcus (STS) region and the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) are specifically activated during the passive observation of shifts in eye gaze [Pelphrey, K. A., Singerman, J. D., Allison, T., &amp; McCarthy, G. Brain activation evoked by perception of gaze shifts: The influence of context. Neuropsychologia, 41, 156-170, 2003; Hoffman, E. A., &amp; Haxby, J. V. Distinct representations of eye gaze and identity in the distributed human neural system for face perception. Nature Neuroscience, 3, 80-84, 2000; Puce, A., Allison, T., Bentin, S., Gore, J. C., &amp; McCarthy, G. Temporal cortex activation in humans viewing eye and mouth movements. Journal of Neuroscience, 18, 2188-2199, 1998; Wicker, B., Michel, F., Henaff, M. A., &amp; Decety, J. Brain regions involved in the perception of gaze: A PET study. Neuroimage, 8, 221-227, 1998]. Are the same brain regions also involved in extracting gaze direction in order to establish joint attention? In an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment, healthy human subjects actively followed the directional cue provided by the eyes of another person toward an object in space or, in the control condition, used a nondirectional symbolic cue to make an eye movement toward an object in space. Our results show that the posterior part of the STS region and the cuneus are specifically involved in extracting and using detailed directional information from the eyes of another person to redirect one's own gaze and establish joint attention. The IPS, on the other hand, seems to be involved in encoding spatial direction and mediating shifts of spatial attention independent of the type of cue that triggers this process.
Abstract Does the brain of a bilingual process language differently from that of a monolingual? We compared how bilinguals and monolinguals recruit classic language brain areas in response to a language task and asked whether there is a &quot;neural signature&quot; of bilingualism. Highly proficient and early-exposed adult Spanish-English bilinguals and English monolinguals participated. During functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), participants completed a syntactic &quot;sentence judgment task&quot; [Caplan, D., Alpert, N., &amp; Waters, G. Effects of syntactic structure and propositional number on patterns of regional cerebral blood flow. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 10, 541-552, 1998]. The sentences exploited differences between Spanish and English linguistic properties, allowing us to explore similarities and differences in behavioral and neural responses between bilinguals and monolinguals, and between a bilingual's two languages. If bilinguals' neural processing differs across their two languages, then differential behavioral and neural patterns should be observed in Spanish and English. Results show that behaviorally, in English, bilinguals and monolinguals had the same speed and accuracy, yet, as predicted from the Spanish-English structural differences, bilinguals had a different pattern of performance in Spanish. fMRI analyses revealed that both monolinguals (in one language) and bilinguals (in each language) showed predicted increases in activation in classic language areas (e.g., left inferior frontal cortex, LIFC), with any neural differences between the bilingual's two languages being principled and predictable based on the morphosyntactic differences between Spanish and English. However, an important difference was that bilinguals had a significantly greater increase in the blood oxygenation level-dependent signal in the LIFC (BA 45) when processing English than the English monolinguals. The results provide insight into the decades-old question about the degree of separation of bilinguals' dual-language representation. The differential activation for bilinguals and monolinguals opens the question as to whether there may possibly be a &quot;neural signature&quot; of bilingualism. Differential activation may further provide a fascinating window into the language processing potential not recruited in monolingual brains and reveal the biological extent of the neural architecture underlying all human language.
Abstract Sebastin-Galls et al. [The influence of initial exposure on lexical representation: Comparing early and simultaneous bilinguals. Journal of Memory and Language, 52, 240-255, 2005] contrasted highly proficient early Spanish-Catalan and Catalan-Spanish bilinguals, using Catalan materials in a lexical decision task (LDT). They constructed two types of experimental pseudowords, substituting Catalan phoneme /e/ for Catalan /epsilon/, or vice versa. Catalan-dominant bilinguals showed a performance asymmetry across experimental conditions, making more mistakes for /epsilon/--&gt;/e/ changes, than for /e/--&gt;/epsilon/ ones. This was considered evidence of a developed acceptance of mispronounced Catalan /epsilon/-words, caused by exposure to a bilingual environment where mispronunciations by Spanish-dominant bilinguals using their /e/-category abound. Although this indicated modified or added lexical representations, an open issue is whether such lexical information also modifies phoneme categories. We address this using a biophysically realistic neurodynamic model, describing neural activity at the synaptic and spiking levels. We construct a network of pools of neurons, representing phonemic and lexical processing. Carefully analyzing the dependency of network dynamics on connection strengths, by first exploring parameter space under steady-state assumptions (mean-field scans), then running spiking simulations, we investigate the neural substrate role in a representative LDT. We also simulate a phoneme discrimination task to address whether lexical changes affect the phonemic level. We find that the same network configuration which displays asymmetry in the LDT shows equal performance discriminating the two modeled phonemes. Thus, we predicted that the Catalan-dominant bilinguals do not alter their phoneme categories, although showing signs of having stored a new word variation in the lexicon. To explore this prediction, a syllable discrimination task involving the /e/-/epsilon/ contrast was set up, using Catalan-dominants displaying performance asymmetry in a repetition of the original LDT. Discrimination task results support the prediction, showing that these subjects discriminate both categories equally well. We conclude that subjects often exposed to dialectal word variations can store these in their lexicons, without altering their phoneme representations.
The present study was designed to identify the serotonergic pathway causing baroreflex inhibition associated with the defense reaction in rats. Under conditions that produce physiological responses typical of the defense reaction, electrical stimulation of the dorsal periaqueductal gray (dPAG) was found to double c-Fos immunoreactive serotonergic neurons within the mid-rostrocaudal extent of the B3 group (which comprises the raphe magnus and the lateral paragigantocellular reticular nuclei) in anesthetized rats. Local blockade of neuronal activity by microinjection of muscimol (a GABA(A) receptor agonist) directly into the B3 region prevented the inhibitory effect of dPAG activation on the cardiac baroreflex. Conversely, neuron activation by local application of D,L-homocysteic acid into B3 region caused baroreflex inhibition that was suppressed by microinjection of granisetron (a 5-HT(3) antagonist) into the nucleus tractus solitarius. These results show that activation of serotonergic cells in the mid-portion of B3 group is critical to trigger baroreflex inhibition occurring during the defense reaction evoked by dPAG stimulation.
Fish acquire information about their aquatic environment by means of their mechanosensory lateral-line system. This system consists of superficial and canal neuromasts that sense perturbations in the water surrounding them. Based on a hydrodynamic model presented here, we propose a mechanism through which fish can localize the source of these perturbations. In doing so we include the curvature of the fish body, a realistic lateral line canal inter-pore distance for the lateral-line canals, and the surface boundary layer. Using our model to explore receptor behavior based on experimental data of responses to dipole stimuli we suggest that superficial and canal neuromasts employ the same mechanism, hence provide the same type of input to the central nervous system. The analytical predictions agree well with spiking responses recorded experimentally from primary lateral-line nerve fibers. From this, and taking into account the central organization of the lateral-line system, we present a simple biophysical model for determining the distance to a source.
Recent literature has described how the capacity for concurrent self-assessment-ongoing moment-to-moment self-monitoring-is an important component of the professional competence of physicians. Self-monitoring refers to the ability to notice our own actions, curiosity to examine the effects of those actions, and willingness to use those observations to improve behavior and thinking in the future. Self-monitoring allows for the early recognition of cognitive biases, technical errors, and emotional reactions and may facilitate self-correction and development of therapeutic relationships. Cognitive neuroscience has begun to explore the brain functions associated with self-monitoring, and the structural and functional changes that occur during mental training to improve attentiveness, curiosity, and presence. This training involves cultivating habits of mind such as experiencing information as novel, thinking of &quot;facts&quot; as conditional, seeing situations from multiple perspectives, suspending categorization and judgment, and engaging in self-questioning. The resulting awareness is referred to as mindfulness and the associated moment-to-moment self-monitoring as mindful practice-in contrast to being on &quot;automatic pilot&quot; or &quot;mindless&quot; in one's behavior. This article is a preliminary exploration into the intersection of educational assessment, cognitive neuroscience, and mindful practice, with the hope of promoting ways of improving clinicians' capacity to self-monitor during clinical practice, and, by extension, improve the quality of care that they deliver.
Prolonged cerebrospinal fluid bathing of cranioplasty cement frequently results in breakdown of the cement implants. A 5-year-old boy with a history of severe head trauma at 2 weeks of age presented with marked protrusion of the entire superior temporal bone and inferior parietal bone. The defect was elevated by more than 1 cm and was associated with a 4.5 x 3-cm skull defect located above and behind the right ear. There also was pulsatile tissue at the depths of the defect. A computed tomographic scan taken of the head revealed an expanding skull fracture from a dural defect with underlying brain herniation. The cranial lesion was repaired with OsteoVation hydroxyapatite cement. Within 8 weeks, the fluid encased the cranioplasty site. This resolved following implantation of a shunting device. At 2 and 12 months after the repair, the implant was still palpably solid without breakdown and did not fragment despite the prolonged bathing in cerebrospinal fluid.
Recipients of welfare benefits have elevated rates of mental health and substance-related problems relative to the general public; however, low acculturation among Latinos may be a protective factor for both conditions. Lower acculturation among Latinos is associated with lower levels of mental health and substance-related problems relative to highly acculturated individuals. To our knowledge, there are few published studies examining the potential protective effects of low acculturation, defined herein as Spanish language preference, among Latina participants in welfare programs. Screening and treatment of mental health and substance-related problems in this population are important because work requirements for benefits receipt have been implemented and mental health or substance-related problems may be barriers to meeting these requirements. This analysis assesses the prevalence of mental health and substance-related problems among female participants in California's response to 1990s federal welfare reform legislation--the California Work Opportunity and Responsibility to Kids (CalWORKs). Although mental health needs may be similar among CalWORKs recipients regardless of acculturation, substance-related problems may be less frequent among Spanish-speaking Latinas participating in the CalWORKs program. Low acculturation was not a significant predictor of mental health need but had a protective effect with regard to substance-problem risk after controlling for several other substance-problem risk variables.
Muscle LIM protein (MLP) is a cytoskeletal protein located at the Z-disc of sarcomeres. Mutations in the human MLP gene are associated with hypertrophic and dilated cardiomyopathy. MLP has been proposed to be a key player in the stretch-sensing response, but the molecular mechanisms underlying its function in normal and diseased cardiac muscle have not been established. A Drosophila homolog, Mlp84B, displays a similar subcellular localization at the Z-disc of sarcomeres throughout development and in the adult, suggesting Drosophila as a model to study MLP function. Here we employed genetic ablation and cardiac-specific RNA interference (RNAi) knockdown of mlp84B to investigate its role in heart function. We found that Mlp84B-deficient or heart-specific RNAi knockdown flies exhibit diastolic interval prolongation, heart rhythm abnormalities and a reduced lifespan, while showing no obvious structural phenotype. Our data demonstrate that Mlp84B is essential for normal cardiac function and establish the Drosophila model for the investigation of the mechanisms connecting defective cardiac Z-disc components to the development of cardiomyopathy.
In 5 experiments, results showed that when participants are faced with materials embedding relations between both adjacent and nonadjacent elements, they learn exclusively the type of relations they had to actively process in order to meet the task demands, irrespective of the spatial contiguity of the paired elements. These results are consonant with current theories positing that attention is a necessary condition for learning. More important, the results provide support for a more radical conception, in which the joint attentional processing of 2 events is also a sufficient condition for learning the relation between them. The well-documented effect of contiguity could be a by-product of the fact that attention generally focuses on contiguous events. This reappraisal considerably extends the scope of approaches based on associative or statistical processes.
The effect of aging on microvascular density and plasticity in the rodent hippocampus, a brain region critically important for learning and memory, was investigated in F344xBN rats. Capillary density and angiogenesis were measured in three regions of the hippocampus in young and old rats and in old rats administered growth hormone, a treatment that improves cognitive function in older animals. Animals were housed under control conditions or in hypoxic conditions (11% ambient oxygen levels) to stimulate vascular growth. Our results indicate that aging is not associated with a reduction in hippocampal capillary density. However, aged animals demonstrate a significant impairment in hypoxia-induced capillary angiogenesis compared to young animals. Growth hormone treatment to aged animals for 6 weeks did not alter hippocampal capillary density and did not ameliorate the age-related deficit in angiogenesis. We conclude that aging significantly reduces hippocampal microvascular plasticity, which is not improved with growth hormone therapy.
Three American neurologists (C. K. Mills, C. L. Dana, and M. A. Starr) explored the anatomical limits of the motor and tactile systems in the brain from 1884 to 1895. Their papers and critiques of one another show contemporary knowledge, limits of their thinking, and difficulties deciding between alternatives. The issue for them was whether there were separate sensory and motor regions or whether there was a combined sensory-motor region. They based their localization arguments on clinical and laboratory findings and on the conclusions of H. Munk and D. Ferrier. There is a discussion about why differences were unresolved.
The term stimulus, as it was used in science from its earliest appearance in the sixteenth century up to the beginning of the nineteenth century, shows a gradual progress in denotation from the physical object designed to produce nervous and muscular excitation to the generically conceived event or object that initiates sensory or motor activity. To this shift corresponds a shift in the understanding of sensory experience. Johannes Muller's law of specific energy of sensory nerves played a major role in the shift, and Hermann von Helmholtz gave the shift its most thorough philosophical explanation.

Images of brain localization from Brain's inception to the present are analyzed. Textual representations and their accompanying images are shown to coevolve; that is, the technological and conceptual development of the research program of localization is shown to evolve simultaneously with the exploitation of visual resources that support these developments. The semiotics of Peirce, the social semiotics of Kress and van Leeuwen, and the insights of Gestalt psychology provide a critical vocabulary with which to describe and to analyze these visual resources. I conclude that brain images evolve in a manner that reflects the uniformity in measuring instruments and the increase in their precision in the localization of brain functions; at the same time, they draw attention away from a persistent constraint: the brain functions so precisely localized are just those that are not constitutive of our humanity.
The electroencephalogram (EEG), the graphic recording of the electric activity of the human brain, kindled far-reaching speculations about the imminent deciphering of mind and brain in the 1930s. Regardless of the thousands of neurons in the human cortex, recording from a person at rest produced a surprisingly regular line oscillating at 10 per second that disappeared at the moment of mental activity. With ever more groups specializing in electroencephalography, however, the deciphering of mind and brain did not materialize but moved further away in the information produced. In the various approaches employed in EEG research, such as the analysis of the graphic code, the search for pathognomic patterns or the imaging of cognitive processing, visualization guided research as well as theorizing, its productivity continued to keep the epistemological question open.
It is often argued that photography's scientific inauguration meaningfully coincided with a shift towards the ideal of mechanical objectivity. Values of disinterestedness and precision were readily attributed to photography and were cherished by the emerging field of neurology as well. However, after the publication of the first neuroanatomical atlas to contain photographs, Jules Bernard Luys' Iconographie Photographique des Centres Nerveux (1873), the use of photography in macroscopic neuroanatomy remained rare. The present article sketches this largely overlooked terrain of investigation and will expand on why in macroscopical neuroanatomy photography failed to offer a satisfactory alternative to drawing or engraving.
The scientific endeavor that led Luigi Galvani to his hypothesis of &quot;animal electricity,&quot; i.e., of an electricity present in a condition of disequilibrium between the interior and the exterior of excitable animal fibers, is reviewed here with particular emphasis to the role played by visual images in Galvani's path of discovery. In 1791 Galvani formulated his model of neuromuscular physiology on the base of the image of a muscle and a nerve fiber together as in a &quot;minute animal Leyden jar.&quot; This was the last instance of a series of physical models that accompanied Galvani's experimental efforts in the search of a theory capable of accounting for the electric nature of nerve conduction in spite of the many objections formulated in the eighteenth century against a possible role of electricity in animal physiology.
During the Renaissance, different artists began to draw medical illustrations from various viewpoints. Leonardo da Vinci was among those who sought to portray the emotional as well as the physical qualities of man. Other European artists described caricatural aspects of medical activities. In Northern Europe, Albrecht Durer, Hieronymus Bosch, and Pieter Brueghel were also famous for drawing caricatures. Later English artists, notably William Hogarth, Thomas Rowlandson, James Gillray, and the Cruikshanks, satirized life in general and the medical profession in particular. In Spain, Francisco Goya's works became increasingly macabre and satirical following his own mysterious illness and, in France, Honore Daumier used satire and humor to expose medical quackery. Also physicians such as Charles Bell and Jean-Martin Charcot were talented caricaturists. Their own personal artistic styles reflected their approach and gave a different &quot;image&quot; of neurology. Caricatures were popular portraits of developments in science and medicine and were frequently used whenever scientific language was too difficult to disseminate, in particular in the field of neurology.
The Renaissance saw the first systematic anatomical and physiological studies of the brain and human body because scientists, for the first time in centuries, were allowed to dissect human bodies for study. Renaissance artists were frequently found at dissections and their attention to detail can be observed in their products. Scientists themselves were increasingly artistic, and they created astonishing anatomical models and illustrations that can still be studied. The cross-fertilization of art and science in the Renaissance resulted in more scientific analyses of neuroanatomy as well as more creative ways in which such analyses could be depicted. Both art and science benefited from the reciprocal ways in which the two influenced each other even as they provided new ways of explaining the mysteries of the human body and mind.
The art of visual communication is not restricted to the fine arts. Scientists also apply art in communicating their ideas graphically. Diagrams of anatomical structures, like the eye and visual pathways, and figures displaying specific visual phenomena have assisted in the communication of visual ideas for centuries. It is often the case that the development of a discipline can be traced through graphical representations and this is explored here in the context of concepts of visual science. As with any science, vision can be subdivided in a variety of ways. The classification adopted is in terms of optics, anatomy, and visual phenomena; each of these can in turn be further subdivided. Optics can be considered in terms of the nature of light and its transmission through the eye. Understanding of the gross anatomy of the eye and visual pathways was initially dependent upon the skills of the anatomist whereas microanatomy relied to a large extent on the instruments that could resolve cellular detail, allied to the observational skills of the microscopist. Visual phenomena could often be displayed on the printed page, although novel instruments expanded the scope of seeing, particularly in the nineteenth century.
After a consideration of visual thinking in science the role of such thinking in neuroscience is discussed. Three instances are examined - cortical column, retina, impulse - and it is argued that visual thinking is employed, though in different ways, in each. It lies at the core of neurobiological thought.

We comment on Larner's (2006) recent description of the seventeenth-century case of a blind man who could differentiate the color of objects by touch. This ability is generally known as &quot;dermo-optical perception&quot; and is due to the cutaneous temperature sense rather than to synesthetic processing. Although devoid of references to the phenomenon of dermo-optical perception, Larner's communication is highly valuable because it raises several issues relevant to present-day neurosciences. These comprise functional reorganization after sensory loss, handedness effects, and differences between single fingers in the sensitivity to thermal changes.
Christian Baumann (Justus-Liebig-University, Giessen, Germany): Wilbrand's ideas of the visual cortex. Hermann Wilbrand (1851-1935) is considered one of the founders of neuro-opthalmology. He is best known for the monumental handbook, Die Neurologie des Auges (Wilbrand &amp;Saenger, 1898-1922). Prior to this encyclopedic work, Wilbrand published three clinical monographs on the diagnosis of brain diseases with the help of ophthalmological examinations(Wilbrand 1881, 1884, 1890). But Wilbrand not only treated clinical aspects but also supplied evidence for the localization of the optical center in the calcarine fissure of the occipital cortex. Moreover, he worked out theories of the organization of the visual cortex that, as he postulated, must contain subdivisions corresponding to the qualities of visual sensation such as light, form, and color. Wilbrand also considered the binocular input of the visual cortex and put forward a detailed scheme of the projection of the two retinae to the occipital cortex that anticipated modern concepts of ocular dominance columns. His ideas are critically reviewed in the light of current opinions about his topics.
Basal ganglia have been generally used to refer to some subcortical nuclei. However, it is a misnomer since ganglion is a group of nerve cells especially located outside of the brain or spinal cord. We evaluated the terminology of the basal ganglia from historical and terminological points of view.
The quantification of publication activity and impact has become a key element in the evaluation of scientific excellence. However, it is unclear to what extent this grasps the diversity of research communication that accompanies the transition of scientific fields. This contribution investigates number, categorization, and impact of publications (i.e., publication patterns) of six scientists active at the cognitive turn, which promoted the information processing perspective on neuronal processes in different communities: Horace Barlow, Theodore Bullock, Ralph Gerard, Donald MacKay, Warren McCulloch, and Werner Reichardt. The large variety of publication patterns revealed indicates the limits of standardized evaluation procedures based on publication activity.
Lina Stern (1878-1968), a neurophysiologist and biochemist, was born in Russia. She studied at the University of Geneva, Switzerland, where, after graduating, she conducted original research in physiology and biochemistry. In 1918, Stern was the first woman to be awarded a professional title at the University of Geneva and headed the department of Physiological Chemistry. She is deservedly considered to be one of the first scientists to entertain the concept of a blood-brain barrier. In 1929, Stern founded the Institute of Physiology in Moscow, of which she was director until 1948, when it was discontinued. Under her leadership, multidisciplinary groups of colleagues worked on the problems of the blood-brain and tissue-brain barriers and homeostasis of the brain. In 1939, Stern was elected full member of the Academy of Sciences and became its first female member ever. Most scientists manage to conduct their research by adjusting to the political and social situations surrounding them. Lina Stern did not follow this path. This small woman of complete devotion to science took the drastic decisions that altered her life. Though destiny was not kind to her, Lina Stern did not compromise. Despite a threat of execution, prolonged imprisonment, and exile she was never broken as a scientist and always maintained her dignity.
This paper gives an overview of the ideas on cerebral localization as they were formulated in the Netherlands in the nineteenth century. In general, it appears that, given the discussions in France, Germany, and Britain, surprisingly little was written and hardly any serious research was performed. Special attention is given to the dissertation on the localization of sensory-motor functions by Aletta Jacobs (1854-1929), known for her social and political activities to improve the position of women. Although it was not a particularly thorough study, it was the only one that seriously and empirically addressed the topic of localization.
This paper focuses on Ramn M. Termeyer SJ (1737-1814?), a naturalist who experimented with the electric eel in the River Plate region during the 1760s. After going through an enumeration of the chroniclers that since the sixteenth century noticed the benumbing discharge of Electrophorus electricus, the article summarizes the work that immediately preceded Termeyer's and considers as a term of comparison the experiments on the electric eel performed by Bertrand Bajon (fl. 1751-1778) in the French Guyanne. It ends by discussing the meaning of Termeyer's 1781 and 1810 articles in the light of contemporary ideas of animal electricity.





Franois Magendie's (1783-1855) experimental model for measuring blood pressure in animals, which he developed in 1838, had a major impact on French physiology in the nineteenth century, especially upon Etienne-Jules Marey (1830-1904) in Paris. In due course it was also adopted by other European investigators, such as the Leipzig physiologist Carl Ludwig (1816-1895), and by clinicians who developed it into a major measuring tool. Historians of science, however, have paid hardly any attention to Magendie's further laboratory investigations conducted with the assistance of Jean-Louis Marie Poiseuille's (1799-1869) sphygmomtre (blood pressure meter). After having used the apparatus to conduct his experiments on a variety of blood vessels, Magendie also applied the sphygmomtre in 1840 to the ventricular system of the brain in order to measure cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure. But the scope of this new procedure had yet to be defined: the new measuring device invited many speculative interpretations about the meaning of CSF flow for the physiology of the ventricular system in healthy and diseased brain function. As such, Magendie's experiments produced phenomena in very heterogeneous knowledge areas, and CSF measurement was situated at the interface of quite disparate investigative spaces regarding the structure and function of the brain. In his textbook Leons sur les Fonctions et les Maladies du Systme Nerveux (Lectures on the Functions and Diseases of the Nervous System), Magendie described extending application of the measuring &quot;apparatus of Poiseuille&quot; from blood vessels to parts of the brain. The instrument thus became something of a liquidodynamomtre (liquor dynamometer), that paved the way for later applications, including (after 1896) diagnostic intracranial pressure (ICP) measurement by Theodor Kocher (1841-1917) and Harvey Cushing (1869-1939). The current paper focuses on the experimental contingencies that prompted the instrument transfer in Magendie's laboratory and opened up new epistemological perspectives for research in neurophysiology.
This essay focuses on a paradigmatic moment in neurobiological studies of invertebrates: the research on the nervous system of cephalopods carried out by Enrico Sereni at the Naples Zoological Station between 1925 and 1931. Although he remained unknown on the historiographic scenario, probably due to his early death, he contributed to Italian science of the first half of the twentieth century. In my paper particular attention will be given to Sereni's study on the pigmentary-effector, neurohumoral, and peripheral nervous systems, since they also accounted for the historical foundation of the experimental vein that, through the years, would lead John Zachary Young, Sereni's follower, to the most well-known discovery of the giant nerve fibers.
Vinken and Bruyn's Handbook of Clinical Neurology (HCN) is best characterized as an encyclopedia. In this paper we describe the origin, production, and reception of HCN. Data were gathered from a literature search, by screening of HCN-volumes, interviewing key-role persons and a study of an HCN-archive. The initiative for HCN was taken by two Excerpta Medica staff members, the one a strategist with expertise in information systems, the other a gifted neurologist with an expert knowledge of who is who in the world of neurological literature. Within a period of 38 years, 2799 authors, 28 volume editors, the two initiators, and a third chief editor for the American continent described the whole of neurology in 1909 chapters on all together 46,025 pages (excluding index volumes). HCN was sold mainly to medical institutes in affluent countries. A digital version of the revised edition was proposed by the editors but refused by the publisher for commercial reasons. HCN was in general well received by book reviewers. The main criticisms concerned the price of the volumes, lack of editorial control, inadequacy of indexes, and lack of cross references. HCN offers unrivalled information on the state of the art of the clinical neurosciences in the second half of the twentieth century. In addition, it contains extensive reviews of the history of neurological diseases in the volumes of the original edition.
In 1894 at St. Vincent's Hospital Melbourne, George Adlington Syme removed a meningioma from a patient with symptomatic focal epilepsy. The operation stands as the first surgery based on seizure localization in Australia. It is also the country's first documented successful resection of an intracranial meningioma. It followed William Macewen's landmark cerebral localization case on the boy John McKinley by 18 years and Victor Horsley's first epilepsy case on Hughlings Jackson's patient James B. by a mere 8 years. Syme's patient, Constable John G., survived the operation by some 23 years, dying from a gunshot wound to the head in 1917. Newly discovered inquest papers reveal that the coroner's judgment that the death was accidental completely fails to address the more credible scenario of suicide. The story makes for a fascinating epilogue to an important landmark in Australia's neurosurgical history.
In the 1790s, Luigi Galvani and Alessandro Volta were the main protagonists of a lively debate on the role of electricity in animal organisms. Significant developments originated from this debate, leading to the foundation of two new disciplines, electrodynamics and electrophysiology, that were to play a crucial role in the scientific and technological progress of the last two centuries. The Galvani-Volta controversy has been repeatedly reconstructed, sometimes in an attempt to identify the merits and the errors of one or the other of the two protagonists, sometimes with the aim of demonstrating that the theories elaborated by the two Italian scholars were irreconcilable, reflecting completely different ways of looking at phenomena and conceiving of scientific research. In this article a different interpretation is offered, based on a discussion of the scientific issues that were central to Galvani's and Volta's research, and with reference to the context of science and society of the eighteenth century.
Gender role is a multifactorial concept, as gender-related attitudes, behaviors, and personality are partially autonomous. The aim of the study was to evaluate the prevalent gender role identity in a sample of male homosexuals. One hundred male homosexuals and 50 male heterosexuals matched for age and sex, have been assessed with the Italian version of the Bem Sex-Role Inventory (BSRI; Bem, 1974). Statistically significant differences have been found between the two groups at the dimensions &quot;Masculine&quot; (z = 1.963; p = 0.001) and &quot;Androgyny&quot; (z = 2.367; p &lt; 0.0001). The results obtained from the present study tend to confirm that homosexuals view themselves as adrogynous individuals, sharing both features of masculine and feminine gender roles.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by behavioral and language disturbances. We performed a case-control association study in the Italian population to assess the relevance for FTLD genetic susceptibility of the serotonin (5-HT) transporter gene-linked polymorphic region [rs4795541, alias short (S)/long (L)] an in/del polymorphism of the promoter region of the gene coding for the 5-HT transporter (SLC6A4). This functional polymorphism was reported to influence the SLC6A4 transcription rate, with the S-allele having a two-fold reduced efficiency. We collected 225 independent subjects (74 sporadic FTLD and 151 age-matched healthy controls, CT) that were genotyped for the rs4795541, the SLC6A4 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) rs25531 and rs6354, and the apolipoprotein E (APOE) allelic variants. A significant correlation [P = 0.018, OR (95% CI): 2.1 (1.1-3.9)] between rs4795541 S-allele presence and FTLD susceptibility was found. In summary, the rs4795541 might be important for FTLD susceptibility in the Italian population.
We examined 136 patients with mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletion. Clinical diagnoses included chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (94 patients); Kearns-Sayre syndrome (KSS; 33 patients); Pearson's marrow-pancreas syndrome (six patients); and Leigh syndrome, Reye-like syndrome, and mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (one patient). The length and location of deletion were highly variable. Only one patient had deletion within the so-called shorter arc between the two origins of mtDNA replication. The length of deletion and the number of deleted transfer ribonucleic acid (tRNAs) showed a significant relationship with age at onset. Furthermore, KSS patients had longer and larger numbers of deleted tRNAs, which could be risk factors for the systemic involvement of single mtDNA deletion diseases. We found 81 patterns of deletion. Direct repeats of 4 bp or longer flanking the breakpoints were found in 96 patients (70.5%) and those of 10 bp or longer in 49 patients (36.0%). We found two other common deletions besides the most common deletion (34 patients: 25.0%): the 2,310-bp deletion from nt 12113 to nt 14421 (11 patients: 8.0%) and the 7,664-bp deletion from nt 6330 to nt 13993 (ten patients: 7.3%). These deletions had incomplete direct repeats longer than 13 bp with one base mismatch.
X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT1X) is a peripheral neuropathy transmitted in a dominant manner and caused by mutations in the Connexin 32 (Cx32) gene (GJB1, gap junction beta 1). Here we report the mutation analysis of the GJB1 gene in 76 subjects with possible CMT1 and absence of 17p11.2 duplication, and in 38 CMT2 patients without mutations in CMT2-associated-genes, selected from a cohort of 684 patients with peripheral sensory-motor neuropathy. The analysis was performed by direct sequencing of the coding sequence and exon/intron boundaries of the GJB1 gene. The mutation screening identified 22 mutations in GJB1, eight of which have not been previously published: six point mutations (c.50C &gt; G, c.107T &gt; A, c.545C &gt; T, c.545C &gt; G, c.548G &gt; C, c.791G &gt; T) and two deletions (c.84delC, c.573_581delCGTCTTCAT). The GJB1 mutation frequency (19.3%) and the clinical heterogeneity of our patients suggest searching for GJB1 mutations in all CMT cases without the 17p11.2 duplication, regardless of the gender of the proband, as well as in CMT2 patients with possible X-linked inheritance.

Serial neuropsychological assessment is often conducted to monitor changes in the cognitive abilities of individuals over time. Because practice effects occur and the reliability of test scores is less than perfect, it is difficult to judge whether varying test results should be attributed to chance trends or to real changes in underlying cognitive abilities. In a large sample of adults (age range, 49-81 years), we evaluated the influence of age, gender, and education on test-retest changes in performance after 3 years on Rey's Verbal Learning Test (VLT), the Stroop Color-Word Test (SCWT), and the Letter Digit Substitution Test (LDST). A new statistical method was applied to assess the significance of changes in test performance (i.e., the regression-based change method). The results showed that test-retest changes differed as a function of age for the VLT Total recall 1-3, VLT Total recall 1-5, VLT Delayed recall, and LDST measures. An age x gender interaction was found for the SCWT Interference change score, suggesting that the age-related decline in executive functioning after 3 years was more pronounced for males than for females. A normative change table with appropriate corrections for the relevant independent variables was established.
Major depression is associated with cognitive deficits including memory, executive functions, and affect perception, which have been linked to dysfunction of fronto-subcortical networks. However, little is known about social cognition on more complex socially relevant tasks, such as humor processing. In this investigation a computerized humor-processing task was administered to 27 patients with a diagnosis of major depression (Dep) and 27 healthy controls (HC). Theory of mind (mentalizing) and executive functions were also assessed. Both groups were similar in IQ, age, and gender. Depressed patients performed below the control group with respect to both affective and cognitive aspects of humor processing, and these were related to mentalizing and executive performance. Our findings suggest social cognition deficits in major depression. Ability to process humor and appreciate mentalistic perspectives may in turn influence social interactions and should be given consideration in therapeutic approaches to depression.
On the mild end of the acquired brain injury spectrum, the terms concussion and mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) have been used interchangeably, where persistent post-concussive syndrome (PPCS) has been a label given when symptoms persist for more than three months post-concussion. Whereas a brief history of concussion research is overviewed, the focus of this review is on the current status of PPCS as a clinical entity from the perspective of recent advances in the biomechanical modeling of concussion in human and animal studies, particularly directed at a better understanding of the neuropathology associated with concussion. These studies implicate common regions of injury, including the upper brainstem, base of the frontal lobe, hypothalamic-pituitary axis, medial temporal lobe, fornix, and corpus callosum. Limitations of current neuropsychological techniques for the clinical assessment of memory and executive function are explored and recommendations for improved research designs offered, that may enhance the study of long-term neuropsychological sequelae of concussion.

Denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) purification of heteroduplexes has been reported as a method to increase sensitivity of the detection of low-level heteroplasmy by DNA sequencing, and DHPLC profiling has been suggested as a method to allow the correlation of a characteristic chromatographic profile with a specific sequence alteration. Herein we report pitfalls associated with the use of DHPLC for these purposes. We show that the purified heteroduplex fraction does not contain a 50:50 mix of wild-type and mutant DNA in DNA samples containing low-level mutations, and that with a commonly used protocol, DNA sequencing gave false negative results at the 1% mutation level, potentially leading to misdiagnosis. We improved the protocol to detect low levels of mutations and evaluated the sensitivity of DNA sequencing in the detection of mutation in these fractions. We also studied the DHPLC profiles of several mutations in the tRNALeu(UUR) region of mitochondrial DNA and found a characteristic profile in only one of five mutants tested, whereas four other mutants showed identical chromatographic profiles.
Most neurodegenerative disorders are characterised by deposits of aggregated proteins that are readily visualised by light microscopy. Although the presence of such a bulky structure inside the cell or in the extracellular space is likely not to be healthy, over recent years the idea has emerged that these end-stage aggregates are a relatively safe way to deposit harmful aberrant proteins. Protein quality control is a multi-level security system to safeguard cells from aberrant proteins and is therefore a protective response. However, protein quality control may turn destructive in case of impairment of protein quality control for example by aging or because of overflow of the quality control systems due to prolonged exposure. In many cases the medicine is worse than the cause and the &quot;protective&quot; response of the cell to aggregates kills the cell, rather than the aggregate itself. Here we review the role of protein quality control in neurodegeneration and aim to distinguish protective and destructive responses to aggregates in order to find targets for therapeutic intervention.
Misfolding and abnormal aggregation of the neuronal protein alpha-synuclein has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease and related neurological disorders, such as dementia with Lewy bodies. alpha-synuclein is a conventional cytosolic protein and is thought to exert its pathogenic function exclusively in the neuronal cytoplasm in a cell-autonomous manner. However, the current model is being challenged by a series of new observations that demonstrate the presence of alpha-synuclein and its aggregated forms in the extracellular fluid both in vivo and in vitro. Extracellular alpha-synuclein appears to be delivered by unconventional exocytosis of intravesicular alpha-synuclein, although the exact mechanism has not been characterized. Compared to the cytosolic alpha-synuclein, intravesicular alpha-synuclein is prone to aggregation and the potential source of extracellular aggregates. A number of tissue culture studies suggest that exposure to extracellular alpha-synuclein aggregates induces microglial activation, release of pro-inflammatory cytokines from astrocytes, and neurotoxicity. Thus, exocytosis of alpha-synuclein may be an important mechanism for amplifying and spreading degenerative changes from a small group of cells to its surrounding tissues, and it potentially provides therapeutic targets for halting the progression of the disease.
AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: Suck development is a challenging hurdle for preterm infants who endure an extensive oxygen history due to respiratory distress syndrome (RDS). The fine structure of the non-nutritive suck (NNS) was studied in preterm infants according to RDS severity. DESIGN AND METHODS: Recordings of NNS were completed cribside in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) in 55 preterm infants distributed among one healthy control group and two RDS infant groups. NNS pressure amplitude (cmH(2)0) and within-burst suck cycle period (ms) were the dependent measures extracted from digitized records of pacifier nipple compression pressure. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: RDS preterm infants demonstrated significant differences in NNS suck pressure amplitude compared to healthy preterm infants. Periods of oxygen supplementation restrict orofacial movement and limit orosensory experiences necessary for suck development and neural maturation. RDS infants may be excellent candidates for patterned oral stimulation programs designed to advance the maturation of sucking skills.
Various researchers distinguished two categories of aggressive behaviour, namely reactive and proactive aggression. Reactive aggression is an aggressive response to a perceived threat or provocation, whereas proactive aggression is behaviour that anticipates a reward. In the present study, including both a sample of disruptive behaviour disordered (DBD) and normal control (NC) children, we observed reactive and proactive aggressive behaviour during an experimental dyadic play session. DBD children showed more observed reactive and proactive aggression. Subsequently, we investigated whether the observed measures correlated with parent-rated measures of reactive and proactive aggression in. We distinguished in both NC and DBD children a subgroup showing a rise in cortisol level, i.e. responders, and a subgroup who did not show a rise in cortisol, i.e. non-responders. Results suggest that differences in the cortisol response affects the correspondence between observed and parent-rated reactive and proactive aggression since only DBD non-responders showed the expected correlations.
Chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs) are axon growth inhibitory molecules present in the glial scar that play a part in regeneration failure after damage to the CNS and which restrict CNS plasticity. Removal of chondroitin sulphate glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains with chondroitinase-ABC (chABC) in models of CNS injury promotes both axon regeneration and plasticity. We have analysed the immediate and long-term effects of a single injection of chABC on CSPGs, GAGs and axon regeneration. We made unilateral nigrostriatal lesions in adult rats accompanied by an adjacent infusion of either chABC or a bacterial-derived control enzyme (penicillinase). Within 24 h of chABC treatment there was digestion of GAGs, including hyaluronan, and a reduction in neurocan in an area extending 1.5 mm around the injection site. Around 50% of GAG is inaccessible to chABC digestion, even in tissue digested in vitro, which probably represents intracellular stores. In control penicillinase treated animals, total GAGs recovered from the lesioned brains were up-regulated by 4-fold 7 days after injury and gradually decreased to normal at 28 days post-lesion. In chondroitinase-treated animals, the total GAG remained at low level throughout the 28-day experimental period. This suggests the persistence of active chABC for at least 10 days after injection which is able to digest CSPGs released from cells during this time. This was confirmed by immunological detection of enzyme for 10 days and by retrieval of active enzyme from the brain at 10 days after injection. Our results suggest that a single injection of chABC can produce an environment conducive to CNS repair for over 10 days.
Accumulating evidence suggests that metallothionein (MT)-I and -II promote neuronal survival and regeneration in vivo. The present study investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the differentiation and survival-promoting effects of MT and a peptide modeled after MT, EmtinB. Both MT and EmtinB directly stimulated neurite outgrowth and promoted survival in vitro using primary cultures of cerebellar granule neurons. In addition, expression and surface localization of megalin, a known MT receptor, and the related lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 (LRP) are demonstrated in cerebellar granule neurons. By means of surface plasmon resonance MT and EmtinB were found to bind to both megalin and LRP. The bindings were abrogated in the presence of receptor-associated protein-1, an antagonist of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family, which also inhibited MT- and EmtinB-induced neurite outgrowth and survival. MT-mediated neurite outgrowth was furthermore inhibited by an anti-megalin serum. EmtinB-mediated inhibition of apoptosis occurred without a reduction of caspase-3 activity, but was associated with reduced expression of the pro-apoptotic B-cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 interacting member of cell death (Bim(S)). Finally, evidence is provided that MT and EmtinB activate extracellular signal-regulated kinase, protein kinase B, and cAMP response element binding protein. Altogether, these results strongly suggest that MT and EmtinB induce their neuronal effects through direct binding to surface receptors belonging to the low-density lipoprotein receptor family, such as megalin and LRP, thereby activating signal transduction pathways resulting in neurite outgrowth and survival.
Studies on animal models of epilepsy and cerebellar ataxia, e.g., stargazer mice (stg) have identified changes in the GABAergic properties of neurones associated with the affected brain loci. Whether these changes contribute to or constitute homeostatic adaptations to a state of altered neuronal excitability is as yet unknown. Using cultured cerebellar granule neurones from control [+/+; alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor (AMPAR)-competent, Kainate receptor (KAR)-competent] and stg (AMPAR-incompetent, KAR-competent), we investigated whether non-NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activity regulates GABA(A) receptor (GABAR) expression. Neurones were maintained in 5 mmol/L KCl-containing basal media or depolarizing media containing either 25 mmol/L KCl or the non-NMDAR agonist kainic acid (KA) (100 micromol/L). KCl- and KA-mediated depolarization down-regulated GABAR alpha1, alpha6 and beta2, but up-regulated alpha4, beta3 and delta subunits in +/+ neurones. The KCl-evoked but not KA-evoked effects were reciprocated in stg neurones compatible with AMPAR-regulation of GABAR expression. Conversely, GABAR gamma2 expression was insensitive to KCl-mediated depolarization, but was down-regulated by KA-treatment in a 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX)-reversible manner in +/+ and stg neurones compatible with a KAR-mediated response. KA-mediated up-regulation of GABAR alpha4, beta3 and delta was inhibited by L-type voltage-gated calcium channel (L-VGCC) blockers and the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase inhibitor, 4-[(2S)-2-[(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)methylamino]-3-oxo-3-(4-phenyl-1-piperazinyl)propyl] phenyl isoquinoline sulfonic acid ester (KN-62). Up-regulation of GABAR alpha4 and beta3 was also prevented by calcineurin (CaN) inhibitors, FK506 and cyclosporin A. Down-regulation of GABAR alpha1, alpha6 and beta2 was independent of L-VGCC activity, but was prevented by inhibitors of CaN. Thus, we provide evidence that a KAR-mediated and at least three mutually exclusive AMPAR-mediated signalling mechanisms regulate neuronal GABAR expression.
The anti-apoptotic effects of heat-shock protein (Hsp70) were assessed in SCG neurones following nerve growth factor (NGF) withdrawal. The results showed that the virally mediated expression of Hsp70 mirrored the effects of the c-Jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK) binding domain (JBD) of JNK interacting protein (an inhibitor of JNK and c-Jun activation) and suppressed the phosphorylation of c-Jun. Preventing c-Jun transcriptional activity subsequently led to reduced cytochrome c release and prevented caspase activation as indicated by a decrease in poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP) cleavage. Together, these results show that Hsp70 is a highly effective inhibitor of apoptosis in sympathetic neurones and that it mediates this effect primarily by suppressing c-Jun transcriptional signalling.
We used immunoprecipitation with subunit-specific antibodies to examine the distribution of heteromeric neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) that contain the alpha5 subunit in the adult rat brain. Among the regions of brain we surveyed, the alpha5 subunit is associated in approximately 37% of the nAChRs in the hippocampus, approximately 24% of the nAChRs in striatum, and 11-16% of the receptors in the cerebral cortex, thalamus, and superior colliculus. Sequential immunoprecipitation assays demonstrate that the alpha5 subunit is associated with alpha4beta2* nAChRs exclusively. Importantly, in contrast to alpha4beta2 nAChRs, which are increased by 37-85% after chronic administration of nicotine, the alpha4beta2alpha5 receptors are not increased by nicotine treatment. These data thus indicate that the alpha4beta2alpha5 nAChRs in rat brain are resistant to up-regulation by nicotine in vivo, which suggests an important regulatory role for the alpha5 subunit. To the extent that nicotine-induced up-regulation of alpha4beta2 nAChRs is involved in nicotine addiction, the resistance of the alpha4beta2alpha5 subtype to up-regulation may have important implications for nicotine addiction.
A common feature in the early stages of many neurodegenerative diseases lies in mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and reduced levels of synaptic transmission. Many genes associated with neurodegenerative diseases are now known to regulate either mitochondrial function, redox state, or the exocytosis of neurotransmitters. Mitochondria are the primary source of reactive oxygen species and ATP and control apoptosis. Mitochondria are concentrated in synapses and significant alterations to synaptic mitochondrial localization, number, morphology, or function can be detrimental to synaptic transmission. Mitochondrial by-products are capable of regulating various steps of neurotransmission and mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress occur in the early stages of many neurodegenerative diseases. This mini-review will highlight the prospect that mitochondria regulates synaptic exocytosis by controlling synaptic ATP and reactive oxygen species levels and that dysfunctional exocytosis caused by mitochondrial abnormalities may be a common underlying phenomenon in the initial stages of some human neurodegenerative diseases.
Progranulin (PGRN) is a multifunctional protein that has attracted significant attention in the neuroscience community following the recent discovery of PGRN mutations in some cases of frontotemporal dementia. Most of the pathogenic mutations result in null alleles, and it is thought that frontotemporal dementia in these families results from PGRN haploinsufficiency. The neuropathology associated with PGRN mutations is characterized by the presence of tau-negative, ubiquitin-immunoreactive neuronal inclusions (frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitinated inclusions) that are also positive for the transactivation response DNA binding protein with M(r) 43 kD. The clinical phenotype includes behavioral abnormalities, language disorders and parkinsonism but not motor neuron disease. There is significant clinical variation between families with different PGRN mutations and among members of individual families. The normal function of PGRN is complex, with the full-length form of the protein having trophic and anti-inflammatory activity, whereas proteolytic cleavage generates granulin peptides that promote inflammatory activity. In the periphery, PGRN functions in wound healing responses and modulates inflammatory events. In the CNS, PGRN is expressed by neurons and microglia; consequently, reduced levels of PGRN could affect both neuronal survival and CNS inflammatory processes. In this review, we discuss current knowledge of the molecular genetics, neuropathology, clinical phenotype and functional aspects of PGRN in the context of neurodegenerative disease.
Mitochondrial complex-I dysfunction has been observed in patients of Huntington's disease (HD). We assessed whether such a defect is present in the 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) model of HD. Rats treated with 3-NP (10-20 mg/kg i.p., for 4 days) exhibited weight loss, gait abnormalities, and striatal lesions with increased glial fibrillary acidic protein immunostaining on fifth and ninth days, while increase in striatal dopamine and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity were observed on fifth day following treatment. We report for the first time a dose-dependent reduction in complex-I activity in the cerebral cortex when analyzed spectrophotometrically and by blue native-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis following 3-NP treatment. The citrate synthase normalized activities of mitochondrial complex-I, -II, -(I + III) and -IV were decreased in the cortex of 3-NP treated rats. In addition, succinate driven State 3 respiration was also significantly inhibited in vivo and in the isolated mitochondria. These findings taken together with the observation of a significant decrease in vivo but not in vitro of State 3 respiration with NAD(+)-linked substrates, suggest complex-I dysfunction in addition to irreversible inhibition of complex-II and succinate dehydrogenase activity as a contributing factor in 3-NP-induced cortico-striatal lesion.
It has previously been observed that expression of chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1/CC chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2)) and its receptor CC chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) is up-regulated by dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in association with rodent models of neuropathic pain. MCP-1 increases the excitability of nociceptive neurons after a peripheral nerve injury, while disruption of MCP-1/CCR2 signaling blocks the development of neuropathic pain, suggesting MCP-1 signaling is responsible for heightened pain sensitivity. To define the mechanisms of MCP-1 signaling in DRG, we studied intracellular processing, release, and receptor-mediated signaling of MCP-1 in DRG neurons. We found that in a focal demyelination model of neuropathic pain both MCP-1 and CCR2 were up-regulated by the same neurons including transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor subtype 1 (TRPV1) expressing nociceptors. MCP-1 expressed by DRG neurons was packaged into large dense-core vesicles whose release could be induced from the soma by depolarization in a Ca2+-dependent manner. Activation of CCR2 by MCP-1 could sensitize nociceptors via transactivation of transient receptor potential channels. Our results suggest that MCP-1 and CCR2, up-regulated by sensory neurons following peripheral nerve injury, might participate in neural signal processing which contributes to sustained excitability of primary afferent neurons.
Dendritic degeneration and loss of synaptic proteins are early events correlated with functional decline in neurodegenerative disease. The temporal and mechanistic relationship between synapse loss and cell death, however, remains unclear. We used confocal microscopy and image processing to count post-synaptic sites on rat hippocampal neurons by expressing post-synaptic density protein 95 fused to green fluorescent protein. Fluorescent puncta co-localized with neurotransmitter release sites, NMDA-induced Ca2+ increases and NMDA receptor immunoreactivity. During excitotoxic neurodegeneration, synaptic sites were lost and synaptic transmission impaired. These changes were mediated by NMDA receptors and required Ca2+-dependent activation of the proteasome pathway. Tracking synapses from the same cell following brief neurotoxic insult revealed transient loss followed by recovery. The time-course, concentration-dependence and mechanism for loss of post-synaptic sites were distinct from those leading to cell death. Cells expressing p14ARF, which inhibits ubiquitination of post-synaptic density protein 95 and prevents loss of synaptic sites, displayed an increased sensitivity to glutamate-induced cell death. Thus, excitotoxic synapse loss may be a disease-modifying process rather than an obligatory step leading to cell death. These results demonstrate the importance of assessing synaptic function independent of neuronal survival during neurodegeneration and indicate that this approach will be useful for identifying toxins that degrade synaptic connections and for screening for agents that protect synaptic function.
We still do not understand the pathogenesis of the majority of pituitary adenomas or why, once formed, their behaviour tends to be so benign. Understanding trophic activity in the normal pituitary may be the key. Despite the fact that changes in indices of cell division and programmed cell death that are too small to measure can produce highly significant fluxes in cell populations, little by little, the fascinating patterns of integrated responses of pituitary cells to hormonal stimuli are now being revealed.
Living organisms represent, in essence, dynamic interactions of high complexity between membrane-separated compartments that cannot exist on their own, but reach behaviour in co-ordination. In multicellular organisms, there must be communication and co-ordination between individual cells and cell groups to achieve appropriate behaviour of the system. Depending on the mode of signal transportation and the target, intercellular communication is neuronal, hormonal, paracrine or juxtacrine. Cell signalling can also be self-targeting or autocrine. Although the notion of paracrine and autocrine signalling was already suggested more than 100 years ago, it is only during the last 30 years that these mechanisms have been characterised. In the anterior pituitary, paracrine communication and autocrine loops that operate during fetal and postnatal development in mammals and lower vertebrates have been shown in all hormonal cell types and in folliculo-stellate cells. More than 100 compounds have been identified that have, or may have, paracrine or autocrine actions. They include the neurotransmitters acetylcholine and gamma-aminobutyric acid, peptides such as vasoactive intestinal peptide, galanin, endothelins, calcitonin, neuromedin B and melanocortins, growth factors of the epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, nerve growth factor and transforming growth factor-beta families, cytokines, tissue factors such as annexin-1 and follistatin, hormones, nitric oxide, purines, retinoids and fatty acid derivatives. In addition, connective tissue cells, endothelial cells and vascular pericytes may influence paracrinicity by delivering growth factors, cytokines, heparan sulphate proteoglycans and proteases. Basement membranes may influence paracrine signalling through the binding of signalling molecules to heparan sulphate proteoglycans. Paracrine/autocrine actions are highly context-dependent. They are turned on/off when hormonal outputs need to be adapted to changing demands of the organism, such as during reproduction, stress, inflammation, starvation and circadian rhythms. Specificity and selectivity in autocrine/paracrine interactions may rely on microanatomical specialisations, functional compartmentalisation in receptor-ligand distribution and the non-equilibrium dynamics of the receptor-ligand interactions in the loops.
In the last decade, several different optical-imaging techniques have been developed to study neuronal activity, with the aim to map and decipher the neural code underlying major neurophysiologic functions, such as odor perception, learning and memory, locomotor activity, and sleep, to name a few. The first generation of these techniques was principally based on detecting either transmembrane voltage or calcium activity by using fluorescent dye markers. Recently, the development of genetically encoded probes has extended the limits, increased the accessibility of deeper structures,and more importantly, allowed investigators to precisely label and identify the desired neurons. However, several deep structures of the brain still remain refractive to these approaches, suggesting that the development of other techniques will be welcome. Recently, a new bioluminescence approach has been described, and although it is still anew technique, the first reported results, and the biological phenomena that have been revealed, make it extremely promising. This review will summarize the recent progress of these different imaging approaches, comparing the limits and constraints of each of them, and will guide the reader in choosing the most appropriate method in accordance with the desired neurons or functions under investigation.
One of the formidable challenges in modern neuroscience is to identify the physical basis of long-term memory (LTM) storagethe engram. Cellular and molecular experiments have suggested that the engram for a particular behavioral task is encoded as changes in synaptic structure and function, yet distributed in an unknown fashion across an ill-defined neural circuit or network. Accumulating genetic and circuitry information has provided some clues toward resolving this engram puzzle.This review will focus on recent discoveries of genes and circuits involved in the formation of olfactory-associated LTM in Drosophila.


Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have the potential to play a role in autologous treatment of central nervous system injury or disease. Here we transduced human MSCs with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). We compared the capacity of control and EGFP-positive cells to proliferate under normal culture conditions, as well as express neural markers following trans-differentiation. EGFP-positive cells proliferated comparably to controls, retained EGFP expression over the course of multiple passages, and retained neural marker expression at levels comparable to control MSCs. Further neurogenic capacity of EGFP-positive human MSCs was examined by growth as neural stem cell-like neurospheres. No significant difference was observed in the ability of control or EGFP-positive cells to generate primary neurospheres or to expand during passage. When examined by immunostaining for the presence of neuroectodermal markers, neurosphere-derived cells similarly expressed neural markers. We show that human MSCs expressing EGFP represent an attractive and practical source of stem cells for the study of repair and regeneration in neurological models.
IgM paraproteins in about 50% of the patients with neuropathy associated with IgM gammopathy react with carbohydrate moieties in myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and in sulfated glucuronic glycolipids (SGGLs) in human peripheral nerves. However, the role of anti-MAG/SGGL antibodies in the pathogenesis of neuropathy remains unclear. In order to induce an animal model of neuropathy associated with anti-MAG/SGGL antibodies, cats were immunized with sulfoglucuronyl paragloboside (SGPG). All four cats immunized with SGPG developed clinical signs of sensory neuronopathy within 11 months after initial immunization, characterized by unsteadiness, falling, hind limb weakness and ataxia. In two cats the ataxia and hind limb paralysis were so severe that the animals had to be euthanized. Pathological examination revealed sensory ganglionitis with inflammatory infiltrates in the dorsal root ganglia. No overt signs of pathology were noted in the examined roots or nerves. High titer anti-SGPG/MAG antibodies were detected in all 4 cats immunized with SGPG but not in 3 control cats. Our data demonstrate that immunization of cats with SGPG induced anti-SGPG antibodies and sensory neuronopathy clinically resembling the sensory ataxia of patients with monoclonal IgM anti-MAG/SGPG antibodies. This study suggests that these anti-MAG/SGPG antibodies play a role in the pathogenesis of this neuropathy.
Multiple sclerosis affects more women than men. The reasons for this are unknown. Previously, we have shown significant differences in women versus men in inflammatory cytokine responses to the major protein component of myelin, proteolipid protein (PLP), which is thought to be a target in MS patients. Here, using the ELISPOT assay, we examined sex differences in single-cell secretion of Th1 and Th2 cytokines from freshly isolated PBMC between relapsing remitting (RR) MS patients and healthy individuals. Cells were stimulated with MS-associated antigens including proteolipid protein (PLP), myelin basic protein (MBP), myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), and non-disease related antigens. Our data show a sex bias in the cytokine responses to multiple MS-relevant myelin antigens: Women with MS show IFNgamma-skewed responses and men with MS show IL-5-skewed responses. These data extend our previous findings [Pelfrey, C.M., Cotleur, A.C., Lee, J.C., Rudick, R.A. 2002. Sex differences in cytokine responses to myelin peptides in multiple sclerosis. J. Neuroimmunol. 130, 211-223.]: (1) by demonstrating gender skewing in cytokine responses to an expanded myelin antigen repertoire, which includes MBP, MOG and PLP; (2) by showing TNFalpha and IL-10 do not display comparable gender skewing compared to IFNgamma and IL5; (3) by defining the patient population as early, untreated RRMS patients to avoid confounding factors, such as different disease stages/disability and immunomodulatory therapy; and (4) by showing HLA type does not appear to underlie the gender differences. These findings may explain increased susceptibility to MS in women and could contribute to the differences in disease severity between men and women.



Foreign accent syndrome (FAS) is a rare speech disorder characterised by the emergence of a new accent, perceived by listeners as foreign. FAS has usually been described following focal brain insults, such as stroke. We describe the unusual case of a woman presenting with FAS as the earliest symptom of progressive degenerative brain disease. At presentation, she showed no language or other cognitive impairment, and functional and structural brain imaging were normal. Follow-up 1 year later revealed the emergence of mild expressive language problems. Repeat functional neuroimaging showed mild hypoperfusion of the perisylvian speech area of the left hemisphere, and structural imaging showed mild left perisylvian atrophy. We interpret the case as an unusual presentation of primary progressive non-fluent aphasia. The case provides further evidence of the variable and circumscribed nature of the clinical presentation of focal cerebral degeneration.



Epilepsy in brain tumor patients is often refractory to pharmacological treatments and can complicate the therapeutic management of these patients. We conducted a prospective, observational study. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and tolerability of topiramate (TPM) in brain tumor associated epilepsy. We studied 47 patients with brain tumors and epilepsy. The entire group was administered AEDs. TPM was the first therapeutic choice in 14 patients, while in the remaining 33 patients previous AEDs were modified and TPM was introduced due to side effects or inefficacy of the first drug. Follow-up ranged from 3 to 48 months (mean 16.5 months). Considering the final follow-up of each patient who assumed TPM for at least 3 months, we observed 45 patients: 25 were seizure free (55.6%), 9 had a reduction of seizure frequency (SF) higher than 50% (20%) and 11 were stable (24.4%). TPM responder rate was 75.6%. Three patients (6.4%) discontinued TPM for severe side effects (1 after 4 months and 2 after 1 month) and 4 (8.5%) had mild and reversible side effects. In the group of patients who had been in therapy with other AEDs prior to entering the study (n = 33), 19 patients had side effects (57.6%). During follow-up, the haematological parameters were in the normative ranges. Tumor-related seizures are difficult to control with AEDs; the precise reasons for this difficulty are not yet clear. Using TPM, we obtained good seizure control with a low incidence of side effects.
Olfactory bulb glomeruli are formed by a network of three major types of neurons collectively called juxtaglomerular (JG) cells, which include external tufted (ET), periglomerular (PG), and short axon (SA) cells. There is solid evidence that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) released from PG neurons presynaptically inhibits glutamate release from olfactory nerve terminals via activation of GABA(B) receptors (GABA(B)-Rs). However, it is still unclear whether ET cells have GABA(B)-Rs. We have investigated whether ET cells have functional postsynaptic GABA(B)-Rs using extracellular and whole cell recordings in olfactory bulb slices. In the presence of fast synaptic blockers (CNQX, APV, and gabazine), the GABA(B)-R agonist baclofen either completely inhibited the bursting or reduced the bursting frequency and increased the burst duration and the number of spikes/burst in ET cells. In the presence of fast synaptic blockers and tetrodotoxin, baclofen induced an outward current in ET cells, suggesting a direct postsynaptic effect. Baclofen reduced the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous EPSCs in PG and SA cells. In the presence of sodium and potassium channel blockers, baclofen reduced the frequency of miniature EPSCs, which were inhibited by the calcium channel blocker cadmium. All baclofen effects were reversed by application of the GABA(B)-R antagonist CGP55845. We suggest that activation of GABA(B)-Rs directly inhibits ET cell bursting and decreases excitatory dendrodendritic transmission from ET to PG and SA cells. Thus the postsynaptic GABA(B)-Rs on ET cells may play an important role in shaping the activation pattern of the glomeruli during olfactory coding.
Two forms of undulatory locomotion in the lamprey (a lower vertebrate) have been described earlier: fast forward swimming (FFS) used for long distance migrations and slow backward swimming (SBS) used for escape from adverse tactile stimuli. In the present study, we describe another form of escape behavior: slow forward swimming (SFS). We characterize the kinematic and electromyographic patterns of SFS and compare them with SBS and FFS. The most striking feature of SFS is nonuniformity of shape and speed of the locomotor waves propagating along the body: close to the site of stimulation, the waves slow down and the body curvature increases several-fold due to enhanced muscle activity. Lesions of afferents showed that sensory information critical for elicitation of SFS is transmitted through the dorsal roots. In contrast, sensory signals that induce SBS are transmitted through the dorsal roots, lateral line nerves, and trigeminal nerves. Persistence of SFS and SBS after different lesions of the spinal cord suggests that the ascending and descending pathways, necessary for induction of SBS and SFS, are dispersed over the cross section of the spinal cord. As shown previously, during FFS (but not SBS) the lamprey maintains the dorsal-side-up body orientation due to vestibular postural reflexes. In this study we have found that the orientation control is absent during SFS. The role of the spinal cord and the brain stem in generation of different forms of undulatory locomotion is discussed.
Expression of the NR3A subunit with NR1/NR2 in Xenopus oocytes or mammalian cell lines leads to a reduction in N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-induced currents and decreased Mg(2+) sensitivity and Ca(2+) permeability compared with NR1/NR2 receptors. Consistent with these findings, neurons from NR3A knockout (KO) mice exhibit enhanced NMDA-induced currents. Recombinant NR3A can also form excitatory glycine receptors with NR1 in the absence of NR2. However, the effects of NR3A on channel properties in neurons and synaptic transmission have not been fully elucidated. To study physiological roles of NR3A subunits, we generated NR3A transgenic (Tg) mice. Cultured NR3A Tg neurons exhibited two populations of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) channels, reduced Mg(2+) sensitivity, and decreased Ca(2+) permeability in response to NMDA/glycine, but glycine alone did not elicit excitatory currents. In addition, NMDAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in NR3A Tg hippocampal slices showed reduced Mg(2+) sensitivity, consistent with the notion that NR3A subunits incorporated into synaptic NMDARs. To study the function of endogenous NR3A subunits, we compared NMDAR-mediated EPSCs in NR3A KO and WT control mice. In NR3A KO mice, the ratio of the amplitudes of the NMDAR-mediated component to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor-mediated component of the EPSC was significantly larger than that seen in WT littermates. This result suggests that NR3A subunits contributed to the NMDAR-mediated component of the EPSC in WT mice. Taken together, these results show that NR3A subunits contribute to NMDAR responses from both synaptic and extrasynaptic receptors, likely composed of NR1, NR2, and NR3 subunits.
The neural computations that underlie the processing of auditory-stimulus identity are not well understood, especially how information is transformed across different cortical areas. Here, we compared the capacity of neurons in the superior temporal gyrus (STG) and the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vPFC) to code the identity of an auditory stimulus; these two areas are part of a ventral processing stream for auditory-stimulus identity. Whereas the responses of neurons in both areas are reliably modulated by different vocalizations, STG responses code significantly more vocalizations than those in the vPFC. Together, these data indicate that the STG and vPFC differentially code auditory identity, which suggests that substantial information processing takes place between these two areas. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that the STG and the vPFC are part of a functional circuit for auditory-identity analysis.
The zebrafish is an attractive model system for studying the function of the spinal locomotor network by combining electrophysiological, imaging, and genetic approaches. Thus far, most studies have been focusing on embryonic and larval stages. In this study we have developed an in vitro preparation of the isolated spinal cord from adult zebrafish in which locomotor activity can be induced while the activity of single neurons can be monitored using whole cell recording techniques. Application of NMDA elicited rhythmic locomotor activity that was monitored by recording from muscles or ventral roots in semi-intact or isolated spinal cord preparations, respectively. This rhythmic activity displayed a left-right alternation and a rostrocaudal delay. Blockade of glycinergic synaptic transmission by strychnine switched the alternating activity into synchronous bursting in the left and right sides as well as along the rostrocaudal axis. Whole cell recordings from motoneurons showed that they receive phasic synaptic inputs that were correlated with the locomotor activity recorded in ventral roots. This newly developed in vitro preparation of the adult zebrafish spinal cord will allow examination of the organization of the spinal locomotor network in an adult system to complement studies in zebrafish larvae and new born rodents.
Neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) detect binocular disparity by computing the local disparity energy of stereo images. The representation of binocular disparity in V1 contradicts the global correspondence when the image is binocularly anticorrelated. To solve the stereo correspondence problem, this rudimentary representation of stereoscopic depth needs to be further processed in the extrastriate cortex. Integrating signals over multiple spatial frequency channels is one possible mechanism supported by theoretical and psychophysical studies. We examined selectivities of single V4 neurons for both binocular disparity and spatial frequency in two awake, fixating monkeys. Disparity tuning was examined with a binocularly correlated random-dot stereogram (RDS) as well as its anticorrelated counterpart, whereas spatial frequency tuning was examined with a sine wave grating or a narrowband noise. Neurons with broader spatial frequency tuning exhibited more attenuated disparity tuning for the anticorrelated RDS. Additional rectification at the output of the energy model does not likely account for this attenuation because the degree of attenuation does not differ among the various types of disparity-tuned neurons. The results suggest that disparity energy signals are integrated across spatial frequency channels for generating a representation of stereoscopic depth in V4.
Little is known about the cellular mechanisms that underlie the processing and storage of sensory in the mammalian olfactory system. Here we show that persistent spiking, an activity pattern associated with working memory in other brain regions, can be evoked in the olfactory bulb by stimuli that mimic physiological patterns of synaptic input. We find that brief discharges trigger persistent activity in individual interneurons that receive slow, subthreshold oscillatory input in acute rat olfactory bulb slices. A 2- to 5-Hz oscillatory input, which resembles the synaptic drive that the olfactory bulb receives during sniffing, is required to maintain persistent firing. Persistent activity depends on muscarinic receptor activation and results from interactions between calcium-dependent afterdepolarizations and low-threshold Ca spikes in granule cells. Computer simulations suggest that intrinsically generated persistent activity in granule cells can evoke correlated spiking in reciprocally connected mitral cells. The interaction between the intrinsic currents present in reciprocally connected olfactory bulb neurons constitutes a novel mechanism for synchronized firing in subpopulations of neurons during olfactory processing.
The firing rates of neurons in the central visual pathway vary with stimulus strength, but not necessarily in a linear manner. In the contrast domain, the neural response function for cells in the primary visual cortex is characterized by expansive and compressive nonlinearities at low and high contrasts, respectively. A compressive nonlinearity at high contrast is also found for early visual pathway neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). This mechanism affects processing in the visual cortex. A fundamentally related issue is the possibility of an expansive nonlinearity at low contrast in LGN. To examine this possibility, we have obtained contrast-response data for a population of LGN neurons. We find for most cells that the best-fit function requires an expansive component. Additionally, we have measured the responses of LGN neurons to m-sequence white noise and examined the static relationship between a linear prediction and actual spike rate. We find that this static relationship is well fit by an expansive nonlinear power law with average exponent of 1.58. These results demonstrate that neurons in early visual pathways exhibit expansive nonlinear responses at low contrasts. Although this thalamic expansive nonlinearity has been largely ignored in models of early visual processing, it may have important consequences because it potentially affects the interpretation of a variety of visual functions.
Behavioral and psychiatric abnormalities in Wilson's disease (WD) have a variable frequency and spectrum. This study involved evaluation of the psychiatric comorbidities in patients of Wilson's disease, using structured clinical interview for DSM-IV Axis-I disorders (SCID). Among the 50 confirmed patients with Wilson's disease recruited for this study, 12 patients (24%) fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for syndromic psychiatric diagnosis: bipolar affective disorder (18%), major depression (4%), and dysthymia (2%). Formal assessment of psychopathology in all patients with Wilson's disease may have therapeutic significance.
Establishment of an in vitro model of human cholinergic neurons would be highly desirable for understanding and developing treatment for Alzheimer's and motoneuron diseases. Previously we reported that the combination of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), heparin, and laminin directs human fetal neural stem cells to form cholinergic neurons. One problem, however, is that long-term in vitro survival of these cells is low. Our goal for this study was to determine whether astrocytes or their secreted factors enhance differentiation and survival of cholinergic neurons under long-term differentiation conditions. We demonstrate here that astrocytes or astrocyte conditioned media did not enhance cholinergic differentiation but did increase the long-term survival of differentiated human neural stem cells, particularly cholinergic neurons. We further show that astrocytes protected long-term-differentiated cells from apoptotic cell death, which is at least partially mediated by astrocyte-secreted bFGF. Our findings indicate that long-term survival of human stem cell-derived cholinergic neurons requires trophic factors from nonneuronal cells. This data may provide insights into the development of an in vitro model of long-term cultured human cholinergic neurons useful for understanding of the mechanisms of cholinergic differentiation and developing treatments for neurological diseases.
Beginning-of-dose motor deterioration (BDMD) is a complication of levodopa medications in Parkinson disease (PD) that is presumably caused by inhibitory effects of levodopa. Only limited experience of BDMD has been described in the literature. The authors report the case of a patient with PD who demonstrated a marked BDMD while being treated with standard levodopa medications. This 55-year-old woman had a 12-year history of PD and a 10-year history of levodopa treatment. Marked exacerbation of symptoms occurred 15 to 20 minutes after every dose of levodopa at 100 mg and lasted approximately 15 minutes. The PD symptoms, particularly tremor and rigidity, were exacerbated more markedly during this period than during the wearing-off deterioration. The BDMD could be controlled very well by subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation without any change in the regimen of levodopa medications. These observations suggest that the BDMD was inhibited by STN stimulation through a direct effect.


The ventriculus terminalis (VT) is a small ependyma-lined cavity within the conus medullaris that is in direct continuity with the central canal of the anterior portion of the spinal cord. Normally, such a cavity is identifiable only histologically in children and adults and can be visualized using common neuroradiological techniques only after dilation. Currently, the mechanisms of isolated dilation are not documented. The present work describes 2 cases of VT in elderly patients. Data from a histological and ultrastructural study of a case of VT dilation are reported, and the results are compared with those obtained from the VT of 5 fetuses to explain the nosological aspects of nontumoral VT lesions. Our data suggest that the site, age, and histological characteristics of the lesion allow us to define VT dilation as a nosological entity distinct from other cystic dilations of the conus medullaris.

We investigated the effect of extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) on platelet aggregation and plasma concentrations of homocysteine (Hcy) redox forms in rats in relation to the minor polar compound (MPC) concentration of EVOO. We used 3 olive oil samples with similar fatty acid but different MPC concentrations: refined olive oil (RF) with traces of MPC (control oil), native EVOO with low MPC concentration (LC), and EVOO with high MPC concentration (HC) enriching LC with its own MPC. Oil samples were administered to rats by gavage (1.25 mL/kg body weight) using 2 experimental designs: acute (24-h food deprivation and killed 1 h after EVOO administration) and subacute (12-d treatment, a daily dose of oil for 12 d, and killed after 24 h of food deprivation). Platelet aggregation was induced by ADP (ex vivo tests) and a reduction in platelet reactivity occurred in cells from rats given LC in the subacute study and in cells from rats administered HC in both studies as indicated by an increase in the agonist half maximal effective concentration. HC inhibited platelet aggregation induced by low ADP doses (reversible aggregation) in cells of rats in both the acute and subacute studies, whereas LC had this effect only in the subacute experiment. Moreover, in rats administered HC in both experiments, the plasma concentration of free reduced Hcy (rHcy) was lower and Hcy bound to protein by disulfide bonds (bHcy) was greater than in RF-treated rats. bHcy was also greater in rats given LC than in RF-treated rats in the subacute experiment. Plasma free-oxidized Hcy was greater in rats given LC and HC than in those administered RF only in the subacute experiment. In conclusion, these results show that MPC in EVOO inhibit platelet aggregation and reduce the plasma rHcy concentration, effects that may be associated with cardiovascular protection.
A model of social perception is presented and tested. The model is based on cognitive neuroscience models and proposes that the right cerebral hemisphere is more efficient at processing combinations of features whereas the left hemisphere is superior at identifying single features. These processes are hypothesized to produce person and group-based representations, respectively. Individuating or personalizing experience with an outgroup member was expected to facilitate the perception of the individuating features and inhibit the perception of the group features. In the presented study, participants were asked to learn about various ingroup and outgroup targets. Later, participants demonstrated that categorization response speeds to old targets were slower in the left hemisphere than in the right, particularly for outgroup members, as predicted. These findings are discussed for their relevance to models of social perception and stereotyping.
The action-based model of dissonance predicts that following decisional commitment, approach-oriented motivational processes occur to assist in translating the decision into effective and unconflicted behavior. Therefore, the modulation of these approach-oriented processes should affect the degree to which individuals change their attitudes to be more consistent with the decisional commitment (spreading of alternatives). Experiment 1 demonstrated that a neurofeedback-induced decrease in relative left frontal cortical activation, which has been implicated in approach motivational processes, caused a reduction in spreading of alternatives. Experiment 2 manipulated an action-oriented mindset following a decision and demonstrated that the action-oriented mindset caused increased activation in the left frontal cortical region as well as increased spreading of alternatives. Discussion focuses on how this integration of neuroscience and dissonance theory benefits both parent literatures.
Receptor binding was characterized for [(3)H](1S,4S)-2,2-dimethyl-5-(6-phenylpyridazin-3-yl)-5-aza-2-azoniabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane ([(3)H]A-585539), a selective high-affinity alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonist with rapid kinetics, low nonspecific binding, and high specific activity. At 4 degrees C, the association was monophasic and rapid (t((1/2)) = 8.0 min); dissociation was slower (t((1/2)) = 64.2 min). The K(d) in rat brain at 4 degrees C was 0.063 nM, whereas at 22 and 37 degrees C, the K(d) values were 0.188 and 0.95 nM, respectively. In contrast, the B(max) (34 fmol/mg protein) was unaffected by temperature. In human cortex, [(3)H]A-585539 bound with a K(d) of 0.066 nM and a B(max) of 5.8 fmol/mg protein at 4 degrees C, whereas under similar conditions, specific [(3)H]methyllycaconitine ([(3)H]MLA) binding was not measurable. A number of agonist and antagonist nAChR ligands displaced binding to rat brain membranes with rank order of affinity similar to that for [(3)H]MLA, and in general, a 5 to 10-fold higher affinity was observed for [(3)H]A-585539 binding. There was also a good correlation of K(i) values between [(3)H]A-585539 binding to rat brain and human cortex. The use of a alpha7/5-hydroxytryptamine type-3 chimera revealed that the N-terminal domain of alpha7 nAChR was sufficient to faithfully reproduce the pharmacology of [(3)H]A-585539 binding. Autoradiographic studies comparing [(3)H]A-585539 and [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin revealed a similar pattern of labeling in the rat. In summary, [(3)H]A-585539 was shown to have excellent binding characteristics in rat and human brain and represents the first high-affinity alpha7 agonist radioligand with utility in the characterization of this important nAChR subtype that is targeted toward ameliorating cognitive deficits underlying neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders.
Preclinical findings demonstrate procognitive actions of histamine 3 (H3) receptor antagonists/inverse agonists. Since a prominent role of neuronal network oscillations of the hippocampus, such as theta band oscillation, has been recognized in numerous cognitive functions, in the present study, the potential involvement of H3 receptors in modulation of hippocampal theta activity has been investigated using various recording paradigms. Systemic administration of the selective H3 receptor antagonists/inverse agonists, thioperamide and ciproxifan (0.1 mg/kg to 1 mg/kg i.v.), dose dependently increased hippocampal theta power, similarly to methylphenidate (0.1-1 mg/kg i.v.), in chloral hydrate anesthetized rats. When hippocampal theta oscillation was elicited by electrical brainstem (nucleus pontis oralis) stimulation, ciproxifan (1 mg/kg i.v.) augmented the power of stimulation-induced theta. In contrast, systemic administration of methylphenidate (1 mg/kg i.v.) did not modify elicited theta. To analyze the role of H3 receptors on stage- and behavior-dependent hippocampal theta activity, polysomnographic recordings were carried out together with field potential recordings at the hippocampal fissure in freely moving rats for 8 h during the light phase of the circadian cycle. Systemic administration of ciproxifan (3.0 mg/kg, i.p.) promoted wakefulness with a concomitant reduction in cortical delta power and augmented novelty-induced hippocampal theta activity. These findings provide evidence that H3 receptors play an important role in regulation of hippocampal theta oscillation, representing one of the probable mechanisms involved in histamine-induced modulation of higher brain functions, such as attention and learning.
Copper has an important role in cancer growth, angiogenesis, and metastasis. Previous studies have shown that cell-permeable metal ligands, including clioquinol (CQ) and pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, inhibit cancer cell growth in cell culture and in vivo. The mechanism of action has not been fully determined but may involve metal-mediated inhibition of cancer cell proteasome activity. However, these studies do not fully account for the ability of cell-permeable metal ligands to inhibit cancer cell growth without affecting normal cells. In this study, we examined the effect of CQ on macrophage-mediated inhibition of HeLa cancer cell growth in vitro. When CQ was added to RAW 264.7 macrophage-HeLa cell cocultures, a substantial increase in HeLa cell toxicity was observed compared with CQ treatment of HeLa cells cultured alone. Transfer of conditioned medium from CQ-treated macrophages to HeLa cells also induced HeLa cell toxicity, demonstrating the role of secreted factors in the macrophage-mediated effect. Further investigation revealed that CQ induced copper-dependent activation of macrophages and release of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha. In studies with recombinant TNFalpha, we showed that the level of TNFalpha released by CQ-treated macrophages was sufficient to induce HeLa cell toxicity. Moreover, the toxic effect of conditioned medium from CQ-treated macrophages could be prevented by addition of neutralizing antibodies to TNFalpha. These studies demonstrate that CQ can induce cancer cell toxicity through metal-dependent release of TNFalpha from macrophages. Our results may help to explain the targeted inhibition of tumor growth in vivo by CQ.
Altered serum uric acid concentrations, both above and below normal levels, have been linked to a number of disease states. An abnormally high uric acid level has been correlated with gout, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and renal disease, whereas a reduced uric acid concentration has been linked to multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and optic neuritis. Historically, uric acid has been considered a marker of these disease states. Recent studies, however, have provided evidence that uric acid may actually play a role in the development or progression of such diseases. As a result, the manipulation of uric acid concentrations is now either included in, or being investigated for, the treatment of a variety of disease states.
N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) display differences in their sensitivity to the channel blockers Mg(2+) and memantine that are dependent on the identity of the NR2 subunit present in the receptor-channel complex. This study used two-electrode voltage-clamp recordings from Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing recombinant NMDARs to investigate the actions of Mg(2+) and memantine at the two NMDARs displaying the largest differences in sensitivity to these blockers, namely NR1/NR2A and NR1/NR2D NMDARs. In addition, NR2A/2D chimeric subunits have been employed to examine the effects of pore-forming elements and ligand-binding domains (LBD) on the potency of the block produced by each of these inhibitors. Our results show that, as previously documented, NR2D-containing NMDARs are less sensitive to voltage-dependent Mg(2+) block than their NR2A-containing counterparts. The reduced sensitivity is determined by the M1M2M3 membrane-associated regions, as replacing these regions in NR2A subunits with those found in NR2D subunits results in a approximately 10-fold reduction in Mg(2+) potency. Intriguingly, replacing the NR2A LBD with that from NR2D subunits results in a approximately 2-fold increase in Mg(2+) potency. Moreover, when responses mediated by NR1/NR2A NMDARs are evoked by the partial agonist homoquinolinate, rather than glutamate, Mg(2+) also displays an increased potency. Memantine block of glutamate-evoked currents is most potent at NR1/NR2D NMDARs, but no differences are observed in its ability to inhibit NR2A-containing or NR2A/2D chimeric NMDARs. We suggest that the potency of block of NMDARs by Mg(2+) is influenced not only by pore-forming regions but also the LBD and the resulting conformational changes that occur following agonist binding.
Heteromeric NMDARs are composed of coagonist glycine-binding NR1 subunits and glutamate-binding NR2 subunits. The majority of functional NMDARs in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) contain two NR1 subunits and two NR2 subunits of which there are four types (A-D). We show that the potency of a variety of endogenous and synthetic glycine-site coagonists varies between recombinant NMDARs such that the highest potency is seen at NR2D-containing and the lowest at NR2A-containing NMDARs. This heterogeneity is specified by the particular NR2 subunit within the NMDAR complex since the glycine-binding NR1 subunit is common to all NMDARs investigated. To identify the molecular determinants responsible for this heterogeneity, we generated chimeric NR2A/2D subunits where we exchanged the S1 and S2 regions that form the ligand-binding domains and coexpressed these with NR1 subunits in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Glycine concentration-response curves for NMDARs containing NR2A subunits including the NR2D S1 region gave mean glycine EC(50) values similar to NR2A(WT)-containing NMDARs. However, receptors containing NR2A subunits including the NR2D S2 region or both NR2D S1 and S2 regions gave glycine potencies similar to those seen in NR2D(WT)-containing NMDARs. In particular, two residues in the S2 region of the NR2A subunit (Lys719 and Tyr735) when mutated to the corresponding residues found in the NR2D subunit influence glycine potency. We conclude that the variation in glycine potency is caused by interactions between the NR1 and NR2 ligand-binding domains that occur following agonist binding and which may be involved in the initial conformation changes that determine channel gating.
How can we reconcile the conception of language as a conventional-normative semiotic system with a perception/action-based account of its structure and meaning? And why should linguistic meaning--as opposed to linguistic expression--be so closely related to motor activity and its neural underpinnings, as suggested by recent findings? A conceptual framework and evolutionary scenario building on the concept of bodily mimesis [Zlatev, J., 2005. What's in a schema? Bodily mimesis and the grounding of language. In: Hampe, B. (Ed.), From Perception to Meaning: Image Schemas in Cognitive Linguistics. Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin, pp. 313-343] imply answers to these questions. The article presents evidence for a particular evolutionary stage model by reviewing recent evidence on the capacity of non-human primates for intersubjectivity, imitation and gestural communication, and from neuroscientific studies of these capacities in monkeys and human subjects. It is argued that &quot;mirror neuron&quot; systems can subserve basic motoric and social capacities, but they need to be considerably extended in order to provide an efficient basis for bodily mimesis, and even more so for language. It is argued that while language may be ultimately &quot;grounded&quot; in perception and action, it is essential not to try to reduce it to them.
There has been considerable interest in identifying the neural correlates of action naming, but the bulk of previous work on this topic has utilized static stimuli. Recent research comparing the visual processing of dynamic versus static actions suggests that these two types of stimuli engage largely overlapping neural systems, raising the possibility that the higher-order processing requirements for naming dynamic and static actions might not be very different. To explore this issue in greater depth, we developed the Dynamic Action Naming Test (DANT), which consists of 158 video clips 3-5s in length, for each of which the participant is asked to produce the most appropriate verb. We administered the DANT to 78 brain-damaged patients drawn from our Patient Registry, and to a demographically matched group of 50 normal participants. Out of the 16 patients who performed defectively on the DANT, nearly all (15/16) had damage in the left hemisphere. Lesion analysis indicated that the frontal operculum was the most frequent area of damage in the 15 patients; also, damage to the posterolateral temporal-occipital sector (in and near MT) was specifically related to defective dynamic action naming. Most of the brain-damaged participants (n=71) also received our Static Action Naming Test (SANT), and we found that performances on verb items that were common across the DANT and SANT were highly correlated (R=.91). Moreover, patients who failed the DANT almost invariably also failed the SANT. These findings lend further support to the hypothesis that there is considerable commonality in the neural systems underlying the use of verbs to orally name dynamic and static actions, a conclusion that is in turn compatible with the concept of &quot;representational momentum&quot;. Our results also contribute more generally to the rapidly growing field of research on embodied cognition.
Numerous previous neuroimaging studies suggest an involvement of cortical motor areas not only in action execution but also in action recognition and understanding. Motor areas of the human brain have also been found to activate during the processing of written and spoken action-related words and sentences. Even more strikingly, stimuli referring to different bodily effectors produced specific somatotopic activation patterns in the motor areas. However, metabolic neuroimaging results can be ambiguous with respect to the processing stage they reflect. This is a serious limitation when hypotheses concerning linguistic processes are tested, since in this case it is usually crucial to distinguish early lexico-semantic processing from strategic effects or mental imagery that may follow lexico-semantic information access. Timing information is therefore pivotal to determine the functional significance of motor areas in action recognition and action-word comprehension. Here, we review attempts to reveal the time course of these processes using neurophysiological methods (EEG, MEG and TMS), in visual and auditory domains. We will highlight the importance of the choice of appropriate paradigms in combination with the corresponding method for the extraction of timing information. The findings will be discussed in the general context of putative brain mechanisms of word and object recognition.
Potential links between the language and motor systems in the brain have long attracted the interest of developmental psychologists. In this paper, we investigate a link often observed (e.g., [Wolff, P.H., 2002. Timing precision and rhythm in developmental dyslexia. Reading and Writing, 15 (1), 179-206.] between motor tapping and written language skills. We measure rhythmic finger tapping (paced by a metronome beat versus unpaced) and motor dexterity, phonological and auditory processing in 10-year old children, some of whom had a diagnosis of developmental dyslexia. We report links between paced motor tapping, auditory rhythmic processing and written language development. Motor dexterity does not explain these relationships. In regression analyses, paced finger tapping explained unique variance in reading and spelling. An interpretation based on the importance of rhythmic timing for both motor skills and language development is proposed.
In the present study, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to investigate the influence of phonological and lexical properties of verbal items on the excitability of the tongue's cortical motor representation during passive listening. In particular, we aimed to clarify if the difference in tongue motor excitability found during listening to words and pseudo-words [Fadiga, L., Craighero, L., Buccino, G., Rizzolatti, G., 2002. Speech listening specifically modulates the excitability of tongue muscles: a TMS study. European Journal of Neuroscience 15, 399-402] is due to lexical frequency or to the presence of a meaning per se. In order to do this, we investigated the time-course of tongue motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) during listening to frequent words, rare words, and pseudo-words embedded with a double consonant requiring relevant tongue movements for its pronunciation. Results showed that at the later stimulation intervals (200 and 300 ms from the double consonant) listening to rare words evoked much larger MEPs than listening to frequent words. Moreover, by comparing pseudo-words embedded with a double consonant requiring or not tongue movements, we found that a pure phonological motor resonance was present only 100 ms after the double consonant. Thus, while the phonological motor resonance appears very early, the lexical-dependent motor facilitation takes more time to appear and depends on the frequency of the stimuli. The present results indicate that the motor system responsible for phonoarticulatory movements during speech production is also involved during speech listening in a strictly specific way. This motor facilitation reflects both the difference in the phonoarticulatory characteristics and the difference in the frequency of occurrence of the verbal material.
This article discusses recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) data that suggest a direct involvement of premotor cortical areas in speech perception. These new data map well onto psychological theories advocating an active role of motor structures in the perception of speech sounds. It is proposed that the perception of speech is enabled--at least in part--by a process that simulates speech production.
The discovery of mirror neurons in the macaque monkey and the discovery of a homologous &quot;mirror system for grasping&quot; in Broca's area in the human brain has revived the gestural origins theory of the evolution of the human capability for language, enriching it with the suggestion that mirror neurons provide the neurological core for this evolution. However, this notion of &quot;mirror neuron support for the transition from grasp to language&quot; has been worked out in very different ways in the Mirror System Hypothesis model [Arbib, M.A., 2005a. From monkey-like action recognition to human language: an evolutionary framework for neurolinguistics (with commentaries and author's response). Behavioral and Brain Sciences 28, 105-167; Rizzolatti, G., Arbib, M.A., 1998. Language within our grasp. Trends in Neuroscience 21(5), 188-194] and the Embodied Concept model [Gallese, V., Lakoff, G., 2005. The brain's concepts: the role of the sensory-motor system in reason and language. Cognitive Neuropsychology 22, 455-479]. The present paper provides a critique of the latter to enrich analysis of the former, developing the role of schema theory [Arbib, M.A., 1981. Perceptual structures and distributed motor control. In: Brooks, V.B. (Ed.), Handbook of Physiology--The Nervous System II. Motor Control. American Physiological Society, pp. 1449-1480].


Sexual dysfunction is common during acute and continuation treatment of depressed patients with selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) re-uptake inhibitors (ssRIs), but there is no consensus on clinical management. Compounds with 5-HT(1A) agonist properties have been proposed as adjuvant agents in patients continuing with ssRIs. Randomized double-blind placebo-controlled parallel-group fixed-dose 4-week treatment study. Previously depressed male or female patients in symptomatic remission receiving stable doses of fluoxetine or paroxetine but experiencing treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction were randomised to double-blind treatment with placebo or VML-670 (a 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1D) agonist). sexual dysfunction was assessed by the Arizona sexual Experiences scale (ASEX). Two-hundred and eighty-eight patients (204 women, 84 men; mean age 44.2 years) received VML-670 (n = 149; 107 women, 42 men) or placebo (n = 139; 97 women, 42 men). In the intention-to-treat, last-observation carried forward analysis (n = 282), proportionately more patients became free of sexual dysfunction with VML-670 (34.3% versus 27.9% with placebo) but this difference was not statistically significant. Male patients treated with VML-670 showed a significantly greater (p =0.01) improvement in ability to achieve and maintain penile erection (a secondary outcome measure). A similar proportion of patients reported on-treatment, treatment-emergent adverse events with VML-670 (71.1%) and placebo (68.3%), and a similar proportion experienced at least one treatment-related adverse event (36.9% versus 35.3%). Double-blind treatment with VML-670 offered no significant advantage over placebo on the primary outcome measure in the overall sample. Further studies may be warranted in larger groups of male patients with sexual dysfunction.


Contusive spinal cord injury (SCI) results in a complex lesion that includes cellular and axonal loss, microglia and macrophage activation, and demyelination. These changes result in permanent neurological deficits in people with SCI and in high financial costs to society. Unlike the peripheral nervous system (PNS), in which axonal regeneration can occur, axonal regeneration in the central nervous system (CNS) is extremely limited. This limited regeneration is thought to result from a lack of a permissive environment and from active inhibitory molecules that are present in the CNS but minimal in the PNS. Currently, cell transplantation approaches are among several experimental strategies being investigated for the treatment of SCI. In the olfactory system, a specialized glial cell called the olfactory ensheathing cell (OEC) has been shown to improve functional outcome when transplanted into rodents with SCI, and clinical studies transplanting OECs into patients with SCI are ongoing in China, Portugal, and other sites. Yet, a number of controversial issues related to OEC biology and transplantation must be addressed to understand the rationale and expectations for OEC cell therapy approaches in SCI. This review provides information on these issues for spinal cord medicine clinicians.
Treatment of human brain disease with erythropoietin (EPO) in order to achieve neuroprotection and/or neuroregeneration represents a totally new frontier in translational neuroscience. Rather than specifically targeting the cause of a particular disease entity, EPO nonspecifically influences components of the &quot;final common pathway&quot; that determine disease severity and progression in a number of entirely different brain diseases. EPO acts in an antiapoptotic, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, neurotrophic, angiogenetic, stem cell-modulatory fashion. Importantly, it appears to influence neural plasticity. Most likely due to these properties, EPO has been found by many investigators to be protective or regenerative and to improve cognitive performance in various rodent models of neurological and psychiatric disease. The &quot;Gttingen-EPO-stroke trial&quot; has provided first promising data on humans for a neuroprotective therapy of an acute brain disease. Experimental EPO treatment to improve cognitive function in patients with schizophrenia represents a novel neuroregenerative strategy for a chronic brain disease. An exploratory trial in chronic progressive multiple sclerosis as an example of an inflammatory disease of the nervous system yielded first positive results of EPO treatment on both motor function and cognition. These promising results are just the beginning and will hopefully stimulate further work along these lines.
There are many management strategies and antidotes available for sexual dysfunction associated with antidepressants available. However, only a few of these strategies and antidotes were tested in rigorous trials and most of them probably will not be rigorously tested. Surveying the prescribing practices of experts in this area provides another opportunity to evaluate these strategies and antidotes. The authors surveyed 29 (of 50) &quot;expert&quot; psychiatrists in the area of sexual dysfunction associated with antidepressants. Switching to another antidepressant, decreasing the dose of an antidepressant, and adding oral agents such as bupropion, phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors, and some dopaminergic agents (dextroamphetamine, methylphenidate) and a testosterone patch in some dysfunctions (libido, orgasm) are management strategies most frequently used by the experts. The experts also consider these strategies as the most effective ones. These findings are compared with other studies and discussed with regard to the evidence from clinical trials.
This article discusses the flaws of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) criteria of sexual dysfunctions. It focuses on issues such as what constitutes sexual dysfunction, whether the diagnostic criteria should include duration, intensity, and frequency, and whether distress should be used as a diagnostic criterion. Other controversial issues such as normalcy of sexual functioning and validity of some diagnostic entities are also discussed. The upcoming revision of the DSM diagnostic criteria should consider all these possible changes. Field trials to examine various criteria and their validity and reliability will probably be necessary.



This is the first study using a reporter transgenic model to investigate the effects of an environmental toxin on the retina. Rotenone is a widely used pesticide that inhibits mitochondrial complex I and produces neurotoxicity. Previous studies demonstrated the time course and dose response of rotenone toxicity on retinal ganglion cells (RGC). However, previous analyses of rotenone-induced retinotoxicity provided little detail of the optic nerve axons and cellular pathology. These limitations were successfully surmounted by using a transgenic mouse line shown to express cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) in neurons, including RGC, under regulatory elements of the human the thy1.1 promoter (thy-CFP). Data showed that CFP expression is limited to RGC and their processes in the retina of thy-CFP mice. Eyes exposed to the pesticide rotenone displayed marked alterations in RGC morphology, inner plexiform layer, optic disc, and optic nerves. After 24 h, the number of CFP-labeled RGC was reduced 50%. Correlated with a loss of RGC bodies was an approximate 50% reduction in CFP fluorescence intensity at the optic disc. The findings showed that rotenone-induced degeneration of RGC and their processes can be visualized with exquisite detail in thy-CFP mice, and that this approach may provide a novel and effective way to monitor the association between environmental toxins and neurodegeneration in living animals.




Sensory physiologists and psychologists have recognized the importance of attention on human performance for more than 100 years. Since the 1970s, controlled and extensive experiments have examined effects of selective attention to a location in space or to an object. In addition to behavioral studies, cognitive neuroscientists have investigated the neural bases of attention. In this paper, I briefly review some classical attention paradigms, recent advances on the theory of attention, and some new insights from psychophysics and cognitive neuroscience. The focus is on the mechanisms of attention, that is, how attention improves human performance. Situations in which the perception of objects is unchanged, but performance may differ due to different decision structures, are distinguished from those in which attention changes the perceptual processes. The perceptual template model is introduced as a theoretical framework for analyzing mechanisms of attention. I also present empirical evidence for two attention mechanisms, stimulus enhancement and external noise exclusion, from psychophysics, neurophysiology and brain imaging.

Several biochemical abnormalities have been described in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), including oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. The identification of specific gene mutations that cause PD has reinforced the relevance of oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in the familial and the sporadic forms of the disease. The proteins that are associated with familial PD--PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1), DJ-1, alpha-synuclein, leucine-rich repeat kinase 2, and, possibly, parkin--are either mitochondrial proteins or are associated with mitochondria, and all interface with the pathways of oxidative stress and free radical damage. Insights into the aetiology and pathogenesis of PD provide hope that drugs or cocktails of drugs that might successfully intervene in the pathogenesis and slow the progression of the disease can be derived from the study of the converging rather than diverging pathways to cell dysfunction and death.


This research on 17 girls (aged 9;9 y to 16;11 y) singing in an established choir was focused on two issues: 1) the variety in physical and vocal development using Gackle's model, and 2) the matching of vocal demands and abilities. Developmental and acoustical data on the speaking and singing voice revealed considerable variation between individual girl singers. The model was greatly applicable. However, all girls had a greater total singing range, mainly in favour of the lower tones, and 11 girls used a lower speaking fundamental frequency. A third of the girls met the vocal and developmental features of their stage at a younger age. Next the lower limit of the frequency range of all girls was several semitones below the lowest notes of the pieces being worked on at the time of the experiment. However the upper limit of the pieces coincided with or exceeded their upper frequency limit.
We describe rare case of a 9-year old boy who presented with a two-week history of right ear discharge and mild fever. Contrast enhanced CT scan of the brain showed a lesion in the right cerebellopontine angle with mild enhancement mimicking early abscess formation. Involvement of the mastoid air cells pointing towards a radiological diagnosis of mastoiditis reinforced the diagnosis of an abscess. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was planned for the patient but his conscious level deteriorated and patient slipped into coma warranting immediate surgical intervention. Intraoperatively, about 90% of the tumour was removed and the appearance of the tumour resembled that of an acoustic schwannoma but histopathology confirmed the diagnosis of a glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). MRI done post operatively showed lesion in the pons confirming the diagnosis of an exophytic pontine glioblastoma multiforme.
The novel 4-phenoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolines 6a-c and their rigid congeners 4,5,6,6a-tetrahydro-chromeno[2,3,4-de]isoquinolines 7a,b were synthesized in order to obtain dopamine D2-like receptor ligands. The new compounds were evaluated for their in vitro binding affinities, in vivo behavioral activities on rats, and for their effects on rat brain neurochemistry. Compounds 6b (toward both D2 and D3 dopamine receptors) and 7a,b (toward D3 only dopamine receptors) showed the most significant affinities. However none of the new compounds was able to stimulate behavioral activity in non pre-treated rats, nor to influence brain neurochemistry.
The comorbidity between epilepsy and migraine has been well known for a century, yet it is still not fully understood; the two disorders also share some risk factors, symptoms, and preventive drug therapy. A series of clinical observations and scientific data support the hypothesis of alteration of cortical excitability as a possible mechanism underlying their pathology, with both disorders characterized by transient paroxysmal neurological disturbance. So far, the numerous pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for neuronal hyperexcitability have only been studied in familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM), but they do suggest a link between migraine and epilepsy. Several studies support the hypothesis of a clinical continuum between some types of migraine and some types of epilepsies, with possibly even a complete overlap, representing, in particular cases, headache as the sole ictal manifestation of seizures. Taking into account the data in the literature, we hypothesize that several aetiopathological noxae (either environmental or genetics), such as Na+-K+ ATPase pump impairment, converging on a common final pathway represented by neuronal membrane hyperexcitability, could manifest as either epilepsy or headache/migraine, or both. The potential implications arising from this point of view include (a) a revision of headache/migraine diagnostic criteria as the sole ictal epileptic manifestation in international classifications of both epilepsies and headache disorders; (b) the careful follow-up of patients with headache/migraine as a residual feature, taking into consideration a revised concept of &quot;complete seizure control&quot; to avoid mistakes due to inopportune withdrawal of antiepileptic treatment. In addition, we suggest that headache is associated with other ictal-sensitive and motor features (more than those reported); these may be highly underestimated due to impairment of consciousness during complex partial seizures with or without secondary generalization.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), the most common neurobehavioural disorder and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the most common adult motoneuron disease, may be two distinct entities on first sight. This paper aims to highlight parallels concerning clinical features and neurobiology. The presence of increased physical and psychological activity and largely non-progressive frontal dysfunction associated with impaired executive control and decreased attention are characteristic clinical features of both, ADHD and ALS. At the neurobiological level, there is evidence for hyperactivity in the glutamatergic system and a - potentially related - dopaminergic hypoactivity in ADHD and ALS. The clinical features of ALS resembling ADHD are particularly characteristic for the premorbid stage of the patient. Therefore, we hypothesize that clinical features of ADHD may be a risk factor for the development of ALS. This hypothesis is currently of unknown pathogenetic, but of potential future therapeutic relevance. Our hypothesis of a link between ADHD and ALS could also be considered as an example how research on neurodevelopmental diseases might influence the understanding and possibly the prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
In spite of the large number of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) actually available, the problem of drug-resistant epilepsy has not been solved. No AEDs are efficacious in patients with pharmacoresitant epilepsy, so new hypothesises about the mechanisms of pharmacoresistance are needed. In the last years the ideas on the role of brain serotonin in epilepsy have been turned upside down: increasing the available brain serotonin is thought now to have an antiepileptic effect. Antidepressant drugs like selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, i.e., fluoxetine, have proved to be useful in seizure control. Tryptophan (Trp), an essential amino acid, is the only brain precursor of serotonin, it competes with the other large neutral amino acids (LNAAs) for the carrier of blood-brain barrier (BBB). Our own data has shown a lowering of plasmatic LNAA levels in epileptic patients, on the basis of these results we could estimate a decrease of a 1/3 in the Trp brain intake rate in epileptics in respect to controls. Increasing plasmatic Trp levels increases brain serotonin synthesis. Trp and 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) were tested as an add on in epilepsy, but the clinical outcome was controversial. Free amino acids are not fully adsorbed by the gastro-intestinal system, furthermore LNAAs, and also 5-HTP is a LNAA, compete to cross the intestinal membrane for the same carrier, like for the BBB. The best way to increase the plasmatic Trp level is a protein rich in Trp and poor in the other LNAAs. Unfortunately Trp is a limited amino acid in proteins. We report the clinical results obtained by adding a whey protein to the antiepileptic therapy of drug-resistant epileptic patients: alpha-lactoalbumin, rich in Trp and poor in the other LNAAs.
For many years, the ketogenic diet, including recent variants such the medium-chain triglyceride (MCT) diet, has been used with good clinical results in the management of refractory epilepsies, particularly in children. The antiepileptic effects of the diet, like the antiepileptic effects of starvation, have been attributed to accumulation of ketones, and there are experimental data in animal models to support this hypothesis. Recently, new data about the neuroendocrine response to the acute phase reaction (stress) have emerged, indicating involvement of various neuropeptides, including neuropeptide Y (NPY), which is considered as an endogenous anticonvulsant. The release of NPY is also stimulated by nutrients in the gut, particularly fats. Long-chain and, to a greater extent, medium-chain triglycerides, which are components of the ketogenic diet, stimulate NPY secretion. This effect may explain the improvement in seizure control after starvation, use of the classical ketogenic diet, and use of the MCT diet.
We introduce in this work a novel algorithm for volume reconstruction from data acquired on an irregular grid, e.g., from multiple co-registered images. The algorithm, which is based on an inverse interpolation formalism, is superior to other methods in particular when the input images have lower spatial resolution than the reconstructed image. Local intensity bounds are enforced by an L-BFGSB optimizer, regularize the reconstruction problem, and preserve the intensity distribution of the input images. We demonstrate the usefulness of our method by applying it to retrospective motion correction in interleaved MR images.
Recent developments in MR data acquisition technology are starting to yield images that show anatomical features of the hippocampal formation at an unprecedented level of detail, providing the basis for hippocampal subfield measurement. Because of the role of the hippocampus in human memory and its implication in a variety of disorders and conditions, the ability to reliably and efficiently quantify its subfields through in vivo neuroimaging is of great interest to both basic neuroscience and clinical research. In this paper, we propose a fully-automated method for segmenting the hippocampal subfields in ultra-high resolution MRI data. Using a Bayesian approach, we build a computational model of how images around the hippocampal area are generated, and use this model to obtain automated segmentations. We validate the proposed technique by comparing our segmentation results with corresponding manual delineations in ultra-high resolution MRI scans of five individuals.

One hundred years since his birth, fifty years after his Nobel achievement, Daniel Bovet still emerges as one of the key figures of both pharmacology and psychobiology, the biological and evolutionary roots of behaviour. The life and scientific activities of Daniel Bovet (1907-1992) are closely linked to the 'golden years' of pharmacology, the exceptional development of this science from the end of the 1930s to the 1960s. Later on, from the 1960s to the end of his scientific career, Bovet entered a new field, psychobiology, through the study of the effects of drugs active on the nervous system and their effects on behaviour. This approach led him to explore different aspects of the biology of behaviour, namely the role of individual differences, the genetic determinants of behaviour and their implications on learning and memory. It is therefore evident that the range of his scientific activity has been very broad, a fact difficultly conceivable in years of extreme specialization.


THIS PAPER PROPOSES THAT EIGHT POSITIVE EMOTIONS: awe, love (attachment), trust (faith), compassion, gratitude, forgiveness, joy and hope constitute what we mean by spirituality. These emotions have been grossly ignored by psychiatry. The two sciences that I shall employ to demonstrate this definition of spirituality will be ethology and neuroscience. They are both very new. I will argue that spirituality is not about ideas, sacred texts and theology; rather, spirituality is all about emotion and social connection.Specific religions, for all their limitations, are often the portal through which positive emotions are brought into conscious attention. Neither Freud nor psychiatric textbooks ever mention emotions like joy and gratitude. Hymns and psalms give these emotions pride of place. Our whole concept of psychotherapy might change if clinicians set about enhancing positive emotions rather than focusing only on negative emotions.
Light-activated ion channels provide a new opportunity to precisely and remotely control neuronal activity for experimental applications in neurobiology. In the past few years, several strategies have arisen that allow light to control ion channels and therefore neuronal function. Light-based triggers for ion channel control include caged compounds, which release active neurotransmitters when photolyzed with light, and natural photoreceptive proteins, which can be expressed exogenously in neurons. More recently, a third type of light trigger has been introduced: a photoisomerizable tethered ligand that directly controls ion channel activity in a light-dependent manner. Beyond the experimental applications for light-gated ion channels, there may be clinical applications in which these light-sensitive ion channels could prove advantageous over traditional methods. Electrodes for neural stimulation to control disease symptoms are invasive and often difficult to reposition between cells in tissue. Stimulation by chemical agents is difficult to constrain to individual cells and has limited temporal accuracy in tissue due to diffusional limitations. In contrast, ion channels that can be directly activated with light allow control with unparalleled spatial and temporal precision. The goal of this chapter is to describe light-regulated ion channels and how they have been tailored to control different aspects of neural activity, and how to use these channels to manipulate and better understand development, function, and plasticity of neurons and neural circuits.

Fusions with fluorescent proteins are usually created by fusing the ends of two coding sequences. Appending the coding region of a fluorescent protein to the N- or C-terminus of another protein is typically the easiest way of creating a functional, fluorescent fusion protein. Another strategy involves placing the fluorescent protein in the middle of another protein. Such sandwich fusions are feasible, and there are many reasons for creating these fusion proteins. For example, sandwich fusions can be used to place two fluorescent proteins close to one another for optimization of a biosensor based on fluorescence resonance energy transfer, or they can be used to place the fluorescent protein in a region that moves during conformational changes of the host protein. Designing a sandwich fusion that produces a functional, fluorescent fusion protein is often challenging. This protocol describes an alternative approach. A simple, in vitro, transposon reaction is used to randomly insert the sequence encoding a fluorescent fusion protein into a target protein. This random labeling strategy makes it possible to create a small library of sandwich fusion proteins that can then be screened for activity. The approach makes it possible to test many possible solutions to the complex problem of building new biosensors.
The modulation of mRNA decay is a critical determinant in the regulation of gene expression. mRNAs in eukaryotes are primarily degraded by two major exonucleolytic pathways: the 5' to 3'-and the 3' to 5'-pathways, both of which are initiated by removal of the polyadenylated (poly(A)) tail. Hydrolysis of the 5'-cap structure, termed decapping, is a key step in the demise of mRNA. Two major decapping enzymes with distinct activities and substrate requirements have been identified. Dcp2 hydrolyzes the cap structure on an intact mRNA in the 5' to 3'-decay pathway; Dcp2 scavenges the residual cap oligonucleotide resulting from the 3' to 5'-decay pathway, as well as hydrolyzes the decapping product generated by Dcp2. In this chapter, we describe the methods for monitoring Dcp2 and DcpS decapping activities of bacterially expressed and endogenous human decapping enzymes.
The molecular mechanisms by which endothelial permeability occurs are often studied more readily in vitro, underscoring the importance of the use of systems that mimic human endothelium in vivo. We present an assay that accurately models human endothelium by use of primary human microvascular endothelial cells (hMVEC), because permeability primarily occurs at the microvascular level, and transwell filter units coated with Matrigel, extracellular matrix that mimics basal lamina, the matrix that is tightly associated with endothelium and is critical for its proper function. As a tracer molecule, we used 3-kDa dextran-FITC to detect leakage through the small gaps present in the early stages of permeability induction. The permeability-inducing agents IL-8 and VEGF were added to the lower chamber of the transwell units to mimic inflammatory conditions in vivo. After optimization, we were able to minimize basal permeability and to detect rapid changes in permeability stimulated by IL-8 and VEGF, similar to that observed in vivo. Furthermore, we have used this system to delineate the importance of the transactivation of VEGFR2 in IL-8-induced permeability and have confirmed the relevance of this signaling in vivo, suggesting that our permeability assay system adequately mimics the in vivo situation. Therefore, this system can be used to better understand the molecular mechanisms of human vascular permeability in a more in vivo-like setting and, thus, may be used to test effective therapeutics to prevent and treat diseases involving persistent permeability.
During the last two decades nitric oxide (.NO) gas has emerged as a novel and ubiquitous intercellular modulator of cell functions. In the brain, .NO is implicated in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity but it is also involved in cell death pathways underlying several neurological diseases. Because of its hydrophobicity, small size, and rapid diffusion properties, the rate and pattern of .NO concentration changes are critical determinants for the understanding of its diverse actions in the brain. .NO measurement in vivo has been a challenging task due to its low concentration, short half-life, and high reactivity with other biological molecules, such as superoxide radical, thiols, and heme proteins. Electrochemical methods are versatile approaches for detecting and monitoring various neurotransmitters. When associated with microelectrodes inserted into the brain they provide high temporal and spatial resolution, allowing measurements of neurochemicals in physiological environments in a real-time fashion. To date, electrochemical detection of .NO is the only available technique that provides a high sensitivity, low detection limit, selectivity, and fast response to measure the concentration dynamics of .NO in vivo. We have used carbon fiber microelectrodes coated with two layers of Nafion and o-phenylenediamine to monitor the rate and pattern of .NO change in the rat brain in vivo. The analytical performance of microelectrodes was assessed in terms of sensitivity, detection limit, and selectivity ratios against major interferents: ascorbate, dopamine, noradrenaline, serotonin, and nitrite. For the in vivo recording experiments, we used a microelectrode/micropipette array inserted into the brain using a stereotaxic frame. The characterization of in vivo signals was assessed by electrochemical and pharmacological verification. Results support our experimental conditions that the measured oxidation current reflects variations in the .NO concentration in brain extracellular space. We report results from recordings in hippocampus and striatum upon stimulation of N-methyl-d-aspartate-subtype glutamate receptors. Moreover, the kinetics of .NO disappearance in vivo following pressure ejection of a .NO solution is also addressed.
Red blood cells are the major physiological scavengers of reactive nitrogen species and have been proposed as real-time biomarkers of some vascular-related diseases. This chapter proposes that the erythrocyte is a suitable cell model for studying the modifications induced by peroxynitrite. Peroxynitrite decays both extra- and intracellularly as a function of cell density and CO(2) concentration, inducing the appearance of distinct cellular biomarkers, as well as the modulation of signaling and metabolism. Intracellular oxidations are due mostly to direct reactions of peroxynitrite with hemoglobin but also lead to the appearance of apoptotic biomarkers. Surface/membrane oxidations are due principally to indirect radical reactions generated by CO(2)-catalyzed peroxynitrite homolysis.
The &quot;core genes&quot; were identified as a group of genes believed to function as a conserved signaling cassette for the specification of planar polarity in Drosophila Melanogaster, and includes frizzled (fz), van gogh (vang) or strabismus (stbm), prickle (Pk), dishevelled (dsh), flamingo (fmi), and diego. The mutation of each of these genes not only causes the disruption of planar polarity within the wing or the eye of the animal, but also affects the localization of all the other protein members of the core group. These properties emphasize the importance of the interrelations between the proteins of this group. All of these core genes have homologs in vertebrates. Studies in Danio Rerio (zebrafish) and Xenopus laevis (frog) have uncovered other roles for some of these molecules in gastrulation and neurulation, during which the shape of a given tissue will undergo major transformation through cell movements. A disruption in these processes can lead to severe neural tube defects in diverse organisms, including humans. In fact, a large body of evidence suggests that planar polarity proteins are not involved in one specific cascade but in many different ones and many different mechanisms such as, but not limited to, hair or cilia orientation, asymmetric division, cellular movements, or neuronal migration. In mice cochleae, mutations in planar polarity genes lead to defects in the orientation of the stereociliary bundles at the apex of each hair cell. This phenotype established the cochlea as one of the clearest examples of planar polarity in mammals. Although significant progress has been made toward understanding the molecular basis required for the development of planar polarity in invertebrates, similar advances in vertebrates are more recent and rely mainly on the identification of a group of mammalian mutants that affect hair cell stereociliary bundle orientation. These include mutation of vangl2, scrb1, celsr1, PTK-7, dvl1-2, and more recently fz3 and fz6. In this chapter, we describe how to use the mammalian cochlea, which represents one of the best systems to study planar polarity in mammals, to identify planar polarity mutants, study protein distribution, do in vitro analysis, and perform Western blots to analyze putative planar polarity proteins.
Glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3 is a key signalling intermediate in the action ofWnts. This protein kinase is ubiquitously expressed and has high inherent activity but is inhibited by activation of Wnt signalling or activation of growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases (e.g. insulin, nerve growth factor [NGF], platelet-derived growth factor [PDGF], etc.). The degree of inhibition of GSK3 in cells treated with such reagents is dependent on the cell type and the stimulus used. Therefore, the ability to accurately measure GSK3 activity in cells is an important aspect of GSK3 research. The activity of GSK3 is reduced by posttranslational modification (phosphorylation) and this can be measured by immunoblot with specific reagents (indirect), or by immunoprecipitation and assay (direct), as long as the modification is protected during these procedures. However, inhibition by phosphorylation is specific to cellular activation by growth factors and nutrients. Wnt inhibition of GSK3 does not involve phosphorylation of these residues on GSK3 and therefore it cannot be measured using this modification. Currently, the simplest way to assess Wnt inhibition of GSK3 is to monitor phosphorylation of specific GSK3 substrates in cells (e.g. beta-catenin). Alternatively, Wnt inhibition of GSK3 can be measured by partial purification of cellular GSK3 by ion exchange chromatography and assay of fractions or possibly by immunoprecipitation and assay. In this chapter, we demonstrate the use of the different approaches to measure GSK3 activity in SH-SY5Y cells, describe the best antibodies currently available, and discuss the potential drawbacks of each method.
The internalization of activated receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) by endocytosis and their subsequent down regulation in lysosomes plays a critical role in regulating the duration and intensity of downstream signaling events. Uncoupling of the RTK cMet from ligand-induced degradation was recently shown to correlate with sustained receptor signaling and increased cell tumorigenicity, suggesting that the corruption of these endocytic mechanisms could contribute to increased cMet signaling in metastatic cancers. To understand how cMet signaling for normal cell growth is controlled by endocytosis and how these mechanisms are dysregulated in metastatic cancers, we developed flow cytometry-based assays to examine cMet internalization.

The application of antibodies to living cells has the potential to modulate the function of specific proteins by virtue of their high specificity. This specificity has proven effective in determining the involvement of many proteins in neuronal function where specific agonists and antagonists do not exist, e.g. ion channel subunits. We discuss a way to utilise subunit specific antibodies to target individual channel subunits in electrophysiological experiments to determine functional roles within native neurones. Utilising this approach, we have investigated the role of the voltage-gated potassium channel Kv3.1b subunit within a region of the brainstem important in the regulation of autonomic function. We provide some useful control experiments in order to help validate this method. We conclude that antibodies can be extremely valuable in determining the functions of specific proteins in living neurones in neuroscience research.
The formation of new synapses within neuronal circuits is considered a primary mechanism of long-term synaptic plasticity to allow an increase in synaptic strength. Thus, understanding mechanisms of synapse formation in detail is pivotal for understanding circuit development, as well as learning and memory processes. Unlike the fairly static vertebrate neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), arthropod NMJs are dynamic, and in terms of structure and function similar to central excitatory synapses of the vertebrate brain. The Drosophila NMJ, unlike most other synaptic models, allows combining genetics with physiological, ultrastructural, and as described here, histological analyses. Following &quot;the life history&quot; of identified synapses over time in the intact organism by monitoring their molecular dynamics and functional features is important for a full understanding of synapse formation and plasticity. Thus, there has been a long-standing motivation to follow cellular and synaptic events in vivo. However, to date few preparations have been studied, and often only with great difficulty. New perspectives in this field are opened up by the continuous development of powerful, genetically encoded fluorescent probes for in vivo imaging, most prominently green fluorescent protein (GFP). The Drosophila system allows the easy expression of relevant GFP-fusions (e.g., with synaptic proteins) from genomic transgenes to ensure physiological expression levels, and to test the functionality of GFP fusions by genetic rescue assays. Here, we provide protocols for immunolabeling of fixed NMJs in Drosophila embryos and larvae. Moreover, molecular in vivo imaging of Drosophila NMJs within developing larvae, a recent methodological addition of the NMJ model, is described. Finally, we present simple procedures how to extract quantitative information concerning synapse size and number from NMJ images.
Over the past decade the adoption and refinement of the GAL4 system by the Drosophila field has resulted in a wide array of tools with which the researcher can drive transgene expression in a precise spatiotemporal pattern. The GAL4 system relies on two components: (1) GAL4, a transcriptional activator from yeast, which is expressed in a tissue-specific manner and (2) a transgene under the control of the upstream activation sequence that is bound by GAL4 (UASG). The two components are brought together in a simple genetic cross. In the progeny of the cross, the transgene is only transcribed in those cells or tissues expressing the GAL4 protein. Recent modifications of the GAL4 system have improved the control of both the initiation and the spatial restriction of transgene expression. Here we describe the GAL4 system highlighting the properties that make it a powerful tool for the analysis of gene function in Drosophila and higher organisms.
To explain the evolutionary mechanisms by which populations of organisms change over time, it is necessary to first understand the pathways by which genomes have changed over time. Understanding genome evolution requires comparing modern genomes with ancestral genomes, which thus necessitates the reconstruction of those ancestral genomes. This chapter describes automated approaches to infer the nature of ancestral genomes from modern sequenced genomes. Because several rounds of whole genome duplication have punctuated the evolution of animals with backbones, and current methods for ortholog calling do not adequately account for such events, we developed ways to infer the nature of ancestral chromosomes after genome duplication. We apply this method here to reconstruct the ancestors of a specific chromosome in the zebrafish Danio rerio.
Drug-inducible systems allowing the control of transgene expression and knockdown in mammalian cells are invaluable tools for genetic research, and could also play important roles in translational research or gene therapy. We and others have developed a lentivector-based, conditional gene expression system for drug-controllable expression of transgenes and small hairpin RNAs (shRNAs). This system is highly robust and versatile, governing tightly controlled expression of transgenes and endogenous cellular genes (through shRNAs) in various primary and established cell lines in vitro, as well as in vivo in the central nervous system or in human cancer cells xenotransplanted into nude mice. The goal of this article is to provide a concise methodology for construction and manipulation of this conditional lentiviral-based system, and quantitative analyses of drug-inducible transgene expression and gene knockdown both in vitro and in vivo.
The engineering of novel properties and functions into viral vectors for improved gene delivery remains a barrier to the development of efficient, customized gene delivery vehicles. Rational methods for designing improved viral vectors are often experimentally challenging and laborious, particularly when knowledge of viral structure-function relationships is limited. As an alternative, high-throughput libraries may be rapidly and efficiently selected for viral variants with a desired function. Here we describe a transposon-based insertional mutagenesis approach to generate large diverse adeno- associated viral (AAV) libraries containing a randomly located peptide. Briefly, a selectable marker is randomly inserted throughout the AAV2 cap gene and the resulting &quot;bookmarked' AAV cap gene is cloned into an AAV packaging vector. The selectable marker is then replaced with a defined oligonucleotide, and the final AAV library is used to package a diverse pool of AAV virions, which can used for functional selection.
It is anticipated that unraveling the human genome will have a direct impact on the management of specific diseases. Variations or mutations in genes involved in drug metabolism or disease pathophysiology in gastroenterology and hepatology are expected to have effect on response to therapy. The spectrum of diseases is vast. Thus, we focus this review on clinical pharmacogenetics of inflammatory bowel disease, Helicobacter pylori infections, gastroesophageal reflux disease, irritable bowel syndrome, liver transplantation, and colon cancer. Although only a few genotyping tests are used regularly in clinical practice, we anticipate that in the future there will be more routine use of many of the tests described in this review.
Electroporation is a powerful method for gene delivery to dystrophic muscle in the mdx mouse model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Successful transfer of reporter and therapeutic plasmids and antisense oligonucleotides has been demonstrated. However, the efficiency falls with increasing plasmid size. Although it is unlikely that the electrotransfer approach will be useful clinically, it is an important experimental tool, particularly in testing potential immune responses to gene transfer in the absence of vector proteins.
During the second trimester period, neuroepithelial stem cells give birth to millions of new neuroblasts, which migrate away from their germinal zones to populate the developing brain and terminally differentiate into neurons. During this period, large numbers of cells are also eliminated by programmed cell death. Therefore, the second trimester constitutes an important critical period for neuronal proliferation, migration, differentiation and apoptosis. Substantial evidence indicates that teratogens like ethanol can interfere with neuronal maturation. However, there is a paucity of good model systems to study early, second trimester events. In vivo models are inherently interpretatively complex because cell proliferation, migration, differentiation, and death mechanisms occur concurrently in regions like the cerebral cortex. This temporal overlap of multiple developmental critical periods makes it difficult to evaluate the relative vulnerability of any individual critical period. Our laboratory has elected to utilize fetal rodent cerebral cortical-derived neurosphere cultures as an experimental model of the second-trimester ventricular neuroepithelium. This model has enabled us to use flow cytometric approaches to identify neuroepithelial stem cell and progenitor sub-populations and to show that ethanol accelerates the maturation of neural stem cells. We have also developed a simplified mitogen-withdrawal/matrix-adhesion paradigm to model the exit of neuroepithelial cells from the ventricular zone towards the subventricular zone and cortical plate, and their maturation into multipolar neurons. We can treat neurosphere cultures with ethanol to mimic exposure during the period of neuroepithelial proliferation and by using the step-wise maturation model, ask questions about the impact of prior ethanol exposure on the subsequent maturation of neurons as they migrate and undergo terminal differentiation. The combination of neurosphere culture and stepwise maturation models will enable us to dissect out the contributions of specific developmental critical periods to the overall teratology of a drug of abuse like ethanol.
In vivo studies are ideal for identifying the phenomenology of ethanol toxicity and teratology. They are limited in being able to explore cellular and molecular mechanisms of action. Two types of culture models have proven to be very instructive: monolayer primary cultures of dissociated cells and organotypic slice cultures. Dissociated cell preparations have the advantage of being enriched populations of cells, whereas the organotypic cultures have the advantage of providing normal cell associations. Details for the methods used to generate these preparations are described. As ethanol is a volatile liquid, the success of a culture model depends upon stabilizing the ethanol content in the culture medium. A method to maintain the ethanol concentration is described.
The study of neuronal connectivity requires the ability to trace axons from the neuronal cell body to its axon terminal (anterograde tracing) and from the terminal back to the soma (retrograde tracing). Such neuroanatomical tracing is frequently used to identify neurons on the basis of their pre- or postsynaptic connections. Neuroanatomical tracing has become particularly important in nervous system regeneration and repair, allowing investigators to follow the axon projections of newly born, transplanted, or axotomized neurons in lesioned or neurodegenerative environments. To allow further study of neurons identified and labeled in this way, it is particularly important that tracers are compatible with other tissue processing such as immunocytochemistry. Fluoro-Gold (Fluorochrome Inc., Denver CO) is one such highly flexible fluorescent retrograde marker commonly used for neuronal labeling and neuroanatomical tracing.
Fully understanding the phenotype of neurons in vivo involves examining their morphology, immunocytochemically analyzing their protein expression, examining their afferent and efferent integration into neuronal microcircuitry, and functionally examining their activity. This task is significantly more difficult when you are attempting to determine whether multipotent precursor cells, often referred to as stem cells, differentiate into neurons in vivo. Transplanted or endogenous precursor cells often produce relatively small numbers of new neurons in the adult brain, making electron microscopy or electrophysiological analysis extremely challenging, and functional analysis difficult. Studying such cells usually depends heavily on immunocytochemical approaches. We review a range of immunocytochemical techniques for identifying whether transplanted or endogenous neural precursors have differentiated into mature neurons. We provide immunocytochemical protocols for the migratory neuronal marker Doublecortin (Dcx), the early expressed marker Hu, and mature neuronal marker NeuN. In Chapters 25 and 27 of Part IV, we provide protocols for identifying newborn cells by using the mitotic label bromodeoxyuridine and for examining axonal projections by using the retrograde label FluoroGold.
Bromodeoxyuridine, variously abbreviated as BrdU, BudR, and BrdUrd, is a halogenated thymidine analog that is permanently integrated into the DNA of dividing cells during DNA synthesis in S phase. BrdU can be immunocytochemically detected in vitro and in vivo, allowing the identification of cells that were dividing the period of BrdU exposure. In vivo, it has been used to identify the &quot;birthdate&quot; of cells during development, to examine the fate of postnatally generated cells, and to label cells before transplantation, for subsequent identification.
The ends of chromosomes consist of a hexanucleotide DNA repeat sequence and specialized DNA-binding and telomere-associated proteins. An enzyme activity called telomerase maintains telomere length by using an RNA template (TR) and a reverse transcriptase (TERT) to add the hexanucleotide sequence to the free chromosome end. The structure of telomeres is maintained and modified by telomere repeat-binding factors (TRF1 and TRF2) and proteins known for their role in DNA damage responses, including poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1, Werner, and ATM. Telomerase activity can be quantified using a telomere repeat amplification protocol (TRAP) assay, and levels of TERT and telomere-associated proteins are evaluated by immunoblot and immunocytochemical methods. Levels of TERT and telomere-associated proteins can be overexpressed or knocked down using viral vector-based methods. Using the kinds of approaches described here, evidence has been obtained suggesting that telomeres play important roles in regulating neural stem cell proliferation, neuronal differentiation, senescence of glial cells, and apoptosis and DNA damage responses of neural cells.
Recent work shows that major developmental and clinical processes such as central nervous system regeneration and carcinogenesis involve stem cells (SCs) in the brain. In spite of this importance, the requirements of these SCs and their differentiated offspring (neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes) for survival and proper function are little understood. In vivo, the SCs themselves interact with their environment. This &quot;SC niche&quot; may be complex because it likely includes cells of the vascular and immune systems. The ability to maintain (1) and differentiate (1 -4) central nervous system (CNS) SCs in tissue culture where they can be pharmacologically or genetically (5) manipulated provides a powerful starting point for understanding their behavior. We present detailed information on the methods that permit CNS SCs to differentiate into functional neurons in tissue culture. Important aspects of the culture systems include (1) homogeneity, so that the input and output of a manipulation is known to involve the SC itself; (2) growth in monolayer to visualize and study individual SCs and their offspring; and (3) the use of fully defined culture components to exclude unknown factors from the culture. These conditions support the differentiation of functional, electrically active neurons. These methods allow cell growth and differentiation from normal adult and diseased tissue derived from both animal models and clinical samples. Ultimate validation of such a system comes from accurate prediction of in vivo effects, and the methods we present for CNS SC culture have also successfully predicted regenerative responses in the injured adult nervous system.
The possibility that plasminogen activator (PA) plays a role in synaptic plasticity was explored in the spinal cord during the crossed phrenic phenomenon (CPP), where respiratory functional plasticity develops following spinal cord injury. Synaptic remodeling on phrenic motorneurons occurs during the characteristic delay period following spinal cord injury before CPP recovery of respiratory function. The molecular mechanisms underlying this plasticity are not well-defined. During the critical 1-2 h delay period required for this synaptic plasticity following a C2 hemisection in mice, uPA and tPA mRNAs are rapidly induced in C4-5 ventral spinal cord neurons in the ipsilateral phrenic motor nucleus (PMN), as are uPA and tPA protein levels. A role for uPA in CPP spinal cord plasticity is confirmed by the impaired ability of uPA knockout mice to acquire a good CPP response by 6 h post-hemisection and their lack of structural remodeling of PMN synapses that underlies development of the CPP response.
Upregulation of CCR2 chemokine receptor expression by dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons is an important process in the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain. CCR2 is not expressed by DRG neurons under normal conditions but is upregulated in several animal models of neuropathic pain where its signaling is excitatory. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying neuronal upregulation of CCR2 have not been investigated. We examined the promoter region of the CCR2 gene and found that a binding site for the nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NFAT) was conserved among species. The NFAT element was functional since the CCR2 promoter was activated by a constitutively active form of calcineurin A, whereas a point mutation in the NFAT binding site abrogated it. Activation of the NFAT pathway in the DRG neuronal cell line F11 increased CCR2 promoter activity and induced CCR2 transcription. Moreover, depolarization of cultured DRG neurons induced de novo synthesis of CCR2 mRNA, which was blocked by the calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporin A and FK506. These data indicate that CCR2 is a target of the NFAT pathway and suggest that tonic excitation of DRG neurons in association with chronic pain may lead to neuronal CCR2 upregulation via activation of the NFAT pathway.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone 1 (GnRH1) causes the release of gonadotropins from the pituitary to control reproduction. Here we report that two heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNP-A/B and hnRNP-G) bind to the GnRH-I upstream promoter region in a cichlid fish Astatotilapia burtoni. We identified these binding proteins using a newly developed homology based method of mass spectrometric peptide mapping. We show that both hnRNP-A/B and hnRNP-G co-localize with GnRH1 in the pre-optic area of the hypothalamus in the brain. We also demonstrated that these ribonucleoproteins exhibit similar binding capacity in vivo, using immortalized mouse GT1-7 cells where overexpression of either hnRNP-A/B or hnRNP-G significantly down-regulates GnRH1 mRNA levels in GT1-7 cells, suggesting that both act as repressors in GnRH1 transcriptional regulation.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may exert contrasting effects depending on its different subcellular sites of action (soma, dendrites, axons). These contrasting effects may explain contradictory findings, for example that BDNF may favour or oppose epileptogenesis. We determined the distribution of five BDNF splice variants in the soma and dendrites of rat hippocampal principal neurons, after application of stimuli that prompt BDNF mRNA accumulation in dendrites (epileptogenic seizures). Under basal conditions, no BDNF mRNA splice variant was detectable in dendrites, while specific splice variants were found in dendrites in response to epileptogenic seizures. Three hours after pilocarpine administration, exon VI and exon II splice variants were found in dendrites, while exons I and IV transcripts displayed a strictly somatic localization. Three hours after kainate administration, only exon VI was found in dendrites. These data suggest that the regulated expression of different splice variants may provide a spatial code to ensure the delivery of BDNF to precise destinations in the cell soma or along the dendrites.
Major depression is a serious mental illness frequently associated with devastating consequences for those affected. Suicide rates are significantly elevated, creating a sense of urgency to identify effective yet safe treatment options. A plethora of antidepressants are available on the market today, designed to act on different neurotransmitter systems in the brain, providing the clinician with several treatment strategies. There is, however, very little guidance as to which antidepressant may be most successful in a certain individual. Biomarkers that can predict treatment outcome would thus be of great value, shortening the time until remission and reducing costs for the healthcare system by reducing unsuccessful treatment attempts. The proven contribution of heredity to major depression risk suggests that genetic markers may be good biomarkers for treatment outcome.The Sequenced Treatment Alternatives to Relieve Depression (STAR*D) study and a large ancillary pharmacogenetic study in 1953 STAR*D participants constitute the largest effort to date to identify genetic predictors of antidepressant treatment outcome. In this review, the results of candidate gene studies carried out so far are summarized and discussed, and some future directions are proposed.
TLX is an orphan nuclear receptor that is expressed exclusively in vertebrate forebrains. Although TLX is known to be expressed in embryonic brains, the mechanism by which it influences neural development remains largely unknown. We show here that TLX is expressed specifically in periventricular neural stem cells in embryonic brains. Significant thinning of neocortex was observed in embryonic d 14.5 TLX-null brains with reduced nestin labeling and decreased cell proliferation in the germinal zone. Cell cycle analysis revealed both prolonged cell cycles and increased cell cycle exit in TLX-null embryonic brains. Increased expression of a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 and decreased expression of cyclin D1 provide a molecular basis for the deficiency of cell cycle progression in embryonic brains of TLX-null mice. Furthermore, transient knockdown of TLX by in utero electroporation led to precocious cell cycle exit and differentiation of neural stem cells followed by outward migration. Together these results indicate that TLX plays an important role in neural development by regulating cell cycle progression and exit of neural stem cells in the developing brain.
We compared adeno-associated virus (AAV) serotypes for expression levels of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in the adult rat hippocampus by biophotonic imaging. Preparations of AAV serotypes 8, 9, Rh10, and Rh43 incorporating cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter-driven GFP were purified by a CsCl method. Neither AAV Rh10 nor AAV Rh43 produced greater levels of GFP than AAV8, which was used as a reference. For AAV9, there was an increase relative to AAV8. The CsCl-purified AAV8 displayed an astroglial transduction pattern in contrast to the expected neuronal expression of other AAVs. After preparing the same CMV-GFP plasmid in AAV8 with an iodixanol purification method, the expected neuronal pattern resulted. The astroglial expression with the CsCl AAV8 was probably due to relatively high levels of protein impurities. We compared the CMV promoter with the CMV/chicken beta-actin (CBA) promoter in the context of AAV8, both prepared by iodixanol, and found the CBA promoter to produce stronger GFP expression. At two doses of vectors optimized for serotype, promoter and purification, we did not observe serotype differences among AAV8, AAV9, or AAV Rh10. The purification method can therefore impact the transduction pattern as well as the results when comparing serotype strengths.



Levodopa is the 'gold standard' drug for the treatment of the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). For many years there has been concern regarding its potential to be toxic to the dopaminergic cells of the substantia nigra. Much of the evidence to support this is derived from in vitro studies and there are significant limitations in extrapolating these data to the clinic. Indeed, there is no evidence to indicate that levodopa is toxic to PD patients, and even some suggestion that it may be protective.
Dopamine (DA) neurons exist in two activity states; either spontaneously firing or quiescent and nonfiring. When faced with a behavioral demand, the quiescent DA neurons can be activated to facilitate normal motor output. Levodopa appears to increase DA output by activating these nonfiring neurons; as a consequence, DA release is increased, but behavioral demand can now overwhelm the system, potentially leading to the inactivation and on/off phenomena. Levodopa administered in a pulsatile manner may also lead to the induction of synaptic plasticity within the DA systems. In the ventral mesolimbic system, this could lead to the loss of behavioral flexibility, impulsive behavior, and cognitive impairment, whereas in the dorsal nigrostriatal system, this may underlie Levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Continuous administration of Levodopa may circumvent this sensitization process, enabling a therapeutic response without limbic and motor side effects.
The basal ganglia (BG) are a highly organized network, where different parts are activated for specific functions and circumstances. The BG are involved in movement control, as well as associative learning, planning, working memory, and emotion. We concentrate on the &quot;motor circuit&quot; because it is the best understood anatomically and physiologically, and because Parkinson's disease is mainly thought to be a movement disorder. Normal function of the BG requires fine tuning of neuronal excitability within each nucleus to determine the exact degree of movement facilitation or inhibition at any given moment. This is mediated by the complex organization of the striatum, where the excitability of medium spiny neurons is controlled by several pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms as well as interneuron activity, and secured by several recurrent or internal BG circuits. The motor circuit of the BG has two entry points, the striatum and the subthalamic nucleus (STN), and an output, the globus pallidus pars interna (GPi), which connects to the cortex via the motor thalamus. Neuronal afferents coding for a given movement or task project to the BG by two different systems: (1) Direct disynaptic projections to the GPi via the striatum and STN. (2) Indirect trisynaptic projections to the GPi via the globus pallidus pars externa (GPe). Corticostriatal afferents primarily act to inhibit medium spiny neurons in the &quot;indirect circuit&quot; and facilitate neurons in the &quot;direct circuit.&quot; The GPe is in a pivotal position to regulate the motor output of the BG. Dopamine finely tunes striatal input as well as neuronal striatal activity, and modulates GPe, GPi, and STN activity. Dopaminergic depletion in Parkinson's disease disrupts the corticostriatal balance leading to increased activity the indirect circuit and reduced activity in the direct circuit. The precise chain of events leading to increased STN activity is not completely understood, but impaired dopaminergic regulation of the GPe, GPi, and STN may be involved. The parkinsonian state is characterized by disruption of the internal balance of the BG leading to hyperactivity in the two main entry points of the network (striatum and STN) and excessive inhibitory output from the GPi. Replacement therapy with standard levodopa creates a further imbalance, producing an abnormal pattern of neuronal discharge and synchronization of neuronal firing that sustain the &quot;off&quot; and &quot;on with dyskinesia&quot; states. The effect of levodopa is robust but short-lasting and converts the parkinsonian BG into a highly unstable system, where pharmacological and compensatory effects act in opposing directions. This creates a scenario that substantially departs from the normal physiological state of the BG.
The majority of patients with Parkinson's disease suffer from freezing of gait (FOG), which responds more or less to levodopa. Thalamic stimulation, mainly used in the treatment of tremor dominant Parkinson's disease is ineffective in FOG. GPi stimulation moderately improves FOG, but this effect may abate in the long term. STN stimulation was reported to improve levodopa-responsive FOG. In some patients, the benefit from levodopa is greater than that from STN stimulation, and levodopa and STN stimulation can have additive effects. On the contrary, STN stimulation is ineffective on levodopa-resistant FOG. In the few cases of levodopa-induced FOG, STN stimulation can indirectly be effective, thanks to a great decrease or arrest of levodopa. Stimulation of the pedunculopontine nucleus has recently been performed in small groups of patients suffering from both off- and on-levodopa gait impairments. The first results appear encouraging, but they need to be confirmed by controlled studies in larger series of patients.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) can be remarkably effective in treating movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease, dystonia, and essential tremor. Yet these effects remain essentially unexplained, even paradoxical. Equally challenging is the fact that DBS of motor targets in the basal ganglia appears to reverse abnormalities of movement without any obvious deleterious effects on remaining aspects of movement. Here, we explore the extent to which the noisy signal hypothesis might help solve some of these apparent paradoxes. Essentially the hypothesis, first tentatively advanced by Marsden and Obeso (1994), suggests that disease leads to a pattern of basal ganglia activity that disrupts local and distant function and that surgery acts to suppress or override this noisy signal. Critical to the success this theory is that different disease phenotypes are associated with different patterns of noisy signal, and we survey the evidence to support this contention, with specific emphasis on different types of pathological synchronization. However, just as DBS may suppress or override noisy signals in the basal ganglia, it must equally antagonize any remaining physiological functioning in these key motor structures. We argue that the latter effect of DBS becomes manifest when baseline motor performance is relatively preserved, i.e., when pathological activity is limited. Under these circumstances, the deleterious effects of DBS are no longer obscured by its therapeutic actions in suppressing noisy signals. Whether true, oversimplified or simply incorrect, the noisy signal hypothesis has served to focus attention on the detailed character of basal ganglia discharge and its variation with disease and therapy.
We report eight cases of genetically proven ULD, with the aim of reassessing the clinical characteristics and natural history of ULD in genetically characterized patients. The eight patients had their first symptoms at mean age of 10.6 years (range: 6-14 years). The main clinical features were action myoclonus, cerebellar ataxia, seizures, and mild intellectual dysfunction. We report three new clinical features of ULD; ocular motor apraxia, dystonia, and rapidly progressive dementia. All patients needed a combination of at least four antimyoclonic drugs, but despite this, all patients were severely disabled by their action myoclonus. After a mean duration of disease of 29.9 years (range: 21-37 years), four patients were walking with aids while another four were wheelchair bound. The clinical phenotypes associated with ULD are more diverse than previously recognized and even though the long term functional outcome and survival have improved, the overall efficacy of antimyoclonic drugs remains unsatisfactory.
Parkinson's disease (PD), which probably commences in the olfactory bulb and nuclei of IX and X, may represent accelerated normal aging or a disease specific process. The olfactory and motor disorders are associated in PD, so that smell loss should reflect the underlying disease course. Information on age-associated decline can be obtained by single measurement from cross-sectional analysis of patients and controls of different ages, because the observed between-subject picture may reflect a similar within-subject pattern. University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT) scores were examined for aging effects in 263 controls and 266 PD patients. Three models were applied that are (a) simple linear regression and (b) quadratic term in age: (i) assuming two parallel curves and (ii) allowing for two separate curves. Both groups declined with age. All three models were fitted successfully to the cross-sectional data and none suggested that the lower mean UPSIT score in patients compared to controls was a premature ageing effect. The mean PD-UPSIT score even at the age of 40, was lower than the control mean at the upper life-span limit, implied that the decline in olfaction in PD is faster than simple aging. Extrapolation back in time suggested onset before birth, which is unlikely and implies that at some point there is a more rapid decline than observed in this sample. On the basis of olfactory measurement, our data are consistent with the proposal that PD starts as an acute event, followed by further disease progression more rapid than simple aging.
Mutations of the valosin-containing protein gene (VCP) are responsible for autosomal-dominant hereditary inclusion-body myopathy associated with frontotemporal dementia and Paget's disease of bone. We identified the p.R155C missense mutation in the VCP gene segregating in an Italian family with three affected siblings, two of whom had a progressive myopathy associated with dementia, whereas one exhibited a progressive myopathy and preclinical signs of Paget's disease of bone. Our study demonstrates that VCP mutations are found in patients of Italian background and may lead to a variable clinical phenotype even within the same kinship.
We identified a SNP in the DPP6 gene that is consistently strongly associated with susceptibility to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in different populations of European ancestry, with an overall P value of 5.04 x 10(-8) in 1,767 cases and 1,916 healthy controls and with an odds ratio of 1.30 (95% confidence interval (CI) of 1.18-1.43). Our finding is the first report of a genome-wide significant association with sporadic ALS and may be a target for future functional studies.
A new study proposes that synaptic vesicle endocytosis at a large synaptic terminal is partly independent of dynamin and GTP hydrolysis, suggesting a new mechanism leading to vesicle fission and maintenance of neurotransmission.

Lateral inhibition is a circuit motif found throughout the nervous system that often generates contrast enhancement and center-surround receptive fields. We investigated the functional properties of the circuits mediating lateral inhibition between olfactory bulb principal neurons (mitral cells) in vitro. We found that the lateral inhibition received by mitral cells is gated by postsynaptic firing, such that a minimum threshold of postsynaptic activity is required before effective lateral inhibition is recruited. This dynamic regulation allows the strength of lateral inhibition to be enhanced between cells with correlated activity. Simulations show that this regulation of lateral inhibition causes decorrelation of mitral cell activity that is evoked by similar stimuli, even when stimuli have no clear spatial structure. These results show that this previously unknown mechanism for specifying lateral inhibitory connections allows functional inhibitory connectivity to be dynamically remapped to relevant populations of neurons.
Our capacity to store information in working memory might be determined by the degree to which only relevant information is remembered. The question remains as to how this selection of relevant items to be remembered is accomplished. Here we show that activity in the prefrontal cortex and basal ganglia preceded the filtering of irrelevant information and that activity, particularly in the globus pallidus, predicted the extent to which only relevant information is stored. The preceding frontal and basal ganglia activity were also associated with inter-individual differences in working memory capacity. These findings reveal a mechanism by which frontal and basal ganglia activity exerts attentional control over access to working memory storage in the parietal cortex in humans, and makes an important contribution to inter-individual differences in working memory capacity.
Postmitotic neurons in the developing cortex migrate along radial glial fibers to their proper location in the cortical plate and form the layered structure. Here we report that the radial migration of rat layer II/III cortical neurons requires guidance by the extracellular diffusible factor Semaphorin-3A (Sema3A). This factor is expressed in a descending gradient across the cortical layers, whereas its receptor neuropilin-1 (NP1) is highly expressed in migrating neurons. Downregulation or conditional knockout of NP1 in newborn cortical neurons impedes their radial migration by disrupting their radial orientation during migration without altering their cell fate. Studies in cultured cortical slices further show that the endogenous gradient of Sema3A is required for the proper migration of newborn neurons. In addition, transwell chemotaxis assays show that isolated newborn neurons are attracted by Sema3A. Thus, Sema3A may function as a chemoattractive guidance signal for the radial migration of newborn cortical neurons toward upper layers.
Photoconvertible fluorescent proteins, such as Kaede, can be switched irreversibly from their native color to a new one. This property can be exploited to visualize de novo mRNA translation, because newly synthesized proteins can be distinguished from preexisting ones by their color. In this protocol, Kaede cDNA linked to the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of beta-actin is delivered into cells fated to become the retina by injection into Xenopus blastomeres. Brief exposure (6-10 s) to UV light (350-410 nm) of Kaede-positive retinal axons/growth cones efficiently converts Kaede from its native green fluorescence to red. The reappearance of the green signal reports the synthesis of new Kaede protein. This approach can be used to investigate the spatiotemporal control of translation of specific mRNAs in response to external stimuli and to test the efficiency of full-length versus mutant UTRs. The 3-d protocol can be adapted for broad use with other photoactivatable fluorescent proteins.
We have developed procedures that combine differential centrifugation and discontinuous Percoll density gradient centrifugation to isolate mitochondria from rat forebrains and brain subregions. The use of Percoll density gradient centrifugation is central to obtaining preparations that contain little contamination with synaptosomes and myelin. Protocols are presented for three variations of this procedure that differ in their suitability for dealing with large or small samples, in the proportion of total mitochondria isolated and in the total preparation time. One variation uses digitonin to disrupt synaptosomes before mitochondrial isolation. This method is well suited for preparing mitochondria from small tissue samples, but the isolated organelles are not appropriate for all studies. Each of the procedures produces mitochondria that are well coupled and exhibit high rates of respiratory activity. The procedures require an initial setup time of 45-75 min and between 1 and 3 h for the mitochondrial isolation.
L-Measure (LM) is a freely available software tool for the quantitative characterization of neuronal morphology. LM computes a large number of neuroanatomical parameters from 3D digital reconstruction files starting from and combining a set of core metrics. After more than six years of development and use in the neuroscience community, LM enables the execution of commonly adopted analyses as well as of more advanced functions. This report illustrates several LM protocols: (i) extraction of basic morphological parameters, (ii) computation of frequency distributions, (iii) measurements from user-specified subregions of the neuronal arbors, (iv) statistical comparison between two groups of cells and (v) filtered selections and searches from collections of neurons based on any Boolean combination of the available morphometric measures. These functionalities are easily accessed and deployed through a user-friendly graphical interface and typically execute within few minutes on a set of approximately 20 neurons. The tool is available at http://krasnow.gmu.edu/cn3 for either online use on any Java-enabled browser and platform or download for local execution under Windows and Linux.
One popular way of measuring visual attentional processes in the rat is using 5-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT). This paradigm requires subjects to detect brief flashes of light presented in a pseudorandom order in one of five spatial locations over a large number of trials. For this task, the animals are trained for approximately 30-40 daily sessions during which they gradually learn to respond in the appropriate aperture within a certain amount of time. If they fail to respond, respond in the wrong hole or at an inappropriate time, a short period of darkness (time-out) is presented as punishment and no reward is delivered. The 5-CSRTT provides the possibility to test the effects of various neural, pharmacological and behavioral manipulations on discrete and somewhat independent measures of behavioral control, including accuracy of discrimination, impulsivity, perseverative responses and response latencies.
Schizophrenia represents a pervasive deficit in brain function, leading to hallucinations and delusions, social withdrawal and a decline in cognitive performance. As the underlying genetic and neuronal abnormalities in schizophrenia are largely unknown, it is challenging to measure the severity of its symptoms objectively, or to design and evaluate psychotherapeutic interventions. Recent advances in neurophysiological techniques provide new opportunities to measure abnormal brain functions in patients with schizophrenia and to compare these with drug-induced alterations. Moreover, many of these neurophysiological processes are phylogenetically conserved and can be modelled in preclinical studies, offering unique opportunities for use as translational biomarkers in schizophrenia drug discovery.
Recent evidence has shown that prenatal maternal stress has negative consequences for the mental health of the adult organism. Our aim was to examine the efficacy of using the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, paroxetine, to alleviate the symptoms of prenatal maternal stress in Fisher 344 rats. Pregnant rats were subjected to daily restraint stress and concurrent paroxetine treatment (10 mg/kg p.o.) during the last week of gestation. Maternal paroxetine treatment led to a shortened gestational length, reduced birth weight and a 10-fold rise in neonatal mortality in both stressed and non-stressed litters. These results reiterate the need for further research on the effects of paroxetine treatment during gestation.
Perception and motor control are often regarded as two separate branches of neuroscience. Like most species, however, humans are not passively exposed to the incoming flow of sensory data, but actively seek useful information. By shaping input signals in ways that simplify perceptual tasks, behavior might play an important role in establishing efficient sensory representations in the brain. Under natural viewing conditions, the main source of motion of the stimulus on the retina is not the scene but our own behavior. The retinal image is never still, even during visual fixation, when small eye movements combine with movements of the head and body to continually perturb the location of gaze. This article examines the impact of the fixational motion of the retinal image on the statistics of visual input and the neural encoding of visual information. Building upon recent theoretical and experimental results, it is argued that an unstable fixation constitutes an efficient strategy for acquiring information from natural scenes. According to this theory, the fluctuations of luminance caused by the incessant motion of the eye equalize the power present at different spatial frequencies in the spatiotemporal stimulus on the retina. This phenomenon yields compact neural representations, emphasizes fine spatial detail, and might enable a temporal multiplexing of visual information from the retina to the cortex. This theory posits motor contributions to early visual representations and suggests that perception and behavior are more intimately tied than commonly thought.
Under a conventional view of information processing in recurrently connected populations of neurons, computations consist in mapping inputs onto terminal attractor states of the dynamical interactions. However, there is evidence that substantial information representation and processing can occur over the course of the initial evolution of the dynamical states of such populations, a possibility that has attractive computational properties. Here, we suggest a model that explores one such property, namely, the invariance to an irrelevant feature dimension that arises from monitoring not the state of the population, but rather (a statistic of) the change in this state over time. We illustrate our proposal in the context of the bisection task, a paradigmatic example of perceptual learning for which an attractor-state recurrent model has previously been suggested. We show a change-based inference scheme that achieves near optimal performance in the task (with invariance to translation), is robust to high levels of dynamical noise and variations of the synaptic weight matrix, and indeed admits a computationally straightforward learning rule.
We describe a class of models that predict how the instantaneous firing rate of a neuron depends on a dynamic stimulus. The models utilize a learnt pointwise nonlinear transform of the stimulus, followed by a linear filter that acts on the sequence of transformed inputs. In one case, the nonlinear transform is the same at all filter lag-times. Thus, this &quot;input nonlinearity&quot; converts the initial numerical representation of stimulus value to a new representation that provides optimal input to the subsequent linear model. We describe algorithms that estimate both the input nonlinearity and the linear weights simultaneously; and present techniques to regularise and quantify uncertainty in the estimates. In a second approach, the model is generalized to allow a different nonlinear transform of the stimulus value at each lag-time. Although more general, this model is algorithmically more straightforward to fit. However, it has many more degrees of freedom than the first approach, thus requiring more data for accurate estimation. We test the feasibility of these methods on synthetic data, and on responses from a neuron in rodent barrel cortex. The models are shown to predict responses to novel data accurately, and to recover several important neuronal response properties.

Pharmacologically isolated GABAergic irregular spiking and stuttering interneurons in the mouse visual cortex display highly irregular spike times, with high coefficients of variation approximately 0.9-3, in response to a depolarizing, constant current input. This is in marked contrast to cortical pyramidal cells, which spike quite regularly in response to the same current injection. We applied time-series analysis methods to show that the irregular behavior of the interneurons was not a consequence of low-dimensional, deterministic processes. These methods were also applied to the Hindmarsh and Rose neuronal model to confirm that the methods are adequate for the types of data under investigation. This result has important consequences for the origin of fluctuations observed in the cortex in vivo.
Using in vitro brain slices of hippocampus and cortex, neuronal oscillations in the frequency range of 30-80 Hz (gamma frequency oscillations) can be induced by a number of pharmacological manipulations. The most routinely used is the bath application of the broad-spectrum glutamate receptor agonist, kainic acid. In the hippocampus, work using transgenic kainate receptor knockout mice have revealed information about the specific subunit composition of the kainate receptor implicated in the generation and maintenance of the gamma frequency oscillation. However, there is a paucity of such detail regarding gamma frequency oscillation in the cortex. Using specific pharmacological agonists and antagonists for the kainate receptor, we have set out to examine the contribution of kainate receptor subtypes to gamma frequency oscillation in the entorhinal cortex. The findings presented demonstrate that in contrast to the hippocampus, kainate receptors containing the GLU(K5) subunit are critically important for the generation and maintenance of gamma frequency oscillation in the entorhinal cortex. Future work will concentrate on determining the exact nature of the cellular expression of kainate receptors in the entorhinal cortex.
The entorhinal cortex is commonly perceived as a major input and output structure of the hippocampal formation, entertaining the role of the nodal point of cortico-hippocampal circuits. Superficial layers receive convergent cortical information, which is relayed to structures in the hippocampus, and hippocampal output reaches deep layers of entorhinal cortex, that project back to the cortex. The finding of the grid cells in all layers and reports on interactions between deep and superficial layers indicate that this rather simplistic perception may be at fault. Therefore, an integrative approach on the entorhinal cortex, that takes into account recent additions to our knowledge database on entorhinal connectivity, is timely. We argue that layers in entorhinal cortex show different functional characteristics most likely not on the basis of strikingly different inputs or outputs, but much more likely on the basis of differences in intrinsic organization, combined with very specific sets of inputs. Here, we aim to summarize recent anatomical data supporting the notion that the traditional description of the entorhinal cortex as a layered input-output structure for the hippocampal formation does not give the deserved credit to what this structure might be contributing to the overall functions of cortico-hippocampal networks.
The entorhinal cortex plays an important role in spatial memory and episodic memory functions. These functions may result from cellular mechanisms for integration of the afferent input to entorhinal cortex. This article reviews physiological data on persistent spiking and membrane potential oscillations in entorhinal cortex then presents models showing how both these cellular mechanisms could contribute to properties observed during unit recording, including grid cell firing, and how they could underlie behavioural functions including path integration. The interaction of oscillations and persistent firing could contribute to encoding and retrieval of trajectories through space and time as a mechanism relevant to episodic memory.
The concept of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) has been proposed to represent a transitional stage between normal aging and dementia. We studied the predictive value of the MRI-derived volumes of medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures, white matter lesions (WML), neuropsychological tests, and Apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype on conversion of MCI to dementia and AD. The study included 60 subjects with MCI identified from population cohorts. During the mean follow-up period of 34 months, 13 patients had progressed to dementia (9 to Alzheimer's disease (AD)). In Cox regression analysis the baseline volumes of the right hippocampus, the right entorhinal cortex and CDR sum of boxes predicted the progression of MCI to dementia during the follow-up. In a bivariate analysis, only the baseline volumes of entorhinal cortex predicted conversion of MCI to AD. The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score at baseline, WML load, or APOE genotype were not significant predictors of progression. The MTL volumetry helps in identifying among the MCI subjects a group, which is at high risk for developing AD.
Neuron loss within the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex occurs as a function of age in humans. We first tested the hypothesis that neuron loss occurs in the aged dog. The total unilateral number of neurons in the canine entorhinal cortex and subdivisions of the hippocampus from the left hemisphere were estimated using the optical fractionator. The brains from 5 old (13.0-15.0 years old) and 5 young (3.4-4.5 years old) beagle dogs were analyzed. The hilus of the hippocampus showed a significant loss of neurons (approximately 30%) in the aged dog brain compared to young. Differences were not detected in the remaining hippocampal subfields and entorhinal cortex. We further tested the hypothesis that an antioxidant fortified food or behavioral enrichment would reduce the age-related loss of hilar neurons. Behaviorally enriched aged dogs had more neurons in the hilus (approximately 18%) compared to aged controls. These results suggest that the aged canine hippocampus in the left hemisphere shows selective neuron loss and that behavioral enrichment may reduce this loss.
We investigated the activation of the IL-1 beta system and markers of adaptive immunity in rat brain during epileptogenesis using models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). The same inflammatory markers were studied in rat chronic epileptic tissue and in human TLE with hippocampal sclerosis (HS). IL-1 beta was expressed by both activated microglia and astrocytes within 4 h from the onset of status epilepticus (SE) in forebrain areas recruited in epileptic activity; however, only astrocytes sustained inflammation during epileptogenesis. Activation of the IL-1 beta system during epileptogenesis was associated with neurodegeneration and blood-brain barrier breakdown. In rat and human chronic epileptic tissue, IL-1 beta and IL-1 receptor type 1 were broadly expressed by astrocytes, microglia and neurons. Granulocytes appeared transiently in rat brain during epileptogenesis while monocytes/macrophages were present in the hippocampus from 18 h after SE onset until chronic seizures develop, and they were found also in human TLE hippocampi. In rat and human epileptic tissue, only scarce B- and T-lymphocytes and NK cells were found mainly associated with microvessels. These data show that specific inflammatory pathways are chronically activated during epileptogenesis and they persist in chronic epileptic tissue, suggesting they may contribute to the etiopathogenesis of TLE.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a hereditary disorder characterized by personality changes, chorea, dementia and weight loss. The cause of this weight loss is unknown. The aim of this study was to examine body weight changes and weight-regulating factors in HD using the R6/2 mouse model as a tool. We found that R6/2 mice started losing weight at 9 weeks of age. Total locomotor activity was unaltered and caloric intake was not decreased until 11 weeks of age, which led us to hypothesize that increased metabolism might underlie the weight loss. Indeed, oxygen consumption in R6/2 mice was elevated from 6 weeks of age, indicative of an increased metabolism. Several organ systems that regulate weight and metabolism, including the hypothalamus, the stomach and adipose tissue displayed abnormalities in R6/2 mice. Together, these data demonstrate that weight loss in R6/2 mice is associated with increased metabolism and changes in several weight-regulating factors.
Low-frequency stimulation (LFS) of the kindling focus or the piriform cortex inhibits kindling epileptogenesis, but whether LFS of brain targets outside the limbic system has anticonvulsive actions remain unknown. The current study was designed to investigate the effect of LFS of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) on seizure progression induced by amygdaloid kindling. Stimulation at 1 Hz (15-min train of 0.1-ms pulses, 100 muA), but not at 3 Hz, in the ipsilateral FN immediately after the daily kindling stimulus (1-s train of 1-ms pulses at 60 Hz and 100-300 muA) significantly inhibited the seizure stage and afterdischarge duration in kindling acquisition. Neither 1 Hz nor 3 Hz stimulation of the contralateral FH had any significant effect. It is interesting that delaying delivery (immediately after the cessation of afterdischarge) of LFS in the ipsilateral FN accelerated the rate of kindling acquisition compared to controls. Our study suggests that LFS of targets outside the limbic system, such as the FN, may have a significant anti-epileptogenic action, and the effects of LFS depend on the frequency and timing of stimulation.
Extensive research has shown that the striatum is necessary for response learning. We reported previously that rats using a response strategy to solve a cross maze task showed sustained phosphorylation of striatal CREB [Colombo, P. J., Brightwell, J. J., &amp; Countryman, R. A. (2003). Cognitive strategy-specific increases in phosphorylated cAMP response element-binding protein and c-Fos in the hippocampus and dorsal striatum. Journal of Neuroscience, 23(8), 3547-3554], a transcription factor implicated in long-term memory formation. In the current study, we used viral vector-mediated gene transfer to test the hypothesis that CREB function in the dorsolateral striatum is necessary for the formation of long-term memory for a response strategy. In addition, we tested the hypothesis that the striatum and the hippocampus interact in a cooperative or competitive manner during memory formation. CREB function was blocked in the dorsolateral striatum by overexpression of a mutant form of CREB in which Ser133 was replaced with Ala (HSV-mCREB). CREB function was increased or decreased in the dorsal hippocampus by overexpressing wild-type CREB (HSV-CREB) or mutant CREB. Rats were trained to make a consistent turning response in one session to a criterion of 9 out of 10 correct trials in a water version of the cross maze. Experimental subjects and controls were trained 3 days following infusion into the hippocampus or striatum and tested for memory of the strategy 6 days later. There were no significant differences between treatment groups in acquisition of the task. At test, controls showed significant savings whereas rats infused with HSV-mCREB in the striatum did not. Rats receiving intrahippocampal overexpression of HSV-CREB, HSV-mCREB, or vehicle all showed significant savings between training and test. The present results show that long-term memory of a response strategy requires CREB function in the dorsolateral striatum and is independent of CREB function in the dorsal hippocampus.
Steryl glycosides and related compounds are commonly found in the environment and have been associated with neurodegenerative changes in vulnerable individuals. However, their mechanisms of action in mammalian cells have not been well investigated. In the present study the effects of cholesterol glucoside (CG), a variant form of steryl glycoside, was investigated in the motor neuron-derived NSC34 cell line. Prolonged treatment with CG was found to induce cell death in a dose- and time-dependent manner. However, transient exposure of CG preconditioned NSC34 cells for stress from serum deprivation. To study the signaling pathways activated by CG, we employed the Kinetworks KPSS 1.3 Phospho-site Screen to track the phosphorylation level of at least 35 diverse signaling proteins. The survival protein kinase B (PKB/Akt) displayed a 2-fold increase in phosphorylation at its Ser-473 activation site following CG stimulation. Akt signaling was important for conferring cytoprotection against serum deprivation-induced stress. Inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), which indirectly triggers Akt stimulation, completely abolished CG preconditioning against serum deprivation. Our findings revealed that there may be a PI3K-independent pathway which also mediated Akt Ser-473 phosphorylation. Improved understanding of the mechanisms of action of CG should provide insights to the how other members of the steryl glycoside family induce toxicity in the mouse model of ALS-PDC, and how cells respond to these toxins.
The sensed presence of a 'Sentient Being' has been hypothesized to be the transient awareness of the right hemispheric equivalent of the left hemispheric sense of self. When the clinical context is supportive for the expression of anomalous cognition, the experience is reported frequently by patients who display complex partial epileptic-like symptoms and signs following a mild closed head injury. This article describes a patient with a history of presences subsequent to a 'mild' closed head injury who reported strong experiences during an electroencephalographic screening within a very quiet and darkened setting at the end of a day of neuropsychological assessments. The right-sided presence was preceded by the sensation of an 'electric shock' through the right hand and then both hands. Whole body 'icy coldness' and then vibrations 'moved' through her entire body. The experiences were concomitant with paroxysmal irregular 4-5-Hz activity over the temporal lobes. This case illustrates that many sensed presences might be similar to 'epileptic auras' for patients who also display elevated complex partial epileptic-like experiences following closed head injuries and that close attention to typically ignored electroencephalographic 'transients' may be helpful indicators.
Creatine transporter deficit (CT1) is an inherited metabolic disorder that causes mental retardation, epilepsy, speech, language and behavioral deficits. Until now, no treatment has been proven to be successful for this condition. We describe 1-year follow-up study of a child, aged 9.6 years, with CT1 defect, on oral supplementation with L-arginine, a precursor of creatine synthesis. Under supplementation, he showed a noticeable improvement of neurological, language and behavioral status and an increase of brain creatine and phosphocreatine documented with magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The results suggest that children with CT1 disorder show some residual adaptive plasticity for certain functions even at quite an advanced age. Further trials with higher L-arginine dosages and more protracted treatment are encouraged.
Many conventional techniques for revealing concealed information have focused on detecting whether a person is responding truthfully to specific questions, typically using some form of lie detector. However, lie detection has faced a number of criticisms and it is still unclear to what degree conventional lie detectors can be used to reveal concealed knowledge in applied real-world settings. Here, we review the key problems with conventional lie-detection technology and critically discuss the potential of novel techniques that aim to directly read concealed mental states out of patterns of brain activity.
This review outlines recent neurobiological findings in humans relevant for the practice of law and forensic psychiatry. We focus on offenders with antisocial personality disorder and on sex offenders. In addition, the impact of risk polymorphisms in monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A), previously related to violence in interaction with the environment, on brain structure and function and on personality traits in healthy persons are presented. While increasing knowledge of functional and structural alterations provides a better understanding of the neurobiological underpinnings of delinquent behaviour, antisocial and violent behaviour arises from a complex pattern of biological, psychological, social and situational factors, precluding a stance of simple biological reductionism. Rather, optimal integration of neurobiological findings requires cooperation among many disciplines such as medicine, criminology, sociology, psychology, politics and neuroscience.
Jurisprudence will profit considerably from methods and applications of the neurosciences. In fact, it is proposed that the neurosciences will provide unique possibilities and advantages in understanding motivations and causes for staying lawful or for becoming unlawful. Neuroscientific models on brain-behavior interactions have profited considerably from the advent of neuroimaging techniques and genetic analyses. Furthermore, advances in interdisciplinary investigations, which combine conventional psychological and sociological explorations with biological examinations, provide refined insights into the question 'What makes us tick?' (Weiskrantz, 1973, British Journal of Psychology, 64, 511-520). The search for such interactions from the time of the nineteenth century to the present is briefly surveyed and it is concluded that the interdisciplinary approaches within and across neuroscientific fields will lead and have already led to a considerable expansion of our knowledge. The articles in this issue devoted to highlighting the latest neuroscience research related to criminal behavior underline the power of this new approach.
Cerebral dysfunction of 5-HT (serotonin) has been associated with stress response and with affective disorders. Stress alone is insufficient to induce depression, since only a minor proportion of subjects that have experienced stressful life events develop depressive episodes. We investigated whether long-term brain 5-HT depletion induced in rats by a diet with low content of its precursor tryptophan affects stress-responsiveness in rats. Stress-sensitivity was measured through various physiological parameters and by measuring the rats' response to acoustic stimuli. One group of rats was subjected to daily acoustic stimulus sessions for 5 days. Other groups received both immobilization stress and acoustic stimulus sessions daily for either 9 days (chronic experiment) or 1 day (acute experiment). A low tryptophan diet led to decreases in plasma tryptophan levels, low ratio of tryptophan/large neutral amino acid, whole blood 5-HT, and neuronal 5-HT content in the Dorsal and Median Raphe Nuclei, as well as altered c-fos expression in the brain. Without concomitant immobilization, the diet alone did not affect reactivity and habituation to acoustic stimuli, although plasma corticosterone levels, but not the adrenal weights, were increased on day 5. Low tryptophan and chronic immobilization stress together with the acoustic testing procedure increased adrenal weight, plasma corticosterone levels and reactivity to the acoustic stimuli, but not the rate of habituation to acoustic stimuli. These results show that cerebral dysfunction of serotonin achieved through a low tryptophan diet, increases the sensitivity of rats to external and stressful stimuli, but does not impair the capacity to adapt to these stimuli. Accordingly, brain-serotonin modulates reactivity to stress, but not stress coping.
Astrocytes can release the excitatory transmitter glutamate which is capable of modulating activity in nearby neurons. This astrocytic glutamate release can occur through six known mechanisms: (i) reversal of uptake by glutamate transporters (ii) anion channel opening induced by cell swelling, (iii) Ca2+-dependent exocytosis, (iv) glutamate exchange via the cystine-glutamate antiporter, (v) release through ionotropic purinergic receptors and (vi) functional unpaired connexons, &quot;hemichannels&quot;, on the cell surface. Although these various pathways have been defined, it is not clear how often and to what extent astrocytes employ different mechanisms. It will be necessary to determine whether the same glutamate release mechanisms that operate under physiological conditions operate during pathological conditions or whether there are specific release mechanisms that operate under particular conditions.
Adenosine is a prototypical neuromodulator, which mainly controls excitatory transmission through the activation of widespread inhibitory A1 receptors and synaptically located A2A receptors. It was long thought that the predominant A1 receptor-meditated modulation by endogenous adenosine was a homeostatic process intrinsic to the synapse. New studies indicate that endogenous extracellular adenosine is originated as a consequence of the release of gliotransmitters, namely ATP, which sets a global inhibitory tonus in brain circuits rather than in a single synapse. Thus, this neuron-glia long-range communication can be viewed as a form of non-synaptic transmission (a concept introduced by Professor Sylvester Vizi), designed to reduce noise in a circuit. This neuron-glia-induced adenosine release is also responsible for exacerbating salient information through A1 receptor-mediated heterosynaptic depression, whereby the activation of a particular synapse recruits a neuron-glia network to generate extracellular adenosine that inhibits neighbouring non-tetanised synapses. In parallel, the local activation of facilitatory A2A receptors by adenosine, formed from ATP released only at high frequencies from neuronal vesicles, down-regulates A1 receptors and facilitates plasticity selectively in the tetanised synapse. Thus, upon high-frequency firing of a given pathway, the combined exacerbation of global A1 receptor-mediated inhibition in the circuit (heterosynaptic depression) with the local synaptic activation of A2A receptors in the activated synapse, cooperate to maximise salience between the activated and non-tetanised synapses.
Extrasynaptic volume transmission, mediated by the diffusion of neuroactive substances in the extracellular space (ECS), plays an important role in short- and long-distance communication between nerve cells. The ability of a substance to reach extrasynaptic high-affinity receptors via diffusion depends on the ECS diffusion parameters, ECS volume fraction alpha (alpha=ECS volume/total tissue volume) and tortuosity lambda (lambda2=free/apparent diffusion coefficient), which reflects the presence of diffusion barriers represented by, e.g., fine astrocytic processes or extracellular matrix molecules. These barriers channel the migration of molecules in the ECS, so that diffusion may be facilitated in a certain direction, i.e. anisotropic. The diffusion parameters alpha and lambda differ in various brain regions, and diffusion in the CNS is therefore inhomogeneous. Changes in diffusion parameters have been found in many physiological and pathological states, such as development and aging, neuronal activity, lactation, ischemia, brain injury, degenerative diseases, tumor growth and others, in which cell swelling, glial remodeling and extracellular matrix changes are key factors influencing diffusion. Changes in ECS volume, tortuosity and anisotropy significantly affect the accumulation and diffusion of neuroactive substances and thus extrasynaptic transmission, neuron-glia communication, mediator &quot;spillover&quot; and synaptic crosstalk as well as, cell migration. The various changes occurring during pathological states can be important for diagnosis, drug delivery and treatment.
Non-synaptic transmission is characteristic of autonomic neuroeffector junctions. The structure of the autonomic neuromuscular junction is described. The essential features are that: the terminal portions of autonomic nerve fibers are varicose and mobile, transmitters being released 'en passage' from varying distances from the effector cells; while there is no structural post-junctional specialization on effector cells, receptors for neurotransmitters accumulate on cell membranes at close junctions; muscle effectors are bundles rather than single smooth muscle cells, that are connected by gap junctions which allow electrotonic spread of activity between cells. A multiplicity of transmitters are utilized by autonomic nerves, and cotransmission occurs often involving synergistic actions of the cotransmitters, although pre- and post-junctional neuromodulation of neurotransmitter release also take place. It is suggested that autonomic neural control of immune, epithelial and endothelial cells also involves non-synaptic transmission.
The human formyl peptide receptor like 1 (FPRL-1) is a variant of the Gi-coupled formyl-peptide receptor. Functional FPRL-1 is endogenously expressed in the U87 astrocytoma cell line and there is accumulating evidence to suggest that FPRL-1 may be involved in neuroinflammation associated with the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we examined the ability of FPRL-1 to mobilize intracellular Ca2+ in U87 astrocytoma cells, as well as in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells stably expressing FPRL-1. We showed that Trp-Lys-Tyr-Met-Val-Met-NH2 (WKYMVM), a specific agonist for FPRL-1, stimulated Ca2+ influx in both U87 and FPRL-1/CHO cells. These effects can be inhibited by the FPRL-1 selective antagonist, WRW4. Involvement of Gi proteins was demonstrated with the use of pertussis toxin, while inhibitors of store-operated channels (SOC) including 1-[2-(4-methoxyphenyl)]-2-[3-(4-methpxyphenyl)propoxy]ethyl-1H-imidazole hydrochloride (SKF96365) and 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB) were found to abolish the WKYMVM-induced Ca2+ increase. However, intracellular Ca2+ mobilization in both cell lines were unaffected by the phospholipase Cbeta inhibitor U73122 or selective ryanodine receptor inhibitors. Our data demonstrated that activation of Gi-coupled FPRL-1 can lead to Ca2+ influx possibly via SOCs in U87 and FPRL-1/CHO cells.
We have identified a group of nutrients that can directly or indirectly protect mitochondria from oxidative damage and improve mitochondrial function and named them &quot;mitochondrial nutrients&quot;. The direct protection includes preventing the generation of oxidants, scavenging free radicals or inhibiting oxidant reactivity, and elevating cofactors of defective mitochondrial enzymes with increased Michaelis-Menten constant to stimulate enzyme activity, and also protect enzymes from further oxidation, and the indirect protection includes repairing oxidative damage by enhancing antioxidant defense systems either through activation of phase 2 enzymes or through increase in mitochondrial biogenesis. In this review, we take alpha-lipoic acid (LA) as an example of mitochondrial nutrients by summarizing the protective effects and possible mechanisms of LA and its derivatives on age-associated cognitive and mitochondrial dysfunction of the brain. LA and its derivatives improve the age-associated decline of memory, improve mitochondrial structure and function, inhibit the age-associated increase of oxidative damage, elevate the levels of antioxidants, and restore the activity of key enzymes. In addition, co-administration of LA with other mitochondrial nutrients, such as acetyl-L: -carnitine and coenzyme Q10, appears more effective in improving cognitive dysfunction and reducing oxidative mitochondrial dysfunction. Therefore, administrating mitochondrial nutrients, such as LA and its derivatives in combination with other mitochondrial nutrients to aged people and patients suffering from neurodegenerative diseases, may be an effective strategy for improving mitochondrial and cognitive dysfunction.
Mechanical ventilation in neurologically injured patients presents a number of unique challenges. Patients who are intubated due to a primary neurologic injury often experience respiratory phenomena secondary to that injury, including elevation of intracranial pressure (ICP) in response to mechanical ventilation and variations in respiratory patterns. These problems often require unique ventilator strategies that are designed to minimize the impact of the ventilator on ICP and brain oxygenation. Balancing the need to maintain brain oxygenation and control of ICP can be complicated by the effects of ventilator management on ICP. We will examine the consequences of ventilator management as they relate to parameters that affect ICP and brain oxygenation in patients who have neurologic injury.





Thrombolysis heralded a new era of acute intervention for ischemic stroke, accompanied by an increasing need for comprehensive acute critical care support. There remains the prospect of novel cerebral protection strategies. Cerebral ischemia initiates a complex cascade of events at genomic, molecular, and cellular levels, and inflammation is important in this cascade, both in the CNS and in the periphery. Closely linked events are induction of a classic acute phase protein response, activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPAA) and sympathetic nervous system (SNS), and rise in body temperature, all of which appear to importantly influence the outcome. Thrombolysis aside, various therapeutic strategies have been trialed without success recently, primarily directed at influencing neuronal activity and survival directly. Inflammation itself offers an attractive target, mainly because of its potential to exacerbate the spread of damage to the ischemic penumbra. A promising novel therapeutic approach is the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra), which limits the action of the cytokine IL-1, a pivotal mediator in the pathophysiology of acute neurodegeneration. Critical care has much to offer some patients after acute ischemic stroke, including the delivery of acute interventions, often with very short therapeutic time windows, physiological support, and the management of complications. We discuss inflammation and its mediators in acute ischemic stroke, the systemic stress, and acute phase protein responses to acute ischemic stroke, how inflammation is relevant in deteriorating ischemic stroke, the impact of physiological variables, and both current and emerging interventions for acute ischemic stroke.



Campath-1H is a humanised monoclonal antibody that targets CD52, a cell surface protein expressed on lymphocytes, monocytes and eosinophils. A single dose of Campath-1H leads to a rapid and profound lymphopenia. Campath-1H has been used in Cambridge as an experimental treatment of multiple sclerosis for more than 15 years. Here, we summarise our clinical and laboratory findings, describing how this prototypical 'bench to bedside' therapy continues to inform basic science, revealing aspects of the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis and autoimmunity.



It is well established that testosterone and neuropeptide Y (NPY), via its Y1 receptor (Y1R), are involved in the central control of the gonadotrope axis in male rats. Here we examined if a similar interaction also occurs in the male peripheral reproductive target organ, the testes. Expression of the Y1R transcript and protein and changes in testicular microcirculation were studied in normal rats and 12 days following hypophysectomy with and without testosterone substitution (1 or 25 mg s.c.). In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed strong expression of, respectively, Y1R messenger RNA (Y1R mRNA) and Y1R-like immunoreactivity (Y1R-LI) in vascular smooth muscles in the testes of control and hypophysectomized rats treated with testosterone, but was not seen without testosterone substitution. In parallel, control animals and hypophysectomized, testosterone-supplemented rats showed a strong (approximately 40%) decrease in testicular blood flow following intratesticular (i.t.) injection of the Y1-R agonists, [Leu(31), Pro(34)]NPY, [D-Arg(25)]NPY or NPY, an effect which was completely blocked by prior intravenous administration of the Y1R antagonist, BIBP3226. No significant change in testicular blood flow following i.t. injection of NPY was seen in hypophysectomized rats without testosterone substitution. These findings suggest that the high levels of Y1R mRNA and Y1R-LI in the testes reflect expression of functional Y1Rs mediating vasoconstriction, and that testosterone regulates expression of functional Y1Rs.
In an accompanying article, we found that neuroglobin (Ngb) was expressed in a few well-defined nuclei in the rat brain. Here, we show by use of immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridisation (ISH) that Ngb co-localise with several specific neurotransmitters. Ngb co-localise consistently with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the noradrenergic/adrenergic A1/C1 and A2/C2; the noradrenergic A5, A6 and A7. Ngb were not observed to co-localise TH in the dopaminergic A8-A16 cell populations. Ngb were only seen to co-localise with choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDTg) and in the pontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg). Many Ngb-ir neurones co-localised with neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in the LDTg, whereas fewer Ngb-ir neurones co-localise nNOS in the anterior basomedial (BMA) and the posterodorsal medial (MePD) amygdaloid nucleus, in the medial preoptic area (MPA) and in part of the lateral hypothalamus (LH). Ngb-ir neurones co-localise heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) in the LDTg and locus coeruleus. Ngb-ir neurones co-localise hypocretin-1 (Hcrt1) in the perifornical (PeF) and perifornical lateral hypothalamus (PeFLH). Within the LH, Ngb-ir neurones co-localised melanin concentration hormone (MCH). A few Ngb-ir perikarya in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN) co-localised arginine vasopressin (aVP). Ngb were not observed to co-localise with serotonin, vasointestinal peptide (VIP), or cocaine amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) at any places. In the present study, we found no evidence that one or more particular neurotransmitters are coupled 100% to Ngb or that Ngb is coupled 100% to a specific neurotransmitter. Based on these findings, we suggest that Ngb could be involved in some sort of regulation of the sleep-wake cycle. Secondly, that Ngb in some neurones is involved in regulation of gaseous neurotransmission, and that this in any given case only involves a subset of neurones. To us this indicates that the cellular and physiological function of Ngb in different subsets of neurones might not be identical, or that all neurones containing Ngb has one thing in common that we at presently not are aware of.
Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a neuronal hemeprotein similar to myoglobin and hemoglobin and shares their capability for oxygen binding. It has thus been proposed that Ngb acts as an oxygen reservoir or combats reactive oxygen species. In the present study, we investigated the Ngb expression pattern in the rat brain using immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization, and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). This revealed the interesting finding that Ngb expression is restricted to a few neurone populations, many of which are involved in the sleep-wake cycle, circadian regulation or food regulation. In the forebrain we found intense Ngb expression in neurones in the piriform cortex, the central and medial amygdala, the medial preoptic area, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, the perifornical nucleus, the lateral hypothalamus. Within the mid- and hindbrain Ngb expressing neurones were found in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, the pedunculo pontine tegmental nucleus, the locus coeruleus, and the lateral parabrachial nucleus. In the medulla oblongata Ngb expressing neurones were found in the nucleus of the solitary tract. The qRT-PCR data showed a diurnal variation of Ngb mRNA in the SCN, having a peak in the day time (light-period) and nadir during night (dark-period).
VGF is a 68-kDa polypeptide synthesized in neuronal and neuroendocrine cells. It is cleaved into a number of smaller peptides which are stored in dense core vesicles and are likely to be secreted products. The VGF gene is expressed abundantly in the brain, and in peripheral endocrine tissues including the pituitary gland, the adrenal glands and the pancreas but also in the gastrointestinal tract in both the myenteric plexus and in endocrine cells. Several lines of evidence including observation of changes in hypothalamic VGF expression in catabolic states, a hypermetabolic phenotype in transgenic mice lacking VGF signalling, and demonstration of bioactivity of various peptide fragments have led to the view that VGF and/or its derived peptides are involved in the regulation of both energy balance and reproduction.


