The purpose of this study was to investigate for difference in the prevalence of mood disorders between patients with different painful temporomandibular disorders (TMD). After a sample size necessary for the study was calculated, 60 patients with a painful TMD were selected and divided into the following groups: myofascial pain (n=20), temporomandibular joint (TMJ) pain (n=18), combined myofascial and TMJ pain (n=22). Two distinct comparison groups were selected: subjects with a nonpainful TMD (n=25) and TMD-free subjects (n=29). All participants filled out a self-report validated instrument (MOODS-SR) to evaluate psychopathological symptoms related to mood disturbances. A one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with Bonferroni's post hoc test for multiple comparisons was performed to investigate for significant differences among the groups. The three groups of patients with painful TMD scored significantly higher than comparison groups in all MOODS-SR domains investigating depression, but no difference was shown between subjects with myofascial pain and those with TMJ pain. No significant differences among the groups emerged for the presence of manic symptoms, indicating that depressive disorders associated with TMD are not an expression of a more complex manic depressive illness. The study concluded that the presence of depressive symptoms in TMD patients seems to be related to the presence of a painful condition and seems to be unrelated to the location of pain. Furthermore, depressive disturbances in painful TMD patients affect the whole spectrum of depressive psychopathology.
The basal ganglia and its associated circuitry can be assessed with a variety of neuroimaging methods that can provide information regarding specific neurotransmitter systems, the functional activity of brain regions, and the structural integrity of these regions. In Parkinson's disease (PD) and related atypical parkinsonian syndromes (APS), these imaging methods may be useful for many reasons, including aiding in differential diagnosis and measuring the efficacy of new therapies. This paper reviews recent developments in the application of neuroimaging to the assessment of PD and related APS.
In the past few years, research on stem cells has expanded greatly as a tool to develop potential therapies to treat incurable neurodegenerative diseases. Stem cell transplantation has been effective in several animal models, but the underlying restorative mechanisms are still unknown. Several mechanisms such as cell fusion, neurotrophic factor release, endogenous stem cell proliferation, and transdifferentiation may explain positive therapeutic results, in addition to replacement of lost cells. The biological issue needs to be clarified in order to maximize the potential for effective therapies. The absence of any effective pharmacological treatment and preliminary data both in experimental and clinical settings has recently identified Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) as an ideal candidate disease for the development of stem cell therapy in humans. Preliminary stem transplantation trials have already been performed in patients. The review discusses relevant topics regarding the application of stem cell research to ALS but in general to other neurodegenerative diseases debating in particular the issue of transdifferentiation, endogenous neural stem cell, and factors influencing the stem cell fate.
Recent reports of neural differentiation of postnatally derived bone marrow and umbilical cord cells have transformed our understanding of the biology of cell lineages, differentiation, and plasticity. While much controversy remains, it is clear that adult tissues, and bone marrow in particular, are composed in part of cells with much more diverse lineage capacity than previously thought. Traditionally, cell-based therapies for the CNS have been derived from fetal or embryonic origin. By harnessing the neural potential of readily-available and accessible adult bone marrow and umbilical cord blood stem cells, substantial ethical and technical dilemmas may be circumvented. This review will focus on the potential of adult bone marrow derived cells and umbilical cord blood stem cells for cell replacement and repair therapies of the central nervous system. The various isolation protocols, phenotypic properties, and methods for in vivo and in vitro neural differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells/marrow stromal cells (MSC), hematopoietic stem cells (HSC), multipotent adult progenitor cells (MAPCs), and umbilical cord blood stem cells (UCBSC) will be discussed. Current progress regarding transplant paradigms in various disease models as well as in our understanding of transdifferentiation mechanisms will be presented.


Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) co-ordinates the neural, endocrine and immune responses of the body to stress. Several studies have implicated CRF in the etiology of anxiety, depression, substance abuse, stress-related gastrointestinal disorders and preterm labor, and intensive research into the design of safe and effective CRF antagonists is currently being pursued in several laboratories. Recently, improvements have been made not only in brain penetrance and in vivo activity in preclinical models for anxiety, depression and irritable bowel syndrome, but also in structural diversity for these compounds. Clinical data for R-121919 (NBI-30775; Neurocrine Biosciences Inc) raises the expectation that safe and potent CRF antagonists might be useful as drugs for the treatment of human diseases.
Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) binding sites have been detected in the embryonic brain, but the specific receptor subtypes and biological functions for ANP family ligands therein remain undefined. We now characterize the patterns of gene expression for the natriuretic peptides [ANP, brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), type-C natriuretic peptide (CNP)] and their receptors (NPR-A, NPR-B, NPR-C) at several early stages in the embryonic mouse nervous system by in situ hybridization, and begin to define the potential developmental actions using cell culture models of peripheral (PNS) and central nervous systems (CNS). In the CNS, gene transcripts for CNP were present at the onset of neurogenesis, embryonic day 10.5 (E10.5), primarily in the dorsal part of the ventricular zone (VZ) throughout the hindbrain and spinal cord. On E14.5, new CNP signals were observed in the ventrolateral spinal cord where motor neurons reside, and in bands of cells surrounding the spinal cord and hindbrain, localized to dura and/or cartilage primordia. ANP and BNP gene transcripts were not detected in embryonic brain, but were highly abundant in the heart. The CNP-specific receptor (NPR-B) gene was expressed in cells just outside the VZ, in regions where post-mitotic neurons are differentiating. Gene expression for NPR-C, which recognizes all natriuretic peptides, was present in the roof plate of the hindbrain and spinal cord and in bilateral stripes just dorsolateral to the floor plate at E12.5. In the PNS, NPR-B and NPR-C transcripts were highly expressed in dorsal root sensory (DRG) and cranial ganglia beginning at E10.5, with NPR-C signal also prominent in adjoining nerves, consistent with Schwann cell localization. In contrast, NPR-A gene expression was undetectable in neural tissues. To define ontogenetic functions, we employed embryonic DRG and hindbrain cell cultures. The natriuretic peptides potently stimulated DNA synthesis in neuron-depleted as well as neuron-containing Schwann cell cultures and differentially inhibited neurite outgrowth in DRG sensory neuron cultures. CNP also exhibited modest survival-promoting effects for sensory neurons. In marked contrast to PNS effects, the peptides inhibited proliferation of neural precursor cells of the E10.5 hindbrain. Moreover, CNP, alone and in combination with sonic hedgehog (Shh), induced the expression of the Shh target gene gli-1 in hindbrain cultures, suggesting that natriuretic peptides may also modify patterning events in the embryonic brain. These studies reveal widespread, but discrete patterns of natriuretic peptide and receptor gene expression in the early embryonic nervous system, and suggest that the peptides play region- and stage-specific roles during the development of the peripheral and central nervous systems.
Successful healing of skin wounds requires sensory innervation and the release of vasoactive neuropeptides that dilate blood vessels and deliver serum proteins to the wound, and that cause pain that protects from further injury. Activin has been proposed as a target-derived regulator of sensory neuropeptides during development, but its role in the mature nervous system is unknown. While adult skin contains a low level of activin, protein levels in skin adjacent to a wound increase rapidly after an excision. Neurons containing the neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) increased in sensory ganglia that projected to the wounded skin, but not in ganglia that projected to unwounded skin, suggesting that neurons respond to a local skin signal. Indeed, many adult sensory neurons respond with increased CGRP expression to the application of activin in vitro and utilize a smad-mediated signal transduction pathway in this response. A second skin-derived factor nerve growth factor (NGF) also increased in wounded skin and increased CGRP in cultured adult dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons but with lower efficacy. Together, these data support the hypothesis that activin made by skin cells regulates changes in sensory neuropeptides following skin injury, thereby promoting vasodilation and wound healing.
The neuropathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease is the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, presumably mediated by apoptosis. The homeobox transcription factors engrailed 1 and engrailed 2 are expressed by this neuronal population from early in development to adulthood. Despite a large mid-hindbrain deletion in double mutants null for both genes, mesencephalic dopaminergic (mDA) neurons are induced, become postmitotic and acquire their neurotransmitter phenotype. However, at birth, no mDA neurons are left. We show that the entire population of these neurons is lost by E14 in the mutant animals, earlier than in any other described genetic model system for Parkinson's disease. This disappearance is caused by apoptosis revealed by the presence of activated caspase 3 in the dying tyrosine hydroxylase-positive mutant cells. Furthermore, using in vitro cell mixing experiments and RNA interference on primary cell culture of ventral midbrain we were able to show that the demise of mDA neurons in the mutant mice is due to a cell-autonomously requirement of the engrailed genes and not a result of the missing mid-hindbrain tissue. Gene silencing in the postmitotic neurons by RNA interference activates caspase 3 and induces apoptosis in less than 24 hours. This rapid induction of cell death in mDA neurons suggests that the engrailed genes participate directly in the regulation of apoptosis, a proposed mechanism for Parkinson's disease.
This study examined the role of p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase in transducing high glucose into deficits in nerve conduction velocity (NCV) that are characteristic of diabetic neuropathy. p38 activation and NCV were measured in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats treated with a p38 inhibitor, an aldose reductase inhibitor, and insulin. Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from diabetic animals showed marked activation of p38 at 12 weeks of diabetes. Insulin treatment for the last 4 of 12 weeks of diabetes normalized p38 activation. Furthermore, activation was completely prevented by 12 weeks' treatment with the aldose reductase inhibitor, fidarestat. Immunocytochemistry localized activation of p38 to the nuclei of virtually all sensory neuronal phenotypes in the DRG, and activation was clear in diabetes, as was inhibition by fidarestat and by the p38 inhibitor SB 239063. In the ventral horn of the spinal cord, p38 was present in motoneuron cell bodies; and again, activation in diabetes and fidarestat inhibition was clear. Treatment of diabetic animals with a specific inhibitor of p38 (SB 239063), fidarestat, or insulin also prevented reductions in both motor and sensory NCV. These findings suggest that increased polyol pathway flux in diabetic animals leads to the activation of p38. This activation can mediate changes in gene transcription and cellular phenotype that are likely to underlie the NCV deficits. Insulin and aldose reductase inhibitors can prevent excess polyol pathway flux, and hence these agents may prevent NCV deficits by preventing p38 MAP kinase activation.
Diabetic polyneuropathy is the most common acquired diffuse disorder of the peripheral nervous system. It is generally assumed that insulin benefits human and experimental diabetic neuropathy indirectly by lowering glucose levels. Insulin also provides potent direct support of neurons and axons, and there is a possibility that abnormalities in direct insulin signaling on peripheral neurons relate to the development of this disorder. Here we report that direct neuronal (intrathecal) delivery of low doses of insulin (0.1-0.2 IU daily), insufficient to reduce glycemia or equimolar IGF-I but not intrathecal saline or subcutaneous insulin, improved and reversed slowing of motor and sensory conduction velocity in rats rendered diabetic using streptozotocin. Moreover, insulin and IGF-I similarly reversed atrophy in myelinated sensory axons in the sural nerve. That intrathecal insulin had the capability of signaling sensory neurons was confirmed by observing that fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled insulin given intrathecally accessed and labeled individual lumbar dorsal root ganglion neurons. Moreover, we confirmed that such neurons express the insulin receptor, as previously suggested by Sugimoto et al. Finally, we sequestered intrathecal insulin in nondiabetic rats using an anti-insulin antibody. Conduction slowing and axonal atrophy resembling the changes in diabetes were generated by anti-insulin but not by an anti-rat albumin antibody infusion. Defective direct signaling of insulin on peripheral neurons through routes that include the cerebrospinal fluid may relate to the development of diabetic peripheral neuropathy.


Classical neuropsychology relies on patients with irreversible brain lesions and cognitive impairments give informations about normal brain function. Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive method which involves placing an electromagnetic coil on the scalp. A pulse generates a magnetic field and this one passes, unattenuated by the skin and scalp, into the cortex inducing a current which results in neural activity. The technique shows a good temporal resolution and, moreover, because it represents an interference technique, can be said to have excellent functional resolution. For this reason, TMS appears to be a new tool for research in neuropsychology, producing transitory 'virtual lesion'effects which could help to understand how, when and where cognitive tasks are performed. The purpose of this article is to review recent research using TMS in cognition and neuropsychology, in a non exhaustive way. In safety studies, single TMS over motor cortex can produce simple movements. Several groups have applied TMS to the study of visual processing and found an impaired detection of visual stimuli. In a same way, TMS can disrupt speech when it was delivered in the language dominant hemisphere. Studies on the memory effects of TMS have been conflicting and the results seem to depend on the choice of paradigm and parameters. Other study depicted improvements in executive functioning after TMS on the left middle frontal gyrus or a diminution in reaction time during an analogic reasoning task. Moreover, some facial emotions seem to be less recognizable after TMS. Although TMS seem to be a new tool for neuro-psychological investigations in healthy subjects, few studies reported cognitive effects of rTMS treatment in psychiatry. In a therapeutic view, many of these trials have supported a significant effect of TMS, but in some studies the effect is small and short lived. Several groups have reported on the use of rTMS as a treatment in resistant major depression and the impact on cognition functioning. Most of results tend to find no adverse cognitive effects after several weeks of daily rTMS in depressed patients, compared to Electroconvulsivo-therapy (ECT). The effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) on hallucination severity and neurocognition were studied in a recent study. A statistically significant improvement was observed on a hallucination scale and on one cognitive measure. TMS is a promising tool for cognitive neuroscience and can provide complementary information to the one obtained using neuropsychological tests, and the one obtained using functional imaging techniques, which have superior spatial but inferior temporal resolution.
Considerable evidence suggests that the nitric oxide (NO)/cGMP signaling pathway plays an important role in the expression of reproductive behavior and in gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release from the hypothalamus The effects of the NO/cGMP pathway on GnRH release and gene expression have also been examined in GT1 cells. However, it is still controversial whether NO/cGMP signaling facilitates or inhibits GnRH release in these cells. The current study examined the effects of estradiol and progesterone on neuronal NO synthase (nNOS), soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC), and NO-dependent cGMP production in the preoptic area (POA) and hypothalamus (HYP) as well as in GT1-1 cells. Ovariectomized female rats received vehicle, estradiol benzoate (48 h) and/or progesterone (3-4 h) before preparation of brain slices. GT1-1 cells were incubated with vehicle, estradiol (48 h), progesterone (3-4 h), or with both hormones. The combination of estradiol and progesterone increased the expression of nNOS protein in the POA and HYP. Hormones had little effect on the abundance of sGC. Estradiol and progesterone together greatly enhanced NO-stimulated sGC activity in HYP-POA slices. In GT1-1 cells, NO-stimulated sGC activity was significantly increased by estradiol and progesterone, alone or in combination, but sGC expression was not altered by hormones.
Dust accumulating on hot indoor surfaces, e.g., heaters and light fixtures, are likely to emit chemicals when heated. Using in vitro techniques we have investigated biological effects of extracts from such emissions from three indoor and two outdoor dust samples heated at 50-250 degrees C. The cell cultures were a lung epithelial cell line (A549) and primary immune cells [peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMCs)]. We found that a 24-h incubation with extracts generated at 200 degrees C or higher inhibit both proliferation and mitochondrial activity of the epithelial cells. At non-cytotoxic concentrations, the extracts generated at 100 degrees C or higher inhibit the release of the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) from lipopolysaccharide-stimulated PBMCs. The results imply that temperatures relevant for surfaces of equipment in the indoor environment cause emissions from dust that may have an impact on indoor air quality and affect the respiratory health of building occupants.


Vasoconstriction of the vertebral artery may be neurogenic in origin. Although the existence of a perivascular sympathetic plexus of the vertebral artery is not in doubt, no method used to date has conclusively demonstrated a direct sympathetic innervation of the vascular smooth muscle cells and, hence, vasomotor function. It was the aim of this study, therefore, to visualise and localise noradrenergic fibres in the wall of the vertebral artery. Intracranial vertebral artery specimens (10 vervet monkeys and 10 baboon vessels) were sectioned (40 mm serial sections) and treated with anti-tyrosine hydroxylase, anti-dopamine b-hydroxylase, and anti-chromogranin-A antibodies. Some evidence of catecholaminergic fibres in the tunica adventitia but not penetrating the external elastic lamina or tunica media of the vertebral artery wall was seen. These findings were confirmed by electron microscopy. It was concluded that although a perivascular sympathetic plexus exists, the vertebral artery of primates was not shown to have a direct sympathetic innervation and a neurogenic vasoconstrictor function is unlikely.
Discriminative stimuli (DSs) inform animals that reward can be obtained contingent on the performance of a specific behavior. Such stimuli reinstate drug-seeking behavior, evoke dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and excite and inhibit specific subpopulations of NAc neurons. Here we show in rats that DSs can reinstate food-seeking behavior. In addition, we compare the effects of injecting dopamine receptor antagonists into the NAc with those of general NAc inactivation on the performance of a DS task. Selective antagonism of D1 receptors reduced responding to the DS and increased the latency to respond, whereas general inactivation of NAc neuronal activity increased the latency to respond to the DS and increased behaviors extraneous to the task, such as responding in the absence of cues and responding on the inactive lever. Based on these results and our previous findings that NAc neuronal responses to DSs are dependent on the ventral tegmental area, we propose a model for the functional role of NAc neurons in controlling behavioral responses to reward-predictive stimuli.
Drugs of abuse, such as 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), often have more powerful effects during states of increased activation and under specific environmental conditions. Because hyperthermia is a major complication of MDMA use and a factor potentiating neurotoxicity, we examined the effects of this drug (9 mg/kg, sc; approximately one-fifth of the known LD(50) in rats) on brain [nucleus accumbens (Nacc) and hippocampus (Hippo)] and muscle (musculus temporalis) temperatures in male rats under conditions that either model human drug use (social interaction with female, warm temperature) or restrict heat dissipation from the brain (chronic occlusion of jugular veins). Under quiet resting conditions at 23 degrees C, MDMA induced a moderate but prolonged hyperthermia. Both NAcc and Hippo showed more rapid and stronger temperature increases than muscle, suggesting metabolic neural activation as a primary cause of brain hyperthermia. During social interaction with a female, brain hyperthermia induced by MDMA was significantly potentiated (+89%). Brain hyperthermia induced by MDMA was also strongly potentiated (+188%) in animals with chronically occluded jugular veins, suggesting impaired cerebral outflow enhances intrabrain heat accumulation. At 29 degrees C, MDMA pushed temperatures in the brain to its biological limits (&gt;41 degrees C; +268%), resulting in fatalities in most (83%) tested animals. Therefore, by inducing metabolic brain activation and restricting heat dissipation, MDMA use under 'party' conditions may be much more dangerous than under standard laboratory conditions.
We have investigated the expression of Hsp25, a heat shock protein constitutively expressed in motoneurons, in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) mice that express G93A mutant SOD1 (G93A mice). Immunocytochemistry and Western blotting showed that a decrease of Hsp25 protein expression occurred in motoneurons of G93A mice prior to the onset of motoneuron death and muscle weakness. This decrease in Hsp25 expression also preceded the appearance of SOD1 aggregates as identified by cellulose acetate filtration and Western blot analysis. In contrast to Hsp25 protein levels, Hsp25 mRNA as determined by in situ hybridization and RT-PCR, remained unchanged. This suggests that the decrease in Hsp25 protein levels occurs post-transcriptionally. In view of the cytoprotective properties of Hsp25 and the temporal relationship between decreased Hsp25 expression and the onset of motoneuron death, it is feasible that reduced Hsp25 concentration contributes to the degeneration of motoneurons in G93A mice. These data are consistent with the idea that mutant SOD1 may reduce the availability of the protein quality control machinery in motoneurons.
Using magnetoencephalography, we studied the spatiotemporal properties of cortical responses in terms of event-related synchronization and event-related desynchronization to a range of stripe patterns in subjects with no neurological disorders. These stripes are known for their tendency to induce a range of abnormal sensations, such as illusions, nausea, dizziness, headache and attacks of pattern-sensitive epilepsy. The optimal stimulus must have specific physical properties, and maximum abnormalities occur at specific spatial frequency and contrast. Despite individual differences in the severity of discomfort experienced, psychophysical studies have shown that most observers experience some degree of visual anomaly on viewing such patterns. In a separate experiment, subjects reported the incidence of illusions and discomfort to each pattern. We found maximal cortical power in the gamma range (30-60 Hz) confined to the region of the primary visual cortex in response to patterns of 2-4 cycles per degree, peaking at 3 cycles per degree. This coincides with the peak of mean illusions and discomfort, also maximal for patterns of 2-4 cycles per degree. We show that gamma band activity in V1 is a narrow band function of spatial frequency. We hypothesize that the intrinsic properties of gamma oscillations may underlie visual discomfort and play a role in the onset of seizures.
Synaptic potentiation allows neurons to enhance excitability and store information for extended time periods. We examined the role of the amygdaloid complex, known to facilitate long-term memory encoding, to influence synaptic strength at thalamo-cortical synapses. In urethane-anaesthetized rats, theta-burst stimulation of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus induced early phase (1-2 h) long-term potentiation (LTP) of the field postsynaptic potential (fPSP) recorded in the ipsilateral primary visual cortex. Electrical stimulation (100 Hz) of the amygdala 5 min after thalamic stimulation converted early phase LTP to stable late-phase (&gt; 4 h) LTP. This effect was not correlated with the degree of electrocorticographic activation of V1 induced by amygdala stimulation. Amygdala stimulation without thalamic theta-burst stimulation did not change thalamo-cortical fPSPs. The centrally acting cholinergic-muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.), but not peripherally acting methyl-scopolamine, completely blocked the amygdala-induced conversion of early to late-phase thalamo-cortical LTP. Further, ventricular application of the transcription inhibitor anisomycin (250 micro g) reduced amygdala-induced late-phase LTP induction. These results demonstrate that the amygdaloid complex transforms time-limited synaptic enhancement of thalamo-cortical transmission into long lasting increases in synaptic strength. These processes are mediated, at least in part, by cholinergic and transcription-dependent mechanisms. These amygdaloid-induced effects provide a potential mechanism underlying long-term enhancement of sensory transmission and information encoding in thalamo-cortical networks.
The search for signalling systems regulating development of noradrenergic and cholinergic sympathetic neurons is a classical problem of developmental neuroscience. While an essential role of bone morphogenetic proteins for induction of noradrenergic properties is firmly established, factors involved in the development of cholinergic traits in vivo are still enigmatic. Previous studies have shown that the c-ret receptor and cholinergic properties are coexpressed in chick sympathetic neurons. Using in situ hybridization we show now that a loss-of-function mutation of the c-ret receptor in mice dramatically reduces numbers of cells positive for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) in stellate ganglia of homozygous newborn animals. The number of neurons positive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA, the rate-limiting enzyme of noradrenaline synthesis, is reduced to a smaller degree and expression levels are not detectably altered. Already at embryonic day 16 (E16), ChAT and VAChT-positive cells are affected by the c-ret mutation. At E14, however, ChAT and VAChT mRNAs are detectable at low levels and no difference is observed between wildtype and mutant mice. Our data suggest that c-ret signalling is necessary for the maturation of cholinergic sympathetic neurons but dispensable for de novo induction of ChAT and VAChT expression.

Alternative behavioral and life-history tactics are common in animal populations. The conditional strategy model provides a powerful explanation for the evolution and persistence of such tactics, as it allows alternative tactics to be perpetuated even if there is tactic inheritance and tactics yield unequal mean fitness. In many biological systems negative maternal or paternal effects complicate the inheritance of condition and, hence, the inheritance of alternative tactics. Indeed, the inheritance of condition may result in the alternation of tactics across generations. In this paper, we show that the conditional strategy is robust to these effects on progeny condition. There is a unique and stable proportion of tactics under standard inheritance and unequal tactic fitness, and these two important properties of the conditional strategy hold even if negative maternal or paternal effects on progeny condition cause tactics to alternate across generations. However, the dynamics of tactic proportions pursuant to a perturbation of the equilibrium tactic proportions depend on the form of tactic inheritance. An application of our theoretical results to data from a population of smallmouth bass (Micropterus dolomieu) in which negative paternal effects dictate progeny condition reveals that age at first reproduction in males alternates regularly across generations. Furthermore, the model indicates that the population would return rapidly to equilibrium if the proportions of males that mature early or late in life were perturbed from the equilibrium within the system. This example shows how the model of the conditional strategy can be used to gain insight into tactic dynamics in situations where some of the model parameters are difficult or impossible to measure empirically.
Grip force adaptation to Coriolis and centrifugal force perturbations was tested in healthy subjects. Eight subjects were seated in a rotating chamber in a rotating axis position. They each grasped an instrumented object resting on the thumb, which was stabilized by the other fingers from above. Subjects performed horizontal point-to-point movements with the grasped object away and towards the trunk. These movements were directed in a nonparallel fashion towards the axis of rotation prior (40 pre-rotational movements), during (80 per-rotational movements) and following (40 post-rotational movements) clockwise body rotation. During pre- and post-rotational movements two load force peaks of similar magnitude occurred during the acceleratory and deceleratory phases of the movements. Accordingly, a Coriolis force, which was orthogonal and proportional to the linear velocity of the moving arm, as well as a centrifugal force proportional to the system's squared angular velocity and movement amplitude developed during per-rotational movements. The load perturbations altered the load force profile in a characteristic way. The first 10 per-rotational movement sequence revealed that there was a less precise coupling between grip and load force magnitudes and a reduced temporo-spatial co-ordination between grip and load force profiles. With increasing number of per-rotational movements, there was significant improvement in the temporo-spatial co-ordination and in the coupling in force magnitude between grip and load force profiles, indicating an ongoing adaptation process. The coupling between grip and load forces proved to be similarly precise for the last 10 per-rotational movements and for pre-rotational movements, suggesting complete adaptation. Significant effects were observed for the first post rotational movements following adaptation to the per-rotational load characteristics both for the temporal co-ordination between grip and load forces and for the coupling in force magnitudes. However, the last 10 post-rotational movements proved to be similarly precise with comparison to pre-rotational performance in terms of grip force regulation with movement-induced loads. The results are discussed within the context of the CNS ability to use internal models when planning and processing anticipatory grip force adjustments during manipulative tasks.
We investigated the neural correlates of dual task performance using EEG coherence as a measure of the functional coupling between cortical regions. Nine healthy participants performed a rhythmical movement with the right hand and an isometric contraction with the left hand, either initiated simultaneously or successively. EEG data revealed that dual task performance was associated with stronger coherence in left hemispheric and mesial areas than the sum of the tasks performed separately in the beta (&gt;12-30 Hz), but not alpha (8-12 Hz), band. This effect was more pronounced when the two assignments were initiated simultaneously, as opposed to successively. The data demonstrate that the pattern of cortico-cortical coupling during bimanual actions is not just the sum of that associated with its component parts, but is increased according to coordinative demands and processing load.
Hitherto, it has proven difficult to investigate interactions between cerebral and brainstem motor systems in the human. We hypothesised that transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) centred over the dorsal premotor and primary motor cortices might elicit net facilitatory cortico-reticular effects that could interact at the level of the brainstem with a habituated startle to give a reticulospinal discharge and electromyographic (EMG) response with a longer latency than the direct corticospinal response. Conversely, any reticulo-cortical activity evoked by a habituated startle should influence the size of the direct response to cortical TMS. EMG was recorded from active left deltoid muscle in nine healthy volunteers. Acoustic stimulation was delivered binaurally through headphones and repeated until the startle response was habituated. When TMS was centred over the right dorsal premotor or primary motor cortices and delivered 50 ms after the habituated acoustic stimulus, the contralateral direct motor evoked potential was inhibited, compared with the response elicited by TMS alone. The contralateral silent period was shortened and associated with less of a decrease in EMG levels relative to TMS alone. Indeed, an actual increase in EMG over baseline levels occurred in the later half of the silent period in all subjects. We conclude that both cortico-reticular and reticular-cortical effects could be elicited in deltoid through the combination of acoustic stimulation and TMS at short interstimulus intervals. Effects were similar with TMS over premotor and primary motor cortex.
ZO-2 is a MAGUK protein that in confluent epithelial sheets localizes at tight junctions (TJ) whereas in sparse cultures accumulates in clusters at the nucleus. Here, we have characterized several nuclear properties of ZO-2. We observe that ZO-2 is present in the nuclear matrix and co-immunoprecipitates with lamin B(1) and actin from the nuclei of sparse cultures. We show that ZO-2 presents several NLS at its amino region, that when deleted, diminish the nuclear import of the ZO-2 amino segment and impair the ability of the region to regulate the transcriptional activity of promoters controlled by AP-1. Several RS repeats are detected in the ZO-2 amino segment, however, their deletion does not preclude the display of a speckled nuclear pattern. ZO-2 displays two putative NES. However, only the second one appears to be functional, as when conjugated to ovalbumin (OV), it is able to translocate this protein from the nucleus to the cytoplasm in a leptomycin B-sensitive way.
Endothelins are a family of conserved vasoactive peptides that are widely expressed in different biological systems including the eye. In the cell culture model of retinal pigment epithelium, ARPE-19, the synthesis and secretion of endothelin-1 (ET-1) is regulated by cholinergics and TNF-alpha. In the present study we investigated the expression of ET-1 in RPE in situ, in rat and human eyes. Additionally, we have employed the human retinal pigment epithelial (ARPE-19) cells to delineate the apical and basolateral ET-1 expression and secretion by confocal microscopy and radioimmunoassay, respectively. Our results suggest a possible conservation of ET-1 expression predominantly in the mammalian RPE underlining its importance at this site. Additionally, our results suggest that constitutive ET-1 secretion is predominantly towards the basolateral side in cultured RPE possibly allowing ET-1 to activate its receptors located in the choroidal blood vessels and regulate retinal and choroidal blood flow.
Stem cells have been identified and characterized in a variety of tissues. In this review we examine possible shared properties of stem cells. We suggest that irrespective of their lineal origin, stem cells have to respond in similar ways to regulate self-renewal and differentiation and it is likely that cell-cycle control, asymmetry/differentiation controls, cellular protective and DNA repair mechanisms, and associated apoptosis/senescence signaling pathways all might be expected to be more highly regulated in stem cells, likely by similar mechanisms. We review the literature to suggest a set of candidate stemness genes that may serve as universal stem cell markers. While we predict many similarities, we also predict that differences will exist between stem cell populations and that when transdifferentiation is considered genes expected to be both similar and different need to be examined.
To elucidate the role of the degeneration of motor and sensory fibers in neuropathic pain, we examined the pain-related behaviors and the changes of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the L4/5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and the spinal cord after L5 ventral rhizotomy. L5 ventral rhizotomy, producing a selective lesion of motor fibers, produced thermal hyperalgesia and increased BDNF expression in tyrosine kinase A-containing small- and medium-sized neurons in the L5 DRG and their central terminations within the spinal cord, but not in the L4 DRG. Furthermore, L5 ventral rhizotomy up-regulated nerve growth factor (NGF) protein in small to medium diameter neurons in the L5 DRG and also in ED-1-positive cells in the L5 spinal nerve, suggesting that NGF synthesized in the degenerative fibers is transported to the L5 DRG and increases BDNF synthesis. On the other hand, L5 ganglionectomy, producing a selective lesion of sensory fibers, produced heat hypersensitivity and an increase in BDNF and NGF in the L4 DRG. These data indicate that degeneration of L5 sensory fibers distal to the DRG, but not motor fibers, might influence the neighboring L4 nerve fibers and induce neurotrophin changes in the L4 DRG. We suggest that these changes of neurotrophins in the intact primary afferents of neighboring nerves may be one of many complex mechanisms, which can explain the abnormal pain behaviors after nerve injury. The ventral rhizotomy and ganglionectomy models may be useful to investigate the pathophysiological mechanisms of neuropathic pain after Wallerian degeneration in motor or sensory or mixed nerve.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) content of the spinal cord is increased after cord injury. NGF can cause central sprouting of sensory fibers after spinal cord injury (SCI), leading to autonomic dysfunction and pain. NGF also can promote the death of oligodendroglia after SCI. Knowing the source of intraspinal NGF would benefit strategies for minimizing abnormal plasticity and cell death after SCI. We identified these sources, using RNA in situ hybridization to detect NGF mRNA and double-labeling immunocytochemistry for NGF and cell-marking antigens. In uninjured and sham-injured rats, we identified NGF mRNA in leptomeningeal cells and in neurons in the intermediate grey matter, whereas NGF protein was observed only in leptomeningeal cells. At 3-7 days after transection or clip-compression SCI, NGF mRNA and protein were expressed in the lesion and throughout the intermediate grey matter and white matter rostral and caudal to the injury site. Transection-SCI was used to permit comparisons to previous studies; clip-compression injury was used as a more clinically relevant model. mRNA and protein in adjacent sections were expressed in ramified microglia, astrocytes, intermediate grey neurons, pial cells, and leptomeningeal and Schwann cells in the lateral white matter and the lesion site. Rounded macrophages in the lesion were immunoreactive (Ir) for NGF, but the cells expressing NGF mRNA were not in the same areas of the lesion and were not stained by a macrophage marker. Our data demonstrate that glia, neurons, meningeal cells and Schwann cells but not macrophages contribute to the increased intraspinal NGF after SCI.
Insulin peptide has been identified to promote regeneration of axons in culture and in some in vivo model systems. Such actions have been linked to direct actions of insulin, or to cross occupation of closely linked IGF-1 receptors. In this work, we examined insulin support of peripheral nerve regenerative events in mice. Systemic insulin administration accelerated the reinnervation of foot interosseous endplates by motor axons after sciatic nerve transection and enhanced recovery of functional mouse hindpaw function. Similarly, insulin accelerated the regeneration-related maturation of myelinated fibers regrowing beyond a sciatic nerve crush injury. That such benefits might occur through direct signaling on axons was supported by immunohistochemical studies of expression with an antibody directed to the beta insulin receptor (IR) subunit. The proportion of sensory neurons expressing IRbeta increased ipsilateral to a similar sciatic crush injury in the L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia. Insulin receptors, although widely expressed in axons, were also preferentially and intensely expressed on axons regrowing just beyond a peripheral nerve crush injury zone. The findings indicate that insulin imparts a substantial impact on regenerating peripheral nerve axons through upregulation of its expression following injury. Although the findings do not exclude insulin coactivating IGF-1 receptors during regeneration, its own receptors are present and available for action on injured nerves.
While acute spinal cord injury has been the object of intensive research, chronic spinal cord injury has received less attention although most clinical cases of spinal cord injury become chronic. We attempted to surgically &quot;repair&quot; chronic and acute spinal cord injury in a complete transection rat model using a multiple peripheral nerve grafting protocol. The lesion extent was assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) before the repair procedure. Rats were treated immediately after injury or at 2, 4, or 8 months postinjury. Standard behavioral methods were used to evaluate functional recovery. Two novel tests, the Bipedal Test and the Head-scratch test, were also employed to evaluate hindpaw positioning, interlimb coordination, and stepping rhythmicity, and to indicate rostrocaudal pathway regeneration. MRI helped guide the treatment procedure that was applied to animals with chronic injury. Treated animals demonstrated significant motor recovery. Axonal regeneration resultant to treatment was demonstrated histologically. The results suggest that not only acute but also chronic total paraplegia can be reversed to a moderate degree in rats with regard to hindlimb motor function.
Spinal cord injury is frequently associated with local tissue hypoxia. As neuronal cells are susceptible to damage caused by low oxygen levels, hypoxia-induced activation of tissue-protective factors could represent an endogenous mechanism for neuron survival following injury. We studied in vivo, in a rat model of intraspinal axotomy of motoneurons, the cell- and time-dependent regulation of the hypoxia-inducible transcription factors (HIFs), HIF1alpha and HIF2alpha, as well as one of their target genes, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). VEGF is a potent hypoxia-regulated angiogenic growth factor with recently discovered neuroprotective and neurotrophic activities. While neither HIF1alpha, HIF2alpha, nor VEGF mRNA were detected in noninjured motoneurons, we found a strong induction of HIF1alpha, but not HIF2alpha mRNA in axotomized motoneurons. HIF1alpha expression peaked at about 7 days after injury. Moreover, we found increased VEGF mRNA and protein expression around and within the scar but also within motoneurons, peaking around 3 days after axotomy. In addition, increased survival of cultured motoneurons after treatment with VEGF could also be shown. We conclude that axotomized motoneurons in this model respond to injury by specific induction of HIF1alpha and VEGF expression that may provide an endogenous mechanism with the potential to promote motoneuron survival after injury.
The repair of axonal projections and the reconstruction of neuronal circuits after CNS lesions or during neurodegenerative disease are major challenges in restorative neuroscience. We have explored the potential of transplanted immature neurons to repair a specific axonal projection in an entorhino-hippocampal slice culture model system. When slices of immature entorhinal cortex (EC) from tau-GFP transgenic mice were cultured next to slices from postnatal hippocampus, an axonal projection from the E18 embryonic entorhinal cortex to the dentate gyrus of the postnatal hippocampus developed, which was similar to that observed in control cultures. Even more immature neuronal precursors in slices from E15 developing cerebral cortex differentiated and established an axonal projection to the hippocampal slice. This projection terminated specifically in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, the normal target area of the entorhino-hippocampal projection. When embryonic tissue from the presumptive brainstem area was used, there was still a subpopulation of fibers with a specific termination in the outer molecular layer, but few specific fibers were found in cocultures with embryonic midbrain. Our results show that very immature cortical neurons are potentially able to form an entorhino-hippocampal projection that terminates in a correct lamina-specific fashion in the dentate gyrus. These findings support the idea that immature neuronal precursor cells could be used for the reconstruction of specific neuronal circuits.
Six 8-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats were studied for 9 days divided into three periods of 3 days each: before transferral to metabolism cages, during metabolic cage housing and after return to their home cages. Faeces were collected daily when the animals were housed in their home cages and every 6 h when the animals were housed in metabolic cages during which time urine was also collected every 6 h. The rate of weight gain was slightly reduced during the 3 days in metabolic cages and the animals produced significantly larger amounts of faeces when housed in metabolic cages than when housed in their home cages. The total faecal excretion of corticosterone (nanograms excreted per hour per kilogram body weight) and immunoglobulin A (IgA) (milligrams excreted per hour per kg body weight) quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) exhibited a clear diurnal rhythm in the metabolic cage. Urinary excretions of corticosterone and IgA also followed a clear diurnal cycle. The mean daily amounts of corticosterone excreted were not significantly affected by cage change and by housing in metabolic cages. However, the excretion of faecal IgA was significantly reduced during the 3 days after the period in metabolic cages. Taken together the results indicate that metabolic cage housing is mildly stressful for young adult male rats.

Hydrogen sulfide (H2S), which is a well-known toxic gas, is found in relatively high concentrations in the brain. Although a neuromodulatory role of H2S has been demonstrated, little is known of its other biological functions. Here we show that H2S protects primary cultures of neurons from death in a well-studied model of oxidative stress caused by glutamate, a process called oxidative glutamate toxicity--or oxytosis. We found that H2S increases the glutathione levels, which normally decrease during the cell death cascade, by enhancing the activity of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase and up-regulating cystine transport. Cystine (cysteine) is the rate-limiting substrate of glutathione synthesis. These observations reveal that H2S protects neurons from oxytosis by increasing the production of the antioxidant glutathione.
Incidence of Parkinson's disease is lower in women as compared with men. Although neuroprotective effect of estrogen is recognized, the underlying molecular mechanisms are unclear. MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6, tetrahydro-pyridine), a neurotoxin that causes Parkinson's disease-like symptoms acts through inhibition of mitochondrial complex I. Administration of MPTP to male mice results in loss of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra, whereas female mice are unaffected. Oxidation of critical thiol groups by MPTP disrupts mitochondrial complex I, and up-regulation of glutaredoxin (a thiol disulfide oxidoreductase) is essential for recovery of complex I. Early events following MPTP exposure, such as increased AP1 transcription, loss of glutathione, and up-regulation of glutaredoxin mRNA is seen only in male mice, indicating that early response to neurotoxic insult does not occur in females. Pretreatment of female mice with ICI 182,780, estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist sensitizes them to MPTP-mediated complex I dysfunction. Constitutive expression of glutaredoxin is significantly higher in female mice as compared with males. ICI 182,780 down-regulates glutaredoxin activity in female mouse brain regions (midbrain and striatum), indicating that glutaredoxin expression is regulated through estrogen receptor signaling. Higher constitutive expression of glutaredoxin could potentially contribute to the neuroprotection seen in female mouse following exposure to neurotoxins, such as MPTP.

Nasu-Hakola disease (NHD, polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy, PLOSL) is a recessively inherited disorder characterized by systemic bone cysts and progressive presenile dementia associated with sclerosing encephalopathy. The disease has a worldwide distribution, but most patients have been reported in Finland and in Japan; in Italy there are anecdotal reports. The combination of neuropsychiatric symptoms and bone cysts is unique to this disease, which we believe to be underestimated in Italy. The molecular defect has been identified in loss-of-function mutations in the TYROBP gene in Finnish and in Japanese patients, and in the TREM2 gene in other families of different ethnic origins. We reviewed the international literature to define better the diagnostic steps and to draw the attention of neurologists and orthopaedic specialists to the disease. The identification of new cases followed by appropriate genetic counselling, genetic analysis, and study of the territorial distribution of affected patients could be a good strategy to follow in order to improve understanding of the disease.
The adhesion G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) (also termed LN-7TM or EGF-7TM receptors) are membrane-bound proteins with long N-termini containing multiple domains. Here, 2 new human adhesion-GPCRs, termed GPR133 and GPR144, have been found by searches done in the human genome databases. Both GPR133 and GPR144 have a GPS domain in their N-termini, while GPR144 also has a pentraxin domain. The phylogenetic analyses of the 2 new human receptors show that they group together without close relationship to the other adhesion-GPCRs. In addition to the human genes, mouse orthologues to those 2 and 15 other mouse orthologues to human were identified (GPR110, GPR111, GPR112, GPR113, GPR114, GPR115, GPR116, GPR123, GPR124, GPR125, GPR126, GPR128, LEC1, LEC2, and LEC3). Currently the total number of human adhesion-GPCRs is 33. The mouse and human sequences show a clear one-to-one relationship, with the exception of EMR2 and EMR3, which do not seem to have orthologues in mouse. EST expression charts for the entire repertoire of adhesion-GPCRs in human and mouse were established. Over 1600 ESTs were found for these receptors, showing widespread distribution in both central and peripheral tissues. The expression patterns are highly variable between different receptors, indicating that they participate in a number of physiological processes.
Here we show that hearing loss associated with an impairment of speech recognition causes a decrease in neural temporal resolution. In order to assess central auditory system changes in temporal resolution, we investigated the effect of an acute hearing loss on the representation of a voice onset time (VOT) and gap-duration continuum in primary auditory cortex (AI) of the ketamine-anesthetized cat. Multiple single-unit activity related to the presentation of a /ba/-/pa/ continuum--in which VOT was varied in 5-ms step from 0 to 70 ms-- was recorded from the same sites before and after an acoustic trauma using two 8-electrode arrays. We also obtained data for gaps, of duration equal to the VOT, embedded in noise 5 ms after the onset. We specifically analyzed the maximum firing rate (FRmax), related to the presentation of the vowel or trailing noise burst, as a function of VOT and gap duration. The changes in FRmax for /ba/-/pa/ continuum as a function of VOT match the psychometric function for categorical perception of /ba/-/pa/ modeled by a sigmoid function. An acoustic trauma made the sigmoid fitting functions shallower, and shifted them toward higher values of VOT. The less steep fitting function may be a neural correlate of an impaired psychoacoustic temporal resolution, because the ambiguity between /ba/ and /pa/ should consequently be increased. The present study is the first one in showing an impairment of the temporal resolution of neurons in AI caused by an acute acoustic trauma.
Several neurochemical in vitro and in vivo imaging studies have been aimed at characterizing the localization of serotonin receptors and transporters in the human brain. In this study, a detailed comparison of the distribution of a number of 5-HT receptor subtypes and the 5-HT transporter was carried out in vitro using human postmortem brain tissue. Anatomically adjacent whole hemisphere sections were incubated with specific radioligands for the 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(1B), 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(4) receptors and the 5-HT transporter. The autoradiograms revealed different laminar and regional distribution patterns in the isocortex, where 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(4) receptor binding showed highest densities in superficial layers and 5-HT(2A) receptor binding was most abundant in middle layers. In cortical regions, 5-HT transporters were concentrated to several limbic lobe structures (posterior uncus, entorhinal, cingulate, insular and temporal polar regions). 5-HT(1A) receptor densities were also high in limbic cortical regions (hippocampus, posterior entorhinal cortex, and subcallosal area) compared to the isocortex. Subregionally different distribution patterns were observed in the basal ganglia with a trend toward higher levels in ventral striatal (5-HT(1B) receptors) and pallidal (5-HT transporters and 5-HT(1B) receptors) regions. The localization in regions belonging to limbic cortico-striato-pallido-thalamic circuits is in line with the documented role of 5-HT in modulation of mood and emotion, and the suggested involvement of this system in pathophysiology of various psychiatric disorders. The qualitative and quantitative information reported in this study might provide important complements to in vivo neuroimaging studies of the 5-HT system.

Limb girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) type 2A (LGMD2A) is caused by mutations in the CAPN3 gene encoding for calpain-3, a muscle specific protease. While a large number of CAPN3 gene mutations have already been described in calpainopathy patients, the diagnosis has recently shifted from molecular genetics towards biochemical assay of defective protein. However, an estimate of sensitivity and specificity of protein analysis remains to be established. Thus, we first correlated protein and molecular data in our large LGMD2A patient population. By a preliminary immunoblot screening for calpain-3 protein of 548 unclassified patients with various phenotypes (LGMD, myopathy, or elevated levels of serum creatine kinase [hyperCKemia]), we selected 208 cases for CAPN3 gene mutation analysis: 69 had protein deficiency and 139 had normal expression. Mutation search was conducted using SSCP, denaturing high performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC), amplification refractory mutation system (ARMS-PCR), and direct sequencing methods. We identified 58 LGMD2A mutant patients: 46 (80%) had a variable degree of protein deficiency and 12 (20%) had normal amount of calpain-3. We calculated that the probability of having LGMD2A is very high (84%) when patients show a complete calpain-3 deficiency and progressively decreases with the amount of protein; this new data offers an important tool for genetic counseling when only protein data are available. A total of 37 different CAPN3 gene mutations were detected, 10 of which are novel. In our population, 87% of mutant alleles were concentrated in seven exons (exons 1, 4, 5, 8, 10, 11, and 21) and 61% correspond to only eight mutations, indicating the regions where future molecular analysis could be restricted. This study reports the largest collection of LGMD2A patients so far in which both protein and gene mutations were obtained to draw genotype-protein-phenotype correlations and provide insights into a critical protein domain.
Cladophialophora bantiana (Xylohypha bantiana) is a dematiaceous fungus with distinct neurotropism. CNS phaeohyphomycosis due to C. bantiana is an uncommon infectious condition and is associated with high mortality. We report this rare clinical entity in a 22-year-old male, presenting as brain abscess. Etiological diagnosis was made based on fungal culture and histopathological examination. Complete surgical resection of the lesion and treatment with antifungal agents could not save the patient from this frequently fatal infection.



A case of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) following treatment with sodium valproate is presented. A 55-year-old male suffering from manic episode was treated with sodium valproate in addition to haloperidol and trihexiphenidyl. After two weeks he developed cutaneous manifestations of SJS. He was treated with systemic steroids, antihistamines and topical calamine lotion and recovered after a few weeks.
Mosquitoes that act as disease vectors rely upon olfactory cues to direct several important behaviors that are fundamentally involved in establishing their overall vectorial capacity. Of these, the propensity to select humans for blood feeding is arguably the most important of these olfactory driven behaviors in so far as it significantly contributes to the ability of these mosquitoes to transmit pathogens that cause diseases such as dengue, yellow fever and most significantly human malaria. Here, we review significant advances in behavioral, physiological and molecular investigations into mosquito host preference, with a particular emphasis on studies that have emerged in the post-genomic era that seek to combine these approaches.

CD72 is a 45 kDa B cell-specific type II transmembrane protein of the C-type lectin superfamily. It was originally defined as a receptor-like molecule that regulates B cell activation and differentiation; however, its precise function remains unclear since more recent functional analyses, including a gene targeting study, suggest that CD72 may serve as a negative or a positive regulator of B cell signaling. In the present study, we analyzed the cell-autonomous function of CD72 in B cell receptor (BCR) signaling using CD72-deficient cells generated from mature BAL-17 cells. We found that BCR-mediated phosphorylation of CD19, Btk, Vav and phospholipase Cgamma2 and association of CD19 with phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase were impaired in CD72-deficient cells. Inositol trisphosphate synthesis was normally induced initially but ablated at 1 min of stimulation in CD72-deficient cells. In the event, Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores remained intact, though influx of extracellular Ca(2+) was severely impaired in CD72-deficient cells. Furthermore, BCR-evoked activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), extracellular signal-regulated kinase and c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase, and growth inhibition in BAL-17 cells were blocked in the absence of CD72. Significantly, these effects were largely reversed by re-expression of CD72. Thus, CD72 appears to exert a positive effect on BCR signaling pathways leading to Ca(2+) influx and MAPK activation, which in turn may determine the fate of BAL-17 cells.
Voltage-gated Na+ channel (VGSC) expression has previously been shown to be upregulated in strongly metastatic prostate cancer cells (rat and human) and its activity shown to potentiate a variety of cellular behaviours integral to the metastatic cascade. However, the mechanism(s) responsible for the Na+ channel upregulation is not known. As a step towards evaluating the role of the extracellular biochemical environment in this regard, we have determined the effects of serum concentration on characteristics of Na+ channel expressed in the strongly metastatic Mat-LyLu rat prostate cancer cell line. Whole-cell patch-clamp recording techniques were used to study the effects of serum concentrations, above and below the normal 1%. Both the amplitude and the kinetics of the currents were analysed. The following results were obtained: (1) Adding 1% foetal calf serum to cells starved of serum for 24h increased Na+ current density; however, increasing serum concentration further (to 5%) caused a reduction. (2) Serum-free medium produced Na+ currents with slower kinetics of activation (time to peak) and inactivation (exponential decay). (3) Increased serum concentration (a) shifted steady-state inactivation to more positive potentials without affecting conductance and (b) increased tetrodotoxin sensitivity. It is concluded that serum concentration is an important determinant of the Na+ channel characteristics leading to possible transcriptional and post-translational modifications of channel expression and/or activity. Experiments are now needed to determine which constituents (protein hormones, growth factors, etc.) are responsible for these effects.
This article provides a retrospective, current, and prospective overview on developments in brain research and neuroscience. Both theoretical and empirical studies are considered, with emphasis in the concept of multivariability and metastability in the brain. In this new view on the human brain, the potential multivariability of the neuronal networks appears to be far from continuous in time, but confined by the dynamics of short-term local and global metastable brain states. The article closes by suggesting some of the implications of this view in future multidisciplinary brain research.
The efficacy of HSV-TK/ganciclovir gene therapy largely relies on the bystander effect, i.e. the ability of transfected cells to kill the adjacent, untrasfected cells. This mechanism itself depends chiefly on the transfer via gap junctions of phosphorylated ganciclovir between cells, and is often deficient in glioblastomas. In this report, we demonstrate that n-butyrate markedly enhances the gap junction intercellular communication of GJIC-deficient glioma cells, and significantly increases the bystander effect in such cells. This effect of n-butyrate appears to be independent from its HDAC inhibitory effect, since trichostatin A does not reproduce it.
A growing body of data suggests that the emotional dimension of a stimulus can be processed without conscious identification of the stimulus. The arousal system could be activated by unrecognised biologically significant stimuli through simple physical stimulus features related to threat, without any evaluation of the meaning of the stimulus. However, unconscious processing of emotionally laden words cannot rely only on perceptual features but must include some analysis of symbolic meaning. The first aim of the present study was to assess whether masked (unrecognised) aversive words can elicit enhanced skin conductance responses (SCRs), a major autonomic index of emotional arousal, in normal participants. Our second aim was to determine whether any autonomic activation related to affective value of words is independent from access of this value to consciousness. Thus, the presentation duration of masked aversive and neutral words was determined, for each participant, in such a way that (1) identification was precluded, (2) valence discrimination was at chance, as indicated by performance in a forced-choice two-alternative task and by confidence ratings of the responses, and (3) emotional and neutral words were not detected differentially. SCRs were recorded during masked and unmasked presentations of both types of word. SCRs elicited by unmasked words, and also by masked words, were of greater magnitude when the words were emotional than when they were neutral. Consequently, in normal participants, autonomic activation can be a discriminative marker of the affective dimension of unrecognised verbal material in the absence of conscious valence identification.
In this study, we explored the influence of an irrelevant translational event on the automatic capture of attention to one of two superimposed surfaces defined by transparent motion. The results showed that an irrelevant translation on one surface did not automatically capture the subjects' attention if the attentional resources have been endogenously allocated on the other surface. Moreover, the reduction in the motion-onset component of the event-related potential observed in trials where the irrelevant event affected the uncued surface supports the existence of a top-down control of early sensorial processing in this paradigm. This study provides further evidence of the interaction of stimulus-driven and goal-directed mechanisms in the control of visual attention.



Although equitable access to services should be based on need, geographical location of patients and their clinicians can give rise to inequalities in healthcare delivery. Development of tele-medicine services can improve equity of access. The specialty of Clinical Neurophysiology (CN), currently under-developed in Ireland provides an example of such potential. This study aimed to determine the needs, expectations, and satisfaction of CN customers, namely patients and referring clinicians. The goal was to examine geographical impediments to access that might be addressed by the introduction of tele-neurophysiology. Two customer surveys were conducted: CN referring clinicians and CN patients. Thirty-one North Western Health Board (NWHB) consultant clinicians responded to a postal survey. Distance and delays caused by long waiting lists were felt to deter or make CN referral irrelevant. Ninety-seven percent believed the lack of a local service negatively impacts on patient management and 93% would welcome the introduction of a tele-neurophysiology service. The geographical location of patient's residence and/or the location of the referring clinician's practice influenced waiting lists for CN. Fifty-eight (105/182) percent of patients living in a region with a CN service compared to 39% (50/128) of those living in a region with no service received an appointment within one month. In addition to the current insufficient CN service capacity in Ireland, these surveys highlighted geographical inequities. Tele-neurophysiology has the potential to speed-up diagnosis, result in more patients being appropriately investigated and be fairer to patients.
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings on isolated inner hair cells (IHCs) of guinea pig cochleae have revealed the presence of voltage-gated potassium channels. A biophysical model of an IHC is presented that indicates activation of slow voltage-gated potassium channels may lead to receptor potentials whose dc component decreases during the stimulus, and membrane potential hyperpolarizes when the stimulus is turned off. Both the decreasing dc and the hyperpolarization are, respectively, consistent with rapid adaptation and suppression of spontaneous rate in the auditory nerve. Receptor potentials recorded in vivo do not show these features, and when a nonspecific leak is included in the model to simulate microelectrode impalement, the model's receptor potentials become similar to those in vivo. The nonspecific leak creates an electrical shunt that masks slow channel activity and allows the cell to depolarize. Both the decreasing dc and the hyperpolarization are sensitive to the resting potential. Because the reported resting potentials in vivo and in vitro differ greatly, the model is used to investigate homeostatic mechanisms responsible for the resting potential. It is found that the voltage-gated potassium channels have the greatest influence on the resting potential, but that the standing transducer current may be sufficient to eliminate the decreasing dc and after-stimulus hyperpolarization.


The reaction coordinates of 1,3-H-shifts across double bonds are traced by theory for three reactions, CH(3)C(OH)CH(2)(+*) (1) --&gt; CH(3)C(O(+*))CH(3) (2), CH(2)C(OH)(2)(+*) (3) --&gt; CH(3)CO(2)H(+*) (4) and CH(3)C(OH)CH(2)(+*) (1) --&gt; CH(2)C(OH)CH(3)(+*) (1'), to explore how the need to conserve orbital symmetry influences the pathways for these reactions. In the first and second reactions, prior to the start of the H-transfer the methylene rotates from being in the skeletal plane to being bisected by it. Thus these reactions are neither antarafacial nor suprafacial, but precisely between those possibilities. This stems from a counterbalancing between the need to conserve orbital symmetry and the large distorting forces required to attain an allowed antarafacial transition state. In contrast to the first two reactions, 1 --&gt; 1' follows a suprafacial pathway. However, this pathway does not violate conservation of orbital symmetry, as it utilizes lower lying orbitals of appropriate symmetry rather than the antisymmetric uppermost occupied allyl-type orbital. Changes in geometry which presumably produce asymmetric vibrational excitation and the unequal losses of methyl that follow 1 --&gt; 2, i.e., nonergodic behavior, are also characterized.
Most unexpectedly, there is now increasing evidence that mitochondria have novel and crucial functions in the regulatory machinery of the growth/differentiation transition, cell-type determination, cellular movement and pattern formation. Here we created rho delta cells with a reduced amount (about 1/4) of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from Dictyostelium discoideum Ax-2 cells, by exposing Ax-2 cells to ca. 30 microg/ml of ethidium bromide (EtBr) in axenic growth medium. Importantly, the rho delta cells exhibited a series of fascinating behaviors: when they were starved, they showed a marked delay of differentiation and stopped their development at the slug stage, thus failing to construct fruiting bodies. Moreover, cell patterning and cell-type proportioning were found to be greatly modified in slugs (referred to as rho delta slugs) derived from rho delta cells. That is, prestalk differentiation was significantly enhanced in rho delta slugs, while prespore differentiation was markedly inhibited. In addition, the clear anterior prestalk/posterior prespore pattern was considerably disturbed in rho delta slugs, presumably because of incomplete sorting between the two types of differentiated cells. After the assay of phototaxis, rho delta slugs also exhibited highly disordered movement towards the light source. Taken together, these results suggest that mtDNA might have important multiple functions in a variety of cellular processes during Dictyostelium development.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) may contribute to the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia by degrading matrix components in the neurovascular unit. In this study, the authors document a pathway by which MMPs interfere with cell-matrix interactions and trigger caspase-mediated cytotoxicity in brain endothelial cells. Hypoxia-reoxygenation induced endothelial cytotoxicity. Cytoprotection with zDEVD-fmk confirmed that cell death was partly caspase mediated. The temporal profile of caspase-3 activation was matched by elevations in MMP-2 and MMP-9. MMP inhibitors significantly decreased caspase-3 activation and reduced endothelial cell death. Degradation of matrix fibronectin confirmed the presence of extracellular proteolysis. Increasing integrin-linked kinase signaling with the beta1 integrin-activating antibody (8A2) ameliorated endothelial cytotoxicity. The results suggest that MMP-9 and MMP-2 contribute to caspase-mediated brain endothelial cell death after hypoxia-reoxygenation by disrupting cell-matrix interactions and homeostatic integrin signaling.

Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is perhaps the most famous work of medical science fiction. She and her husband, the poet Percy Shelley, were aware of nascent neuroscience experimentation and the effects of electricity on neuromuscular function. Such experiments generated theories of voluntary, involuntary, and unconscious neuromuscular function; animal electricity; and the anima--the human vital principle. In Germany and Italy, investigators were performing bizarre electrical experiments on animals and humans to &quot;reanimate&quot; lifeless limbs and bodies. These demonstrations and theories find expression in Frankenstein and provide models for Dr. Frankenstein and his creation.



Neuroimaging results have raised interest in characterizing hemispheric asymmetries in prefrontal activity during different types of memory retrieval tasks. In this issue, Dobbins et al. and Mitchell et al. report results suggesting that the two hemispheres of the prefrontal cortex may indeed make different contributions to memory retrieval. Here, I discuss these findings within the context of studies characterizing more general processing differences between the cerebral hemispheres and studies characterizing prefrontal organization along the dorsal-ventral and anterior-posterior dimensions.

The goal of neuro-oncologic surgery is to maximize tumor resection while preserving vital brain functions. Identification of the relation between the tumor and adjacent functional cortical areas as well as efferent subcortical white matter tracts is important for preservation of function. Combined diffusion tensor imaging with magnetic resonance (MR) tractography and functional blood oxygen level-dependent MR imaging were applied successfully for preoperative planning and guidance in 2 patients with tumors near the motor cortex. The combination of these novel functional imaging techniques can provide new information for presurgical planning.
Wider dissemination and testing of computational models are crucial to the field of computational neuroscience. Databases are being developed to meet this need. ModelDB is a web-accessible database for convenient entry, retrieval, and running of published models on different platforms. This article provides a guide to entering a new model into ModelDB.

In the present report assumed relationships between hypercortisolism, depression and cortico-cortical cross-talk in Cushing's syndrome were investigated. Electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings and depression ratings from three patients diagnosed with mild, moderate and severe hypercortisolism were obtained. Reductions in cortico-cortical cross-talk as quantified by EEG coherence together with increases in depression were observed in the moderate and severe as compared to the mild hypercorticolism state. These findings provide preliminary evidence for the hypothesis that loss of cortico-cortical cross-talk might be linked to hypercortisolism and the severity of depressive symptoms.
It has been hypothesized that the physical properties of the environment exert selection pressure on long-range acoustic communication signals to match the local habitat by promoting signal characteristics that minimize excess attenuation and distortion. We tested this in a unique family of bladder grasshoppers notable for producing a signal with a 2 km maximum transmission distance. In direct performance comparisons, male advertisement calls of seven species were broadcast through four vegetation biomes--forest, fynbos, savanna and succulent karoo. The calls of species native to forest and fynbos biomes propagated with lower levels of distortion over distance in their respective habitats relative to those of non-native species, while fynbos species also performed best in the remaining two habitats. In addition, both forest and fynbos species had low levels of signal attenuation over distance in all environments. The fynbos biome was characterized by high inconsistency in signal degradation, while the forest biome had the highest levels of environmental noise. Innate habitat characteristics, leading to comparatively limited acoustic communication distances in the forest and fynbos relative to the savanna and succulent karoo, may therefore explain the need for a higher quality of signal transmission in grasshoppers inhabiting the former two environments.
Obesity affects 30% of the United States population and its detrimental effects are obesity-related metabolic diseases. For patients refractory to conventional weight loss therapy, gastric bypass surgery is one of the proven methods for inducing a sustained weight loss and reversing the metabolic sequelae of obesity. To understand the mechanisms of weight loss and the amelioration of related metabolic comorbid conditions, a reproducible animal model is needed. We report our developmental experience with rat models of sequential Roux-en-Y gastric bypass after reproducing the diet-induced obesity that characterizes the hallmarks of human obesity. Four experiments were performed to induce weight reduction through successive modifications: In Experiment 1 a 20% stapled gastric pouch with a 16 cm biliary-pancreatic limb and a 10 cm alimentary limb accomplished sufficient weight loss within 10 days to ameliorate metabolic changes associated with obesity, but the occurrence of gastrogastric fistulas prevented sustained weight loss; in Experiment 2 the model was improved by dividing the stomach to avoid gastrogastric fistula, but again sustained weight loss was not achieved; in Experiment 3 the biliary-pancreatic limb was lengthened from 16 to 30 cm, reducing the common channel to approximately 18 cm. Sustained weight loss was achieved for 28 days. In Experiment 4 the model in Experiment 3 was modified by dividing the stomach between two rows of staples. Sustained weight loss was observed for 67 days. We developed a reproducible rat model of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. The existence of this model opens a new field of research in which to study the metabolic sequelae of obesity and the mechanisms of weight loss.
Patients with writer's cramp (WC) show uncontrollable muscle co-contractions of agonists and antagonists and unusual postures of the upper limb during writing; their handwriting is inefficient and exhausting. Currently the treatment of choice is to inject botulinum toxin in selective hand muscles. However, this treatment has two drawbacks: it is short-lasting and may be associated with adverse side effects. An alternative behavioral treatment, namely, the handwriting training developed by Mai and coworkers, was carried out and evaluated in 50 patients with WC. A digitizing tablet was used to record the handwriting movements before and after training, and then again after a follow-up period. The results indicate the efficacy of the handwriting training. Speed and smoothness of the handwriting increased during the training with effects observed after an extended follow-up period. Handwriting training leads to significant improvements, but does not bring handwriting performance to normal levels. This training should be considered as an alternative or supplement to the traditional treatment with botulinum toxin or other programs based on neuroplasticity.

The identification of a novel series of 7,8,9,10-tetrahydro-(7,10-ethano)-1,2,4-triazolo[3,4-a]phthalazines as GABA(A)alpha5 inverse agonists, which have both binding and functional (efficacy) selectivity for the benzodiazepine binding site of alpha5- over alpha1-, alpha2-, and alpha3-containing GABA(A) receptor subtypes, is described. Binding selectivity was determined to a large part by the degree of planarity of the fused ring system whereas functional selectivity was dependent on the nature of the heterocycle at the 3-position of the triazolopyridazine ring. 3-Furan and 5-methylisoxazole were shown to be optimal for GABA(A)alpha5 functional selectvity. 3-(5-Methylisoxazol-3-yl)-6-(2-pyridyl)methyloxy-1,2,4-triazolo[3,4-a]phthalazine (43) was identified as a full inverse agonist at the GABA(A)alpha5 subtype with functional selectivity over the other GABA(A) receptor subtypes and good oral bioavailability.
In this paper, we propose analogies between medical discourse and Edward Said's &quot;Orientalism.&quot; Medical discourse, like Orientalism, tends to favor institutional interests and can be similarly dehumanizing in its reductionism, textual representations, and construction of its subjects. To resist Orientalism, Said recommends that critics--&quot;intellectuals&quot;--adopt the perspective of exile. We apply Said's paradigm of intellectual-as-exile to better understand the work of key physician-authors who cross personal and professional boundaries, who engage with patients in mutually therapeutic relationships, and who take on the public responsibility of representation and advocacy. We call these physician-authors &quot;medical intellectuals&quot; and encourage others to follow in their path.
In situ hybridization experiments frequently use autoradiography to identify labelled structures. Ideally, labelled cells will be overlain with a dense accumulation of particles, allowing one to discriminate them from unlabelled cells easily. However, if noise is high or the density of labelling is low, it can be difficult to distinguish bona fide labelling 'by eye'. In such situations, labelled cells could be overlooked. This paper evaluates two statistical solutions to this problem: (1) a parametric method proposed by Hashimoto and co-workers and (2) Wang &amp; Wessendorf's non-parametric method using contingency testing (i.e. the chi-square or Fisher's exact tests). The Hashimoto method determines the mean and standard deviation of the density of background labelling, using sense-strand controls as the source of background levels. Cells labelled at densities greater than two standard deviations above the mean (P &lt; 0.0455) are defined as significantly labelled. Contingency testing determines whether the grain density over a cell is significantly higher than that over the remainder of the image. When compared, the two methods gave similar results. The Hashimoto method may be more sensitive if most cells are labelled but contingency testing requires no assumptions about the uniformity of non-specific labelling.
Autism is now widely viewed as a neurodevelopmental disorder, although the underlying biological causes remain to be established. In this review, we examine the literature in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as applied to autism, discuss the findings that have emerged, and give directions for potential future research. To date, structural MRI results are inconsistent, partly due to the heterogeneity of the disorder itself, and partly due to the different composition and the varied degree of matching of the studied groups. However, recent studies have begun to elucidate the underlying neuroanatomical abnormalities and brain-behavior relationships in autism, with the most consistent finding being increased brain volume in autism. Future large-scale longitudinal structural imaging studies, starting at very young ages, investigating homogeneous groups of patients and extensively matched control groups, and making use of (combinations of) newer and more sophisticated techniques, hold a great promise to further elucidate the enigma of autism.
Mechanosensory hair cells of the inner ear are especially sensitive to death induced by exposure to aminoglycoside antibiotics. This aminoglycoside-induced hair cell death involves activation of an intrinsic program of cellular suicide. Aminoglycoside-induced hair cell death can be prevented by broad-spectrum inhibition of caspases, a family of proteases that mediate apoptotic and programmed cell death in a wide variety of systems. More specifically, aminoglycoside-induced hair cell death requires activation of caspase-9. Caspase-9 activation requires release of mitochondrial cytochrome c into the cytoplasm, indicating that aminoglycoside-induced hair cell death is mediated by the mitochondrial (or &quot;intrinsic&quot;) cell death pathway. The Bcl-2 family of pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic proteins are important upstream regulators of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway. Bcl-2 is an anti-apoptotic protein that localizes to the mitochondria and promotes cell survival by preventing cytochrome c release. Here we have utilized transgenic mice that overexpress Bcl-2 to examine the role of Bcl-2 in neomycin-induced hair cell death. Overexpression of Bcl-2 significantly increased hair cell survival following neomycin exposure in organotypic cultures of the adult mouse utricle. Furthermore, Bcl-2 overexpression prevented neomycin-induced activation of caspase-9 in hair cells. These results suggest that the expression level of Bcl-2 has important effects on the pathway(s) important for the regulation of aminoglycoside-induced hair cell death.
In vertebrates, the paired-box transcription factor Pax-2 is one of the earliest markers of the developing inner ear and is robustly expressed in the otic placode and the otic vesicle. Mutations in the Pax-2 gene result in developmental defects of the vestibular and auditory apparatus. We set out to investigate whether regions of Pax-2 expression in the developing otic vesicle correlate with areas of cell proliferation or cell death, which would indicate a possible role of Pax-2 in these processes. Regionalized proliferation and local apoptosis are the principal mechanisms that lead to the complex morphogenesis of the highly compartmentalized inner ear starting from a simple vesicle. We found a high correlation of Pax-2 expression with proliferating cells in the walls of the early otic vesicle. Apoptotic cells were mostly localized outside of the Pax-2-expressing regions. At later stages, we found the highest intensity of proliferating and Pax-2-positive cells in areas of the developing sensory epithelia. When hair cells begin to differentiate, they maintain a lower level of Pax-2 expression than neighboring cells for a brief period, before they completely down-regulate expression of this transcription factor. We conclude that a significant proportion of proliferating cells in the developing otocyst express Pax-2, in particular in regions that include developing sensory patches. This implicates Pax-2 as a marker for proliferating hair and supporting cell progenitors. Furthermore, the likelihood that Pax-2-expressing cells in the otocyst die by apoptosis is much lower when compared with cells residing in Pax-2-negative regions.
Hypoxia inducible factor (HIF-1)-1alpha is a specific, oxygen-sensitive protein that regulates the activity of HIF-1, a transcriptional factor that increases after cerebral ischemia and may either promote or prevent neuronal survival. In this study to determine whether the inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) gene containing the sequence of the hypoxia-responsive enhancer (HRE) was an HIF-1 target after cerebral ischemia induced by permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO), electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and iNOS western blot analysis were performed in the ischemic core, in the area surrounding the infarct and in the hippocampus ipsilateral and contralateral to the lesion. In addition, both HIF-1alpha mRNA and protein expression were examined in the ischemic core, in the area surrounding the ischemic core and in the hippocampus ipsilateral to the insult. Our results revealed that pMCAO up-regulates iNOS protein in the ischemic core, in the area surrounding the ischemic core and in the hippocampus ipsilateral to the lesion, and that the activation of iNOS expression is mediated by HIF-1. Moreover, HIF-1alpha mRNA and protein levels increased in the ischemic core and in the hippocampus ipsilateral to the lesion compared with the levels obtained in the corresponding areas of sham-operated controls or in the contralateral hemisphere. Particularly in the area surrounding the ischemic core, HIF-1alpha protein accumulated during pMCAO although mRNA did not increase. Our study suggests that the activation of HIF-1 might be involved in the mechanisms whereby iNOS promotes cell survival and/or death after cerebral ischemia.
Spinophilin is a protein phosphatase-1- and actin-binding protein that modulates excitatory synaptic transmission and dendritic spine morphology. We have recently shown that the interaction of spinophilin with the actin cytoskeleton depends upon phosphorylation by protein kinase A. We have now found that spinophilin is phosphorylated by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) in neurons. Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, located within the post-synaptic density of dendritic spines, is known to play a role in synaptic plasticity and is ideally positioned to regulate spinophilin. Using tryptic phosphopeptide mapping, site-directed mutagenesis and microsequencing analysis, we identified two sites of CaMKII phosphorylation (Ser-100 and Ser-116) within the actin-binding domain of spinophilin. Phosphorylation by CaMKII reduced the affinity of spinophilin for F-actin. In neurons, phosphorylation at Ser-100 by CaMKII was Ca(2+) dependent and was associated with an enrichment of spinophilin in the synaptic plasma membrane fraction. These results indicate that spinophilin is phosphorylated by multiple kinases in vivo and that differential phosphorylation may target spinophilin to specific locations within dendritic spines.
Synthesis of bioactive peptides is regulated by several post-translational processing events, including cleavage of peptides from a prohormone, and chemical modifications. Using quantitative in situ hybridization and neuron-specific macro-arrays, we first demonstrated cell-type specific expression levels of transcripts encoding prohormone convertases, peptide alpha-amidating enzyme as well as the chaperone 7B2 in Lymnaea neurons. Second, we demonstrated a strict correlation between alpha-amidating enzyme and its neuropeptide substrates. However, this strict relationship of gene expression of the three prohormone convertases and types of cleavage site used is not present. Third, we showed by a physiological stimulus, i.e. clean water, which leads to a stereotyped egg-laying behaviour resulting in successful egg-mass deposition, the co-regulated induction of transcript levels of processing enzymes, 7B2, and egg-laying hormone. These data indicate that (i) these enzymes (and chaperone) are involved in egg-laying hormone neuropeptide biosynthesis, and (ii) neuropeptide release and transcript levels of both prohormones and processing enzymes are regulated in accordance with physiological demands.
Mutations that stimulate exon 10 inclusion into the human tau mRNA cause frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism, associated with chromosome 17 (FTDP-17), and other tauopathies. This suggests that the ratio of exon 10 inclusion to exclusion in adult brain is one of the factors to determine biological functions of the tau protein. To investigate the underlying splicing mechanism and identify potential therapeutic targets for tauopathies, we generated a series of mini-gene constructs with intron deletions from the full length of tau exons 9-11 mini-gene construct. RT-PCR results demonstrate that there is a minimum distance requirement between exon 10 and 11 for correct splicing of the exon 10. In addition, SRp20, a member of serine-arginine (SR) protein family of splicing factors was found to facilitate exclusion of exon 10 in a dosage-dependent manner. Significantly, SRp20 also induced exon 10 skipping from pre-mRNAs containing mutations identified in FTDP-17 patients. Based on those results, we generated a cell-based system to measure inclusion to exclusion of exon 10 in the tau mRNA using the luciferase reporter. The firefly luciferase was fused into exon 11 in frame, and a stop code was also created in exon 10. Inclusion of exon 10 prevents luciferase expression, whereas exclusion of exon 10 generates luciferase activity. To minimize baseline luciferase expression, our reporter construct also contains a FTDP-17 mutation that increases exon 10 inclusion. We demonstrate that the splicing pattern of our reporter construct mimics that of endogenous tau gene. Co-transfection of SRp20 and SRp55, two SR proteins that promote exon 10 exclusion, increases production of luciferase. We conclude that this cell-based system can be used to identify biological substances that modulate exon 10 splicing.
In view of the recent focus on the zona incerta (and surrounding regions) as a target for deep brain stimulation in patients with Parkinson Disease, we have explored incertal cyto and chemoarchitecture in normal and MPTP (methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine)-treated macaque monkeys. Brains were processed for routine tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), nitric oxide synthase (NOs), parvalbumin (Pv) and calbindin D 28k (Cal) immunocytochemistry, as well as for Nissl staining. We show four main sectors in the zona incerta, namely rostral, dorsal, ventral and caudal, each with a largely distinct cytoarchitecture. Each of the antibodies screened had signature distribution patterns across the zona incerta; TH+ cells were localised within the rostral sector, NOs+ cells were concentrated in the dorsal sector, Pv+ cells were found mainly in the ventral sector and Cal+ cells were distributed uniformly across all sectors. These patterns match closely those reported in non primates. We found no major differences in the distribution and shape of labelled cells in the zona incerta of MPTP-treated monkeys when compared to control. In conclusion, we report that the primate zona incerta shows considerable cyto and chemoarchitectonic heterogeneity; that it forms a nucleus with distinct sectors presumably associated with diverse functions--from generating arousal to shifting attention, and from controlling visceral activity to influencing posture and locomotion. These functions have been proposed for the zona incerta of non primates. Our results have clinical implications, in that deep brain stimulation of the zona incerta (or parts thereof) could manifest in signs and symptoms other than those associated with the motor system. Such clinical stimulations could well involve other systems, including those of arousal, attention and visceral control.
Arylsulfatase A (ASA) degrades sulfatide, seminolipid and lactosylceramide sulfate, glycolipids recognized by the Sulph I antibody although sulfatide is considered the main antigen. Sulfatide is myelin associated but studies have shown a minor distribution also in non-myelin forming cells. The aim of this work was to further study sulfatide in neurons and astrocytes by immunohistochemistry, facilitated by investigation of tissue from adult ASA deficient (ASA -/-) mice. Cells with a low presence of sulfatide might be detected due to lack of ASA activity and accumulation of Sulph I antigens. Sulfatide positive astrocytes and neurons were more numerous and intensely stained in ASA -/- mice, demonstrating a sulfatide accumulation compared to controls. Sulph I staining was especially increased in the molecular layer of cerebellum, in which Purkinje cell dendrites displayed an altered morphology, and in layer IV-VI of cerebral cortex. In hippocampus, immunostaining was found in neuronal cytoplasm in ASA -/- but in nuclear membranes of control mice. We observed a gray matter astrogliosis, which appeared to be associated to sulfatide accumulation. In addition, the developmental change (&lt;20 months) of Sulph I antigens, galactosylceramide, phospholipids and cholesterol were followed by lipid analyses which verified sulfatide and seminolipid accumulation in adult ASA -/- mice, although no lactosylceramide sulfate could be detected. In addition to demonstrating sulfatide in neurons and astrocytes, this study supports the value of ASA -/- mice as a model for metachromatic leukodystrophy and suggests that accumulation of sulfatide beyond myelin might contribute to the pathology of this disease.
Stress decreases sexual activity. However, emerging research suggests that the psychological aspect of control prevents the detrimental effects of stress on male mating behaviour. The present study examined the effects of chronic escapable/inescapable stress on mating behaviour in the male Syrian hamster. Additionally, the ability of the antidepressant clomipramine to prevent the adverse effects of stress on mating behaviour was explored. In this paradigm, two groups received the same electric footshock stress, but differed in the psychological aspect of control. Cohorts were divided into two groups. One group received clomipramine via a sugar water solution while the other received plain sugar water. Mating behaviour was quantified before and after 12 consecutive days of stress. The morning following the final stress and behaviour session, trunk blood and brains were collected to assess: (i) plasma concentrations of testosterone and glucocorticoids and (ii) corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA expression within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). In the drug-free groups, several aspects of mating behaviour were disrupted by inescapable but not escapable stress, including anogenital investigation before the first ejaculation and time of first ejaculation. Additionally, both escapable and inescapable stress caused a decrease in total hit rate compared to the no-stress control group. Unlike the sugar-water treated animals, hamsters in either stress condition receiving clomipramine showed no differences in anogenital investigation, time of first ejaculation, hit rate, or any other aspect of mating behaviour measured, compared to the clomipramine no-stress control males. The stress-induced inhibition of mating behaviour could not be explained by changes in baseline plasma concentrations of testosterone or total glucocorticoids; these values did not vary between any of the six treatment groups. It was found that clomipramine lowers CRH mRNA expression in the PVN by 74%, regardless of stressor conditions. The results of the present study have broad implications for understanding the relationships between stress, depression and reproduction, and for the treatment of people and animals suffering from the adverse effects of stress.
gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA), the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain, acts via two different type of GABA receptors. GABA(A) receptors are composed of five subunits that belong to eight different classes. Depending on their subunit composition, distinct pharmacological and electrophysiological properties are obtained. GABA is produced in certain hypothalamic neurones known to be involved in control of feeding behaviour. We report the detailed immunohistochemical localization of four GABA(A)R alpha subunits in hypothalamic regions associated with the regulation of feeding behaviour. Immunoreactive structures for all studied GABA(A)R alpha subunits were observed in the hypothalamus, but with subunit-specific staining patterns. GABA(A)R alpha(1) immunoreactivity was most prominent in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus and in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA), whereas GABA(A)R alpha(2), alpha(3) and alpha(5) subunits exhibited particularly strong immunoreactivity in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. In comparison, GABA(A)R alpha subunit immunoreactivities were generally weak in the arcuate nucleus. In the ventromedial part of the arcuate nucleus, neuropeptide Y- and agouti-related peptide-containing cell bodies, which also are known to be GABAergic, were immunoreactive for only the GABA(A)R alpha(3) subunit, whereas pro-opiomelanocortin- and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript- containing cell bodies located in the ventrolateral subdivision of the arcuate nucleus, showed GABA(A)R alpha(1), alpha(2) and alpha(3) subunit immunoreactivity. In the LHA, GABA(A)R alpha(3) subunit immunoreactivity was demonstrated in both melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and orexin-containing neurones. In addition, MCH neurones contained GABA(A)R alpha(2) immunoreactivity. In neurones of the tuberomammillary nucleus, GABA(A)R alpha(2) and alpha(5) subunits were colocalized with histidine decarboxylase, a marker for histamine-containing neurones.

Spontaneous development of lupus-like disease is accompanied by impaired dopamine catabolism and degenerating axon terminals in the mesencephalon of MRL-lpr mice. We presently examine the hypothesis that systemic autoimmunity affects the central dopaminergic system in behaviorally impaired animals. The functional damage of the nigrostriatal pathway was assessed from rotational behavior after a single injection of the D1/D2-receptor agonist apomorphine. Neurodegeneration in the midbrain was estimated by Fluoro Jade B (FJB) staining. The causal role of autoimmunity was tested by comparing asymptomatic and diseased MRL-lpr mice, and by employing the immunosuppressive drug cyclophosphamide. Damage of dopaminergic neurons was assessed by tyrosine-hydroxylase (TH) staining of the midbrain. Apomorphine induced significant asymmetry in limb use, which lead to increased circling in the diseased MRL-lpr group. While FJB-positive somas were not seen in the striatum, increased staining in the substantia nigra (SN) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) were detected in behaviorally impaired MRL-lpr mice, but not in age-matched controls. Reduced brain mass and increased levels of TNF-alpha in their cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) suggested cerebral atrophy and inflammation. In addition, CSF was neurotoxic to a dopaminergic progenitor cell line. Immunosuppression attenuated CSF cytotoxicity, TNF-alpha levels, and midbrain neurodegeneration. Supportive of the notion that dying neurons were dopaminergic, the SN of autoimmune mice showed approximately a 35% reduction in the number of TH-positive cells. A three-fold increase in serum brain-reactive antibodies accompanied this loss. Although the source of toxic mediator(s) remains unknown, present results are consistent with the hypothesis that autoimmunity-induced destruction of mesonigral and mesolimbic dopaminergic pathways contributes to the etiology of aberrant behavior in an animal model of neuropsychiatric lupus.
Severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) may result in widespread damage to axons, termed diffuse axonal injury. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterised by synaptic and axonal degeneration together with senile plaques (SP). SP are mainly composed of aggregated beta-amyloid (Abeta), which are peptides derived from the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Apart from TBI in itself being considered a risk factor for AD, severe head injury seems to initiate a cascade of molecular events that are also associated with AD. We have therefore analysed the 42 amino acid forms of Abeta (Abeta1-42) and two soluble forms of APP (alpha-sAPP and ss-sAPP) in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (VCSF) and Abeta(1-42) in plasma from 28 patients in a serial samples 0-11 days after TBI. The levels of alpha-sAPP, ss-sAPP and Abeta(1-42) were determined using ELISA assays. After TBI, there was a significant stepwise increase in VCSF-Abeta(1-42) up to 1173 % from day 0-1 to day 5-6 and in VCSF-beta-sAPP up to 2033 % increase from day 0-1 to day 7-11. There was also a slight but significant increase of VCSF-beta-sAPP from day 0-1 to day 5-6 and day 7-11. By contrast, the plasma- Abeta(1-42) level is unchanged after injury. The marked increase in VCSFAbeta(1-42) implies that increased Abeta expression may occur as a secondary phenomenon after TBI with axonal damage. The unchanged level of plasma-Abeta(1-42) in contrast to the marked increase in VCSF-Abeta(1-42) after severe TBI, supports the suggestion that plasma Abeta(1-42) does not reflect Abeta metabolism in the central nervous system (CNS).
Hereditary haemochromatosis (HH) is a common autosomal recessive systemic iron overload disorder in which CNS manifestations, particularly movement disorders, have been reported. We report a 63-year-old woman with familial HH with a four-year history of progressive gait disturbance, chorea, and mild cervical and laryngeal dystonia. Her movement disorder was thought to be related to the haemochromatosis. On further investigation, analysis for the Huntington's disease expansion was positive. A review of the seven published cases of movement disorders associated with HH as well as data concerning brain iron deposition in this condition leads us to debate the causal link between movement disorders and HH. We suggest that movement disorders are rare in association with HH, and that such patients should be thoroughly investigated for another cause for their movement disorder.
In patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) disturbances of mental state constitute some of the most difficult treatment challenges of advanced disease, often limiting effective treatment of motor symptoms and leading to increased disability and poor quality of life. This article provides an update on the current knowledge of these complications and the use of old and new drugs in their management. Mental state alterations in PD include depression, anxiety, cognitive impairment, apathy, and treatment-related psychiatric symptoms. The latter range from vivid dreams and hallucinations to delusions, manic symptoms, hypersexuality, dopamine dysregulation syndrome and delirium. While some of these symptoms may be alleviated by anti-parkinsonian medication, especially if they are off-period related, treatment-related phenomena are usually exacerbated by increasing the number or dosage of antiparkinsonian drugs. Elimination of exacerbating factors and simplification of drug regimes are the first and most important steps in improvement of such symptoms. However, the advent of atypical antipsychotics such as clozapine has dramatically helped the management of treatment-related psychiatric complications in PD. In patients with dementia associated with PD cognitive functioning and behavioural problems appear to respond to cholinesterase inhibitors, such as rivastigmine or donepezil. Depression is a common problem in early as well as advanced PD, and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, reboxetine, and tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to be effective and well tolerated antidepressants. Randomised, controlled studies are required to assess the differential efficacy and tolerability of antidepressants in patients with PD, including the newer antidepressants with serotonergic and noradrenergic properties.




This study was designed to assess the role of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and its receptor in the sensitization of dorsal horn neurons induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin in rats. Extracellular recordings were made from wide dynamic range (WDR) dorsal horn neurons with receptive fields on the hindpaw in the lumbar enlargement of anesthetized rats. The background activity and responses to brushing, pressing, and pinching the skin were assessed. A postsuperfusion or a presuperfusion of CGRP(8-37) paradigm was followed. When tested 30 min after capsaicin injection, there was an increase in background activity and responses to brush, press, and pinch applied to the receptive field. Superfusion of CGRP(8-37) into the spinal cord at 45 min after capsaicin injection significantly reversed the increased background activity and responses to brush, press, and pinch applied to the receptive field. On the other hand, spinal superfusion of CGRP(8-37) prior to capsaicin injection prevented the increased background activity and responses to brush, press, and pinch of WDR neurons that occurred following capsaicin injection in control experiments. A sensitization of spinal dorsal horn neurons could also be induced by superfusion of the spinal cord with CGRP. The effect could be blocked by CGRP(8-37) dose-dependently. Collectively, these results suggest that CGRP and its receptors are involved in the spinal cord central sensitization induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin.
It is currently believed that the acquisition of classically conditioned fear involves potentiation of conditioned thalamic inputs in the lateral amygdala (LA). In turn, LA cells would excite more neurons in the central nucleus (CE) that, via their projections to the brain stem and hypothalamus, evoke fear responses. However, LA neurons do not directly contact brain stem-projecting CE neurons. This is problematic because CE projections to the periaqueductal gray and pontine reticular formation are believed to generate conditioned freezing and fear-potentiated startle, respectively. Moreover, like LA, CE may receive direct thalamic inputs communicating information about the conditioned and unconditioned stimuli. Finally, recent evidence suggests that the CE itself may be a critical site of plasticity. This review attempts to reconcile the current model with these observations. We suggest that potentiated LA outputs disinhibit CE projection neurons via GABAergic intercalated neurons, thereby permitting associative plasticity in CE. Thus plasticity in both LA and CE would be necessary for acquisition of conditioned fear. This revised model also accounts for inhibition of conditioned fear after extinction.
Interaural level differences (ILDs) provide salient cues for localizing high-frequency sounds in space, and populations of neurons that are sensitive to ILDs are found at almost every synaptic level from brain stem to cortex. These cells are predominantly excited by stimulation of one ear and predominantly inhibited by stimulation of the other ear, such that the magnitude of their response is determined in large part by the intensities at the 2 ears. However, in many cases ILD sensitivity is also influenced by overall intensity, which challenges the idea of unambiguous ILD coding. We investigated whether ambiguity is reduced from one synaptic level to another for 2 centers in the so-called ILD processing pathway. We recorded from single cells in the free-tailed bat lateral superior olive (LSO), the first station where ILDs are coded, and the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC), which receives a strong projection from the LSO, as well as convergent projections from many other auditory centers. We assessed effects of overall intensity by comparing ILD functions generated with different fixed intensities to the excitatory ear. LSO cells were characterized by functions that shifted in a systematic manner with increasing intensity to the excitatory ear. In contrast, significantly more ICC cells had functions that were stable across overall sound intensity, indicating that hierarchical transformations increase stability. Furthermore, a population analysis based on proportion of active cells indicated that stability in the ICC was greatly enhanced when overall population activity was considered.
Most neuronal interactions in the cortex occur within local circuits. Because principal cells and GABAergic interneurons contribute differently to cortical operations, their experimental identification and separation is of utmost important. We used 64-site two-dimensional silicon probes for high-density recording of local neurons in layer 5 of the somatosensory and prefrontal cortices of the rat. Multiple-site monitoring of units allowed for the determination of their two-dimensional spatial position in the brain. Of the approximately 60,000 cell pairs recorded, 0.2% showed robust short-term interactions. Units with significant, short-latency (&lt;3 ms) peaks following their action potentials in their cross-correlograms were characterized as putative excitatory (pyramidal) cells. Units with significant suppression of spiking of their partners were regarded as putative GABAergic interneurons. A portion of the putative interneurons was reciprocally connected with pyramidal cells. Neurons physiologically identified as inhibitory and excitatory cells were used as templates for classification of all recorded neurons. Of the several parameters tested, the duration of the unfiltered (1 Hz to 5 kHz) spike provided the most reliable clustering of the population. High-density parallel recordings of neuronal activity, determination of their physical location and their classification into pyramidal and interneuron classes provide the necessary tools for local circuit analysis.
Serotonin is a native neuromodulator of synaptic transmission at glutamatergic neuromuscular junctions of crayfish limb muscles. During times of stress, serotonin binds to presynaptic receptors, which activate adenylyl cyclase to elevate presynaptic levels of cAMP. cAMP binds to two presynaptic target proteins, hyperpolarization and cyclic nucleotide-activated (HCN) ion channels and an exchange protein activated by cAMP (Epac), and activation of these effectors results in enhancement of transmitter release to action potentials. cAMP elevation also results in a small preterminal rise in [Ca(2+)](i), which we show here to result from Ca(2+) influx through the presynaptic HCN channels opened by cAMP. Little or no Ca(2+) influx occurs through voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels, despite the small presynaptic depolarization caused by current through the HCN channels. Loading terminals with BAPTA delays the rise in preterminal [Ca(2+)](i) without affecting the enhancement of transmission to cAMP elevation. This dissociation of the dynamics of the [Ca(2+)](i) rise and synaptic enhancement, plus the small magnitude and location of [Ca(2+)](i) elevation distant from release sites, seems to preclude any direct role for this [Ca(2+)](i) elevation in cAMP-dependent enhancement of transmission.
The motor output of the medial pontomedullary reticular formation (mPMRF) was investigated using stimulus-triggered averaging (StimulusTA) of EMG responses from proximal arm and shoulder muscles in awake, behaving monkeys (M. fascicularis). Muscles studied on the side ipsilateral (i) to stimulation were biceps (iBic), triceps (iTri), anterior deltoid (iADlt), posterior deltoid (iPDlt), and latissimus dorsi (iLat). The upper and middle trapezius were studied on the ipsilateral and contralateral (c) side (iUTr, cUTr, iMTr, cMTr). Of 133 sites tested, 97 (73%) produced a poststimulus effect (PStE) in one or more muscles; on average, 38% of the sampled muscles responded per effective site. For responses that were observed in the arm and shoulder, poststimulus facilitation (PStF) was prevalent for the flexors, iBic (8 responses, 100% PStF) and iADlt (13 responses, 77% PStF), and poststimulus suppression (PStS) was prevalent for the extensors, iTri (22 responses, 96% PStS) and iLat (16 responses, 81% PStS). For trapezius muscles, PStS of upper trapezius (iUTr, 49 responses, 73% PStS) and PStF of middle trapezius (iMTr, 22 responses, 64% PStF) were prevalent ipsilaterally, and PStS of middle trapezius (cMTr, 6 responses, 67% PStS) and PStF of upper trapezius (cUTr, 46 responses, 83% PStS) were prevalent contralaterally. Onset latencies were significantly earlier for PStF (7.0 +/- 2.2 ms) than for PStS (8.6 +/- 2.0 ms). At several sites, extremely strong PStF was evoked in iUTr, even though PStS was most common for this muscle. The anatomical antagonists iBic/iTri were affected reciprocally when both responded. The bilateral muscle pair iUTr/cUTr demonstrated various combinations of effects, but cUTr PStF with iUTr PStS was prevalent. Overall, the results are consistent with data from the cat and show that outputs from the mPMRF can facilitate or suppress activity in muscles involved in reaching; responses that would contribute to flexion of the ipsilateral arm were prevalent.
Over the last 50 yr, environmental enrichment has been shown to generate more than a dozen changes in brain anatomy. The consequences of these physical changes on information processing have not been well studied. In this study, rats were housed in enriched or standard conditions either prior to or after reaching sexual maturity. Evoked potentials from awake rats and extracellular recordings from anesthetized rats were used to document responses of auditory cortex neurons. This report details several significant, new findings about the influence of housing conditions on the responses of rat auditory cortex neurons. First, enrichment dramatically increases the strength of auditory cortex responses. Tone-evoked potentials of enriched rats, for example, were more than twice the amplitude of rats raised in standard laboratory conditions. Second, cortical responses of both young and adult animals benefit from exposure to an enriched environment and are degraded by exposure to an impoverished environment. Third, housing condition resulted in rapid remodeling of cortical responses in &lt;2 wk. Fourth, recordings made under anesthesia indicate that enrichment increases the number of neurons activated by any sound. This finding shows that the evoked potential plasticity documented in awake rats was not due to differences in behavioral state. Finally, enrichment made primary auditory cortex (A1) neurons more sensitive to quiet sounds, more selective for tone frequency, and altered their response latencies. These experiments provide the first evidence of physiologic changes in auditory cortex processing resulting from generalized environmental enrichment.
Two tonotopic areas, the primary auditory cortex (AI) and the anterior auditory field (AAF), are the primary cortical fields in the cat auditory system. They receive largely independent, concurrent thalamocortical projections from the different thalamic divisions despite their hierarchical equivalency. The parallel streams of thalamic inputs to AAF and AI suggest that AAF neurons may differ from AI neurons in physiological properties. Although a modular functional organization in cat AI has been well documented, little is known about the internal organization of AAF beyond tonotopy. We studied how basic receptive field parameters (RFPs) are spatially organized in AAF with single- and multiunit recording techniques. A distorted tonotopicity with an underrepresentation in midfrequencies (1 and 5 kHz) and an overrepresentation in the high-frequency range was found. Spectral bandwidth (Q-values) and response threshold were significantly correlated with characteristic frequency (CF). To understand whether AAF has a modular organization of RFPs, CF dependencies were eliminated by a nonparametric, local regression model, and the residuals (difference between the model and observed values) were evaluated. In a given isofrequency domain, clusters of low or high residual RFP values were interleaved for threshold, spectral bandwidth, and latency, suggesting a modular organization. However, RFP modules in AAF were not expressed as robustly as in AI. A comparison of RFPs between AAF and AI shows that AAF neurons were more broadly tuned and had shorter latencies than AI neurons. These physiological field differences are consistent with anatomical evidence of largely independent, concurrent thalamocortical projections in AI and AAF, which strongly suggest field-specific processing.
The ability of rats using their whiskers to perform fine tactile discrimination rivals that of humans using their fingertips. Rats must perform these discriminations rapidly and accurately while palpating the environment with their whiskers. This suggests that whisker-derived inputs produce a robust and reliable code, capable of capturing complex, high-frequency information. The first neural representation of whisker-derived stimulus information is in primary afferent neurons of the trigeminal ganglion. Here we demonstrate that there is a continuum of direction-dependent response profiles in trigeminal neurons and provide the first quantitative analysis of the encoding of complex stimuli by these neurons. We show that all classes of trigeminal ganglion neurons respond with highly reproducible temporal spike patterns to transient stimuli. Such a robust coding mechanism may allow rapid perception of complex tactile features.
Population spikes vary in size during prolonged epileptic (&quot;ictal&quot;) discharges, indicating variations in neuronal synchronization. Here we investigate the role of changes in tissue electrical resistivity in this process. We used the rat hippocampal slice, low-Ca(2+) model of epilepsy and measured changes in pyramidal layer extracellular resistance during the course of electrographic seizures. During each burst, population spike frequency decreased, whereas amplitude and spatial synchronization increased; after the main discharge, there could be brief secondary discharges that, in contrast with those in the primary discharge, started with high-amplitude population spikes. Mean resistivity increased from 1,231 Omega.cm immediately before the burst to a maximum of 1,507 Omega.cm during the burst. There was no significant increase during the first 0.5-1 s of the field burst, but resistance then increased (tau approximately 5 s), reaching its peak at the end of the burst, and then decayed slowly (tau approximately 10 s). In further experiments, we modulated the efficacy of electrical field effects by changing perfusate osmolarity. Reducing osmolarity by 40-70 mOsm increased preburst resistivity by 19%; it reduced minimum population spike frequency (x0.6-0.7) and increased both maximum population spike amplitude (x1.5-2.3) and spatial synchronization (x1.4-2.5, cross-correlation over 0.5 mm) during bursts. Increasing osmolarity by 20-40 mOsm had the opposite effects. These results suggest that, during each field burst, field effects between neurons gradually become more effective as cells swell, thereby modulating burst dynamics and facilitating the rapid synchronization of secondary discharges.
Previous research has shown that humans generalize distortions of visuomotor feedback in terms of egocentric rotations. We examined whether these rotations are linked to the orientation of the eyes or of the shoulder of the arm that was used. Subjects moved a hand-held cube between target locations in a sequence of adaptation and test phases. During adaptation phases, subjects received either veridical or distorted visual feedback about the location of the cube. The distortions were changes in azimuth either relative to the eyes or to the shoulder. During test phases subjects received no visual feedback. Test phases were performed either with the arm that was exposed to the distorted feedback or with the unexposed arm. We compared test movement endpoints after distorted feedback with ones after veridical feedback. For the exposed arm, the spatial layout of the changes in endpoints clearly reflected the small differences between a rotation around the shoulder and around the eyes. For the unexposed arm, the changes in endpoints were smaller for both types of distortions and were less consistent with the distortions. Thus although the adaptation closely matches the imposed distortion, it does not appear to be directly linked to the orientation of the eyes or of the exposed arm.
Selective activation of neuronal functions by Ca(2+) is determined by the kinetic profile of the intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) signal in addition to its amplitude. Concurrent electrophysiology and ratiometric calcium imaging were used to measure transmembrane Ca(2+) current and the resulting rise and decay of [Ca(2+)](i) in differentiated pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. We show that equal amounts of Ca(2+) entering through N-type and L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels result in significantly different [Ca(2+)](i) temporal profiles. When the contribution of N-type channels was reduced by omega-conotoxin MVIIA treatment, a faster [Ca(2+)](i) decay was observed. Conversely, when the contribution of L-type channels was reduced by nifedipine treatment, [Ca(2+)](i) decay was slower. Potentiating L-type current with BayK8644, or inactivating N-type channels by shifting the holding potential to -40 mV, both resulted in a more rapid decay of [Ca(2+)](i). Channel-specific differences in [Ca(2+)](i) decay rates were abolished by depleting intracellular Ca(2+) stores with thapsigargin or by blocking ryanodine receptors with ryanodine, suggesting the involvement of Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR). Further support for involvement of CICR is provided by the demonstration that caffeine slowed [Ca(2+)](i) decay while ryanodine at high concentrations increased the rate of [Ca(2+)](i) decay. We conclude that Ca(2+) entering through N-type channels is amplified by ryanodine receptor mediated CICR. Channel-specific activation of CICR provides a mechanism whereby the kinetics of intracellular Ca(2+) leaves a fingerprint of the route of entry, potentially encoding the selective activation of a subset of Ca(2+)-sensitive processes within the neuron.
In primary auditory cortex (AI) neurons, tones typically evoke a brief depolarization, which can lead to spiking, followed by a long-lasting hyperpolarization. The extent to which the hyperpolarization is due to synaptic inhibition has remained unclear. Here we report in vivo whole cell voltage-clamp measurements of tone-evoked excitatory and inhibitory synaptic conductances of AI neurons of the pentobarbital-anesthetized rat. Tones evoke an increase of excitatory synaptic conductance, followed by an increase of inhibitory synaptic conductance. The synaptic conductances can account for the gross time course of the typical membrane potential response. Synaptic excitation and inhibition have the same frequency tuning. As tone intensity increases, the amplitudes of synaptic excitation and inhibition increase, and the latency of synaptic excitation decreases. Our data indicate that the interaction of synaptic excitation and inhibition shapes the time course and frequency tuning of the spike responses of AI neurons.
Autofluorescence has been used as an indirect measure of neuronal activity in isolated cell cultures and brain slices, but only to a limited extent in vivo. Intrinsic fluorescence signals reflect the coupling between neuronal activity and mitochondrial metabolism, and are caused by the oxidation/reduction of flavoproteins or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH). The present study evaluated the existence and properties of these autofluorescence signals in the cerebellar cortex of the ketamine/xylazine anesthetized mouse in vivo. Surface stimulation of the unstained cerebellar cortex evoked a narrow, transverse beam of optical activity consisting of a large amplitude, short latency increase in fluorescence followed by a longer duration decrease. The optimal wavelengths for this autofluorescence signal were 420-490 nm for excitation and 515-570 nm for emission, consistent with a flavoprotein origin. The amplitude of the optical signal was linearly related to stimulation amplitude and frequency, and its duration was linearly related to the duration of stimulation. Blocking synaptic transmission demonstrated that a majority of the autofluorescence signal is attributed to activating the postsynaptic targets of the parallel fibers. Hypothesized to be the result of oxidation and subsequent reduction of flavoproteins, blocking mitochondrial respiration with sodium cyanide or inactivation of flavoproteins with diphenyleneiodonium substantially reduced the optical signal. This reduction in the autofluorescence signal was accomplished without altering the presynaptic and postsynaptic components of the electrophysiological response. Results from reflectance imaging and blocking nitric oxide synthase demonstrated that the epifluorescence signal is not the result of changes in hemoglobin oxygenation or blood flow. This flavoprotein autofluorescence signal thus provides a powerful tool to monitor neuronal activity in vivo and its relationship to mitochondrial metabolism.
The thoracic-coxal muscle receptor organ (TCMRO) is the only proprioceptor at the thoracic-coxal joint in the crab leg. The S and T afferent neurons of the TCMRO convey signals to the CNS solely by means of graded changes in membrane potential. The rate of information transfer of these afferents was determined by measuring the signal-to-noise ratio (SNuR) of these cells after repeated stimulation of the receptor with identical sequences of random movement and applying the Shannon formula for the information capacity of a Gaussian channel. Intracellular recordings were made from the S and T afferents adjacent to the transduction site at the origin of the receptor and along the axon 5-7 mm distal to this site. These nonspiking afferents transduce receptor movement and transmit this information with extremely high fidelity. The SNR of both neurons near the transduction site was &gt;1000 over most of the 200 Hz stimulation bandwidth, and the mean information transfer rate was approximately 2,500 bits/s. When calculated over a wider bandwidth of 500 Hz, the information rate was &gt;4,600 bits/s. The effect of axonal cable properties on the information rate was evaluated by determining the SNR from membrane potential recordings made 5-7 mm distal to the transduction region. The major effect of graded transmission along the axon was attenuation and low-pass filtering of the sensory signal. The consequent reduction in signal power and bandwidth decreased the information transfer by approximately 10-15% over 200 Hz and approximately 30% over a 500 Hz bandwidth.
Because humans have limited ability to independently control the many joints of the hand, a wide variety of hand shapes can be characterized as a weighted combination of just two or three main patterns of covariation in joint rotations, or &quot;postural synergies.&quot; The present study sought to align muscle synergies with these main postural synergies and to describe the form of membership of motor units in these postural/muscle synergies. Seventeen joint angles and the electromyographic (EMG) activities of several hand muscles (both intrinsic and extrinsic muscles) were recorded while human subjects held the hand statically in 52 specific shapes (i.e., shaping the hand around 26 commonly grasped objects or forming the 26 letter shapes of a manual alphabet). Principal-components analysis revealed several patterns of muscle synergy, some of which represented either coactivation of all hand muscles, or reciprocal patterns of activity (above and below average levels) in the intrinsic index finger and thumb muscles or (to a lesser extent) in the extrinsic four-tendoned extensor and flexor muscles. Single- and multiunit activity was generally a multimodal function of whole hand shape. This implies that motor-unit activation does not align with a single synergy; instead, motor units participate in multiple muscle synergies. Thus it appears that the organization of the global pattern of hand muscle activation is highly distributed. This organization mirrors the highly fractured somatotopy of cortical hand representations and may provide an ideal substrate for motor learning and recovery from injury.
Cardiovascular and behavioral responses to circulating angiotensin require intact connectivity along the upper lamina terminalis joining the subfornical organ (SFO) with the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO). Whole cell patch-clamp recordings in sagittal rat brain slice preparations revealed that 28/40 MnPO neurons responded to electrical stimulation of SFO efferents with bicuculline-sensitive GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition and glutamate-mediated postsynaptic excitation involving AMPA and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subtypes, blockable with 2,3-dioxo-6nitro-1, 2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo [f] quinoxaline-7-sulfoamide disodium (NBQX) and d-2-amino-4-phosphonovaleric acid (d-APV), respectively. Bath applications of baclofen induced a concentration-dependent (0.3-10 microM) reduction in these SFO-evoked postsynaptic currents, attenuation of SFO-evoked paired-pulse depression, and reduction in frequency (but not amplitude) of miniature postsynaptic currents, consistent with an action at presynaptic GABA(B) receptors. Baclofen's effects on miniature currents lacked sensitivity to barium, omega-conotoxin GVIA, and cadmium. Acting at postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors, baclofen hyperpolarized a majority of MnPO neurons by increasing a G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium conductance and suppressing an N-type high-voltage-activated calcium conductance. The latter contributed to reduction in action potential afterhyperpolarization and enhanced cell firing and spike frequency adaptation when tested with a depolarizing stimulus. All baclofen-induced effects were blockable with CGP52432. CGP52432 alone had no significant effect on SFO-evoked postsynaptic current amplitudes or paired-pulse ratios, but did induce an increase in miniature inhibitory postsynaptic current (mIPSC) frequency in 2/4 cells tested, indicating that ambient levels of GABA could activate presynaptic GABA(B) receptors on undefined inputs. These observations indicate that MnPO neurons receive both a GABAergic and glutamatergic innervation from SFO. Both forms of rapid neurotransmission are subject to modulation via pre- and postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors.
When a moving target disappears and there is a complete absence of visual feedback signals, eye velocity decays rapidly but often recovers to previous levels if there is an expectation the target will reappear further along its trajectory Given that eye velocity cannot be maintained under such circumstances, the anticipatory recovery may function to minimize the developing velocity error. When there is a change in target velocity during a transient, any recovery should ideally be scaled and hence predictive of the expected target velocity at reappearance. This study confirmed that subjects did not maintain eye velocity close to target velocity for the duration of the inter-stimulus interval (ISI). The majority of subjects exhibited an initial reduction in eye velocity followed by a scaled recovery prior to target reappearance. Eye velocity during the ISI was, therefore, predictive of the expected change in target velocity. These behavioral data were simulated using a model in which gain applied to the visuomotor drive is reduced after the loss of visual feedback and then modulated depending on subject's expectation regarding the target's future trajectory.
The most visible and, until very recently, the only hypothesis regarding the involvement of microglial cells in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis is centered around the notion that activated microglia are neurotoxin-producing immune effector cells actively involved in causing the neurodegeneration that is the cause for AD dementia. The concept of detrimental neuroinflammation has gained a strong foothold in the AD arena and is being expanded to other neurodegenerative diseases. This review takes a comprehensive and critical look at the overall evidence supporting the neuroinflammation hypothesis and points out some weaknesses. The current work also reviews evidence for an alternative theory, the microglial dysfunction hypothesis, which, although eliminating some of the shortcomings, does not necessarily negate the amyloid/neuroinflammation theory. The microglial dysfunction theory offers a different perspective on the identity of activated microglia and their role in AD pathogenesis taking into account the most recent insights gained from studying basic microglial biology.
We have shown previously that myelin-forming oligodendrocytes express the protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1 and that myelin formation was decreased in SHP-1-deficient motheaten mice compared to that in normal littermates. These studies suggested a potential importance for SHP-1 in oligodendrocyte and myelin development. To address further this possibility, we analyzed myelin formation by microscopy and myelin basic protein (MBP) gene expression in motheaten mice at ages when myelination occurs in the developing central nervous system (CNS). Furthermore, we correlate these findings with MBP gene expression in oligodendrocytes grown in vitro. We have found that CNS myelination was significantly reduced in SHP-1-deficient mice relative to their normal littermates at multiple times during the active period of myelination. Under electron microscopy, greater numbers of axons in spinal cords of motheaten mice were either unmyelinated or had thinner myelin sheathes compared to those in matched areas of normal littermates. Accordingly, MBP protein and mRNA levels were reduced in SHP-1-deficient mice compared to that in the CNS of normal littermates. In vitro, O1(+) oligodendrocytes from motheaten mice expressed much less MBP than O1(+) oligodendrocytes of normal littermates indicating an alteration in oligodendrocyte differentiation. The latter correlated with reduced MBP mRNA relative to cerebroside galactosyl transferase (CGT) gene mRNA in SHP-1-deficient oligodendrocytes in purified cultures. We propose that SHP-1 is a critical regulator of developmental signals leading to terminal differentiation and myelin sheath formation by oligodendrocytes.
We have investigated the presence of different glycoforms of cystatin C secreted by adult hippocampal rat-derived stem/progenitor cells (AHPs) into conditioned medium. A glycosylated form of cystatin C (CCg) has been identified previously in conditioned medium from AHPs as an autocrine/paracrine cofactor. Fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) requires cooperation with CCg to support AHP survival at low density in vitro. The purpose of the present study was to investigate further if cystatin C consists of one glycoform or if several different glycoforms are secreted by AHPs in vitro. The presence of the glycoforms was studied using enzymatic deglycosylation in conjunction with gel electrophoresis and Western blotting. The glycoforms of cystatin C were isolated with a combination of gel electrophoresis and electroelution, yielding the intact glycoforms in liquid phase before enzymatic deglycosylation. Our results revealed several novel glycoforms, in contrast to previous publication. The results suggest that N- and O-linked glycans with sialic acid are attached to cystatin C. Furthermore, we have demonstrated that all glycoforms are present in conditioned medium after only 48 hr of culturing and that all nestin-positive AHPs are immunopositive against cystatin C. These findings suggest secretion of the glycoforms by cultured AHPs.


Despite a preponderance of studies demonstrating gene expression and/or enzymatic activation of calpain and caspase proteases after traumatic brain injury (TBI), no studies have examined the effects of injury magnitude on expression levels of these cell death effectors after TBI. Determination of the degree to which injury severity affects specific expression profiles is critical to understanding the relevant pathways contributing to post-trauma pathology and for developing targeted therapeutics. This investigation tested the hypothesis that different injury magnitudes (1.0, 1.2, and 1.6 mm) cause alterations in the regional and temporal patterns of mRNA expression of calpain-related (calpain-1 and -2, calpastatin) and caspase-related (caspases -3, -8, -9, BID) gene products after cortical impact in rats. Quantitative RT-PCR was used to compare effects of injury severity on mRNA levels in ipsilateral (injured) cortex and hippocampus, 6 h to 5 days post-injury. TBI caused increases in mRNA expression of all proteins examined, with the highest expression detected in the cortex. Generally, injury magnitude and levels of gene expression were positively correlated. High levels of gene induction were observed with BID, caspase-3, and -8, while caspase-9 mRNA had the lowest level of induction. Interestingly, although calpains are activated within minutes of TBI, calpain mRNA expression was highest 72 h to 5 days post-TBI. This study is the first analysis of the regional and temporal expression of calpains and caspases after TBI. These data provide insight into the inter-relationship of these two protease families and on the distinct but overlapping cascades of cell death after TBI.

A-317491 is a potent and selective antagonist of P2X3 and P2X(2/3) receptors. In the present studies, the ability of [3H]A-317491 to label recombinant human P2X(2/3) and P2X(3) receptors was characterized. Using membranes prepared from 1321N1 cells expressing P2X(2/3) receptors, [3H]A-317491 specifically labeled high-affinity (Kd = 0.9 nM) recognition sites. High-affinity [3H]A-317491 binding was not detected in membrane preparations from native 1321N1 cells or cells expressing homomeric P2X1, P2X2, or P2X3 receptors. Specific [3H]A-317491 P2X3 receptors could only be reliably detected following treatment of intact P2X3 receptor-expressing cells with apyrase (1 U/ml) both before and during membrane preparation. Under these conditions, [3H]A-317491 also labeled high-affinity (Kd = 9 nM) binding sites. Lower affinity binding components (Kd values of 87-790 nM) were detected in both assays using higher ligand concentrations that likely represent nonfunctional recognition sites. [3H]A-317491 binding to both P2X(2/3) and P2X3 receptors was reversible, and ligand kinetic studies provided similar estimates of the high-affinity binding constants. Potent P2X3 receptor agonists 2-methylthio-ATP, 2,3-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)-ATP, and alpha,beta-methylene adenosine triphosphate also potently inhibited specific [3H]A-317491 binding to both P2X(2/3) and P2X3 receptors. The pharmacological profile for P2X receptor antagonists to inhibit [3H]A-317491 binding to P2X(2/3) and P2X3 receptors was highly correlated (r = 0.98, P &lt; 0.05), and a similar rank order of potency was observed for blockade of P2X(2/3) receptor-mediated calcium influx. These data demonstrate that [3H]A-317491 is the first useful radioligand for the specific labeling of P2X3-containing channels.
Levetiracetam (LEV) (Keppra; UCB Pharma, Brussels, Belgium) has recently been reported to have antidyskinetic activity against levodopa (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmoset and macaque models of Parkinson's disease. Amantadine is frequently used as adjunctive therapy for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, but adverse effects limit its clinical utility. The current study was designed to investigate whether LEV can potentiate the antidyskinetic action of amantadine. The antiparkinsonian and antidyskinetic effects of LEV (13 and 60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, and 0.3 mg/kg), administered alone and in combination, were assessed in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (n = 12). LEV (60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.3 mg/kg) administered alone significantly reduced l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia without compromising the antiparkinsonian action of l-DOPA. Lower doses were without any significant effects. The combination of LEV (60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, and 0.3 mg/kg) significantly decreased dyskinesia severity, without compromising the antiparkinsonian action of L-DOPA, more efficaciously than LEV or amantadine monotherapy. These results support the concept that normalization of different pathophysiological mechanisms (i.e., altered synchronization between neurons and enhanced N-methyl-D-aspartate transmission) has a greater efficacy. Combined LEV/amantadine therapy might be useful as an adjunct to L-DOPA to treat dyskinetic side effects and to expand the population of Parkinson's disease patients who benefit from treatment with amantadine alone.
Opioid peptides exert diverse physiological functions through their cognate receptors. One subtype of the opioid receptors, kappa-opioid receptor, is endogenously expressed in human monocytic THP-1 cells. Stimulation of the THP-1 cells with a kappa-opioid receptor-selective agonist exerted a Gi-dependent activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). To further investigate the signaling mechanism by which the kappa-opioid receptor regulates JNK activity, heterologous expression assays in COS-7 cells were utilized. Overexpression of Galphat in COS-7 cells clearly suppressed kappa-opioid receptor-stimulated JNK activity, indicating that the pathway is primarily regulated by Gbetagamma. In both THP-1 and transfected COS-7 cells, pretreatment of the selective Src family kinase inhibitor pyrazolopyrimidine PP1 abolished the JNK activation, whereas the epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor AG1478 [N-(3-chlorophenyl)-6,7-dimethoxy-4-quinazolinanine] failed to do that. Furthermore, the JNK activation in response to kappa-opioid receptor was suppressed by an autophosphorylation-resistant mutant of focal adhesion kinase (FAK). Consistently, activated kappa-opioid receptor induced Src stimulation and FAK autophosphorylation and promoted the formation of Src-FAK complex. The participation of small GTPases as well as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor was also implicated because dominant-negative mutants of Rac, Cdc42, and Son-of-sevenless (Sos) attenuated the agonist-induced activation of JNK. These studies demonstrate that the activation of JNK by kappa-opioid receptors is routed via Gbetagamma, Src, FAK, Sos, Rac, and Cdc42.
We investigated the effects of single and repeated administrations of S-312-d (methyl-4,7-dihydro-3-isobutyl-6-methyl-4-(3-nitrophenyl)-thieno-[2,3-b]pyridine-5-carboxylate), a newly synthesized L-type Ca(2+)-channel blocker, on tonic convulsions and absence-like seizures in the spontaneously epileptic rat (SER: zi/zi, tm/tm), a genetically based animal model of human epilepsy. Single oral administrations of S-312-d dose-dependently inhibited tonic convulsions and the effects lasted for more than 2 h, although they did not attenuate the absence-like seizures. We also examined the effects of repeated administrations of S-312-d at 1 mg/kg once a day for 4 days on SER. A significant decrease in the number and total duration of tonic convulsions was observed 45 and 75 min after the first administration of the drug, respectively. The effects lasted for 24 h without changes in the background EEG or blood pressure. This inhibitory effect on the tonic convulsions was gradually strengthened by subsequent daily administrations of S-312-d and lasted for 3 days after the cessation of drug treatment. In contrast, the repeated treatment with S-312-d did not influence absence-like seizures of SER. These results suggest that S-312-d is a candidate drug that has antiepileptic effects against the convulsive seizures in human epilepsy.
Light depolarizes retinal On bipolar cells, opening the cation-selective channels that are responsible for producing the synaptic current. In this study, the basic features of light-induced signals were mimicked by bathing slices of salamander retina with an agonist for the mGluR6 receptor that is expressed on the dendrites of On cells, and then displacing the agonist with the mGluR6 antagonist (RS)-a-cyclopropyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine (CPPG). The transduction current that is activated by this protocol rapidly shuts off, or desensitizes. Desensitization was highly correlated with the concentration and the type of Ca2+ buffer that was dialysed into the cell: When Ca2+ buffering was minimized by dialysing cells with 0.5 mM EGTA, the steady-state response was reduced to approximately 40% of the peak response. Buffering with 10 mM EGTA reduced desensitization, while BAPTA completely eliminated it. Removing external Ca2+ also prevented desensitization, suggesting that entry of Ca2+ through the transduction channel provides the trigger. The time course of desensitization was measured by using a voltage jump protocol to rapidly increase Ca2+ influx, and could be fitted with a single time constant on the order of 1 s, in good agreement with previously published rates of desensitization to steps of light in this species. It is proposed that Ca(2+)-dependent shut-off of the On bipolar cell transduction current may contribute to the conversion of sustained to transient light responses that predominate in the inner retina.
NR1/NR2D NMDA receptors display unusually slow deactivation kinetics which may be critical for their role as extrasynaptic receptors. A threonine to alanine point mutation has been inserted at amino acid position 692 of the NR2D subunit (T692A). Recombinant NR1a/NR2D(T692A) NMDA receptors have been expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes and their pharmacological and single-channel properties examined using two-electrode voltage-clamp and patch-clamp recording techniques. Glutamate dose-response curves from NR1a/NR2D(T692A) receptor channels produced an approximately 1600-fold reduction in glutamate potency compared to wild-type NR1a/NR2D receptors. There was no change in Hill slopes or gross reduction in mean maximal currents recorded in oocytes expressing either wild-type or mutant receptors. The mutation did not affect the potency of the co-agonist glycine. The shifts in potency produced by NR2D(T692A) containing receptors when activated by other glutamate-site agonists such as aspartate or NMDA were 30- to 60-fold compared to wild-type. Single-channel conductance levels of NR1a/NR2D(T692A) mutant receptors were indistinguishable from wild-type NR2D-containing channels. Additionally NR1a/NR2D(T692A) receptors showed the transitional asymmetry that is characteristic of NR2D-containing NMDA receptors. Rapid applications of glutamate on outside-out patches containing NR1a/NR2D(T692A) receptors produced macroscopic current deactivations that were about 60-fold faster than wild-type NR1a/NR2D receptors. Our results suggest that this conserved threonine residue plays a crucial role in ligand binding to NMDA NR2 receptor subunits and supports the idea that the slow decay kinetics associated with NR1a/NR2D NMDA receptors can be explained by the slow dissociation of glutamate from this NMDA receptor subtype.
A goal of low-level neural processes is to build an efficient code extracting the relevant information from the sensory input. It is believed that this is implemented in cortical areas by elementary inferential computations dynamically extracting the most likely parameters corresponding to the sensory signal. We explore here a neuro-mimetic feed-forward model of the primary visual area (VI) solving this problem in the case where the signal may be described by a robust linear generative model. This model uses an over-complete dictionary of primitives which provides a distributed probabilistic representation of input features. Relying on an efficiency criterion, we derive an algorithm as an approximate solution which uses incremental greedy inference processes. This algorithm is similar to 'Matching Pursuit' and mimics the parallel architecture of neural computations. We propose here a simple implementation using a network of spiking integrate-and-fire neurons which communicate using lateral interactions. Numerical simulations show that this Sparse Spike Coding strategy provides an efficient model for representing visual data from a set of natural images. Even though it is simplistic, this transformation of spatial data into a spatio-temporal pattern of binary events provides an accurate description of some complex neural patterns observed in the spiking activity of biological neural networks.
We use dynamic clamp to construct &quot;hybrid&quot; thalamic circuits by connecting a biological neuron in situ to silicon- or software-generated &quot;neurons&quot; through artificial synapses. The purpose is to explore cellular sensory gating mechanisms that regulate the transfer efficiency of signals during different sleep-wake states. Hybrid technology is applied in vitro to different paradigms such as: (1) simulating interactions between biological thalamocortical neurons, artificial reticular thalamic inhibitory interneurons and a simulated sensory input, (2) grafting an artificial sensory input to a wholly biological thalamic network that generates spontaneous sleep-like oscillations, (3) injecting in thalamocortical neurons a background synaptic bombardment mimicking the activity of corticothalamic inputs. We show that the graded control of the strength of intrathalamic inhibition, combined with the membrane polarization and the fluctuating synaptic noise in thalamocortical neurons, is able to govern functional shifts between different input/output transmission states of the thalamic gate.
During intense network activity in vivo, cortical neurons are in a high-conductance state, in which the membrane potential (V(m)) is subject to a tremendous fluctuating activity. Clearly, this &quot;synaptic noise&quot; contains information about the activity of the network, but there are presently no methods available to extract this information. We focus here on this problem from a computational neuroscience perspective, with the aim of drawing methods to analyze experimental data. We start from models of cortical neurons, in which high-conductance states stem from the random release of thousands of excitatory and inhibitory synapses. This highly complex system can be simplified by using global synaptic conductances described by effective stochastic processes. The advantage of this approach is that one can derive analytically a number of properties from the statistics of resulting V(m) fluctuations. For example, the global excitatory and inhibitory conductances can be extracted from synaptic noise, and can be related to the mean activity of presynaptic neurons. We show here that extracting the variances of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic conductances can provide estimates of the mean temporal correlation-or level of synchrony-among thousands of neurons in the network. Thus, &quot;probing the network&quot; through intracellular V(m) activity is possible and constitutes a promising approach, but it will require a continuous effort combining theory, computational models and intracellular physiology.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measures the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal related to neuronal activity. So far, this technique has been limited by time-consuming data analysis impeding on-line analysis. In particular, no brain-computer interface (BCI) was available which provided on-line feedback to learn physiological self-regulation of the BOLD signal. Recently, studies have shown that fMRI feedback is feasible and facilitates voluntary control of brain activity. Here we review these studies to make the fMRI feedback methodology accessible to a broader scientific community such as researchers concerned with functional brain imaging and the neurobiology of learning. Methodological and conceptual limitations were substantially reduced by artefact control, sensitivity improvements, real-time algorithms, and adapted experimental designs. Physiological self-regulation of the local BOLD response is a new paradigm for cognitive neuroscience to study brain plasticity and the functional relevance of regulated brain areas by modification of behaviour. Voluntary control of abnormal activity in circumscribed brain areas may even be applied as psychophysiological treatment.
We report the results of an experiment investigating the ramifications of using space to express coreference in American Sign Language (ASL). Nominals in ASL can be associated with locations in signing space, and pronouns are directed toward those locations to convey coreference. A probe recognition technique was used to investigate the case of &quot;locus doubling&quot; in which a single referent is associated with two distinct spatial locations. The experiment explored whether an ASL pronoun activates both its antecedent referent and the location associated with that referent. An introductory discourse associated a referent (e.g, MOTHER) with two distinct locations (eg., STOREleft, KITCHENright), and a continuation sentence followed that either contained a pronoun referring to the referent in one location or contained no anaphora (the control sentence). Twenty-four deaf participants made lexical decisions to probe signs presented during the continuation sentences. The probe signs were either the referent of the pronoun, the referent-location determined by the pronoun, or the most recently mentioned location (not referenced by the pronoun). The results indicated that response times to referent nouns were faster in the pronoun than in the no-pronoun control condition and that response times to the location signs did not differ across conditions. Thus, the spatial nature of coreference in ASL does not alter the processing mechanism underlying the on-line interpretation of pronouns. Pronouns activate only referent nouns, not spatial location nouns associated with the referent.


Although cells of monocytic lineage are the primary source of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) in the brain, other cell types in the central nervous system, including astrocytes, can harbor a latent or persistent HIV-1 infection. In the present study, we examined whether immature, multipotential human brain-derived progenitor cells (nestin positive) are also permissive for infection. When exposed to IIIB and NL4-3 strains of HIV-1, progenitor cells and progenitor-derived astrocytes became infected, with peak p24 levels of 100 to 500 pg/ml at 3 to 6 days postinfection. After 10 days, virus production was undetectable but could be stimulated by the addition of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). To bypass limitations to receptor entry, we compared the fate of infection in these cell populations by transfection with the infectious HIV-1 clone, pNL4-3. Again, transfected progenitors and astrocytes produced virus for 7 days but diminished to low levels beyond 8 days posttransfection. During the nonproductive phase, TNF-alpha stimulated virus production from progenitors as late as 5 weeks posttransfection. Astrocytes produced 5- to 20-fold more infectious virus (27 ng of p24/10(6) cells) than progenitors at the peak of 3 days posttransfection. Differentiation of infected progenitors toward an astrocyte phenotype increased virus production to levels consistent with infected astrocytes, suggesting a phenotypic difference in viral replication. Using this cell culture system of multipotential human brain-derived progenitor cells, we provide evidence that progenitor cells may be a reservoir for HIV-1 in the brains of AIDS patients.

Atrial fibrillation and severe carotid-artery stenosis are well-characterised risk factors for stroke; each is present in about a fifth of patients. The identification of such risk factors in patients is important because their presence calls for specific secondary prevention strategies. One region of the circulation that has received limited attention as a source of thrombus is the aortic arch. However, aortic arch atheroma is a common post-mortem finding, and it seems reasonable to speculate that atheroma might give rise to thrombi with distal embolism to the arterial tree, including the cerebral circulation. Here we review the evidence for aortic-arch atheroma as an important independent risk factor for stroke, and show that studies of the risk of stroke indicate a four times greater odds of stroke in patients with severe arch atheroma.

Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) are members of a superfamily of nuclear hormone receptors. Activation of PPAR isoforms elicits both antineoplastic and anti-inflammatory effects in several types of mammalian cells. PPARs are ligand-activated transcription factors and have a subfamily of three different isoforms: PPAR alpha, PPAR gamma, and PPAR beta/delta. All isoforms heterodimerise with the 9-cis-retinoic acid receptor RXR, and play an important part in the regulation of several metabolic pathways, including lipid biosynthesis and glucose metabolism. Endogenous ligands of PPAR gamma include long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids, eicosanoid derivates, and oxidised lipids. Newly developed synthetic ligands include thiazolidinediones-a group of potent PPAR gamma agonists and antidiabetic agents. Here, we review PPAR gamma-induced antineoplastic signalling pathways, and summarise the antineoplastic effects of PPAR gamma agonists in different cancer cell lines, animal models, and clinical trials.
Mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene inducing abnormal processing and deposition of beta-amyloid protein in the brain have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although Tg2576 mice with the Swedish mutation (hAPPswe) exhibit age-related Abeta-plaque formation in brain regions like the hippocampus, the amygdala, and the cortex, these mice show a rather specific deficit in hippocampal-dependent learning and memory tasks. In view of recent findings showing that neural systems subserving different forms of learning are not simply independent but that depressing or enhancing one system affects learning in another system, we decided to investigate fronto-striatal synaptic plasticity and related procedural learning in these mutants. Fronto-striatal long-term depression (LTD) induced by tetanic stimulation of the cortico-striatal input was similar in Tg2576 and wild-type control mice. Behavioral data, however, pointed to an enhancement of procedural learning in the mutants that showed robust motor-based learning in the cross maze and higher active avoidance scores. Thus, in this mouse model of AD, an intact striatal function associated with an impaired hippocampal function seems to provide neural conditions favorable to procedural learning. Our results suggest that focusing on preserved or enhanced forms of learning in AD patients might be of interest to describe the functional reorganization of the brain when one memory system is selectively compromised by neurological disease.
Previous studies have indicated that nonhuman animals might have a capacity for episodic-like recall reflected in memory for &quot;what&quot; events that happened &quot;where&quot; and &quot;when&quot;. These studies did not identify the brain structures that are critical to this capacity. Here we trained rats to remember single training episodes, each composed of a series of odors presented in different places on an open field. Additional assessments examined the individual contributions of odor and spatial cues to judgments about the order of events. The results indicated that normal rats used a combination of spatial (&quot;where&quot;) and olfactory (&quot;what&quot;) cues to distinguish &quot;when&quot; events occurred. Rats with lesions of the hippocampus failed in using combinations of spatial and olfactory cues, even as evidence from probe tests and initial sampling behavior indicated spared capacities for perception of spatial and odor cues, as well as some form of memory for those individual cues. These findings indicate that rats integrate &quot;what,&quot; &quot;where,&quot; and &quot;when&quot; information in memory for single experiences, and that the hippocampus is critical to this capacity.
Operant and classical conditioning are major processes shaping behavioral responses in all animals. Although the understanding of the mechanisms of classical conditioning has expanded significantly, the understanding of the mechanisms of operant conditioning is more limited. Recent developments in Aplysia are helping to narrow the gap in the level of understanding between operant and classical conditioning, and have raised the possibility of studying the neuronal processes underlying the interaction of operant and classical components in a relatively complex learning task. In the present study, we describe a first step toward realizing this goal, by developing a single in vitro preparation in which both operant and classical conditioning can be studied concurrently. The new paradigm reproduced previously published results, even under more conservative and homogenous selection criteria and tonic stimulation regime. Moreover, the observed learning was resistant to delay, shortening, and signaling of reinforcement.




Over the past several decades, researchers have made large advances in unraveling the pathogenesis of HIV-related neurological disease leading to substantial benefits for affected individuals. Concomitant advances in HIV-treatment have changed the landscape of HIV care, resulting in alterations in HIV neuroepidemiolgy and potentially the neuropathogenesis of cognitive disorders. Specifically, widespread ARV medications use has heightened our awareness of mitochondrial toxicity, oxidative stress, and metabolic abnormalities and stimulated more research into the related cognitive consequences. Specific sources of oxidative stress among HIV-1-infected individuals to be discussed in this article include the direct effects of HIV-1, chronic immune activation in response to HIV-1 and other pathogens, and co-morbid factors. Continued research in this area could provide novel therapeutic targets.
Many cholinergic parasympathetic and enteric neurons require neurturin signaling through GDNF family receptor GFRalpha2 for target innervation. Since a distinct minority of sympathetic neurons are cholinergic, we examined whether GFRalpha2 is important for their development. We detected GFRalpha2 in neonatal sympathetic cholinergic neurons and neurturin mRNA in their target tissues, sweat glands in footpads, and periosteum. Lack of GFRalpha2 in mice did not affect the number of sympathetic cholinergic neurons, but their soma size was decreased in comparison to wild types. In adult and in 3-week-old GFRalpha2 knockout mice, the density of sympathetic cholinergic innervation was reduced by 50-70% in the sweat glands, and was completely absent in the periosteum. Sympathetic noradrenergic innervation of blood vessels in the footpads was unchanged. The density of sympathetic axons in sweat glands was unaffected at postnatal day P4 reflecting successful growth into the target area. Our results indicate that the cholinergic subpopulation of sympathetic neurons requires GFRalpha2 signaling for soma size and for growth or maintenance of target innervation. Thus, neurturin may be a general target-derived innervation factor for postganglionic cholinergic neurons in all parts of the autonomic nervous system.
We have investigated functional roles of EphA/ephrin-A signaling in the development and function of the nigrostriatal system by overexpressing a soluble, broad-range EphA receptor antagonist in the central nervous system of transgenic mice. Adult transgenic mice showed a 30-40% reduction in the total volume of the substantia nigra (SN) without detectable differences in the number of dopaminergic neurons. Using fluorogold retrograde tracing from the striatum, we detected a 40-50% reduction in the number of dopaminergic neurons that could be traced from this structure in transgenic mice, suggesting that, a lower proportion of these cells were able to reach the striatum after disruption of EphA/ephrin-A signaling. In spite of this, total dopamine content in the striatum of transgenic mice was comparable to wild type. Analysis of locomotor activity and its regulation by pharmacological treatments that stimulate dopaminergic transmission revealed an unexpected dissociation of the behavioral responses to amphetamine and cocaine. In particular, transgenic mice were relatively insensitive to amphetamine while retaining normal responsiveness to cocaine, which, to the best of our knowledge, represents the first report of a dissociation of the behavioral responses to these two psychostimulants. Together, these results reveal an unexpected role for EphA/ephrin-A signaling in the normal connectivity and function of midbrain dopaminergic neurons.
The GnRH receptor (GnRHR) is a heptahelical G protein-coupled receptor found in the plasma membrane of pituitary gonadotropes. GnRHR mutants isolated from patients with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH) are frequently mislocalized proteins that can be restored to function by pharmacological chaperones. Nonfunctional HH mutants inhibit ligand binding and ligand-activated second messenger production by wild-type (WT) receptor when both are coexpressed in vitro. In this study, confocal microscopy of fluorescently labeled GnRHR was used to show that the dominant-negative effect, which occurs for human (but not for rodent) GnRHR, results from WT receptor retention in the endoplasmic reticulum by mislocalized mutants. Mutants hGnRHR(E90K), hGnRHR(L266R), and hGnRHR(S168R) were selected for study because they are known to be fully rescuable, partially rescuable, or nonrescuable (respectively) by a specific pharmacological chaperone. This chaperone corrects folding errors and promotes correct intracellular routing. Using this drug we showed that correcting routing of the mutant protein also rescues the WT receptor. Because of the large number of human diseases that appear to be caused by defective protein folding and subsequent mislocalization, it is likely that endoplasmic reticulum retention is a common cause of dominant-negative actions for other diseases involving G protein-coupled receptors, as appears to be the case in HH and for which there exists a potential therapeutic agent.
By acting through retinal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), acetylcholine plays an important role in the development of both the retina and central visual pathways. Ligand binding and immunoprecipitation studies with subunit-specific antibodies showed that the expression of alphaBungarotoxin (alphaBgtx) and high-affinity epibatidine (Epi) receptors is regulated developmentally and increases until postnatal day 21 (P21). The increase in Epi receptors is caused by a selective increase in the subtypes containing the alpha2, alpha4, alpha6, beta2, and beta3 subunits. Immunopurification studies revealed three major populations of Epi receptors on P21: alpha6(*) receptors (26%), which contain the alpha6beta3beta2, alpha6alpha4beta3beta2, and alpha6alpha3/alpha2beta3beta2 subtypes; alpha4(non-alpha6)(*) receptors (60%), which contain the alpha2alpha4beta2 and alpha4beta2 subtypes; and (non-alpha4/non-alpha6)(*) receptors (14%), which contain the alpha2beta2/beta4 and alpha3beta2/beta4 subtypes. These three populations can be pharmacologically discriminated using alphaconotoxin MII, which binds the alpha6(*) population with high affinity. In situ hybridization showed that the transcripts for all of the subunits are heterogeneously distributed throughout retinal neurons at P21, with alpha3, alpha6, and beta3 transcripts preferentially concentrated in the ganglion cell layer, alpha5 in the inner nuclear layer, and alpha4 and beta2 distributed rather homogeneously. To investigate whether nAChR expression is affected by visual experience, we also studied dark-reared P21 rats. Visual deprivation had no effect on the expression of alphaBgtx receptors or the developmentally regulated Epi receptors containing the alpha2, alpha6, and/or beta3 subunits but significantly increased the expression of the Epi receptors containing the alpha4 and beta2 subunits. Overall, this study demonstrates that the retina is the rat neural region that expresses the widest array of nAChR subtypes. These receptors have a specific distribution, and their expression is finely regulated during development and by visual experience.
We report on an uncommon manifestation of molecularly proven neuroacanthocytosis in a 32-year-old man in whom dyspnea with desaturation while awake accompanied by continuous involuntary belching were the major consequences of the disease.
By examining two previously described families with rapid-onset dystonia parkinsonism, we have identified a key recombination event that places the disease locus (DYT12) into a 5.9 cM interval flanked by markers D19S224 and D19S900. Evaluation of a positional candidate gene, the glutamate receptor subunit GRIK5, revealed no mutations.
Although vascular hemichorea/hemiballism (HC/HB) has been reported to be self-limited, in some cases, it can be irreversible and severely disabling. The standard treatment includes typical and atypical neuroleptics and GABA-mimetic drugs. Topiramate is a new antiepileptic drug possessing a complex mechanism of action, including the enhancement of GABA-mediated inhibition. We describe a 71-year-old patient with HC/HB who markedly improved after topiramate treatment.
A retrospective analysis was carried out on 39 parkinsonian patients on clozapine treatment &gt;/=24 months for psychosis. The cohort had a mean age of 76 years and an average clozapine dose of 47 mg/day over 60 months of clozapine use. Of 39 patients, 13 (33%) patients were eventually admitted to nursing homes, 6 (46%) of whom died over a period of 5 years. The overall 5-year mortality rate in this cohort was 44% (17/39). Of 39 patients, 33 (85%) had continued partial/good response and 5 (13%) had complete resolution of psychosis. None discontinued clozapine due to motor worsening. Among patients who responded early on, the long-term efficacy of clozapine for psychosis was sustained. The risk of nursing home placement and mortality among parkinsonian patients treated with clozapine for psychosis in this geriatric cohort was better than that reported previously. Our data are more consistent with recently published long-term outcome data suggesting an improvement in the prognosis of parkinsonian patients with psychosis with the use of atypical antipsychotic agents such as clozapine.
We describe an uncommon movement disorder after stroke. A 70-year-old man was admitted for a right thalamic haemorrhage and 1 week later developed bilateral contractions of the face. Electromyographic study revealed a bilateral facial dystonia. The association of this bilateral facial dystonia and vertical gaze palsy produced the aspect of a &quot;risus sardonicus.&quot;
Orthostatic tremor (OT) is a rare condition characterized by unsteadiness when standing still that is relieved when sitting or walking and is thought to arise from a central generator in the cerebellum or brainstem. OT is considered to be a distinct, discrete condition, and little is known about its demographic characteristics, natural history, associated features, and treatment response. We have reviewed these aspects in 41 OT patients fulfilling current diagnostic criteria, seen at our institution between 1986 and 2001. We classified 31 (75%) as having idiopathic &quot;primary OT&quot; either with (n = 24) or without an associated postural arm tremor. We found that 10 of 41 (25%) cases had additional neurological features, and we defined this group as having &quot;OT plus&quot; syndrome. Of these 10, 6 had parkinsonism; 4 of these had typical Parkinson's disease (PD), 1 had vascular and 1 had drug-induced parkinsonism. Among the remaining 4 patients, 2 had restless legs syndrome (RLS), 1 had tardive dyskinesia, and 1 orofacial dyskinesias of uncertain etiology. One patient with PD and the patient with vascular parkinsonism also had RLS. Age at onset was significantly earlier in the &quot;primary OT&quot; (mean +/- SD, 50.4 +/- 15.1) than in the &quot;OT plus&quot; (61.8 +/- 6.4; z = 2.7; P =.006) group. In 7 of the 10 &quot;OT plus&quot; patients, OT leg symptoms preceded the onset of additional neurological features. OT appeared to be underdiagnosed, and on average, it took 5.7 years from the initial complaints until a diagnosis was made. In general, treatment response to a variety of drugs such as clonazepam, primidone, and levodopa was poor. In most cases, OT symptoms remain relatively unchanged over the years, but in 6 of 41 cases (15%), the condition gradually worsened over the years, and in some of these cases, symptoms spread proximally to involve the trunk and arms. OT may not be a discrete disorder as commonly believed and associated features like parkinsonism present in nearly 25% of cases. Dopaminergic dysfunction may have a role in the pathophysiology of this disorder.
Four patients with a novel mutation leading to episodic ataxia type 2 were studied in a task that required them to track target motion either with the eyes or with the index finger of the right hand. The target initially moved in a straight line and then changed direction at an unpredictable time by an unpredictable amount. On the day of testing, 3 of the patients were evaluated as normal on a neurological exam, whereas the fourth was severely ataxic. Nevertheless, all 4 showed deficits in tracking behavior with common features. Ocular tracking tended to result in hypermetric saccades at longer than normal latencies. Smooth pursuit tracking was absent in 1 patient and had lower than normal gain in the others. Deficits in manual tracking showed similarities to the deficits in ocular tracking, with hypermetric compensations for changes in target direction. The similarities in the deficits in manual and ocular tracking suggest that they are subject to similar control by the cerebellar structures.
Dystonia of the limbs may be due to a wide range of aetiologies and may cause major functional limitation. We investigated whether the previously described pathological 4 to 7 Hz drive to muscles in cervical dystonia is present in patients with aetiologically different types of dystonia of the upper and lower limbs. To this end, we studied 12 symptomatic and 4 asymptomatic carriers of the DYT1 gene, 6 patients with symptomatic dystonia due to focal basal ganglia lesions, and 11 patients with fixed dystonia, a condition assumed to be mostly psychogenic in aetiology. We evaluated EMG-EMG coherence in the tibialis anterior (TA) of these and 15 healthy control subjects. Ten of 12 (83%) of symptomatic DYT1 patients had an excessive 4 to 7 Hz common drive to TA, evident as an inflated coherence in this band. This drive also involved the gastrocnemius, leading to co-contracting electromyographic bursts. In contrast, asymptomatic DYT1 carriers, patients with symptomatic dystonia, patients with fixed dystonia, and healthy subjects showed no evidence of such a drive or any other distinguishing electrophysiological feature. Moreover, the pathological 4 to 7 Hz drive in symptomatic DYT1 patients was much less common in the upper limb, where it was only present in 2 of 6 (33%) patients with clinical involvement of the arms. We conclude that the nature of the abnormal drive to dystonic muscles may vary according to the muscles under consideration and, particularly, with aetiology.
Clinical neurophysiology is concerned with the recording of generation and propagation of electrical potentials of nerve and muscle cells. It can provide important information about brain and neuromuscular disorders. Electro encephalogram (EEG), Evoked potentials (EP), Nerve conduction study (NCS) and electromyogram (EMG) are the four main techniques used in clinical neurophysiology. EEG reflects the electrical activity arising from the cerebral cortex. Evoked Potentials are measurements of classic stimulus response. VEP, SSEP and BSAEP are most useful in diagnosing Multiple Sclerosis, Plexus lesions and 8(th) cranial nerve tumor, CP angle tumor respectively. Nerve conduction studies are the measurement of velocity of nerve impulse. It gives information about the lesion of a myelinated nerve. Electromyogram gives information about the integrity of innervations, condition of neuromuscular junctions and also condition of the muscle fiber itself.
Recent progress shows that neurons suitable for transplantation can be generated from stem cells in culture, and that the adult brain produces new neurons from its own stem cells in response to injury. These findings raise hope for the development of stem cell therapies in human neurodegenerative disorders. Before clinical trials are initiated, we need to know much more about how to control stem cell proliferation and differentiation into specific phenotypes, induce their integration into existing neural and synaptic circuits, and optimize functional recovery in animal models closely resembling the human disease.
Neurodegenerative diseases can be genetic or sporadic in origin. Genetic analysis has changed the study of the pathogenesis of these disorders by showing the causative functions of rare mutations. Yet, in the most common age-associated neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, the causes of neurodegeneration remain to be clarified. The observations that presenilin modulates proteolysis and turnover of several signaling molecules have led to speculations that pathways that are important in development may contribute to neurodegeneration. In this article, the possibility that these presenilin-regulated molecules may contribute to neurodegeneration is reviewed.
The molecular bases underlying the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases are gradually being disclosed. One problem that investigators face is distinguishing primary from secondary events. Rare, inherited mutations causing familial forms of these disorders have provided important insights into the molecular networks implicated in disease pathogenesis. Increasing evidence indicates that accumulation of aberrant or misfolded proteins, protofibril formation, ubiquitin-proteasome system dysfunction, excitotoxic insult, oxidative and nitrosative stress, mitochondrial injury, synaptic failure, altered metal homeostasis and failure of axonal and dendritic transport represent unifying events in many slowly progressive neurodegenerative disorders.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a bioactive lipid with activity in the nervous system mediated by G-protein-coupled receptors. Here, we examined the role of LPA signaling in the development of neuropathic pain by pharmacological and genetic approaches, including the use of mice lacking the LPA(1) receptor. Wild-type animals with nerve injury develop behavioral allodynia and hyperalgesia paralleled by demyelination in the dorsal root and increased expression of both the protein kinase C gamma-isoform within the spinal cord dorsal horn and the alpha(2)delta(1) calcium channel subunit in dorsal root ganglia. Intrathecal injection of LPA induced behavioral, morphological and biochemical changes similar to those observed after nerve ligation. In contrast, mice lacking a single LPA receptor (LPA(1), also known as EDG2) that activates the Rho-Rho kinase pathway do not develop signs of neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury. Inhibitors of Rho and Rho kinase also prevented these signs of neuropathic pain. These results imply that receptor-mediated LPA signaling is crucial in the initiation of neuropathic pain.
We have previously shown that apolipoprotein E (Apoe) promotes the formation of amyloid in brain and that astrocyte-specific expression of APOE markedly affects the deposition of amyloid-beta peptides (Abeta) in a mouse model of Alzheimer disease. Given the capacity of astrocytes to degrade Abeta, we investigated the potential role of Apoe in this astrocyte-mediated degradation. In contrast to cultured adult wild-type mouse astrocytes, adult Apoe(-/-) astrocytes do not degrade Abeta present in Abeta plaque-bearing brain sections in vitro. Coincubation with antibodies to either Apoe or Abeta, or with RAP, an antagonist of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family, effectively blocks Abeta degradation by astrocytes. Phase-contrast and confocal microscopy show that Apoe(-/-) astrocytes do not respond to or internalize Abeta deposits to the same extent as do wild-type astrocytes. Thus, Apoe seems to be important in the degradation and clearance of deposited Abeta species by astrocytes, a process that may be impaired in Alzheimer disease.
Physiological dependence and associated withdrawal episodes can constitute a powerful motivational force that perpetuates drug use and abuse. Using robust behavioral models of drug physiological dependence in mice, positional cloning, and sequence and expression analyses, we identified an addiction-relevant quantitative trait gene, Mpdz. Our findings provide a framework to define the protein interactions and neural circuit by which this gene's product (multiple PDZ domain protein) affects drug dependence, withdrawal and relapse.
An important mechanism by which vertebrate olfactory sensory neurons rapidly adapt to odorants is feedback modulation of the Ca(2+)-permeable cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) transduction channels. Extensive heterologous studies of homomeric CNGA2 channels have led to a molecular model of channel modulation based on the binding of calcium-calmodulin to a site on the cytoplasmic amino terminus of CNGA2. Native rat olfactory CNG channels, however, are heteromeric complexes of three homologous but distinct subunits. Notably, in heteromeric channels, we found no role for CNGA2 in feedback modulation. Instead, an IQ-type calmodulin-binding site on CNGB1b and a similar but previously unidentified site on CNGA4 are necessary and sufficient. These sites seem to confer binding of Ca(2+)-free calmodulin (apocalmodulin), which is then poised to trigger inhibition of native channels in the presence of Ca(2+).
To examine the role of motor areas in speech perception, we carried out a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study in which subjects listened passively to monosyllables and produced the same speech sounds. Listening to speech activated bilaterally a superior portion of ventral premotor cortex that largely overlapped a speech production motor area centered just posteriorly on the border of Brodmann areas 4a and 6, which we distinguished from a more ventral speech production area centered in area 4p. Our findings support the view that the motor system is recruited in mapping acoustic inputs to a phonetic code.
In hippocampal pyramidal cells, a rise in Ca(2+) releases endocannabinoids that activate the presynaptic cannabinoid receptor (CB1R) and transiently reduce GABAergic transmission-a process called depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI). The mechanism that limits the duration of endocannabinoid action in intact cells is unknown. Here we show that inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), not fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), prolongs DSI, suggesting that COX-2 limits endocannabinoid action.




Ageing is accompanied by a myriad of changes, which lead to deficits in synaptic function and recent studies have identified an increase in concentration of the proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), as a factor which significantly contributes to deterioration of cell function. Here, we consider that increased IL-1beta concentration and upregulation of IL-1beta-induced cell signalling cascades may be accompanied by downregulation of survival signals, perhaps as a consequence of decreased neurotrophins-associated signalling. The data indicate that increased IL-1beta concentration was coupled with downregulation of ERK and phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI-3 kinase) in cortical tissue prepared from aged rats. These changes could not be attributed to decreased concentration of NGF or BDNF but the evidence suggested that they may be a consequence of an age-related change in the anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-4. Significantly, treatment of aged rats with eicosapentaenoic acid reversed the age-related increases in IL-1beta and IL-1beta-induced signalling and also the age-related changes in IL-4, ERK and PI-3 kinase.

The developing rodent brain is vulnerable to pharmacological blockade of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors which can lead to severe and disseminated apoptotic neurodegeneration. Here, we show that systemic administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist MK801 to 7-day-old rats leads to impaired activity of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and reduces levels of phosphorylated cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) in brain regions which display severe apoptotic neurodegeneration. Impaired ERK1/2 and CREB activity were temporally paralleled by sustained depletion of neurotrophin expression, particularly brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF supplementation fully prevented MK801-induced neurotoxicity in immature neuronal cultures and transgenic constitutive activation of Ras was associated with marked protection against MK801-induced apoptotic neuronal death. These data indicate that uncoupling of NMDA receptors from the ERK1/2-CREB signaling pathway in vivo results in massive apoptotic deletion of neurons in the developing rodent brain.
Infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (INCL) is one of a group of fatal hereditary lysosomal storage disorders. Palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 null mutant mice (PPT1-/-) now exist that accurately recapitulate many important disease features. The severely affected PPT1-/- mouse CNS exhibited reduced volume of both cortical and subcortical regions, but with sparing of the cerebellum. Pronounced differences existed in the extent of cortical thinning between different regions, due to lamina-specific effects upon neuronal survival. A dramatic reduction in cortical and hippocampal interneuron number was also evident, with different extents of specific interneuron loss depending upon the region and phenotypic marker. These neuronal changes were accompanied by widespread astrocytosis and localized microglial activation in restricted cortical and subcortical regions. This characterization of PPT1-/- mice not only provides defined pathological landmarks for understanding disease pathogenesis, but also provides an invaluable resource for subsequently judging the efficacy of therapeutic strategies.
This experiment examined the effects of 0.5 and 1.5 mg/kg doses of amphetamine (AMP) in male Wistar rats, on conditioning to a contextual stimulus that for half the animals has been pre-exposed, in an appetitive conditioning procedure. Amphetamine was administered during both pre-exposure (3 days) and acquisition (15 days). Latent inhibition (LI, reduced conditioning in pre-exposed relative to non-pre-exposed rats) was seen in controls but not at either AMP dose. This abolition of LI was seen under AMP at two levels of responding in acquisition and confirmed in drug free extinction. It suggests that, like conditioning to discrete stimuli, conditioning to contextual stimuli is subject to LI and can be disrupted by AMP.
Exposure to an acute stressor of inescapable swimming or intermittent tail shocks impairs classical eye blink conditioning 24h later in female rats. This effect is often attributed to a deficit in &quot;learning,&quot; but since stress has been shown to induce analgesia, an alternative explanation is that stressor exposure reduces conditioning by lessening the perceived intensity of the unconditioned stimulus (US). To address this possibility we examined the amplitude of the unconditioned response (UR) during training and found that although exposure to the stressor impaired trace conditioning, there was no difference in the UR amplitude. We also found that eye blink responses to different US intensities (4-12 V) in the absence of training were unaffected by stressor exposure. Taken together, these experiments indicate that the stress-induced impairment of conditioning in females is not due to a decreased perception of US strength.
The role of the hippocampus in object recognition memory processes is unclear in the current literature. Conflicting results have been found in lesion studies of both primates and rodents. Procedural differences between studies, such as retention interval, may explain these discrepancies. In the present study, acute lidocaine administration was used to temporarily inactivate the hippocampus prior to training in the spontaneous object recognition task. Male C57BL/6J mice were administered bilateral lidocaine (4%, 0.5 microl/side) or aCSF (0.5 microl/side) directly into the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus 5 min prior to sample object training, and object recognition memory was tested after a short ( 5 min) or long (24 h) retention interval. There was no effect of intra-hippocampal lidocaine on the time needed for mice to accumulate sample object exploration, suggesting that inactivation of the hippocampus did not affect sample session activity or the motivation to explore objects. Lidocaine-treated mice exhibited impaired object recognition memory, measured as reduced novel object preference, after a 24 h but not a 5 min retention interval. These data support a delay-dependent role for the hippocampus in object recognition memory, an effect consistent with the results of hippocampal lesion studies conducted in rats. However, these data are also consistent with the view that the hippocampus is involved in object recognition memory regardless of retention interval, and that object recognition processes of parahippocampal structures (e.g., perirhinal cortex) are sufficient to support object recognition memory over short retention intervals.
Synchronous activity of locus coeruleus (LC) neurons during early postnatal development is regulated, in part, by electrotonic coupling. Connexin (Cx) proteins that make up gap junction channels are localized to both neurons and glia in the LC during this period. In adult rats, however, synchrony exists only under certain experimental conditions. The expression of Cx proteins was examined using western blot analysis at several developmental time points. Immunoblot analysis revealed little to no expression of Cx26 while Cx32, Cx43 and Cx36 were present at all time points examined. A progressive increase in Cx43 was identified from the first postnatal week through adulthood. Immunocytochemical detection of Cx36 and Cx43 in adult LC showed that Cx36 was associated with neuronal processes while Cx43 was localized to glia. In adult LC, in vitro intracellular recordings combined with neurobiotin injections confirmed the presence of gap junctional communication albeit to a lesser extent than in early postnatal periods. The degree to which synaptic inputs to LC neurons impact on Cx protein expression was also evaluated. Samples of the LC from rats that received an electrolytic lesion of the amygdala were processed for western blot analysis of Cx36 and Cx43. The predominantly neuronal Cx36 exhibited an increase in expression while the glial Cx43 was unchanged. The present results indicate that, despite subtype-specific changes during development, several Cx proteins are expressed in the adult LC. In addition, manipulating afferent input to the LC, in adult rats, results in increases in neuronal Cx protein levels but not in glial Cx levels suggesting that altering synaptic inputs to the LC may alter synchronous activity in noradrenergic neurons.
Pain is a sensation we have all experienced. For most of us, the pain has been temporary. However, for patients with pathological pain, the pain experience is unending, with little hope for therapeutic relief. Pathological pain is characterized by an amplified response to normally innocuous stimuli, and an amplified response to acute pain. Pathological pain has long been described as the result of dysfunctional neuronal activity. While neuronal functioning is indeed altered, there is significant evidence showing that exaggerated pain is regulated by the activation of astrocytes and microglia. In exaggerated pain, astrocytes, and microglia are activated by neuronal signals including substance P, glutamate, and fractalkine. Activation of glia by these substances leads to the release of mediators that then act on other glia and neurons. These include a family of proteins called &quot;proinflammatory cytokines&quot; released from microglia and astrocytes. These cytokines have been shown to be critical mediators of exaggerated pain. Some patients with pathological pain also report &quot;extra-territorial&quot; and/or &quot;mirror&quot; image pain. That is, exaggerated pain is experienced not only in the area of trauma. In extra-territorial pain, pain is also perceived as arising from neighboring healthy tissues outside of the site of trauma. In the rare cases of mirror-image pain, such pain is perceived as arising from the healthy, corresponding body part on the opposite side of the body. New data suggest that activation of astrocyte communication via gap junctions may mediate such spread of pain. While traditional therapies for pathological pain have focused on neuronal targets, the following review describes glia as newly recognized mediators of exaggerated pain, and as new therapeutic targets. Moreover, the glial-neuronal interactions discussed here are likely not exclusive to pain, but rather are likely to play significant roles in other behavioral phenomena.
Age-related neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by selective neuron loss, glial activation, inflammation and abnormalities in oxidative metabolism. Thiamine deficiency (TD) is a model of neurodegeneration induced by impairment of oxidative metabolism. TD produces a time-dependent, selective neuronal death in specific brain regions, while other cell types are either activated or unaffected. TD-induced neurodegeneration occurs first in a small, well-defined brain region, the submedial thalamic nucleus (SmTN). This discrete localization permits careful analysis of the relationship between neuronal loss and the response of other cell types. The temporal analysis of the changes in the region in combination with the use of transgenic mice permits testing of proposed mechanisms of how the interaction of neurons with other cell types produces neurodegeneration. Loss of neurons and elevation in markers of neurodegeneration are accompanied by changes in microglia including increased redox active iron, the induction of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and hemeoxygenase-1, a marker of oxidative stress. Endothelial cells also show changes in early stages of TD including induction of intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and endothelial NOS. The number of degranulating mast cells also increases in early stages of TD. Alterations in astrocytes and neutrophils occur at later stages of TD. Studies with transgenic knockouts indicate that the endothelial cell changes are particularly important. We hypothesize that TD-induced abnormalities in oxidative metabolism promote release of neuronal inflammatory signals that activate microglia, astrocytes and endothelial cells. Although at early stages the responses of non-neuronal cells may be neuroprotective, at late phases they lead to entry of peripheral inflammatory cells into the brain and promote neurodegeneration.
Our understanding of the brain has developed from the theory that it is one continuous cell to the knowledge that there are many brain cells originally termed neurons and, furthermore to the discovery of glial cells and their multiple functions. Thus, an increasing complexity was unraveled and we have not reached a complete understanding of the phenomenon which comprises the compartmentation of metabolic pathways and metabolites. This is an important principle needed to fully understand the metabolic processes of the brain. At the cellular level this concept is well established whereas intracellular compartmentation has yet to be explored. Using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) for analysis of isotopomer composition combined with quantification of amino acid contents it is possible to construct models that describe intracellular compartmentation. Results of studies of cultures of astrocytes and neurons incubated in media containing [U- 13C]glutamate in the presence or absence of thiopental may be used to propose an intracellular three compartment model of mitochondrial function. Due to the experimental paradigm only certain aspects of metabolism can be described. The present model consists of compartments assigned to CO(2) production, glutamate synthesis from ketoglutarate and finally synthesis of a four-carbon metabolite which is shuttled between compartments. It is likely that metabolism may be far more complex than this and we are only beginning to glimpse some aspects of compartmentation at the cellular level.
Medium conditioned by cultured hippocampal glial contains an inhibitory factor that can hyperpolarize and suppress neuronal activity. Using biochemistry, electrophysiology, pharmacology, and mass spectrometry, we have identified the inhibitory factor as GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid). Like GABA, the inhibitory factor increases chloride and potassium currents in neurons, which can be blocked by bicuculline. Mass spectrometry analysis of conditioned medium reveals peaks that are identical to that for GABA. Up to 500 micromolar GABA is found in conditioned medium from glial cultures. No GABA is found in conditioned medium from neuronal cultures. Hippocampal glia make much more GABA than cortical glia or glia from other brain regions. It is not clear how hippocampal glia synthesize GABA. Although they express GAD mRNA and adding glutamate to the culture medium increases the amount of GABA produced, other data suggest that glia do not use GAD to make GABA. Identifying the mechanism(s) by which GABA is produced by hippocampal glia would help clarify its role in modulating neuronal activity in the brain.
Neuronal exocytotic release of glutamate at synapses involves a highly specialized vesicular apparatus, consisting of a variety of proteins connected to the vesicles or required for vesicular fusion to the presynaptic membrane. Astrocytes also release glutamate, and recent evidence indicates that this release can modify neuronal function. Several mechanisms have been proposed for astrocytic release of glutamate under pathological conditions, such as reversal of glutamate transporters and opening of volume sensitive ion channels. In this review we limit our discussion to findings supporting the exocytotic release of glutamate, as well as two new pathways implicated in this release, the ionotropic (P2X) purinergic receptors and gap junction hemichannels.
Connexin43 (Cx43) is the principal gap junction protein between astrocytes in the neonatal brain and also interconnects neural precursor cells during CNS development. In an attempt to understand global effects of expression of the Cx43 gap junction gene on development and function of the nervous system, we have compared gene expression patterns in cultured astrocytes and brains from wildtype mice with those in which Cx43 is deleted as well as in spinal cords of experimental autoimmune encepahlomyelitis (EAE) mice. One surprising result obtained from high densitity mouse cDNA studies was the large number of genes that were statistically altered in mice with decreased expression of Cx43. These altered genes encode proteins with a wide range of functions within cells, and thus deletion of normal gap junction expression appears to result in globally altered glial functions in addition to disruption of intercellular communication. Here we discuss those results in the context of the strategies and data analysis paradigms that we are using in such studies.
The spontaneously epileptic rat (SER: tm/tm, zi/zi) shows both absence-like seizures and tonic convulsions. Our previous studies have demonstrated that absence-like seizures of the tremor rat (tm/tm), one of the parent strains of SER, were inhibited by adenoviral transfer of the aspartoacylase (ASPA) gene, a deleted gene in the tremor rat. In the present study, we examined whether the adenoviral gene transfer of ASPA inhibited the tonic convulsions of SER. Replication-defective recombinant adenoviral vectors carrying the rat ASPA gene (AxASPA) or Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase gene (AxLacZ), as a control, were constructed. After it was confirmed that AxASPA-infected HeLa cells expressed ASPA in vitro, AxASPA or AxLacZ was administered into the left lateral ventricle of 11-week-old SER. The occurrence and duration of tonic convulsions in SER were evaluated before and after the administration of adenoviral vector. Intracerebroventricular administration of AxASPA (5 x 10(7) plaque forming units) transiently, but significantly, inhibited the occurrence of tonic convulsions in SER without affecting the duration per single convulsion 7 days after the administration. No inhibitory effects were observed 10 and 14 days after AxASPA administration. In contrast, the administration of AxLacZ did not have any effect on tonic convulsions in SER. Survival rates did not differ between AxASPA- and AxLacZ-treated SERs. Adenoviral gene transfer of ASPA, one of the deleted genes of SER, transiently rescued SERs from tonic convulsion, although it did not improve their survival time.
Oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) induced neuron-specific cell death in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Neuronal death was first evident in the CA1 region 24 h after the injury as assessed by propidium iodide (PI) labeling, and continued to extend to the CA3/4 region up to 72 h. At 6 days post-OGD, PI labeling was weak and diffuse with no clear demarcation of pyknotic nuclei. To characterize biochemical changes produced by OGD, cellular efflux of three key amino acid neurotransmitters was evaluated. OGD elicited large increases in the release of GABA and aspartate (55- and 4.5-fold increase over basal, respectively), while there were no detectable changes in extracellular glutamate levels. In order to ascertain the existence of the synaptic pool of glutamate, sister cultures were treated with sodium azide. This evoked a strong increase in glutamate release, suggesting the intactness of the glutamate system. Further studies revealed a time-dependent activation of caspase 3 following OGD, shown by immunoblot analysis as well as by confocal laser scanning microscopy. While we did not observe the activation of caspases 1, 2, or 8 in our model, the activation of caspase 9 was evident, peaking at 12 h post-OGD. Despite no apparent increase in glutamate release by ischemic slices, treatment with a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist or an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) antagonist significantly reduced neuronal death. Furthermore, a pan-caspase inhibitor (zVAD-fmk), but not the caspase 3 inhibitor (DEVD-fmk), provided partial neuroprotection. Inhibition of a Ca(2+)-dependent cysteine protease, calpain, by MDL28170 also elicited partial neuroprotective effects.
The mechanisms behind the degeneration of neurons in diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are not fully understood. However, oxidation of certain amino acid residues in proteins may contribute to cell injury and some of these oxidized amino acids may also be suitable as biomarkers for oxidative injury. Therefore, it is suggested that the reaction between peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) and tyrosine in vivo can be monitored by monitoring the formation of 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT). In this work, a newly developed gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric method was applied to human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The free 3-NT levels were determined in the CSF from 19 controls, 17 patients with AD and 14 patients with ALS. The levels of free 3-NT in the CSF were considerably lower than those previously reported. The majority of the patients with AD or ALS had free 3-NT levels in the same range as seen in the control individuals and only a few patients showed increased levels of free 3-NT.
Thiamine deficiency results in selective neuronal cell death in thalamic structures. Previous studies provide evidence for a role implicating nitric oxide (NO) in the pathogenesis of cell death due to thiamine deficiency. In order to ascertain the origin of increased NO in the thiamine deficient brain, expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase isoform (eNOS), was measured in the medial thalamus and in the inferior colliculus and compared to the frontal cortex (a spared region) of rats in which thiamine deficiency was induced through a feeding protocol of thiamine-deficient diet concomitant with daily administration of pyrithiamine, a central thiamine antagonist. eNOS mRNA and protein expression were significantly increased as a function of the severity of neurological impairment and the degree of neuronal cell loss in the medial thalamus and in the inferior colliculus. These findings suggest that the vascular endothelium is a major site of NO production in the brain in thiamine deficiency and that eNOS-derived NO could account for the selective damage to the thalamic structures that are observed in this particular disorder.
Amphetamine is more effective than methamphetamine at raising dopamine levels in the prefrontal cortex. The current study tested the hypothesis that norepinephrine transporters are involved in this difference. Using microdialysis, dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin were measured in the rat prefrontal cortex after administration of methamphetamine or amphetamine, with and without perfusion of desipramine. Amphetamine raised norepinephrine levels more than methamphetamine did. Desipramine raised dopamine and serotonin levels but did not alter metabolite levels. Desipramine attenuated the increase in dopamine by amphetamine while increasing the dopamine released by methamphetamine. These data suggest that methamphetamine and amphetamine differ in altering prefrontal cortical dopamine levels and in interacting with norepinephrine transporters. It is proposed that amphetamine releases dopamine in the prefrontal cortex primarily through norepinephrine transporters, whereas methamphetamine interacts minimally with norepinephrine transporters.
The current experiment examined the neural substrates of response selection, comparing conditions that required participants to make criterion-free selections from sets of same-sex faces (i.e., inconsequential decision) to choosing a dinner date from opposite-sex faces (i.e., consequential decision). In each of these tasks, either a single face (i.e., no choice) or two or three faces (i.e., free choice) appeared for selection. The results revealed that regions of dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) and parietal cortex bilaterally, as well as an area along the medial surface of the superior frontal gyrus, were activated by both consequential and inconsequential decisions, thereby providing evidence for a common selection network. Consequential decisions were further indexed by activation of the insula/ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (BA 47) and the paracingulate gyrus (BA 32). The implications of these findings for current accounts of response selection and social-cognitive functioning are considered.
We created a spatial probability atlas of schizophrenia to provide information about the neuroanatomic variability of brain regions of patients with the disorder. Probability maps of 16 regions of interest (ROIs) were constructed by taking manually parcellated ROIs from subjects' magnetic resonance images (MRIs) and linearly transforming them into Talairach space using the Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) template. ROIs included temporal, parietal, and prefrontal cortex subregions, with a principal focus on temporal lobe structures. Subject Ns ranged from 11 to 28 for the different ROIs. Our global measure of the spatial distribution of the transformed ROI was the sum of voxels with 50% overlap among subjects. The superior temporal gyrus (STG) and fusiform gyrus (FG) had lower values for schizophrenic subjects than for normal controls, suggestive of greater spatial variability for these ROIs in schizophrenic subjects. For the computation of statistical significance of group differences in portions of the ROI, we used voxel-wise comparisons and Fisher's exact test. First-episode schizophrenic patients compared with controls showed lower probability (P &lt; 0.05) at dorso-posterior areas of planum temporale and Heschl's gyrus, lateral and anterior regions in the left hippocampus (HIPP), and dorsolateral regions of fusiform gyrus. Importantly, most ROIs of schizophrenic subjects showed a significantly lower spatial overlap than controls, even after nonlinear spatial normalization, suggesting a greater heterogeneity in the spatial distribution of ROIs. There is consequently a need for caution in neuroimaging studies where data from schizophrenic subjects are normalized to a particular stereotaxic coordinate system based on healthy controls. Apparent group differences in activation may simply reflect a greater heterogeneity of spatial distribution in schizophrenia.
This article describes the use of Bayes factors for comparing dynamic causal models (DCMs). DCMs are used to make inferences about effective connectivity from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. These inferences, however, are contingent upon assumptions about model structure, that is, the connectivity pattern between the regions included in the model. Given the current lack of detailed knowledge on anatomical connectivity in the human brain, there are often considerable degrees of freedom when defining the connectional structure of DCMs. In addition, many plausible scientific hypotheses may exist about which connections are changed by experimental manipulation, and a formal procedure for directly comparing these competing hypotheses is highly desirable. In this article, we show how Bayes factors can be used to guide choices about model structure, both concerning the intrinsic connectivity pattern and the contextual modulation of individual connections. The combined use of Bayes factors and DCM thus allows one to evaluate competing scientific theories about the architecture of large-scale neural networks and the neuronal interactions that mediate perception and cognition.
Irrelevant speech impairs the immediate serial recall of visually presented material. Previously, we have shown that the irrelevant speech effect (ISE) was associated with a relative decrease of regional blood flow in cortical regions subserving the verbal working memory, in particular the superior temporal cortex. In this extension of the previous study, the working memory load was increased and an increased activity as a response to irrelevant speech was noted in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. We suggest that the two studies together provide some basic insights as to the nature of the irrelevant speech effect. Firstly, no area in the brain can be ascribed as the single locus of the irrelevant speech effect. Instead, the functional neuroanatomical substrate to the effect can be characterized in terms of changes in networks of functionally interrelated areas. Secondly, the areas that are sensitive to the irrelevant speech effect are also generically activated by the verbal working memory task itself. Finally, the impact of irrelevant speech and related brain activity depends on working memory load as indicated by the differences between the present and the previous study. From a brain perspective, the irrelevant speech effect may represent a complex phenomenon that is a composite of several underlying mechanisms, which depending on the working memory load, include top-down inhibition as well as recruitment of compensatory support and control processes. We suggest that, in the low-load condition, a selection process by an inhibitory top-down modulation is sufficient, whereas in the high-load condition, at or above working memory span, auxiliary adaptive cognitive resources are recruited as compensation.
The distributions of dopamine D1 and D2/3 binding sites in living brain have not been compared directly using positron emission tomography (PET). To map these binding sites, we first optimized methods for the assay of dopamine receptors in brain of Gttingen miniature pigs. The binding potentials (pB) of [11C]NNC 112 for dopamine D1 receptors and [11C]raclopride for dopamine D2/3 receptors were calculated in pig striatum volumes of interest using metabolite corrected arterial inputs or using cerebellum as a non-binding reference region. Depending upon the method for quantitation, the pB for [11C]NNC 112 was 1.2-5.1 in pig striatum, whereas the pB for [11C]raclopride was 1.0-1.8. We used the reference tissue method of Logan to calculate pB maps for the two tracers. The maps were co-registered to the common stereotaxic space for the pig brain and normalized to a global mean for pB in striatum; t-maps showed that dopamine D1 binding was relatively more abundant in the ventral-anterior striatum of the pig, while dopamine D2/3 binding was greater in the dorsal striatum. Similar comparisons were made for the pBs of [11C]Sch 23390 for dopamine D1 receptors and for [11C]raclopride in the brain of six rhesus monkeys. The magnitudes of pB for both binding sites in monkey brain were close to those in the pig. Consistent with the pig results, there were distinct gradients in the distributions of the two binding sites in monkey brain: D1 binding predominated in the ventral striatum, whereas D2/3 binding was relatively greater in the dorsal-posterior striatum. Gradients of dopamine receptor concentration within the striatum may be a general phenomenon of mammalian brain.
Data may now be recorded concurrently from EEG and functional MRI, using the Simultaneous Imaging for Tomographic Electrophysiology (SITE) method. As yet, there is no established means to integrate the analysis of the combined data set. Recognizing that the hemodynamically convolved time-varying EEG spectrum, S, is intrinsically multidimensional in space, frequency, and time motivated us to use multiway Partial Least-Squares (N-PLS) analysis to decompose EEG (independent variable) and fMRI (dependent variable) data uniquely as a sum of &quot;atoms&quot;. Each EEG atom is the outer product of spatial, spectral, and temporal signatures and each fMRI atom the product of spatial and temporal signatures. The decomposition was constrained to maximize the covariance between corresponding temporal signatures of the EEG and fMRI. On all data sets, three components whose spectral peaks were in the theta, alpha, and gamma bands appeared; only the alpha atom had a significant temporal correlation with the fMRI signal. The spatial distribution of the alpha-band atom included parieto-occipital cortex, thalamus, and insula, and corresponded closely to that reported by Goldman et al. [NeuroReport 13(18) (2002) 2487] using a more conventional analysis. The source reconstruction from EEG spatial signature showed only the parieto-occipital sources. We interpret these results to indicate that some electrical sources may be intrinsically invisible to scalp EEG, yet may be revealed through conjoint analysis of EEG and fMRI data. These results may also expose brain regions that participate in the control of brain rhythms but may not themselves be generators. As of yet, no single neuroimaging method offers the optimal combination of spatial and temporal resolution; fusing fMRI and EEG meaningfully extends the spatio-temporal resolution and sensitivity of each method.
A substantial literature demonstrates activation of inflammatory processes in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain and an association between inflammation and oxidative stress. We have shown that brain microvessels from AD patients express high levels of inflammatory proteins and that these proteins evoke release of the neurotoxic protease thrombin from brain endothelial cells. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of inflammatory proteins on brain endothelial cell reactive oxygen species generation, protease release and cell apoptosis. Also, the effects of inflammatory proteins on neuronal reactive oxygen species generation, injury and apoptosis were assessed. Treatment of cultured brain endothelial cells with inflammatory proteins (LPS, IL-1beta, IL-6, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha) resulted in a significant increase (p &lt; 0.01) in intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species by 1 h. Inflammatory proteins also caused release of tissue plasminogen activator and increased apoptosis by 24 h in these cells. In cultured neurons, inflammatory proteins caused an increase in reactive oxygen species, membrane fluidity, and apoptosis by 24 h, as detected by fluorescent microscopy. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis that vascular inflammatory, oxidative and protease-based processes contribute to neuronal cell death, and suggest that therapies targeted at these mediators and processes could be effective in AD.
Right-to-left shunt due to patent foramen ovale is a well-established risk factor for stroke in the young. The magnitude of shunt seems to be correlated to the risk of stroke in individuals. We report the cases of two 51-year-old identical twins, with similar risk factors for ischemic stroke, in which the sibling with a large and permanent shunt suffered a left hemispheric stroke and the other, with a small and latent shunt, was asymptomatic. In a three-year follow-up, the siblings were both asymptomatic, and the dimensions of shunts were unchanged. Our cases stress the importance of quantifying right-to-left shunt in order to stratify the risk of stroke in individuals, and suggest a role of heredity in patency of foramen ovale.
Phantom limb pain (PLP) is a type of neuropathic pain syndrome that has evoked much interest in scientific and clinical fields. The condition is often intractable and severely debilitating. Though there are anecdotal reports in the literature of successful management of individual cases with brain and spinal cord stimulation, it has not been possible to develop a system of management that is consistently successful, mainly due to the paucity of basic neurophysiological data about PLP and its pathways in the central nervous system (CNS). Functional imaging offers a way of collecting information about the basic mechanisms and pathways of PLP from patients without the excessive risk of more invasive penetrating electrode studies or the questionable reliability of animal data. There have been very few studies that have looked at the direct effect of CNS stimulation on regional brain activation and correlation with the pain state. We describe two cases of PLP that have been satisfactorily treated with CNS stimulation (motor cortex and then periventricular gray in one and spinal cord in the other) and have been subjected to single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies when in pain and then during stimulation with recorded pain relief. We found that regardless of the site of stimulation in the CNS, pain relief is associated with blood flow changes in similar areas of the brain, mainly the parietal and cingulate cortex and also in the thalamic nuclei and the central gray matter. Further studies of this kind should reveal more about the complex mechanisms of PLP and other forms of neuropathic pain.
The effect of the group II metabotropic receptor agonist (-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate (LY379268), on basal and phencyclidine-induced dopamine efflux were measured in the shell and core subdivisions of the nucleus accumbens--regions which are associated with limbic and motor functions, respectively. Extracellular levels of dopamine were measured using microdialysis in conscious animals, and LY379268 was delivered locally by inclusion in the artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) flowing through the microdialysis probe. Local administration of LY379268 in the concentration range 10 nM-10 microM reduced basal levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens shell, whilst having no effect in the nucleus accumbens core. In the nucleus accumbens shell, basal levels were reduced to approximately 60% compared to the pre-injection control, with a maximal reduction occurring at concentrations of LY379268 &gt; or =100 nM. The response to LY379268 (100 nM) was reversible, with levels returning to baseline following its removal from the aCSF. In a separate experiment, local perfusion of the nucleus accumbens shell with LY379268 (at both 1 and 10 microM) reduced the magnitude of the response to a subsequent systemic administration of phencyclidine (5 mg/kg i.p.). The reduction in the peak dopamine response was only evident with doses of LY379268 that also reduced basal dopamine efflux--LY379268 being ineffective against PCP at 10 nM. However, in animals pre-treated with LY379268 at 1 or 10 microM, PCP still evoked a dopamine response, and in these animals the relative extent of the response was not significantly different between the respective treatment groups. In contrast, in the nucleus accumbens core the magnitude of the dopamine response to PCP was unaffected by local application of LY379268 (at 1 or 10 microM). Our data suggest that within the nucleus accumbens, there exists a distinct regional difference in the control of dopamine release by group II mGluRs, with the nucleus accumbens shell being preferentially affected. Moreover, the selective action of LY379268 on dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens shell may have implications for the potential antipsychotic activity of group II mGluR agonists.
Three experiments compared groups of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and healthy older and younger participants on visuospatial tracking and digit sequence recall, as single tasks and performed concurrently. In Experiment 1, tasks were performed concurrently with very low demand relative to span. Only the AD patients showed a dual task deficit. In Experiment 2, single task demand was manipulated on each task from below span to above span for each individual. All groups showed the same performance reductions with increasing demand. In Experiment 3, demand on 1 task was constant, whereas demand on the concurrent task was varied. AD patients showed a clear dual task deficit but were no more sensitive than control groups to varying demand. Results suggest an identifiable cognitive resource for dual task coordination within a multiple component working memory system.
One concern about the widespread use of cannabis is that exposure to its active ingredient, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), might increase future reinforcing effects of other abused drugs such as heroin. In this study, we investigated the effects of pre-exposure to THC on subsequent intravenous self-administration of heroin by Sprague-Dawley rats. In one group of rats, we studied (1) acquisition of heroin self-administration behavior using a continuous-reinforcement (fixed-ratio (FR) 1) schedule, (2) heroin dose-response relationships using an FR1/variable-dose schedule, and (3) reinforcing efficacy of heroin using a progressive-ratio schedule. The number of rats pre-exposed to THC that subsequently learned to self-administer 50 microg/kg injections of heroin within 10 daily sessions did not differ from vehicle-pretreated controls. In contrast, rats pre-exposed to THC subsequently self-administered significantly more heroin injections per session and showed significantly shorter post-injection pauses over a range of heroin doses (12.5-100 microg/kg/injection) using the variable-dose schedule. Interestingly, the maximum effort rats would exert to receive an injection of the different doses of heroin under the progressive-ratio schedule was not altered by THC pre-exposure. In a second group of rats, we varied the 'price' of heroin (responses required/dose), by manipulating FR response requirements at different doses of heroin across sessions, to calculate demand and response output curves. Again, consumption was significantly higher in the THC-treated rats at the lowest prices of heroin (FR1/100 microg/kg and FR1/50 microg/kg) but there were no differences in the reinforcing efficacy of heroin between THC- and vehicle-pretreated rats. Altogether, these results demonstrate that pre-exposure to THC alters some pharmacological effects of heroin that determine frequency of heroin taking, but offer no support for the hypothesis that pre-exposure to THC alters heroin's efficacy as a reinforcer.
Pharmacological manipulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors may be critical for the treatment of many neurological and psychiatric disorders. Metabotropic glutamate (mGlu5) receptors are abundant in corticolimbic circuitry, where they modulate NMDA receptor-mediated signal transduction. Therefore, pharmacological manipulation of mGlu5 receptor may provide a treatment strategy for cognitive disorders that are associated with NMDA receptor dysfunction. We sought to determine whether the recently described molecular and cellular interactions between NMDA and mGlu5 receptors coregulate higher order behaviors. We examined the interaction of the selective mGlu5 receptor antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP), and the use-dependent NMDA antagonist MK-801, on locomotion, stereotypy, working memory, instrumental learning, and corticolimbic dopamine release. MPEP, at 10 mg/kg, but not 3 mg/kg, impaired working memory and instrumental learning, transiently increased dopamine release in prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens, and augmented the effect of MK-801 on cortical dopamine release, locomotion, and stereotypy. Pretreatment with 3 mg/kg of MPEP enhanced the detrimental effects of MK-801 on cognition. These results demonstrate that an mGlu5 receptor antagonist can potentiate the motoric, cognitive, and dopaminergic effects of an NMDA receptor antagonist. Thus, mGlu5 receptors appear to play a major role in regulating NMDA receptor-dependent cognitive functions such as learning and working memory. By extension, these results suggest that pharmacological potentiation of mGlu5 receptors may ameliorate the cognitive and other behavioral abnormalities associated with NMDA receptor deficiency.
The use of physiological, anatomical, and other biological tests is commonplace in the practice of medicine. In neurology, objectively measured tests termed biomarkers (BMs) are playing an increasing role in diagnosis and management of disease, both in clinical practice and in experimental therapeutics. This article will discuss the various applications of BMs to the assessment of therapies for neurological diseases and will use examples from neurological diseases to elucidate the strengths and potential weaknesses of BMs. As the understanding of the pathophysiology of many neurological diseases has improved, new BMs have been developed, and efforts have been made to use these as proxies for clinical endpoints. A BM used in this manner is referred to as a surrogate endpoint (SE). There are many potential advantages and disadvantages of using SEs in the evaluation of new therapies, and these will be reviewed as well. Furthermore, the evidence required for the development of an SE and the nature of the evidence that can be derived from the use of BMs and SEs will be discussed.
Quantification (meta-analysis) of the neuroscience evidence on schizophrenia shows very modest average differences between patient and control distributions across a great variety of measures and literatures. The strongest findings involve cognitive and psychophysiological measures. Several possible explanations for this situation are reviewed including technical immaturity, methodological variability, dimensional and multiple illness models and the nature of cognitive measurement. An argument is developed that biological subtypes and endophenotypes within the broad diagnostic category of schizophrenia underpin the meta-analytic evidence. Considerations in the use of this evidence to identify illness variants are described and four candidate subtypes are proposed. Schizophrenia is a disease that will resist biological definition until its variants are isolated and extracted from the generic patient population.
The development of the field of cognitive neuroscience has inspired a revival of interest in the brain mechanisms involved in the processing of rewards, punishments, and abstract performance feedback. One fruitful line of research in this area was initiated by the report of an electrophysiological brain potential in humans that was differentially sensitive to negative and positive performance feedback [J. Cogn. Neurosci. 9 (1997) 788]. Here we review current knowledge regarding the neural basis and functional significance of this feedback-evoked 'error-related negativity' (ERN). Our review is organized around a set of predictions derived from a recent theory, which holds that the ERN is associated with the arrival of a negative reward prediction error signal in anterior cingulate cortex.
In the course of daily activity we continually judge whether the goal sought is worth the work that must be done to obtain it. The ventral striatum is thought to play a central role in making such judgments. When reward schedules are used to investigate these judgments ventral striatum neurons show responses near the time of the cue, the bar-release, and/or the reward delivery. We evaluated the type of coding that occurs at these three time points by using codes or factorizations with: (1) two states for reward versus non-reward, (2) four states for the progress in the reward schedule, and (3) six states for all of the states of the schedule, quantified using information theory and ANOVA. For the bar-release- and reward-related responses the percent variance explained was as high for the two states code as with the six states code. The information for the four state code rose slightly but significantly for the bar-release-related neurons. For the cue-related neurons the code with six states carried more information than the simpler codes. Thus, responses at different times appear to play different roles. Responses occurring early in trials differentiate all states, i.e., the path to a reward, whereas those late in trials code knowledge of impending reward.
Previous evidence has suggested that glutamate-driving neurotransmission and glutamate-excitotoxicity are modulated by substance P in the basal ganglia, but the assembly of glutamate receptors mediating this process remains to be delineated. By using a double immunofluorescence, cellular expression of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor subunits (GluR1-4) in substance P receptor (SPR)-containing neurons was examined in the striatum of rats. It revealed that distribution of SPR-immunoreactive neurons completely overlapped with that of GluR1, 2, 3 or 4-immunoreactive neurons in the caudate-putamen. Neurons showing both SPR and AMPA receptor subunits (except of GluR3)-immunoreactivity were observed: all (100%) of SPR-positive neurons displayed GluR1-, GluR2- or GluR4-immunoreactivity, and the double-labeled neurons constituted about 33, 3 or 29% of total GluR-positive ones. In contrast, the neurons exhibiting both SPR- and GluR3-immunoreactivity were not detected, though numerous GluR3-positive neurons were still distributed in the caudate-putamen regions. Co-localization of SPR and distinct AMPA receptor subunits in the striatal neurons has provided a basis for functional modulation of neuronal APMA receptors by substance P in the caudate-putamen of rodents. Taken together with previous observations, this study has also suggested that, through interaction with AMPA receptors composed of subunits 1, 2 and 4, substance P or neurokinin peptides may play important roles in regulating neuronal properties and protecting neurons from excitotoxicity in the basal ganglia of mammals.
It is becoming clear that steroids can be synthesized de novo by the brain of vertebrates. Such steroids synthesized de novo in the brain, as well as other areas of the nervous system, are called neurosteroids. To understand neurosteroid actions in the brain, we need data on the specific biosynthesis in particular sites of the brain at particular times. Therefore our studies for this exciting area of neuroscience research have focused on the biosynthesis and action of neurosteroids in the identified neurosteroidogenic cells underlying important brain functions. We have demonstrated that the Purkinje cell, a typical cerebellar neuron, is a major site for neurosteroid formation in the brain. This neuron actively synthesizes progesterone and estradiol de novo from cholesterol only during neonatal life, when cerebellar cortical formation occurs dramatically. This is the first observation of neuronal neurosteroidogenesis in the brain. Subsequently the actions of progesterone and estradiol during cerebellar development have become clear by a series of our studies using an excellent Purkinje cellular model. These neurosteroids promote dendritic growth, spinogenesis and synaptogenesis via each receptor in the Purkinje cell. Here we summarize the advances made in our understanding of organizing actions of neurosteroids in the Purkinje cell, an important brain neuron.


Extramedullary hematopoiesis is a common finding in idiopathic myelofibrosis and is generally found in the liver, spleen and lymph nodes, but meningeal extramedullary hematopoiesis is very rare. Some diseases may be causes of intracranial masses and diagnosis is difficult. We present a case diagnosed as intracranial and meningeal extramedullary hematopoiesis with idiopathic myelofibrosis inducing serious headache.
Authors describe clinical features, CT scan and MRI findings of 4 Egyptian boys (3 brothers from one sibship and a sporadic case) with Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome (HSS). These patients presented around the age of 10-years-old with rigidity, dystonia, dysarthria, mental deterioration with loss of previously acquired skills and choreoathetotic movements. The 3 brothers developed seizures around the age of 16 and the older brother died at the age of 20. Although, the CT scan of the 3 brothers showed bilateral symmetrical calcification of the basal ganglia, the MRI of the 4 cases demonstrated bilateral symmetrical hyperintense areas surrounded by hypointense areas in the globus pallidus giving the characteristic &quot;eye-of-the-tiger&quot; sign. Based on the clinical and MRI picture, these 4 cases could be the atypical type of HSS. However, calcification of globus pallidus is an associated finding in these cases. This is the second report in the literature with this association. In addition, we present the results of the use of antioxidants, L-dopa and Botulinum toxin injections in the management of these cases.









Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) rhinorrhea results in high morbidity and mortality if left untreated. Surgical intervention is recommended in such cases; however, success is dependent on correct diagnosis and precise localization of leak site. Imaging plays a very essential and indispensable role. Imaging also plays a very important role in identifying the cause of leak and planning surgery. The radiological investigations used in evaluation of CSF rhinorrhea evolved over time from simple tests to very sophisticated and highly accurate procedures. Correct diagnosis and localization of leak depends on proper selection and adequate technique of radiological examinations. Sound knowledge in the current radiological investigations for CSF rhinorrhea, including the yield, indications, contraindications, complications, and selection, is essential for both treating physician and radiologist.
After a gap of approximately 20 years, a new generation of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) has recently been developed. More than 8 drugs have been licensed in at least one country during the 1990s. While lamotrigine, gabapentin, vigabatrin and oxcarbazepine are widely used in some countries, felbamate, topiramate, tiagabine, levetiracetam, and zonisamide are still used on a narrow scale. A feeling of optimism occurs after the development of these drugs, although only a small number of epileptic patients become free of seizures after the addition of these new AEDs to their regimen. Generally, the safety profile of the new AEDs is only slightly better than that of established drugs and their efficacy is strongly associated with the use of high doses. This article reviews new AEDs by studying their clinical pharmacological effects, mechanisms of action as antiepileptic agents, side effects, drug-drug interactions and the appropriate regimen of their use.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) has devastating physical, psychological, and economic consequences. The disease commences in most patients with a relapsing-remitting course, and it is likely that treatment is most effective during this phase before permanent axon damage has occurred. Despite the absence of a cure for MS, the 4 available drug therapies (Interferon (IFN) beta-1a, IFN beta-1b, glatiramer acetate, and mitoxantrone) play a role in the management of MS based on their demonstrated efficacy. In particular, the use of disease-modifying drugs has been shown to reduce the frequency and severity of debilitating relapses and to delay disease progression. Efforts to develop alternative therapies with increased efficacy and patient acceptability are in progress.

Recent findings on the development of visual function in children are summarized. First, visual evoked potentials (VEPs) in normal school children, following two types of visual stimuli (pattern reversal and light emitting diode stimulation) by transient and steady-state stimulation, are presented. Reproducible VEPs with the 4 stimulation conditions can be obtained. Transient and steady-state methods provide complementary results. Second, mechanisms for photosensitive epilepsy (PSE) are discussed. We recorded flicker VEPs to different color combinations and quantified the effects of changes in color and luminance combinations. Two amplitude peaks (9 and 18 Hz) were observed for all kinds of isoluminant color combination stimuli against temporal frequency. In addition, this characteristic was modulated by luminance. Normal children showed much higher sensitivity to contrast changes and color combination compared with normal young adults, which may be responsible for PSE in childhood. Third, cognitive function for facial expression of normal children and adults is mentioned. For Chernoff's faces showing anger and sadness produced by computer, children showed higher scores compared with adults, suggesting higher sensitivity for facial expression. Knowledge of developmental changes in children allows us to understand the maturational and degenerative changes of the central nervous system.
Patients with jargon aphasia generally have fluent speech with poor comprehension. However, outstanding jargons may appear in non-fluent aphasics. We report a 69-year-old left-handed woman with non-fluent jargon aphasia due to lesions in the right frontoparietal area. Features of her speech included non-fluent meaningless sequences of syllables, i. e., phonetic jargon, which was obvious in all the tasks including spontaneous speech, repetition, naming and reading. Her utterance was sparse, but not effortful or anarthric. She understood most of spoken single words, but was confused by complex sentences. Brain CTs revealed acute lesions affecting the inferior and middle frontal gyri, insular cortex, precentral and postcentral gyri, and a part of the angular gyrus in the right hemisphere. Old infarcts were also noted in the right frontal pole and prefrontal area. The unique feature of her language impairment suggested somewhat deviated lateralization and localization of her language function.

Relevant reference data are required in order to determine the effect from occupational noise exposure on hearing. Pure-tone averages (PTA) of hearing threshold levels simplify the evaluation for audiometric frequencies typically affected by noise. The present study provides reference data of high frequency (HF) PTA over 3, 4 and 6 kHz for a general adult population, aged from 20 to 79 years, not exposed to hazardous occupational noise. The results are presented as statistical distributions of HF PTA values as functions of age, and as prevalence of different degree of HF PTA in the age groups 20-29, 30-39, 40-49, 50-59, 60-69 and 70-79 years.
Size judgements are usually based on size constancy. However, as the number of visual cues decreases, such as by decreasing the field of view, size judgements gradually change from those based on size constancy to those based on the visual angle. The present study investigated whether visually impaired (VI) individuals, most of whom do not have measurable stereoacuity and have visual field defects, might therefore make judgements based on visual angle rather than size constancy. Size constancy was measured on 42 VI and 20 normally sighted subjects. Results indicated that size judgements are similar for both VI and normally sighted individuals at 0.50 m, 1 and 2 m. Statistically significant differences were found at 3 m. Despite this it would appear that VI individuals are able to make judgements based on size constancy rather than the visual angle.
The role of nutritional supplementation in prevention of onset or progression of ocular disease is of interest to health care professionals and patients. The aim of this review is to identify those antioxidants most appropriate for inclusion in an ideal ocular nutritional supplement, suitable for those with a family history of glaucoma, cataract, or age-related macular disease, or lifestyle factors predisposing onset of these conditions, such as smoking, poor nutritional status, or high levels of sunlight exposure. It would also be suitable for those with early stages of age-related ocular disease. Literature searches were carried out on Web of Science and PubMed for articles relating to the use of nutrients in ocular disease. Those highlighted for possible inclusion were vitamins A, B, C and E, carotenoids beta-carotene, lutein, and zeaxanthin, minerals selenium and zinc, and the herb, Ginkgo biloba. Conflicting evidence is presented for vitamins A and E in prevention of ocular disease; these vitamins have roles in the production of rhodopsin and prevention of lipid peroxidation respectively. B vitamins have been linked with a reduced risk of cataract and studies have provided evidence supporting a protective role of vitamin C in cataract prevention. Beta-carotene is active in the prevention of free radical formation, but has been linked with an increased risk of lung cancer in smokers. Improvements in visual function in patients with age-related macular disease have been noted with lutein and zeaxanthin supplementation. Selenium has been linked with a reduced risk of cataract and activates the antioxidant enzyme glutathione peroxidase, protecting cell membranes from oxidative damage while zinc, although an essential component of antioxidant enzymes, has been highlighted for risk of adverse effects. As well as reducing platelet aggregation and increasing vasodilation, Gingko biloba has been linked with improvements in pre-existing field damage in some patients with normal tension glaucoma. We advocate that vitamins C and E, and lutein/zeaxanthin should be included in our theoretically ideal ocular nutritional supplement.



We describe a case of prolonged severe hypercapnia with respiratory acidosis occurring during an episode of near-fatal asthma in an 8-year-old boy, followed by complete recovery. After admission to the intensive care unit, despite treatment with maximal conventional bronchodilatative therapy, the clinical picture deteriorated with evident signs of respiratory muscle fatigue. The child was sedated, intubated and mechanically ventilated. Magnesium sulphate, ketamine and sevoflurane were gradually introduced together with deep sedation, curarization and continuous bronchodilatative therapy. Ten hours after admission, arterial pCO2 reached 39 kPa (293 mmHg), pH was 6.77 and pO2 8.6 kPa (65 mmHg). Chest radiograph showed severe neck subcutaneous emphysema, with signs of mediastinal emphysema. No episode of haemodynamic instability was seen despite severe prolonged hypercapnia lasting more than 14 h. Oxygenation was maintained and successful recovery followed without neurological or cardiovascular sequelae. This case shows the cardiovascular and neurological tolerance of a prolonged period of supercarbia in a paediatric patient. The most important lesson to be learned is the extreme importance of maintaining adequate tissue perfusion and oxygenation during an asthma attack. The second lesson is that when conventional bronchodilators fail, the intensivist may resort to the use of drugs such as ketamine, magnesium sulphate and inhalation anaesthesia. In this context deep sedation and curarization are important not only to improve oxygenation, but also to reduce cerebral metabolic requirements.
In inflammatory neuropathy, immune activation near intact peripheral nerves induces mechanical allodynia. The identity of the peripheral immune product(s) that lead to these changes in pain behavior is unknown. The present series of studies utilized the sciatic inflammatory neuropathy (SIN) model to examine this question. Here, inflammatory neuropathy is created by injecting an immune activator (zymosan) around one sciatic nerve via an indwelling catheter. Our prior studies demonstrated that peri-sciatic zymosan activated macrophages and neutrophils to release proinflammatory cytokines and reactive oxygen species (ROS). In addition, zymosan is a classical activator of the complement cascade. Thus the present series of experiments examined whether any of these inflammatory mediators are involved in the initial induction of SIN-induced ipsilateral or bilateral allodynias. Peri-sciatic injection of selective inhibitors/antagonists revealed that a number of immune products are early mediators of the resultant allodynias, including proinflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-1, and interleukin-6), ROS, and complement. Thus these immune-derived substances can markedly alter sensory nerve function at mid-axon.
The latero-capsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) is now defined as the 'nociceptive amygdala' because of its high content of neurons activated exclusively or preferentially by noxious stimuli. Multireceptive (MR) neurons that respond to innocuous and, more strongly, to noxious stimuli become sensitized in arthritis pain. This form of nociceptive plasticity involves presynaptic group I metabotropic glutamate receptors, which increase glutamate release. Here we address the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptors. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made from 25 CeA neurons in anesthetized rats. The neurons' responses to graded brief (15 s) mechanical stimuli, background activity, receptive field size and threshold were measured before and after the induction of kaolin/carrageenan arthritis in one knee and before and during drug applications into the CeA by microdialysis. All neurons examined received excitatory input from the knee(s) and were MR neurons. A selective NMDA receptor antagonist (AP5) inhibited responses to noxious stimuli more potently in the arthritic pain state (n = 6) than under control conditions before arthritis (n = 8) AP5 also inhibited the enhanced background activity and increased responses to normally innocuous stimuli in arthritis, but had no significant effects on these parameters under control conditions. A selective non-NMDA receptor antagonist (NBQX) inhibited background activity and evoked responses under normal control conditions (n = 6) and in arthritis (n = 8) These data suggest that activation of both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors contributes to pain-related sensitization of amygdala neurons.
Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy is a common, dose-limiting side effect of cancer chemotherapeutic agents, including the vinca alkaloids such as vincristine. The resulting symptoms, which frequently include moderate to severe pain, can often be disabling. The current study utilized a vincristine-induced neuropathic pain animal model [Pain 93 (2001) 69], in which rats were surgically implanted with mini-osmotic pumps set to deliver vincristine sulfate (30 microg kg(-1)day(-1), i.v.), to examine the time course of progression of various pain modalities and to compare the dose-response effects of clinically utilized drugs on mechanical allodynia to further validate the relevance of this model to clinical pathology. Vincristine infusion resulted in significant cold allodynia after 1 week post-infusion, however mechanical and thermal nociception showed little to no effect. In contrast, marked mechanical allodynia occurred by 1 week of vincristine infusion and returned nearly to pre-infusion levels by the 4th week after infusion pump implantation. ED(50) values (micromol/kg, p.o.) were determined in the mechanical allodynia assay for lamotrigine (82), dextromethorphan (94), gabapentin (400), acetaminophen (1100) and carbamazepine (3600); however, aspirin and ibuprofen had no effects up to 300 and 1000 micromol/kg, respectively. Additionally, ED(50) values (micromol/kg, i.p.) were determined in the mechanical allodynia assay for clonidine (0.35) and morphine (0.62), but desipramine and celecoxib had no effects up to 66 and 260 micromol/kg, respectively. Findings from the current, preclinical study further validate this model as clinically relevant for chemotherapy-induced pain. The surprisingly good effects observed with acetaminophen warrant further investigation of its mechanism(s) of action in neuropathic pain.
The dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) is abundantly expressed in the medium spiny neurons of the striatum. Phosphorylation catalysed by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) converts DARPP-32 into an inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1. In contrast, phosphorylation catalysed by cyclin dependent kinase-5 on Thr75 converts DARPP-32 into an inhibitor of PKA. Changes in the state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 reinforce the behavioral effects produced by stimulation or inhibition of the cAMP pathway. Dopamine, via D(1) receptors, and adenosine, via A(2A) receptors, affect motor behavior by acting on medium spiny neurons, via G(olf) mediated stimulation of the cAMP signaling cascade. The involvement of DARPP-32 in dopamine and adenosine transmission and the possible role played by abnormal regulation of DARPP-32 phosphorylation in levodopa-induced dyskinesia are discussed.
New neurons are continuously generated in selective regions of the normal adult mammalian brain. Recent evidence suggests that neural stem or progenitor cells located in the subventricular zone lining of the lateral ventricles can be induced to proliferate and migrate to the adjacent striatum following brain insults or growth factor treatment. This ability to incorporate new cells into the striatum gives the potential of repairing and restoring basal ganglia functions in Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases. The future challenges lay in directing these new cells to adopt the appropriate neuronal phenotypes and to re-establish proper connections and functional circuitry.


Self-ratings of mood and bodily symptoms were made by groups of IQ and education-matched male and female students [teetotal, low (2-9 units/week for both sexes; 1 UK unit=8 g alcohol) and moderate (12-34 units/week for males; 10-24 units/week for females) drinkers], before the start and at the end of cognitive testing. Multivariate analyses of variance (MANOVAs) showed that there were significant Alcohol x Time interactions, because the teetotal group responded to the cognitive tests with greater increases in the factors of somatic anxiety and aggressive mood than did the other two groups. Thus, the teetotallers had greater ratings of anxiety, sweating, palpitations, irritability, headache, feeling angry, quarrelsome, belligerent, resentful, hostile, spiteful and rebellious. No differences were found in immediate or delayed logical memory, in verbal fluency, trails, clock-drawing or mental flexibility tests. In tests of sustained attention [rapid visual information processing (RVIP)] and planning, males performed better than females. The moderate-alcohol group performed better than the low-alcohol group in RVIP and planning (completed significantly more tasks in the minimum moves), although in the hardest parts of the latter test, they took longer in planning the initial move. In conclusion, there was no evidence that the group drinking moderate levels of alcohol had any cognitive impairment and the teetotal group responded to the cognitive tests with the greatest increases in negative mood.
Men and women (50-67 years) completed drinking diaries and, on the basis of this, were divided into low (&lt;2 units/day, 1 UK unit=8 g alcohol) and moderate (2-5 units/day) alcohol groups. They completed analogue rating scales of mood and bodily symptoms before and after two extended computerised cognitive tests. After the tests, the women showed significantly greater increases in self-ratings on the factors of anxiety and discontentment and felt significantly less alert than did the men. They also showed significantly greater increases in bodily symptoms of somatic anxiety and ratings of aggressive mood than did the men. There were no significant effects of alcohol or Sex x Alcohol interactions on the self-ratings, but the men showed significant positive correlations of alcohol and negative mood. On both the cognitive tests, there were significant Sex x Alcohol interactions because the moderate-drinking men performed worse than the low-drinking men, whereas the moderate-drinking women performed better than the low-drinking women. Thus, the middle-aged women responded much more than did the men with negative mood changes to the psychological stress of cognitive testing, although their cognitive performance was not worse.
This study compared the mood and cognitive performance of male and female teetotal and binge drinking students. The binge drinkers had significantly lower self-ratings of trait anxiety and depression and of state alertness at the time of testing than did the teetotallers. The females had significantly higher ratings of trait and state anxiety, but there were no Sex x Bingeing interactions on mood. The binge drinkers made significantly fewer correct responses in a test of sustained attention and recalled fewer line drawings. There was a significant Sex x Binge interaction in a spatial recognition task because the male, but not the female, binge drinkers were slower to make correct responses. Males performed better than females in both the spatial and pattern recognition memory tasks. There were three tests of executive function. In a spatial working memory task, males performed better than females, but there were no effects of binge drinking. There were no effects in a test of mental flexibility. However, in a test of planning, the binge drinkers were significantly slower than the teetotallers were. Thus, compared with a group of teetotallers, the binge drinkers had lower trait anxiety and depression and poorer performance in tests of sustained attention, episodic memory and planning ability.
The incidence of certain neurological disorders, including Parkinson's disease, appears to be more prevalent in men. Studies involving estrogen treatment of ovariectomised rodents attribute this largely to the neuroprotective effects of estrogen. However, a neuroprotective role for physiological levels of circulating hormones in males and females is less clear. Using the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model of Parkinson's disease to lesion the nigrostriatal dopaminergic (NSDA) pathway, we have shown that in females, endogenously produced estrogen is neuroprotective, whereas in males, gonadal factors increase striatal 6-OHDA toxicity. Intriguingly, estrogen, but not dihydrotestosterone, a nonaromatizable androgen, reversed the effects of orchidectomy on lesion size, raising the novel the hypothesis that enhanced male susceptibility may be attributable to the effects of endogenous testosterone only after its aromatization to estrogen. Thus, estrogen appears to exert opposite effects in the NSDA in males and females, being neuroprotective in females, but not in males, where it may even exacerbate neurodegenerative responses, with important implications for the clinical potential of estrogen-related compounds as neuroprotective agents. Preliminary experiments support the hypothesis that sex differences in the adult NSDA may result from the organisational actions of gonadal steroids during the critical neonatal period for the masculinization of the brain. Further studies are needed to determine whether this early organisation of a sexually differentiated neural circuitry may contribute to the emergence of neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's disease.
Stress early in life exerts persistent detrimental effects on brain development. In this experiment, a rodent model of child neglect, early deprivation (ED), was used to investigate the role of the neurosteroid allopregnanolone [AlloP; 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP)] in the development of anxiety behavior. Subjects were either undisturbed controls or ED: separated individually for 6 h per day from postnatal day (PN) 2 to 6. Control and ED subjects were also either noninjected, vehicle-injected or injected with 5 mg/kg AlloP prior to the isolation. At PN 7, responses to 2.5 or 5 microg icv injections of AlloP were determined for separation-induced ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs). Tolerance to the USV-reducing effect of daily AlloP was seen in control but not ED pups, and daily AlloP reversed the expected ED suppression of USVs. As adults, controls treated with postnatal AlloP were less anxious than all other groups on the elevated plus maze. ED counteracted this effect. Male controls showed a reversal of the typical sex difference. There were no effects on open-field activity. These results suggest that the neonatal brain is responsive to alterations in AlloP levels, and that neuroactive progesterone metabolites may play a role in mediating the development of stress-related sex differences.
The present study compared the anxiolytic effects of the benzodiazepine agonist diazepam and ethanol in adult male and female rats. Varying doses of diazepam (1-3 mg/kg) or ethanol (0.5-2.0 g/kg) were tested using both the elevated plus maze and defensive prod-burying models. Two time points following ethanol administration (10 and 30 min) were tested in the plus maze. Sex differences were seen in some anxiety-related behaviors, with females showing greater open arm time and reduced burying behavior than males. Although this suggests females displayed less anxiety-like behavior than males, the differences in the plus maze were not observed in all testing situations. Both diazepam and ethanol dose-dependently increased open arm times in the plus maze and reduced burying behavior in the defensive prod-burying task. The parallel nature of the dose-response curves suggests that both diazepam and ethanol have similar anxiolytic effects in males and females. No sex differences were seen in the brain levels of diazepam-like activity or blood alcohol levels with these treatments. A greater corticosterone response was observed in females than males with these two behavioral tests, but neither diazepam nor ethanol decreased this response. These results suggest a dissociation between the anxiety-reducing influences of these compounds and the changes in stress-related endocrine responses.
Evidence exists to implicate the monoamine histamine in the control of arousal and cognitive functions. Antagonists of H(3) receptors are postsynaptic and presynaptic modulators of neural transmission in a variety of neuronal circuits relevant to cognition. Accumulating neuroanatomical, neurochemical, pharmacological, and behavioral data support the idea that H(3) receptor antagonists may function to improve cognitive performances in disease states (e.g., Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment states). Thus, H(3) receptor antagonists have been shown to increase performance in attention and memory tests in nonhuman experiments and prevent the degradation in performances produced by scopolamine, MK-801, or age. In contrast, agonists of the H(3) receptor generally produce cognitive impairing effects in animal models. The role of H(3) receptors in these behavioral effects is substantiated by data indicating a central origin for their effects, the selectivity of some of the H(3) receptor antagonists studied, and the pharmacological modification of effects of H(3) receptor antagonists by selective H(3) receptor agonists. Data and issues that challenge the potential role for H(3) receptor antagonists in cognitive processes are also critically reviewed. H(3) receptor antagonists may also have therapeutic value in the management of obesity, pain, sleep disorders, schizophrenia, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
We study the propagation of solitary waves in a discrete excitatory network of integrate-and-fire neurons. We show the existence and the stability of a fast wave and a family of slow waves. Fast waves are similar to those already described in continuum networks. Stable slow waves have not been previously reported in purely excitatory networks and their propagation is particular to the discrete nature of the network. The robustness of our results is studied in the presence of noise.
The purpose of the review is to highlight the influences of ambient temperature (T(a)) and caloric restriction (CR) on metabolism, cardiovascular function and behavior in mice. Standard vivarium ambient temperatures (T(a)?23 degrees C) are a mild cold stress for mice requiring elevated metabolic rate and food intake. Increasing T(a) into the zone of thermoneutrality (TMN?29-33 degrees C) markedly reduces food intake, metabolic rate, heart rate (HR) and blood pressure in mice. Mice are members of a diverse, yet unique group of homeothermic animals that respond to thermal and energetic challenges by allowing body temperature (T(b)) to fall to less than 31 degrees C, a condition known as torpor. In mice housed at standard T(a), torpor is induced by a single night of fasting or a few days of CR. The mechanisms responsible for initiating torpor are related to reduced caloric availability, but do not require leptin. Mice housed at TMN and subjected to CR exhibit physiologic reductions in metabolic rate and HR, but do not appear to enter torpor. Finally, mice exhibit differential locomotor activity responses during CR that depends on T(a). At standard T(a), mice display increased light-phase home-cage activity with CR. This response is virtually eliminated when CR is performed at TMN. We suggest that researchers using mice to investigate energy homeostasis and cardiovascular physiology carefully consider the influence of T(a) on physiology and behavior.
Shal-type (Kv4.x) K(+) channels are expressed in a variety of tissue, with particularly high levels in the brain and heart. These channels are the primary subunits that contribute to transient, voltage-dependent K(+) currents in the nervous system (A currents) and the heart (transient outward current). Recent studies have revealed an enormous degree of complexity in the regulation of these channels. In this review, we describe the surprisingly large number of ancillary subunits and scaffolding proteins that can interact with the primary subunits, resulting in alterations in channel trafficking and kinetic properties. Furthermore, we discuss posttranslational modification of Kv4.x channel function with an emphasis on the role of kinase modulation of these channels in regulating membrane properties. This concept is especially intriguing as Kv4.2 channels may integrate a variety of intracellular signaling cascades into a coordinated output that dynamically modulates membrane excitability. Finally, the pathophysiology that may arise from dysregulation of these channels is also reviewed.
Glutamate metabolism is known to be important for growth and development of the human fetus. The glutamate transporters EAAT1, EAAT2 and EAAT3 are key components of the glutamate-glutamine cycle and responsible for active transport of glutamate over the cell membrane. The placenta is thought to regulate glutamate transport during fetal development. Glutamate transporters have been found in placentae of rats, but their distribution in the human placenta is unknown. Therefore, the distribution of glutamate transporters EAAT1, EAAT2 and EAAT3 were analysed in the human placenta during normal pregnancies ending between 8 and 40 weeks of gestation and in placentae of intrauterine growth restricted infants with gestational ages between 28 and 35 weeks of pregnancy. Using immunohistochemistry, EAAT1 expression was found in the syncytiotrophoblast layer, while EAAT2 was detected in the syncytiotrophoblast layer and in endothelial cells of about 5 per cent of all fetal blood vessels. EAAT3 was observed in the endothelium of the fetal blood vessels in all placentae examined. However, expression was also found in the syncytio- and the cytotrophoblast layer of the fetal villi at 8 weeks of gestational age. The expression patterns of EAAT1, EAAT2 and EAAT3 suggest involvement in active transport of glutamate between the fetal and maternal blood circulation. No differences were found in the distribution of the glutamate transporters between control and IUGR placentae. Our data show specific localization of EAAT1, EAAT2 and EAAT3 in the human placenta during development.

A role for neuronal nicotinic receptor (NNR) activation in animal models of depression has been established. In order to determine the mechanism by which NNR ligands exert their antidepressant effects, experiments using different NNR receptor antagonists in both the mouse and the rat forced swim test (RFST) were performed. In the mouse forced swim test (MFST), A-85380 (0.62 micromol/kg = 0.14 mg/kg, i.p.), an NNR agonist, increased swim distance when administered 15 min prior to test. This effect was blocked by pre-treatment with mecamylamine (1.5 micromol/kg = 0.3 mg/kg, i.p.), suggesting that an NNR mechanism is involved. Further, chlorisondamine at a non-central nervous system (CNS) penetrating dose (1.6 micromol/kg = 1 mg/kg, i.p.) did not antagonize A-85380 in this model, thus implicating central rather than peripheral nicotinic receptors. Dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE, 0.3 micromol/kg = 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) pre-treatment also blocked this effect, indicating that the alpha4beta2 receptor subtype may be involved in A-85380-induced antidepressant effects. Finally, methiothepin (0.33 micromol/kg = 0.14 mg/kg, i.p.) pre-treatment antagonized this effect, suggesting serotonergic involvement. In the rat modified forced swim test, sub-acute administration of A-85380 (0.62 micromol/kg, i.p.) increased swimming behavior and decreased immobility. Climbing behavior was unaffected. In contrast, desipramine treatment (33 micromol/kg = 10 mg/kg, i.p.) resulted in an increase in climbing behavior with no effect on swimming. This behavioral profile has been shown to be more typical of serotonergic rather than noradrenergic antidepressants, suggesting that A-85380 exerts its effects via NNR activation of serotonergic systems.
The Carlsson research group has developed a series of compounds capable of stabilising the dopamine system without inducing the deleterious hypodopaminergia that encumbers the currently used antipsychotic drugs. In the present study one of these dopaminergic stabilisers, ACR16, was tested in a mouse model for cognitive deficits of schizophrenia and autism. Since we believe that hypoglutamatergia is a key element in both schizophrenia and autism we used mice rendered hypoglutamatergic by treatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist MK-801. MK-801 causes both hyperactivity and a behavioural primitivization. ACR16 attenuated the MK-801-induced hyperactivity and, in addition, caused a marked improvement of behavioural quality with a movement pattern approaching that of control animals. Since we believe that the impoverishment of the behavioural repertoire caused by MK-801 may correspond to the cognitive deficits seen in schizophrenia and autism, these results suggest that ACR16 may improve cognitive status in these disorders.

Psychiatric rehabilitation practices are often poorly defined, hindering implementation, research, and dissemination efforts. Documentation of adherence to a specific psychiatric rehabilitation approach is particularly important in conducting randomized controlled trials. This paper outlines steps taken to define and measure the Diversified Placement Approach (DPA), a well-regarded vocational program for people with severe mental illnesses. Details of scale development are described, and the scale's utility for model clarification and detection of experimental drift are discussed.

Measuring heart rate variability (HRV) is a way to assess the autonomic regulation of the heart. Decreased HRV, indicating reduced parasympathetic tone, has previously been found in depression and anxiety disorders. The objective of this study was to assess HRV in women with premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD). To this end, time domain variables and frequency domain variables were assessed in 28 women with PMDD and in 11 symptom-free controls during both the symptomatic luteal phase and the non-symptomatic follicular phase of the menstrual cycle. Two variables reflecting vagal activity in the time domain, the root mean square of differences of successive normal RR intervals (rMSSD) and standard deviation of normal RR intervals (SDNN) were lower in PMDD patients, but this difference was statistically significant in the follicular phase only. The most important vagal measure in the frequency domain, supine high frequency (HF), also appeared lower in PMDD subjects during the follicular phase. It is suggested that PMDD may be associated with reduced vagal tone compared to controls and that this difference is most apparent in the non-symptomatic follicular phase of the menstrual cycle.





An ERP study on 9 healthy participants was carried out to temporally constrain the neural network proposed by Campanella et al. (2001) in a PET study investigating the cerebral areas involved in the retrieval of face-name associations. Three learning sessions served to familiarize the participants with 24 face-name associations grouped in 12 male/female couples. During EEG recording, participants were confronted with four experimental conditions, requiring the retrieval of previously learned couples on the basis of the presentation of name-name (NN), face-face (FF), name-face (NF), or face-name (FN) pairs of stimuli. The main analysis of this experiment consisted in the subtraction of the nonmixed conditions (NN and FF) from the mixed conditions (NF and FN). It revealed two main ERP components: a negative wave peaking at left parieto-occipital sites around 285 ms and its positive counterpart recorded at left centro-frontal electrodes around 300 ms. Moreover, a dipole modeling using three dipoles whose localization corresponded to the three cerebral areas observed in the PET study (left inferior frontal gyrus, left medial frontal gyrus, left inferior parietal lobe) explained more than 90% of the variance of the results. The complementarity between anatomical and neurophysiological techniques allowed us to discuss the temporal course of these cerebral activities and to propose an interactive and original anatomo-temporal model of the retrieval of face-name associations.



In this study, the authors describe the meaning of the word &quot;psychosomatic&quot; in U.S. and U.K. newspaper articles using a systematic text word search and a consensus rating of the contextual meaning of all articles published in 14 U.S. and U.K. newspapers between 1996 and 2002. The survey was limited to broadsheet newspapers. &quot;Psychosomatic&quot; had a pejorative meaning, such as &quot;imaginary&quot; or &quot;made up,&quot; in 74 of 215 (34%) of the articles in which the meaning could be judged. Most commonly, &quot;psychosomatic&quot; was used to describe a problem that was psychological or in which the mind affects the body (56%) rather than as a reciprocal interaction (5%). &quot;Psychosomatic medicine&quot; is the new name for the seventh subspecialty of psychiatry. More needs to be done to educate the media about its actual meaning to make it attractive to patients.

During treatment of brain tumors, some head and neck tumors, and other diseases, like arteriovenous malformations, the normal brain is exposed to ionizing radiation. While high radiation doses can cause severe tissue destruction, lower doses can induce cognitive impairments without signs of overt tissue damage. The underlying pathogenesis of these impairments is not well understood but may involve the neural precursor cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. To assess the effects of radiation on cognitive function, 2-month-old mice received either sham treatment (controls) or localized X irradiation (10 Gy) to the hippocampus/cortex and were tested behaviorally 3 months later. Compared to controls, X-irradiated mice showed hippocampal-dependent spatial learning and memory impairments in the Barnes maze but not the Morris water maze. No nonspatial learning and memory impairments were detected. The cognitive impairments were associated with reductions in proliferating Ki-67-positive cells and Doublecortin-positive immature neurons in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus. This study shows significant cognitive impairments after a modest dose of radiation and demonstrates that the Barnes maze is particularly sensitive for the detection of radiation-induced cognitive deficits in young adult mice. The significant loss of proliferating SGZ cells and their progeny suggests a contributory role of reduced neurogenesis in the pathogenesis of radiation-induced cognitive impairments.

The etiology of multiple sclerosis (MS) remains unknown; however, both genetic and environmental influences undoubtedly are involved. In terms of the environment, infectious agents and random factors seem likely and there is growing evidence that MS may sometimes occur as an uncommon complication of an infection by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Support for this concept, including epidemiologic considerations, persistent infection of B lymphocytes, known neurologic complications of EBV infection, serologic studies, and attempts at genome identification are reviewed. These data are consistent with EBV being a leading candidate agent in MS causation, but the evidence is not considered definitive at this time.
Both family-based linkage analyses and population-based association studies have failed to identify disease-regulatory non-human leucocyte antigen genes of importance in multiple sclerosis (MS). Instead, investigators have employed experimental models, which offer major advantages in genetic studies. We summarize the current main methodologies used and the status of both the human and experimental approaches. Why is it important to find genes regulating MS? There is an immense number of cellular and molecular interactions defined in the immunological field and it is very difficult to unravel those that are critical to an inflammatory disease, such as MS, by classical hypothesis-driven research. Unbiased genetics defines evolutionary conserved gene polymorphisms and pathways regulated by these genes, which are central in the pathogenesis. These, in turn, are of interest as therapeutic targets and pharmacogenetic markers.
Natural killer (NK) cells, the third major lymphocyte population, are important effector cells against certain infections and tumours. They have also been implicated as a link between innate and adaptive immune responses. In recent years, much attention has been paid to the NK cell inhibitory receptors and their interaction with major histocompatibility complex class I molecules on target cells. This review summarizes recent findings on regulation of NK cell activity with an emphasis on NK cell stimulatory receptors. A particular emphasis is devoted to the receptor NKG2D that is expressed on all NK cells.


Pain shows the most disruptive influence on the quality of the life of cancer patients. However, the basic neurobiology of cancer pain is poorly understood, as no appropriate animal model of cancer pain is available. New insights into these mechanisms are now arising from femur, calcaneus, humerus model of cancer pain in murine and tibia model in rats. Cancer pain has its unique mechanisms such as osteolysis, peripheral sensitization, central sensitization and nerve entrapping, which are all involved in the development and maintenance of cancer pain. Here we summarized the study progress of cancer pain animal models, neurochemical mechanisms and drugs for treatment of cancer pain from recent literatures.
Previous studies have implicated heterotrimeric Gi proteins in signaling leading to inflammatory mediator production induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). TLR4 has recently been shown to play a central role in response to LPS activation. We hypothesized that Gi proteins are coupled to TLR4 activation of signaling pathways. To inhibit Gi protein function, human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells or RAW 264.7 cells were pretreated with pertussis toxin (PTx), an inhibitor of receptor-Galphai interaction, or transfected with dominant negative Galphai3 (Galphai3dn) or Galphai2 minigene (an inhibitory carboxyl terminus of Galphai2) plasmid. The cells were subsequently transfected with constitutively active TLR4 (TLR4ca) plasmid or TLR4ca together with an NFkappaB or AP-1 reporter construct. TLR4ca transfection induced ERK 1/2 activation (157 +/- 14%, P &lt; 0.01), AP-1 activation (4.0 +/- 0.2-fold, P &lt; 0.01), and NFkappaB activation (8.1 +/- 0.4-fold, P &lt; 0.01) compared with empty vector controls. Pretreatment with PTx inhibited TLR4ca-induced ERK 1/2 phosphorylation (30 +/- 7%, P &lt; 0.05) and AP-1 activation (36 +/- 3%, P &lt; 0.05) but did not inhibit NFkappaB activation. Cotransfection of TLR4ca with Galphai3dn or Galphai2 minigene also reduced TLR4ca-induced ERK 1/2 phosphorylation (34 +/- 10% and 33 +/- 5%, respectively, P &lt; 0.05). Constitutively active Galphai2 and Galphai3 plasmids potentiated TLR4ca-induced ERK 1/2 phosphorylation (27 +/- 3% and 41 +/- 6%, respectively, P &lt; 0.05). betaARK-ct plasmid, which inhibits the function of betagamma subunit of G protein, has no effect on TLR4ca-induced ERK 1/2 phosphorylation. These data support our hypothesis and provide the first evidence that Galphai-coupled signaling pathways are activated by TLR4. The TLR4-activated Galphai signaling pathway activates ERK 1/2 phosphorylation and AP-1 activation independently of TLR4-mediated signaling to NFkappaB activation.
Enhancement of intracranial thrombosed aneurysms is an uncommon finding on magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, and can present diagnostic difficulties and complicate management decisions. We report a 46-year-old man who had an enhancing thrombosed intracranial aneurysm observed on 3T MR imaging. There was angiographical correlation, with follow-up serial MR imaging documenting regression and improvement. Findings are typical for benign intravascular papillary endothelial hyperplasia. Differential diagnoses of giant serpentine intracranial aneurysm and malignant angiosarcoma are discussed.





Among the various models proposed for understanding the dynamics of addiction to psychoactive substances, no single one succeeds in explaining how the three dimensions--biological, psychological, and social--interact. The physio-pathological models proposed so far suffer from too reductive a vision of the notion of pleasure to hope to supply this explanation. Studies in the neurosciences and genetics indicate that cerebral function, and hence pleasure itself, is determined less by our genes than by the continuous interaction that occurs between every organism and its environment, including other individuals. These indications make it possible to propose an integrated model capable of answering the main questions posed by all types of addiction.
The relationship between childhood diagnosis, personality psychopathology and suicidal behavior in young adulthood was explored in a sample of 327 suicide ideators, single attempters, and multiple attempters. Of the total sample, 174 received at least one childhood diagnosis; the 153 without a diagnosis provided a comparison group. Results suggest that a childhood history of an anxiety disorder or major depression predispose a person to both later multiple suicide attempts and personality psychopathology. Gender was found to play a significant role, with females being predisposed to multiple attempts in young adulthood but only as a function of childhood anxiety, not major depression. Additionally, childhood anxiety disorders were found to predispose to multiple attempts as a function of personality psychopathology, with distinctly different paths for males and females. Implications are discussed in terms of etiology, prevention, and treatment.
In cholinergic neurons, Na(+)- and Cl(-)-dependent, hemicholinium-3-sensitive, high-affinity choline uptake system is thought to be the rate-limiting step in acetylcholine (ACh) synthesis. The system is highly regulated by neuronal activity; the choline uptake is increased by a condition in which ACh release is favored. Here we analyzed the ultrastructural localization of the high-affinity choline transporter (CHT) in the rat neuromuscular junctions with two separate antibodies. The majority (&gt;90%) of immunogold labeling of CHT was observed on synaptic vesicles rather than the presynaptic plasma membrane. Less than 5% of the gold-silver particles were associated with the plasma membrane, and more than 70% of such particles were localized within or in close vicinity to presynaptic active zones. Our morphological data support the recent hypothesis that trafficking of CHT from synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane couples neuronal activity and choline uptake.
Previous behavioral studies suggest that the striatum mediates a hyperactive response to systemic NMDA receptor antagonism in combination with systemic D1 receptor stimulation. However, many experiments conducted at the cellular level suggest that inhibition of NMDA receptors should block D1 receptor-mediated locomotor activity. Therefore, we investigated the consequences of NMDA receptor blockade on the ability of striatal D1 receptors to elicit locomotor activity using systemic and intrastriatal injections of the NMDA antagonist MK-801 combined with intrastriatal injections of the D1 full agonist SKF 82958. Following drug treatment locomotor activity was measured via computerized activity monitors designed to quantify multiple parameters of rodent open-field behavior. Both systemic (0.1 mg/kg) and intrastriatal (1.0 microg) MK-801 pretreatments completely blocked locomotor and stereotypic activity elicited by 10 microg of SKF 82958 directly infused into the striatum. Further, increased activity triggered by intrastriatal SKF 82958 was attenuated by a posttreatment with intrastriatal infusion of 1 microg MK-801. These data suggest that D1-stimulated locomotor behaviors controlled by the striatum require functional NMDA channels.
Drugs of abuse produce long-term changes in dopamine neurotransmission and receptor-effected intracellular signaling. Similar changes in neuronal activity are mediated by motivated behaviors. To explore cellular mechanisms underlying these neuroadaptations following sexual experience, cyclic AMP accumulation following stimulation of D1 dopamine receptors, G-proteins, and adenylate cyclase was compared in the nucleus accumbens and caudate nucleus of sexually naive and experienced female hamsters following sexual behavior. Direct stimulation of adenylate cyclase with forskolin or indirectly by activation of G-proteins with Gpp(NH)p produced dose-dependent increases in the formation of cyclic AMP in the nucleus accumbens and caudate nucleus, with no effects of sexual experience on these measures. Specific D1 receptor stimulation increased Gpp(NH)p-induced adenylate cyclase activity in the nucleus accumbens and caudate nucleus of all animals. Interestingly, this stimulation was further enhanced only in membranes from the nucleus accumbens, but not from the caudate nucleus, of sexually experienced hamsters compared to the response of naive females. These results demonstrate that sexual behavior experience can sensitize mesolimbic dopamine pathways and that this sensitization occurs through an increase in D1 receptor-mediated signaling.
The effects of dietary glucose (chow containing 0%, 10%, 20%, or 40% glucose, w/w) on chronic haloperidol-induced changes in dopamine (DA) neuronal activity were tested. Rats were treated daily by oral gavage for 21 days with either water or 0.5 mg/kg haloperidol, then anesthetized for in vivo electrophysiological recording. The numbers of spontaneously active DA neurons in the substantia nigra (A9) and ventral tegmental area (A10) regions of the midbrain were estimated with the cells-per-track sampling method. In rats fed standard chow, haloperidol significantly reduced the number of active neurons in both regions compared to water controls. In water controls there were no differences in DA cells per track between rats fed standard chow or chow containing 10% or 20% glucose, whereas these glucose diets significantly attenuated the effects of chronic haloperidol on DA cells per track. The 40% glucose diet itself nonsignificantly reduced cells per track and, in turn, nonsignificantly attenuated the effects of haloperidol. The results demonstrate that dietary glucose content can alter haloperidol-induced changes in the activity of midbrain DA neurons.
Acute exposure to low concentrations of methylmercury (MeHg) causes a severe loss of intracellular calcium (Ca2+(i)) homeostasis, which apparently contributes to neuronal death of cerebellar granule cells in culture. We examined the role of muscarinic receptors in MeHg-induced Ca2+ dysregulation and cell death in rat cerebellar granule cells in vitro using fura-2 single-cell microfluorimetry and viability assays, respectively. The nonspecific muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine significantly delayed the onset of MeHg-induced Ca2+ elevations and reduced the amount of Ca2+ released into the cytosol. Depletion of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) Ca2+ pool with thapsigargin or down-regulation of muscarinic receptors and inositol-1,3,4-triphosphate (IP3) receptors with bethanechol (BCh) caused similar reductions in the amplitude of the MeHg-induced Ca2+ increase, suggesting that MeHg interacts with muscarinic receptors to cause Ca2+ release from the SER through activation of the IP3 receptors. To determine whether this Ca2+ release plays a role in MeHg-induced cell death, cells were exposed to MeHg in the presence of specific muscarinic receptor inhibitors. Acute exposure to increasing concentrations of MeHg (0.2-1.0 microM) caused a corresponding increase in cell death at 24.5 h post-exposure. Prior down-regulation of muscarinic and IP3receptors with BCh protected against cell death. Protection was ablated by atropine and the M3 receptor antagonist 4-diphenylacetoxyl-N-methylpiperidine methiodide (DAMP), but not by the neuronal nicotinic receptor antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine hydrobromide (DHE). Thus activation of M3 muscarinic receptors with subsequent generation of IP3 evidently contributes to elevated [Ca2+]i and subsequent cytotoxicity of cerebellar granule cells by MeHg.
Amphiphysin is a protein enriched at mammalian synapses thought to function as a clathrin accessory factor in synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Here we examine the involvement of amphiphysin in synaptic vesicle recycling at the giant synapse in the lamprey. We show that amphiphysin resides in the synaptic vesicle cluster at rest and relocates to sites of endocytosis during synaptic activity. It accumulates at coated pits where its SH3 domain, but not its central clathrin/AP-2-binding (CLAP) region, is accessible for antibody binding. Microinjection of antibodies specifically directed against the CLAP region inhibited recycling of synaptic vesicles and caused accumulation of clathrin-coated intermediates with distorted morphology, including flat patches of coated presynaptic membrane. Our data provide evidence for an activity-dependent redistribution of amphiphysin in intact nerve terminals and show that amphiphysin is a component of presynaptic clathrin-coated intermediates formed during synaptic vesicle recycling.
The remarkable accomplishments in developmental neurobiology within the past 60 years have depended on two things: (i) a succession of original histochemical and immunohistochemical methodologies for identifying pathways in the nervous system with increasing precision and sensitivity, and (ii) the discovery of growth factors for neurons. Growth factors are naturally occurring, essential biological mediators that promote cell growth, differentiation, survival and function in specific nerve cell populations. The discovery of nerve growth factor (NGF) by Rita Levi-Montalcini in the 1950s represents an important milestone in the processes that led to modern cell biology. NGF was the first growth factor identified, for its action on the morphological differentiation of neural-crest-derived nerve cells. Later, its effect on neuronal cells of the peripheral and central nervous systems, and on several non-neuronal cells was also determined. Thus, Levi-Montalcini's work on NGF represents, as acknowledged by the Nobel Prize Assembly in its press release of 13 October 1986, &quot;a fascinating example of how a skilled observer can create a concept out of apparent chaos&quot;.
Now that the human genome has been sequenced there exists the possibility of identifying specific genes that affect human cognition. In this article, recent studies that have found associations between common gene variants and specific cognitive processes are reviewed. Several principles for evaluating this new field are also discussed. The interpretation of results is far from simple because a single gene can affect multiple processes, multiple genes can impact on a single process, and multiple cognitive processes are intercorrelated. In general, functional neuroimaging has been a more sensitive assay of cognitive processing than behavioral measures used alone, although there are important caveats regarding its use. Replicated findings so far involve associations between a COMT polymorphism and prefrontally-based executive functions and neurophysiology, and a BDNF polymorphism and medial-temporal-cortex based declarative memory processes. Implicit in this review is a concern that many of the cognitive paradigms used evolved for purposes well outside those described here. As such it may be necessary to view cognition in novel ways, based on constraints imposed by genomics and neurobiology, in order to increase the effect size of genotypic influences on cognition.
The 'language-readiness' of human brains most probably resulted from modification of structures present in non-human primate brains, but identifying such homologues and the nature of their modifications has been highly problematic. In a recent article, Arbiband Bota suggest that these problems can be overcome using a neuroinformatics approach. But its assumptions ignore many non-local, activity-dependent, regressive, and allometric effects of neurodevelopment that violate assumptions of classic homology. What if these effects are what matter most?
One of the greatest challenges in the treatment of inner-ear disorders is to find a cure for the hearing loss that is caused by the loss of cochlear hair cells or spiral ganglion neurons. The recent discovery of stem cells in the adult inner ear that are capable of differentiating into hair cells, as well as the finding that embryonic stem cells can be converted into hair cells, raise hope for the future development of stem-cell-based treatment regimens. Here, we propose different approaches for using stem cells to regenerate the damaged inner ear and we describe the potential obstacles that translational approaches must overcome for the development of stem-cell-based cell-replacement therapies for the damaged inner ear.
Identifying gene functions in behaviours has so far relied mainly on achievements in the field of molecular genetics. Further progress can be made by developing new approaches that allow refinement of behavioural phenotypes. The current availability of several thousand different mutant mice challenges behavioural neuroscientists to extend their views and methodologies, to dissect complex behaviours into behavioural phenotypes, and subsequently to define gene-behavioural phenotype relationships. Here, we plead for multi-day automated behavioural observations in carefully designed environments.



The objective of this study was to provide calibration curves for correcting intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements obtained using the Tono-Pen XL tonometer in cats, cows and sheep. Twelve eyes from 9 cats, 13 eyes from 7 cows, 10 eyes from 5 sheep were used. The anterior chamber of the eye was cannulated in vivo, in situ (immediately post mortem) or ex vivo with a fine needle and IOP was varied from 10 to 90 mmHg in steps of 10 mmHg by adjusting the height of a saline reservoir connected to the needle. For each pressure setting, several readings of IOP were made using the tonometer. The relationship between Tono-Pen reading and manometer setting was linear over the full range of measurement. However, the slope of the data regression line deviated significantly from 1 and indicated that the instrument systematically underestimated IOP. For cats the average slope was 0.62 and for cows and sheep it was 0.72 and 0.69, respectively. For the latter animals, the regression line also had a nonzero intercept of approximately 4.5 mmHg. Similar results were obtained from in vivo and ex vivo eyes and with different Tono-Pen XL tonometers. Although developed for use on humans, the Tono-Pen XL can provide reproducible and accurate measurement of IOP in cats, cows and sheep when suitably calibrated by manometry. The calibration curves provided here, and by implication those reported for other animals using this tonometer, differ in slope from those measured with earlier models of the Tono-Pen. The reproducibility of the curves we obtained implies that they can be used to correct IOP readings from the Tono-Pen XL when manometry is not possible.
The starburst amacrine cell (SBAC), found in all mammalian retinas, is thought to provide the directional inhibitory input recorded in On-Off direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs). While voltage recordings from the somas of SBACs have not shown robust direction selectivity (DS), the dendritic tips of these cells display direction-selective calcium signals, even when gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAa,c) channels are blocked, implying that inhibition is not necessary to generate DS. This suggested that the distinctive morphology of the SBAC could generate a DS signal at the dendritic tips, where most of its synaptic output is located. To explore this possibility, we constructed a compartmental model incorporating realistic morphological structure, passive membrane properties, and excitatory inputs. We found robust DS at the dendritic tips but not at the soma. Two-spot apparent motion and annulus radial motion produced weak DS, but thin bars produced robust DS. For these stimuli, DS was caused by the interaction of a local synaptic input signal with a temporally delayed &quot;global&quot; signal, that is, an excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) that spread from the activated inputs into the soma and throughout the dendritic tree. In the preferred direction the signals in the dendritic tips coincided, allowing summation, whereas in the null direction the local signal preceded the global signal, preventing summation. Sine-wave grating stimuli produced the greatest amount of DS, especially at high velocities and low spatial frequencies. The sine-wave DS responses could be accounted for by a simple mathematical model, which summed phase-shifted signals from soma and dendritic tip. By testing different artificial morphologies, we discovered DS was relatively independent of the morphological details, but depended on having a sufficient number of inputs at the distal tips and a limited electrotonic isolation. Adding voltage-gated calcium channels to the model showed that their threshold effect can amplify DS in the intracellular calcium signal.
Although it is known that high levels of cigarette smoke lead to cell death, little is known about the effects of low-to-moderate levels of smoke components that are found in vivo, such as those experienced by cells in tissues. Clinical studies and experimental data show that smokers heal poorly and are more prone to develop fibrotic diseases. Here we show the effects of first-hand cigarette smoke on fibroblasts, cells that are critically involved in these processes. Using doses of smoke found in the tissues of smokers and a variety of cell and molecular approaches, we show that these doses of cigarette smoke do not cause cell death but rather stimulate fibroblasts to produce stress response and survival proteins such as interleukin-8, PKB/Akt, p53, and p21 that in turn contribute to an increase in cell survival. In addition, smoke-treated cells show a decrease in cell migration, which can be explained by the increased cell adhesion and alterations in cytoskeletal elements. We also show that these levels of smoke cause changes in mitochondrial morphology with a minimum loss of function and these changes are the result of exposure to reactive oxygen species. We conclude that the increase in cell survival may lead to a build-up of connective tissue in the area of a wound, potentially leading to delayed healing and/or fibrosis and that the alterations in the cytoskeleton and in cell adhesion result in inhibition of cell migration, a process that could lead to nonclosure of the wound for lack of proper fibroblast migration to form the healing tissue.





Although a number of studies have reported alterations in cardiac autonomic nervous system function in chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), the results are not consistent across studies. Reasons for these discrepancies include (1) the use of a heterogeneous patient sample that included those with orthostatic postural tachycardia (POTS), a condition with an autonomic changes, and (2) the use of frequency domain techniques which require a stationary signal and averaging data across relatively long epochs. To deal with these shortcomings, we used the smoothed pseudo-Wigner-Ville transform (SPWVT) to analyze heart rate variability (HRV) and blood pressure variability (BPV) during head-up tilt (HUT) by separating CFS patients into those with and without POTS. SPWVT has the advantage of providing instantaneous information about autonomic function under nonstable physiological conditions. We studied 18 CFS patients without POTS, eight CFS patients with POTS and 25 sedentary healthy controls during supine rest and during the first 10 min after HUT. While we found significant effects of postural change in both groups for all autonomic variables, there were significant group x time interactions between CFS without POTS and controls for only instant center frequency (ICF) within the low frequency region both from HRV (p=0.02) and from BPV (p=0.01). Although the physiological meaning of ICF still remains unknown, the data suggest that even CFS patients without POTS may have a subtle underlying disturbance in autonomic function.
Firefly luciferase has proven to be a highly sensitive and quantitative reporter gene for studying gene delivery and regulation, and its recent use in live cells and organisms promises to further expand its utility. However, the intracellular behavior and properties of the enzyme are not well characterized. Specifically, information on the intracellular kinetics and stability of luciferase activity is necessary for real-time luminescence counts from live cells to be quantitatively meaningful. Here, we report a dynamic analysis of luciferase activity in the context of living mammalian cells. We have determined the relative light units measured in living cells to be proportional to that found in cell lysate. We have also calculated the K(m) of luciferase in living cells to be approximately 1 mM, a value much higher than the 10 microM found for pure enzyme in vitro. In addition, a 2-hour half-life of luciferase activity in live cells was measured in real time. Finally, we have modeled luciferase activity in live cells for the purposes of understanding and translating the luciferase signal into a more effective metric of gene expression and cell behavior.
In order to enlighten the profile of body movements during sleep at old age, the night sleep of twelve elderly subjects was polygraphically investigated; seven young healthy subjects were the control group. Significantly less body movements during sleep were found in the elderly compared to young subjects, meaning that the decrease in the number of body movements observed from infancy to childhood up to adulthood also continues at later ages. Differently from young adult, whose sleep body movements mainly occur in stage REM, no specific sleep state and/or stage was preferentially associated with the occurrence of body movements in the elderly. These data may point to an age-related modification in the interaction between motor cortex control and subcortical circuits. Furthermore, when body movements occur in elderly individuals, they are significantly more often followed in the next 60 s by a sleep stage change or by a spontaneous behavioural awakening. This might reflect a peculiar inability of elderly subjects to sustain stable states, and could also suggest that body movements may act as a co-factor in a process, comprising other physiological changes, leading to state shifts.
Unlike other sleep disorders, such as sleep-related breathing disorders and periodic limb movement (PLM), the nature and severity of which are quantified by specific respiratory and motor indexes, no apparent organ dysfunction underlies several cases of insomnia (in particular primary insomnia), which can be objectively diagnosed only through the structural alterations of sleep. Polysomnography (PSG) investigation indicates that insomnia is the outcome of a neurophysiological disturbance that impairs the regulatory mechanisms of sleep control, including sleep duration, intensity, continuity and stability. In particular, analysis of sleep microstructure has permitted to establish that etiologic factors of different nature (including depressive disorders) exert a common destabilizing action on sleep, which is reflected in an increase of cyclic alternating pattern (CAP) rate. These premises allow us to attribute a more objective identity to insomnia, which risks otherwise to be considered as an unexplainable mental complaint. In conclusion, PSG remains the &quot;gold standard&quot; for measuring sleep, and especially insomnia.
Rats can make extremely fine texture discriminations by &quot;whisking&quot; their vibrissa across the surface of an object. We have investigated one hypothesis for the neuronal basis of texture representation by measuring how clusters of neurons in the barrel cortex of anesthetized rats encode the kinetic features of sinusoidal whisker vibrations. Mutual information analyses of spike counts led to a number of findings. Information about vibration kinetics became available as early as 6 msec after stimulus onset and reached a peak at approximately 20-30 msec. Vibration speed, proportional to the product of vibration amplitude (A) and frequency (f), was the kinetic property most reliably reported by cortical neurons. Indeed, by measuring information when the complete stimulus set was collapsed into feature-defined groups, we found that neurons reduced the dimensionality of the stimulus from two features (A, f) to a single feature, the product Af. Moreover, because different neurons encode stimuli in the same manner, information loss was negligible even when the activity of separate neuronal clusters was pooled. This suggests a decoding scheme whereby target neurons could capture all available information simply by summating the signals from separate barrel cortex neurons. These results indicate that neuronal population activity provides sufficient information to allow nearly perfect discrimination of two vibrations, based on their deflection speeds, within a time scale comparable with that of a single whisking motion across a surface.
Neuronal populations in the sensory cortex exhibit fluctuations in excitability, and the present experiments tested the hypothesis that these variations coincide with peaks and troughs in cortical modifiability. The activity of multiunit neuronal clusters under light urethane anesthesia was recorded through 100-microelectrode arrays implanted in the infragranular layers of rat barrel cortex. Spontaneous activity was characterized by &quot;bursts&quot; of spikes, synchronized across the barrel cortex. This allowed activity at one selected electrode to be taken as a reliable monitor of widespread cortical bursts. We used spikes at the selected electrode to trigger stimulation of two pairs of whiskers during a 50 min conditioning procedure: (1) for the &quot;burst-conditioned&quot; whisker pair, each stimulus was delivered 1 msec after the triggering spike, activating cortex coincident with the burst; and (2) for the &quot;interburst-conditioned&quot; whisker pair, each stimulus was delivered 300 msec after the triggering spike, activating cortex during the trough between bursts. The cross-correlation between cortical neurons in the pairs of columns matching the stimulated whisker pairs was estimated after the termination of the conditioning procedure. Conditioning produced a twofold increase in the degree of co-firing between infragranular neurons in columns receiving burst-conditioned costimulation but no significant change in connectivity between infragranular neurons in columns receiving interburst-conditioned costimulation, although the two pairs of columns received an equal number of sensory inputs. These findings suggest that the strength of co-activity between columns in the barrel cortex can be modified by sensory input patterns during discrete, intermittent intervals time-locked to bursts.
Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2, a well known regulator of gene expression, is likely to contribute to signaling events underlying enduring neural adaptations. Phosphorylated (phospho)-ERK was examined immunohistochemically after both single and repeated (i.e., sensitizing) doses of the partial D1-dopamine (DA) receptor agonist SKF-38393 (2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benazepine HCl) to adult rats lesioned as neonates (neonate lesioned) with 6-hydroxydopamine. Remarkably, prolonged phospho-ERK accumulated primarily in layers II-III of medial prefrontal cortex (MPC), where it declined gradually yet remained significantly elevated for at least 36 d after repeated doses of SKF-38393. Sustained (&gt; or =7 d) phospho-ERK was observed for shorter periods in various other cortical regions but was not detectable in striatum or nucleus accumbens. At 36 d, an additional injection of SKF-38393 to sensitized rats restored phospho-ERK to maximal levels only in MPC when examined 7 d later. Phosphorylated cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), examined 7 d after the sensitizing regimen, was observed exclusively in MPC, where it was abundant throughout all layers. Systemic injections of SL327 (alpha-[amino[(4-aminophenyl)thio]methylene]-2-(trifluoromethyl)benzeneacetonitrile), an inhibitor of the upstream ERK activator mitogen ERK kinase, attenuated both ERK and CREB phosphorylation in layers II-III of MPC. Pretreatment with the D1 antagonist SCH-23390 ((R)-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine-7-OL maleate) inhibited the prolonged increase in MPC phospho-ERK, whereas the 5-HT2 receptor antagonist ketanserin (3-[2-[4-(4-fluorobenzoyl)-1-piperidinyl]ethyl]-2,4(1H,3H)-quinazolinedione tartrate) was ineffective. Competitive and noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists also blocked sustained ERK phosphorylation. Collectively, the present results demonstrate coupling of D1 and NMDA receptor function reflected in sustained activation of the ERK signaling pathway in MPC of SKF-38393-sensitized neonate-lesioned rats. Ultimately, long-lasting phosphorylation of ERK and CREB in MPC may play a pivotal role in any permanent adaptive change(s) in these animals.
Zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) learn a specific song pattern during a sensitive period of development, after which song changes little or not at all. However, recent studies have demonstrated substantial behavioral plasticity in song behavior during adulthood under a range of conditions. The current experiment examined song behavior of adult zebra finches temporarily deprived of auditory feedback by chronic exposure to loud white noise (WN). Long-term exposure to continuous WN resulted in disruption of song similar to that observed after deafening. When auditory feedback was restored by discontinuing WN, birds were either tutored using tape-recorded playback or housed with adult conspecific tutors. No evidence of learning new tutor syllables was observed, and recovery of pre-WN song patterns was very limited after restoration of hearing. However, many birds did reacquire some aspects of their pretreatment song, suggesting an adult form of learning that may retain some of the initial aspects of sensorimotor acquisition of song in which vocalizations are shaped to match a stored template representation. The failure to learn novel song elements and the modest degree of recovery observed overall suggest a limit on plasticity in adult birds that have acquired species-typical song patterns and may reflect an important species difference between zebra finches and Bengalese finches.
Methylating agents introduce cytotoxic 1-methyladenine (1-meA) and 3-methylcytosine (3-meC) residues into nucleic acids, and it was recently demonstrated that the Escherichia coli AlkB protein and two human homologues, hABH2 and hABH3, can remove these lesions from DNA by oxidative demethylation. Moreover, AlkB and hABH3 were also found to remove 1-meA and 3-meC from RNA, suggesting that cellular RNA repair can occur. We have here studied the preference of AlkB, hABH2 and hABH3 for single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) or double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), and show that AlkB and hABH3 prefer ssDNA, while hABH2 prefers dsDNA. This was consistently observed with three different oligonucleotide substrates, implying that the specificity for single-stranded versus double-stranded DNA is sequence independent. The dsDNA preference of hABH2 was observed only in the presence of magnesium. The activity of the enzymes on single-stranded RNA (ssRNA), double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) and DNA/RNA hybrids was also investigated, and the results generally confirm the notion that while AlkB and hABH3 tend to prefer single-stranded nucleic acids, hABH2 is more active on double-stranded substrates. These results may contribute to identifying the main substrates of bacterial and human AlkB proteins in vivo.
The targeted delivery of genes and the transplantation of suitable cell types into the adult nervous system have received considerable interest over the last years. The development of improved vector systems for in vivo gene delivery and the discovery of neural stem cells in the adult nervous system have opened new venues for potential therapeutic intervention in progressive neurodegenerative disease and nervous system injury. Thus, strategies have evolved for the delivery of potentially neuroprotective molecules, such as neurotrophic factors, and the replacement of cells and tissue lost due to CNS injury and degeneration.
The world population is aging rapidly. Whilst this dramatic demographic change is a desirable and welcome phenomenon, particularly in view of people's increasing longevity, it's social, financial and health consequences can not be ignored. In addition to an increase of many age related physical illnesses, this demographic change will also lead to an increase of a number of mental health problems in older adults and in particular of dementia and depression. Therefore, any health promotion approach that could facilitate introduction of effective primary, secondary and even tertiary prevention strategies in old age psychiatry would be of significant importance. This paper explores physical activity as one of possible health promotion strategies and evaluates the existing evidence that supports its positive effect on cognitive impairment and depression in later life.
Stereo matching of a textured surface is, in principle, ambiguous because of the quasi-repetitive nature of texture. Here, we used a perfectly repetitive texture, namely a sinusoidal grating, to examine human stereo matching for repetitive patterns. Observers matched the depth of a vertical grating segment, 6-deg wide and presented in a rectangular envelope at or near the disparity of the segment edges. The interocular phase of the carrier also influenced stereo matching, producing shifts in depth arrayed around the plane specified by the edges. The limiting disparity for the edge matches was 40-60 arcmin, independent of the spatial frequency of the carrier. One explanation for these results is that first-order disparity energy mechanisms, tuned to lower spatial frequencies, respond to the edge disparities, while showing little response to the interocular phase of the carrier. In principle, these first-order low frequency mechanisms could account for edge-based stereo matching at high contrasts. But, edge matching is also observed at carrier contrasts as low as 5%, where these low frequency mechanisms are unlikely to detect the grating stimulus. This result suggests that edge matching for gratings depends on coarse-scale second-order stereo mechanisms, similar to the second-order mechanisms that have been proposed for encoding two-dimensional texture. We conclude that stereo matching of gratings (or any other texture) depends on a combination of responses in both coarse-scale second-order and fine-scale first-order disparity mechanisms.
Basic region-leucine zipper (B-ZIP) proteins are a class of dimeric sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins unique to eukaryotes. We have identified 67 B-ZIP proteins in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome. No A.thaliana B-ZIP domains are homologous with any Homo sapiens B-ZIP domains. Here, we predict the dimerization specificity properties of the 67 B-ZIP proteins in the A.thaliana genome based on three structural properties of the dimeric alpha-helical leucine zipper coiled coil structure: (i) length of the leucine zipper, (ii) placement of asparagine or a charged amino acid in the hydrophobic interface and (iii) presence of interhelical electrostatic interactions. Many A.thaliana B-ZIP leucine zippers are predicted to be eight or more heptads in length, in contrast to the four or five heptads typically found in H.sapiens, a prediction experimentally verified by circular dichroism analysis. Asparagine in the a position of the coiled coil is typically observed in the second heptad in H.sapiens. In A.thaliana, asparagine is abundant in the a position of both the second and fifth heptads. The particular placement of asparagine in the a position helps define 14 families of homodimerizing B-ZIP proteins in A.thaliana, in contrast to the six families found in H.sapiens. The repulsive interhelical electrostatic interactions that are used to specify heterodimerizing B-ZIP proteins in H.sapiens are not present in A.thaliana. Instead, we predict that plant leucine zippers rely on charged amino acids in the a position to drive heterodimerization. It appears that A.thaliana define many families of homodimerizing B-ZIP proteins by having long leucine zippers with asparagine judiciously placed in the a position of different heptads.

In the past two decades, sensory neuroscience has moved from describing response properties to external stimuli in cerebral cortex to establishing connections between neuronal activity and sensory perception. The seminal studies by Newsome, Movshon and colleagues in the awake behaving macaque firmly link single cells in extrastriate area V5/MT and perception of motion. A decade later, extrastriate visual cortex appears awash with neuronal correlates for many different perceptual tasks. Examples are attentional signals, choice signals for ambiguous images, correlates for binocular rivalry, stereo and shape perception, and so on. These diverse paradigms are aimed at elucidating the neuronal code for perceptual processes, but it has been little studied how they directly compare or even interact. In this paper, I explore to what degree the measured neuronal signals in V5/MT for choice and attentional paradigms might reflect a common neuronal mechanism for visual perception.
Language-based learning disorders such as dyslexia affect millions of people, but there is little agreement as to their cause. New evidence from behavioral measures of the ability to hear tones in the presence of background noise indicates that the brains of affected individuals develop more slowly than those of their unaffected counterparts. In addition, it seems that brain changes occurring at approximately 10 years of age, presumably associated with puberty, may prematurely halt this slower-than-normal development when improvements would normally continue into adolescence. The combination of these ideas can account for a wide range of previous results, suggesting that delayed brain development, and its interaction with puberty, may be key factors contributing to learning problems.
Motor learning can be defined as changing performance so as to optimize some function of the task, such as accuracy. The measure of accuracy that is optimized is called a loss function and specifies how the CNS rates the relative success or cost of a particular movement outcome. Models of pointing in sensorimotor control and learning usually assume a quadratic loss function in which the mean squared error is minimized. Here we develop a technique for measuring the loss associated with errors. Subjects were required to perform a task while we experimentally controlled the skewness of the distribution of errors they experienced. Based on the change in the subjects' average performance, we infer the loss function. We show that people use a loss function in which the cost increases approximately quadratically with error for small errors and significantly less than quadratically for large errors. The system is thus robust to outliers. This suggests that models of sensorimotor control and learning that have assumed minimizing squared error are a good approximation but tend to penalize large errors excessively.
Erythropoietin (EPO) and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) are cytokines that inhibit neuronal apoptosis. However, their maximal antiapoptotic effect, even at high concentrations, is observed only when neurons are pretreated for several hours before insult. Here we show that simultaneous administration of EPO and IGF-I (EPO+IGF-I) eliminates the preincubation period required to prevent N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced apoptosis in cultured rat cerebrocortical neurons. The synergistic effect of EPO+IGF-I was mediated, at least in part, by activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K). EPO+IGF-I synergistically activated Akt (protein kinase B), a downstream target of PI3-K, and prevented dephosphorylation of Akt. Overexpression of a dominant interfering form of Akt (dnAkt) abrogated EPO+IGF-I-mediated neuroprotection. EPO+IGF-I treatment did not prevent initial NMDA-induced caspase-3 activation, which was observed within 6 h of insult; however, EPO+IGF-I-treated neurons survived at least 2 days after NMDA insult. These cytokines prevented neuronal apoptosis downstream of caspase activation by facilitating association between X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein, an inhibitor of caspase proteolytic activity, and activated caspase-3. These results imply that EPO+IGF-I exert cooperative actions that afford acute neuroprotection via activation of the PI3-K-Akt pathway.
The cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist, SR 141716 (Rimonabant), has been reported to stimulate, when acutely administered, intestinal motility in mice. The present study was aimed at determining whether tolerance develops to its repeated administration. Mice were treated twice a day for up to 8 consecutive days with 0, 3 and 5.6 mg/kg SR 141716 (i.p.). On days 1, 3, 5 and 8, separate groups of mice were treated intragastrically with a non-absorbable colored marker (carmine). The distance traveled by the head of the marker in the small intestine was recorded. On day 1, SR 141716 markedly activated intestinal peristalsis, but complete tolerance to this effect developed within the third day of treatment. The results may have some relevance to the proposed future clinical use of SR 141716.
Miltirone, a tanshinone isolated from the root of Salvia miltiorrhiza, has been characterized as a low-affinity ligand for central benzodiazepine receptors. We have now shown that this compound bound with low affinity (micromolar range) to central benzodiazepine recognition sites but did not interact with peripheral benzodiazepine receptors. It failed to potentiate Cl(-) currents induced by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) both in Xenopus oocytes expressing recombinant human GABA(A) receptors and in cultured rat hippocampal pyramidal cells, but it inhibited the ability of diazepam to potentiate the effect of GABA in these systems. Miltirone (1-10 microM) also partially inhibited the increase in the abundance of the mRNA for the alpha(4) subunit of the GABA(A) receptor induced by ethanol withdrawal in cultured hippocampal neurons. These results suggest that miltirone might ameliorate the symptoms associated with discontinuation of long-term administration of ethanol or of other positive modulators of the GABA(A) receptor.
The dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) has a topographic neuroanatomy consistent with the idea that different parts of this nucleus subserve different functions. Here we use dual in situ hybridization to describe the rostral-caudal neurochemical distribution of three major cell groups, serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and catecholamine, and their relative colocalization with each other and mRNA encoding four different receptor subtypes that have been described to influence DR responses, namely, 5HT-1A, alpha(1b) adrenergic (alpha(1b) ADR), and corticotropin-releasing factor type 1 (CRF-R1) and 2 (CRF-R2) receptors. Serotonergic and GABAergic neurons were distributed throughout the rostral-caudal extent of the DR, whereas catecholaminergic neurons were generally restricted to the rostral half of the nucleus. These phenotypes essentially represent distinct cell populations, because the neurochemical markers were rarely colocalized. Both 5HT-1A and alpha(1b) ADR mRNA were highly expressed throughout the DR, and the vast majority of serotonergic neurons expressed both receptors. A smaller percentage of GABAergic neurons also expressed 5HT-1A or alpha(1b) ADR mRNA. Very few catecholaminergic cells expressed either 5HT-1A or alpha(1b) ADR mRNA. CRF-R1 mRNA was detected only at very low levels within the DR, and quantitative colocalization studies were not technically feasible. CRF-R2 mRNA was mainly expressed at the middle and caudal levels of the DR. At midlevels, CRF-R2 mRNA was expressed exclusively in serotonin neurons, whereas, at caudal levels, approximately half the CRF-R2 mRNA was expressed in GABAergic neurons. The differential distribution of distinct neurochemical phenotypes lends support to the idea of functional differentiation of the DR.
Estrogens exert neuroprotective activity in both in vivo and in vitro model systems. Herein, we report that both 17beta-estradiol and low concentrations of nitric oxide (NO) attenuate hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) induced toxicity in SK-N-SH cells, which express the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). 17beta-estradiol rapidly induced an increase in NO levels. A nNOS inhibitor was able to block the neuroprotection of 17beta-estradiol. Cyclic guanylyl mono-phosphate (cGMP) also protected against H2O2 induced toxicity, while NO's protection was attenuated by ODQ, a soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) inhibitor. In SK-N-SH cells, the major estrogen receptor isoforms is estrogen receptor beta. Our current study suggests that increased activity of nNOS may be involved in the neuroprotection conferred by 17beta-estradiol.
Genome-wide expression profiling has identified significant alterations in the abundance of specific mRNA populations in Alzheimer's disease brain when compared to age-matched controls. Increases in the expression of certain brain genes are in contrast to the majority of expressed RNAs (55-67%), which are down-regulated. The data presented here shows, that at the level of mRNA abundance, there is marked up-regulation in a family of stress-related genes that have significant potential to promote angiogenesis. This supports the hypothesis of an advancement in angiogenic signaling in Alzheimer's disease brain. Angiogenesis, perhaps as the result of dysfunctional cerebral vasculature, may be both a consequence and a contributory factor to the etiopathology of the Alzheimer's disease process.
Tryptophan hydroxylase is the first of four enzymes in the melatonin biosynthetic pathway. Recent studies have shown that there are two genes, Tph1 and Tph2, that encode tryptophan hydroxylase in mammals. In this study, we investigated which of the two genes is expressed in the rat retina. To that end, we measured Tph1 (classical Tph) and Tph2 mRNA levels using real-time quantitative RT-PCR in the retina. Our data demonstrate that Tph1 mRNA is the prevalent form expressed in the retina; Tph2 mRNA is also present but the level is very low. We also measured Tph1 expression levels in the outer nuclear layer, inner nuclear layer, and ganglion cell layer by combining laser capture microdissection and real-time RT-PCR. Tph1 mRNA is more abundant in the photoreceptors of the outer nuclear layer than in the inner nuclear layer or ganglion cell layer. Tph1 and Tph2 transcripts showed robust diurnal rhythms of abundance, with highest levels at night. Our results support the hypothesis that Tph1 is involved in melatonin synthesis in retinal photoreceptor cells.
Subcortical lesions have been simultaneously implicated in both real and simulated movement deficits. However, the analysis of the simulated opposition axis in precision grasping reveals that, in individuals with idiopathic bilateral Parkinson' disease motor imagery is impaired and that execution of overt movements is spared. This constitutes the first lesion observation congruent with the anatomical and functional dichotomy between real and simulated movements seen in experimental studies. These results underline the modality-specific nature of motor imagery and show that subcortical damage differentially impacts on motor activity.
The catalytic subunit of the serine-threonine protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) was previously found to bind to the carboxyl domain of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) subunit NR3A. We now report that NR3A constitutively associates with the PP2A holoenzyme, but not the core enzyme in rat brain synaptic plasma membranes. We also identified critical amino acids in NR3A required for binding to PP2A. We performed alanine-scanning mutagenesis in the PP2A-binding domain of the NR3A C-terminal (NR3Ac), then co-expressed the mutants together with the PP2A catalytic subunit in a yeast two-hybrid system and human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. We found that mutation of leucine 958, leucine 973 or histidine 974 or deletion of a spacer sequence of more than six amino acids between leucine 958 and histidine 974 disrupted the NR3A/PP2A interaction.
Heptahelical opioid receptors are implicated in the transcriptional regulation of neuronal development. Here we demonstrated that activation of mu-opioid receptors in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells led to the activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), a transcription factor central to the regulation of numerous biological processes. The mu-opioid-induced activation of STAT3 is sensitive to receptor was further shown to pertussis toxin treatment and required JAK and Src tyrosine kinases, but not phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. This mu-opioid-induced response was mediated via the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase in a Raf-1-independent manner. The present study provides a foundation to explore the importance of STAT3 signaling in the regulation of neuronal growth and differentiation by the mu-opioid receptor.
Functional interaction between cortical areas may involve synchronization of activities, manifest as coherence between EEG signals. However, although EEG-EEG coherence changes when motor tasks are compared to each other or rest, there is little evidence that coherence is modulated within an action. To address this issue we used a bimanual drawer-opening task necessitating asymmetrical hand actions and comprising distinct movement phases. Pronounced modulations in EEG-EEG coherence in the beta band (&gt;12-24 Hz) occurred with movement phase. Differences in coherence due to a switch in role of the hands were mainly observed in the alpha band (8-12 Hz). These findings suggest that inter-regional synchronization changes dynamically across task execution in line with behavioral performance.




Nestin-expressing neural progenitor cells (NPCs) have been isolated from hippocampus of brains and propagated with epidermal growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). However, the underlying signaling mechanisms regulating NPC proliferation remain elusive. Here we showed that neuregulinbeta1 (NRG), like bFGF, effectively promoted the proliferation of hippocampus-derived NPCs and maintained the progenitor states of NPCs. Activation of protein kinase C (PKC), a downstream effector of phospholipase C (PLC), with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) mimicked the NRG-induced proliferation of NPCs. The synergic effect of TPA plus NRG on neurosphere growth further prompted us to find that NRG induced NPC propagation through PLC/PKC signaling pathway. ErbB4, an important functional receptor of NRG, had an interaction with PLCgamma1 protein. In addition, inactivation of PLC pathway led to severe proliferative suppression of NPCs. Our study suggests that activation of PLC/PKC pathway plays an essential role in the NRG-induced proliferation of hippocampus-derived NPCs.
Following a recent claim, based on glial acidic fibrillary protein (GFAP) expression, that brain-derived astrocytes in culture are in fact endothelial cells, we immuno-labelled primary cultures of rat brain astrocytes and endothelium with various GFAP antisera. Both cell types stained positively with a polyclonal antibody, although monoclonal antiserum labelled only astrocytes. We conclude that staining of endothelial cells with the polyclonal GFAP antiserum is due to cross reactivity with another protein.
Inhibition of spinal and trigeminal withdrawal reflexes by morphine and by the cannabinoid agonist HU 210 has been studied in anaesthetized and in decerebrated rabbits. In intact, pentobarbitone-anaesthetized animals, the jaw-depressor reflex (JDR) evoked by stimulation of the tongue, and the reflex elicited in the ankle flexor tibialis anterior (TA) by stimulation of the toes were inhibited to the same extent by morphine (1-30 mg kg(-1) i.v. cumulative). In spinalized, anaesthetized rabbits morphine depressed the JDR to the same level as in non-spinal preparations, but the effect of the opioid on the TA reflex was significantly reduced. All effects of morphine were reversed by naloxone (0.25 mg kg(-1), i.v.). In anaesthetised intact animals, HU 210 depressed the JDR at a dose of 100 nmol kg(-1) i.v. cumulative, reduced reflexes evoked in the knee flexor muscle semitendinosus (ST) by stimulation at the toes at a dose of 30 nmol kg(-1) i.v. cumulative, but had no consistent or significant effects on the TA reflex to toe stimulation. The same results were obtained in spinalized, anaesthetised animals. In decerebrated, spinalized rabbits with no anaesthesia, HU 210 (30 nmol kg(-1)) depressed both ST and TA reflexes evoked by toe stimulation. These data reveal that trigeminal and spinal withdrawal reflexes are equally sensitive to morphine provided the spinal cord is intact, suggesting that at least part of the action of systemic morphine is due to activation of descending inhibition. The present results also show for the first time that cannabinoid agonists can inhibit trigeminal withdrawal reflexes. HU 210 had differential effects on the three reflexes studied depending on the presence or absence of anaesthesia. This is the first occasion on which we have found pharmacological distinctions between withdrawal reflexes, and indicates that spinal sensorimotor processing is more heterogeneous than has been suspected previously.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated from dopamine and its oxidation products have been implicated in the pathogenesis and toxicity from treatment of Parkinson's disease-associated autonomic neuropathy, and antioxidant therapies have been proposed as treatment and prophylaxis for this disorder. However, many antioxidants are rapidly and, under physiological conditions, irreversibly oxidized, rendering them redox-inactive. We have examined the potential of 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl and polynitroxylated albumin (TEMPOL/PNA), an antioxidant complex that facilitates recycling of inactivated antioxidant to its redox-active form, as a protective agent against the toxicity of the catecholaminergic ROS generator, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). TEMPOL/PNA is more effective against depression of activity level by 6-OHDA than the non-recycling antioxidant, TEMPOL, in a murine model of catecholaminergic oxidative damage. TEMPOL/PNA is also less toxic than TEMPOL in mice, allowing administration of higher doses of antioxidant. Both TEMPOL and TEMPOL/PNA give rise to prevention of apoptosis and to translocation of NF-kappaB from the cytoplasm to the nucleus of PC12 cells treated with 6-OHDA, but in vivo, TEMPOL/PNA maintains redox-active blood levels of TEMPOL for almost 5 h, whereas administration of TEMPOL alone results in clearance of blood redox activity within 1 h. PNA enhances the therapeutic index of TEMPOL, and the recycling antioxidant that results from their adjunctive administration may prove useful in disorders involving oxidative stress.
Coital signaling in the female rabbit involves sequential events in the brainstem and hypothalamus, resulting in a massive release of hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) that peaks within 1-2 h after mating. The neural connections between coitus and GnRH release involves norepinephrine (NE) and acetylcholine (ACh) since administration of antagonists against NE (dibenamine or phentolamine) or ACh (atropine, alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BTX) or scopolamine) blocks or attenuates ovulating events. Moreover, hypothalamic NE release and brainstem tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, the rate-limiting enzyme for NE synthesis) expression in the noradrenergic areas increase prior to, or in concert with, the preovulatory GnRH surge. How ACh is involved in the control of ovulation in the rabbit is lesser known. In the present study, the number of brainstem neurons expressing TH, alpha4 and alpha7 subunits of the nicotinic ACh receptor (nAChR) before and after coitus was determined by immunocytochemistry. Compared to non-mated female rabbits, the number of alpha4, alpha7 and TH single-labeled neurons as well as alpha4/TH and alpha7/TH double-labeled neurons increased in the A1, A2 and A6 brainstem noradrenergic areas at 1 h, but not 2 h, after coitus. The results suggest that the participation of ACh in the control of coitus-induced ovulation may include activation of alpha4beta2 and alpha7 nAChRs in neurons within or adjacent to the brainstem noradrenergic areas in female rabbits.

Drosophila taste compounds with gustatory neurons on many parts of the body, suggesting that a fly detects both the location and quality of a food source. For example, activation of taste neurons on the legs causes proboscis extension or retraction, whereas activation of proboscis taste neurons causes food ingestion or rejection. We examined whether the features of taste location and taste quality are mapped in the fly brain using molecular, genetic, and behavioral approaches. We find that projections are segregated by the category of tastes that they recognize: neurons that recognize sugars project to a region different from those recognizing noxious substances. Transgenic axon labeling experiments also demonstrate that gustatory projections are segregated based on their location in the periphery. These studies reveal the gustatory map in the first relay of the fly brain and demonstrate that taste quality and position are represented in anatomical projection patterns.
Neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1), a Ca(2+)-binding protein, plays an important role in the modulation of neurotransmitter release and phosphatidylinositol signaling pathway. It is known that the physiological activity of NCS-1 is governed by its myristoylation. Here, we present the role of myristoylation of NSC-1 in governing Ca(2+) binding and Ca(2+)-induced conformational changes in NCS-1 as compared with the role in the nonmyristoylated protein. The (45)Ca binding and isothermal titration calorimetric data show that myristoylation increases the degree of cooperativity; thus, the myristoylated NCS-1 binds Ca(2+) more strongly (with three Ca(2+) binding sites) than the non-myristoylated one (with two Ca(2+) binding sites). Both forms of protein show different conformational features in far-UV CD when titrated with Ca(2+). Large conformational changes were seen in the near-UV CD with more changes in the case of nonmyristoylated protein than the myristoylated one. Although the changes in the far-UV CD upon Ca(2+) binding were not seen in E120Q mutant (disabling EF-hand 3), the near-UV CD changes in conformation also were not influenced by this mutation. The difference in the binding affinity of myristoylated and non-myristoylated proteins to Ca(2+) also was reflected by Trp fluorescence. Collisional quenching by iodide showed more inaccessibility of the fluorophore in the myristoylated protein. Mg(2+)-induced changes in near-UV CD are different from Ca(2+)-induced changes, indicating ion selectivity. 8-Anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonic acid binding data showed solvation of the myristoyl group in the presence of Ca(2+), which could be attributed to the myristoyl-dependent conformational changes in NCS-1. These results suggest that myristoylation influences the protein conformation and Ca(2+) binding, which might be crucial for its physiological functions.
The presence of a collagenous protein (ColQ) characterizes the collagen-tailed forms of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase at vertebrate neuromuscular junctions which is tethered in the synaptic basal lamina. ColQ subunits, differing mostly by their signal sequences, are encoded by transcripts ColQ-1 and ColQ-1a, which are differentially expressed in slow and fast twitch muscles in mammals. Two distinct promoters, pColQ-1 and pColQ-1a, were isolated from the upstream sequences of human COLQ gene; they showed muscle-specific expression and were activated by myogenic transcriptional elements in cultured myotubes. After in vivo DNA transfection, pColQ-1 showed strong activity in slow twitch muscle (e.g. soleus), whereas pColQ-1a was preferably expressed in fast twitch muscle (e.g. tibialis). Mutation analysis of the ColQ promoters suggested that the muscle fiber type-specific expression pattern of ColQ transcripts were regulated by a slow upsteam regulatory element (SURE) and a fast intronic regulatory element (FIRE). These regulatory elements were responsive to a calcium ionophore and to calcineurin inhibition by cyclosporine A. The slow fiber type-specific expression of ColQ-1 was abolished by the mutation of an NFAT element in pColQ-1. Moreover, both the ColQ promoters contained N-box element that was responsible for the synapse-specific expression of ColQ transcripts. These results explain the specific expression patterns of collagen-tailed acetylcholinesterase in slow and fast muscle fibers.
The ability of rats to use their whiskers for fine tactile discrimination rivals that of humans using their fingertips. Rats perform discriminations rapidly and accurately while palpating the environment with their whiskers. This suggests that whisker deflections produce a robust and reliable neural code. Whisker primary afferents respond with highly reproducible temporal spike patterns to transient stimuli. Here we show that, with the use of a linear kernel, any of these reproducible response trains recorded from an individual neuron can reliably predict complex whisker deflections. These predictions are significantly improved by integrating responses from neurons with opposite angular preferences.
Endogenous opioid binding to micro receptors is hypothesized to mediate natural rewards and has been proposed to be the basis of infant attachment behavior. Here, we report that micro-opioid receptor knockout mouse pups emit fewer ultrasonic vocalizations when removed from their mothers but not when exposed to cold or male mice odors. Moreover these knockout pups do not show a preference toward their mothers' cues and do not show ultrasonic calls potentiation after brief maternal exposure. Results from this study may indicate a molecular mechanism for diseases characterized by deficits in attachment behavior, such as autism or reactive attachment disorder.
Arrestin regulates almost all G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR)-mediated signaling and trafficking. We report that the multidomain protein, spinophilin, antagonizes these multiple arrestin functions. Through blocking G protein receptor kinase 2 (GRK2) association with receptor-Gbetagamma complexes, spinophilin reduces arrestin-stabilized receptor phosphorylation, receptor endocytosis, and the acceleration of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activity following endocytosis. Spinophilin knockout mice were more sensitive than wild-type mice to sedation elicited by stimulation of alpha2 adrenergic receptors, whereas arrestin 3 knockout mice were more resistant, indicating that the signal-promoting, rather than the signal-terminating, roles of arrestin are more important for certain response pathways. The reciprocal interactions of GPCRs with spinophilin and arrestin represent a regulatory mechanism for fine-tuning complex receptor-orchestrated cell signaling and responses.
Clocks tick, bridges and skyscrapers vibrate, neuronal networks oscillate. Are neuronal oscillations an inevitable by-product, similar to bridge vibrations, or an essential part of the brain's design? Mammalian cortical neurons form behavior-dependent oscillating networks of various sizes, which span five orders of magnitude in frequency. These oscillations are phylogenetically preserved, suggesting that they are functionally relevant. Recent findings indicate that network oscillations bias input selection, temporally link neurons into assemblies, and facilitate synaptic plasticity, mechanisms that cooperatively support temporal representation and long-term consolidation of information.

By using blind spinal slice whole-cell patch-clamp technique, we observed the influence of etomidate (ET) on synaptic transmission in substantia gelatinosa neurons of the adult rat spinal cord. Male adult Sprague-Dawley rats (7~8 weeks old) were anaesthetized with urethane (1.2 g/kg, i.p.), and then lumbosacral laminectomy was performed. The lumbosacral spinal cord (L1~S3) was removed and placed in preoxygenated Krebs solution at 1~3 degrees C. After cutting all of the ventral and dorsal roots, the pia-arachnoid membrane was removed. The spinal cord was mounted on a vibrating microslicer and then a 500 microm thick transverse slice was cut. The slice was placed on a nylon mesh in the recording chamber, and then perfused at a rate of 15~20 ml/min with Krebs solution saturated with 95% O2 and 5% CO2, and maintained at 36+/-1 degrees C. Substantia gelatinosa neurons were identified by their location. Under a binocular microscope and with transmitted illumination, the substantia gelatinosa was clearly discernible as a relatively translucent band across the dorsal horn. The resistance of patch clamp electrodes was 8~12 Msigma. Signals were gained by using an Axopatch 200B amplifier with low-passfiltered at 5 kHz, and digitized at 333 kHz with an A/D converter. The results are as follows. (1) To see whether or not ET has any effects on the local miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSC), the holding potential was set up at -70 mV. Under such a condition extracellular superfusion was made with 1 micromol/L TTX for 2 min first, which was followed by consistent application of 500 micromol/L ET and 1 micromol/L TTX for 1 min. It was shown that ET did not influence the decay time, frequency and amplitude of mEPSC, when compared to the control. (2) To see whether or not ET has any effects on the local miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSC) mediated by GABA(A) receptor, the holding potential was set up at 0 mV. Under this condition extracellular superfusion was made with 1 micromol/L TTX and 1 micromol/L strychnine, an antagonist of glycine receptor, for 2 min, and then with consistent application of 50 micromol/L ET, 1 micromol/L TTX and 1 micromol/L strychnine for 1 min. ET prolonged the decay time of GABAergic mIPSC by 45.57+/-12.46% (P&lt;0.05), but did not influence the frequency and amplitude of GABAergic mIPSC, when compared with the control. (3) To see whether or not ET has any effects on the local mIPSC mediated by glycine receptor, the holding potential was also set up at 0 mV, and under this condition extracellular superfusion was made with 1 mmol/L TTX and 10 mmol/L bicuculline, an antagonist also set up at 0 mV, and under this condition extracellular superfusion was made with 1 micromol/L TTX and 10 micromol/L bicuculline, an antagonist of GABA(A) receptor, for 2 min, and then with consistent application of 50 micromol/L ET, 1 micromol/L TTX and 10 micromol/L bicuculline for 1 min. ET had no effects on decay time, frequency and amplitude of glycinergic mIPSC. The above-mentioned results show that ET plays anesthetic or analgesic roles by modulating the decay time of GABAergic mIPSC, i.e. by prolonging the mean open time of GABA(A) receptors, however, ET has no direct effect on local excitatory synaptic transmission in substantia gelatinosa neurons of the adult rat spinal cord.
Nociceptin is an endogenous ligand for the opioid receptor-like 1 (ORL1) receptor. The present study was designed to investigate spinal actions of nociceptin on the spontaneous nociception, hyperalgesia and inflammation induced by subcutaneous bee venom injection. Subcutaneous injection of bee venom into one hindpaw of conscious rat produced a persistent spontaneous nociception followed by a long-lasting primary heat and mechanical hyperalgesia as well as local inflammation. Compared with the pre-saline group, pretreatment with intrathecal injection of three doses (3, 10 and 30 nmol) of nociceptin produced significant suppression on the spontaneous paw flinching reflex. The inhibitory rates were 37+/-7, 43+/-6 and 57+/-11%, respectively, which were enhanced with an increase in the concentration of nociceptin. The inhibitory action of nociceptin was completely antagonized by a new selective ORL1 receptor antagonist CompB (30 nmol). Pre-treatment with 10 nmol nociceptin prior to bee venom produced no significant effect on the occurrence of primary heat and mechanical hyperalgesia, nor did post-treatment with the same dose again 3 h after bee venom injection. Additionally, pre-treatment with nociceptin had no effect on the bee venom-induced increase in paw thickness and volume and the plasma protein extravasation. These results indicate that intrathecal nociceptin has no effect on primary heat and mechanical hyperalgesia as well as inflammation, but has dose-related anti-nociceptive effect on the bee venom-induced persistent spontaneous nociception via activation of spinal ORL1 receptor.
In cultures of hippocampal neurons, induction of long-term synaptic potentiation or depression by repetitive synaptic activity is accompanied by a retrograde spread of potentiation or depression, respectively, from the site of induction at the axonal outputs to the input synapses on the dendrites of the presynaptic neuron. We report here that rapid retrograde synaptic modification also exists in an intact developing retinotectal system. Local application of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to the Xenopus laevis optic tectum, which induced persistent potentiation of retinotectal synapses, led to a rapid modification of synaptic inputs at the dendrites of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), as shown by a persistent enhancement of light-evoked excitatory synaptic currents and spiking activity of RGCs. This retrograde effect required TrkB receptor activation, phospholipase Cgamma activity and Ca2+ elevation in RGCs, and was accounted for by a selective increase in the number of postsynaptic AMPA-subtype glutamate receptors at RGC dendrites. Such retrograde information flow in the neuron allows rapid regulation of synaptic inputs at the dendrite in accordance to signals received at axon terminals, a process reminiscent of back-propagation algorithm for learning in neural networks.

The ageing of the human brain is a cause of cognitive decline in the elderly and the major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. The time in life when brain ageing begins is undefined. Here we show that transcriptional profiling of the human frontal cortex from individuals ranging from 26 to 106 years of age defines a set of genes with reduced expression after age 40. These genes play central roles in synaptic plasticity, vesicular transport and mitochondrial function. This is followed by induction of stress response, antioxidant and DNA repair genes. DNA damage is markedly increased in the promoters of genes with reduced expression in the aged cortex. Moreover, these gene promoters are selectively damaged by oxidative stress in cultured human neurons, and show reduced base-excision DNA repair. Thus, DNA damage may reduce the expression of selectively vulnerable genes involved in learning, memory and neuronal survival, initiating a programme of brain ageing that starts early in adult life.
The ventral intraparietal area (VIP) is a multimodal parietal area, where visual responses are brisk, directional, and typically selective for complex optic flow patterns. VIP thus could provide signals useful for visual estimation of heading (self-motion direction). A central problem in heading estimation is how observers compensate for eye velocity, which distorts the retinal motion cues upon which perception depends. To find out if VIP could be useful for heading, we measured its responses to simulated trajectories, both with and without eye movements. Our results showed that most VIP neurons very strongly signal heading direction. Furthermore, the tuning of most VIP neurons was remarkably stable in the presence of eye movements. This stability was such that the population of VIP neurons represented heading very nearly in head-centered coordinates. This makes VIP the most robust source of such signals yet described, with properties ideal for supporting perception.
To better understand learning mechanisms, one needs to study synaptic plasticity induced by behavioral training. Recently, it has been demonstrated that the cerebellum is involved in the consolidation of fear memory. Nevertheless, how the cerebellum contributes to emotional behavior is far from known. In cerebellar slices at 10 min and 24 hr following fear conditioning, we found a long-lasting potentiation of the synapse between parallel fibers and Purkinje cells in vermal lobules V-VI, but not in the climbing fiber synapses. The mechanism is postsynaptic, due to an increased AMPA response. In addition, in hotfoot mice with a primary deficiency of the parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse, cued (but not contextual) fear conditioning is affected. We propose that this synapse plays an important role in the learned fear and that its long-term potentiation may represent a contribution to the neural substrate of fear memory.
Axon guidance requires coordinated remodeling of actin and microtubule polymers. Using a genetic screen, we identified the microtubule-associated protein Orbit/MAST as a partner of the Abelson (Abl) tyrosine kinase. We find identical axon guidance phenotypes in orbit/MAST and Abl mutants at the midline, where the repellent Slit restricts axon crossing. Genetic interaction and epistasis assays indicate that Orbit/MAST mediates the action of Slit and its receptors, acting downstream of Abl. We find that Orbit/MAST protein localizes to Drosophila growth cones. Higher-resolution imaging of the Orbit/MAST ortholog CLASP in Xenopus growth cones suggests that this family of microtubule plus end tracking proteins identifies a subset of microtubules that probe the actin-rich peripheral growth cone domain, where guidance signals exert their initial influence on cytoskeletal organization. These and other data suggest a model where Abl acts as a central signaling node to coordinate actin and microtubule dynamics downstream of guidance receptors.
Little is known about how nerve growth factor (NGF) signaling controls the regulated assembly of microtubules that underlies axon growth. Here we demonstrate that a tightly regulated and localized activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) at the growth cone is essential for rapid axon growth induced by NGF. This spatially activated PI3K signaling is conveyed downstream through a localized inactivation of glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta). These two spatially coupled kinases control axon growth via regulation of a microtubule plus end binding protein, adenomatous polyposis coli (APC). Our results demonstrate that NGF signals are transduced to the axon cytoskeleton via activation of a conserved cell polarity signaling pathway.
We examined whether injections of the excitatory amino acid AMPA are rewarding when injected into the posterior hypothalamus and ventral tegmental area. Rats quickly learned to lever-press for infusions of AMPA into the supramammillary or posterior hypothalamic nuclei but failed to learn to lever-press for similar injections into the ventral tegmental areas. AMPA injections into the supramammillary nucleus, but not the ventral tegmental area, induced conditioned place preference. The rewarding effects of AMPA appear to be mediated by AMPA receptors, because coadministration of the AMPA antagonist CNQX blocked the rewarding effects of AMPA, and administration of the enantiomer R-AMPA did not mimic the rewarding effects. AMPA injections into the supramammillary nucleus, but not the ventral tegmental area, also increased extracellular dopamine concentrations in the nucleus accumbens. Pretreatment with the D1 dopamine antagonist SCH 23390 [R-(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine] led to extinction of AMPA self-administration. These findings implicate posterior hypothalamic regions in reward function and suggest that reward mechanisms localized around the ventral tegmental area are more complex than has been assumed recently.
Anatomical and functional data support a critical role for the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) in the interaction between stress and alcohol/substance abuse. We report here that neurons of the dorsal anterolateral BNST respond to glutamatergic synaptic input in a synchronized way, such that an interpretable extracellular synaptic field potential can be readily measured. High-frequency stimulation of these glutamatergic inputs evoked NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP). We found that an early portion of this LTP is reduced by acute exposure to ethanol in a GABA(A) receptor-dependent manner. This effect of ethanol is accompanied by a significant and reversible dose-dependent attenuation of isolated NMDAR signaling and is mimicked by incomplete NMDAR blockade.
Chemosignals related to reproductive and social status (pheromones) carry messages between opposite-sex and same-sex individuals in many species. Each individual must distinguish signals relevant to its own social behavior with conspecifics from signals used by other (heterospecific) species relevant to their social behavior. In male hamsters, the medial amygdala responded in a categorically different way to conspecific stimuli (socially relevant) and heterospecific stimuli (not socially relevant but serving similar purposes for other species), and may play an important role in this decision. Immediate-early gene responses to conspecific chemosignals and heterospecific chemosignals were characteristically different. The categorical responses, generated by chemosensory input from the vomeronasal organ and (probably) GABA inhibition within the amygdala, were not apparent at more peripheral sensory levels. This is the first evidence for an important role of the amygdala, a limbic structure known to be involved in social and emotional behavior, in discrimination of species specificity in chemosignals.
G(o) is the most abundant G-protein in the brain, but its regulators are essentially unknown. In retina, Galpha(o1) is obligatory in mediating the metabotropic glutamate receptor 6 (mGluR6)-initiated ON response. To identify the interactors of G(o), we conducted a yeast two-hybrid screen with constituitively active Galpha(o) as a bait. The screen frequently identified a regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS), Ret-RGS1, the interaction of which we confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation with Galpha(o) in transfected cells and in retina. Ret-RGS1 localized to the dendritic tips of ON bipolar neurons, along with mGluR6 and Galpha(o1). When Ret-RGS1 was coexpressed in Xenopus oocytes with mGluR6, Galpha(o1), and a GIRK (G-protein-gated inwardly rectifying K+) channel, it accelerated the deactivation of the channel response to glutamate in a concentration-dependent manner. Because light onset suppresses glutamate release from photoreceptors onto the ON bipolar dendrites, Ret-RGS1 should accelerate the rising phase of the light response of the ON bipolar cell. This would tend to match its kinetics to that of the OFF bipolar that arises directly from ligand-gated channels.
The authors report the clinical and polygraphic features of rhythmic teeth grinding observed in a patient as the predominant symptom related to temporal lobe seizures during sleep and wakefulness. This observation demonstrates that exceptionally a teeth-grinding event can be not only a parasomnia (sleep bruxism) but also an epileptic-related motor event. Electromyographic and autonomic features of seizure-related teeth grinding support the interpretation of this motor phenomenon as a particular form of masticatory activity.
The authors prospectively followed 14 patients treated with thalidomide for cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE), in order to evaluate the occurrence of peripheral neuropathy (PN) and to assess whether PN correlates with thalidomide dose. The patients were followed for up to 24 months with neurologic and electrophysiologic evaluations. Seven patients (50%) developed sensory axonal PN. The median time free from PN was 14 months. PN occurred after 10 months in the majority of patients. No correlations were found between thalidomide cumulative dose and occurrence of PN (Mann-Whitney U test; p &gt; 0.16).



Calcium-binding synaptotagmins (Syts) are membrane proteins that are conserved from nematode to human. Fifteen Syts (Syts I-XV) have been identified in mammalian species. Syt I has been well studied and is a candidate for the Ca(2+)-sensor that triggers evoked exocytosis underlying fast synaptic transmission. Whereas the functions of the other Syts are unclear, Syt IV is of particular interest because it is rapidly up-regulated after chronic depolarization or seizures, and because null mutations exhibit deficits in fine motor coordination and hippocampus-dependent memory. Screening Syts I-XIII, which are enriched in brain, we find that Syt IV is located in processes of astroglia in situ. Reduction of Syt IV in astrocytes by RNA interference decreases Ca(2+)-dependent glutamate release, a gliotransmission pathway that regulates synaptic transmission. Mutants of the C2B domain, the only putative Ca(2+)-binding domain in Syt IV, act in a dominant-negative fashion over Ca(2+)-regulated glial glutamate release, but not gliotransmission induced by changes in osmolarity. Because we find that Syt IV is expressed predominantly by astrocytes and is not in the presynaptic terminals of the hippocampus, and because Syt IV knockout mice exhibit hippocampal-based memory deficits, our data raise the intriguing possibility that Syt IV-mediated gliotransmission contributes to hippocampal-based memory.
During development of the nervous system, the fate of stem cells is regulated by a cell surface receptor called Notch. Notch is also present in the adult mammalian brain; however, because Notch null mice die during embryonic development, it has proven difficult to determine the functions of Notch. Here, we used Notch antisense transgenic mice that develop and reproduce normally, but exhibit reduced levels of Notch, to demonstrate a role for Notch signaling in synaptic plasticity. Mice with reduced Notch levels exhibit impaired long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal CA1 synapses. A Notch ligand enhances LTP in normal mice and corrects the defect in LTP in Notch antisense transgenic mice. Levels of basal and stimulation-induced NF-kappa B activity were significantly decreased in mice with reduced Notch levels. These findings suggest an important role for Notch signaling in a form of synaptic plasticity known to be associated with learning and memory processes.
Developmental ethanol exposure leads to a variety of abnormalities in the central nervous system (CNS). Mechanisms proposed as underlying these effects include alterations of protective antioxidant support, increased generation of harmful free radicals, and altered expression of apoptosis-related proteins. In prior studies, exogenous antioxidant application has been found to reduce ethanol neurotoxicity, but the mechanisms by which this protection is afforded have not been defined. This study was designed to investigate the interactions between ethanol and the antioxidant vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol), with respect to neuronal survival and levels of proteins related to the Bcl-2 survival-regulatory gene family. Neonatal rat cerebellar granule cell cultures were used as a model system. It was found that ethanol significantly impaired neuronal survival in these preparations, and that survival in the presence of ethanol was enhanced by inclusion of vitamin E in the culture medium. This elevated survival was paralleled by increased levels of anti-apoptotic proteins (e.g., Bcl-2, Bcl-xl, activated Akt kinase), and concurrent downregulation of pro-apoptotic proteins (e.g., Bcl-xs). These results suggest that such alterations may represent an important mechanism whereby antioxidants protect against the neurotoxic effects of ethanol in the developing CNS. The possible manner by which these changes are effected are considered.
In the present study, we have evaluated the visceral analgesic property of buspirone, a 5HT(1A) receptor partial agonist, on colorectal distension-induced mean arterial pressure and behavioral changes in anesthetized and awake Wistar rats, respectively. The selection of the rat strain was based on the observation that anesthetized Wistar rats exhibited a more prominent mean arterial pressure change in response to colorectal distention when compared to other strains (Sprague-Dawley, Wistar-Kyoto and Spontaneously Hypertensive). Buspirone dose-dependently (0.1-1 mg/kg, i.v.) antagonized mean arterial pressure change over a range of distensions (10-90 mmHg). In parallel studies conducted in awake animals, buspirone (1-5 mg/kg, s.c.) attenuated the abdominal withdrawal response, a nociceptive behavior, in response to colorectal distension. This effect was antagonized by co-administration of the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-Methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2- pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide (WAY-100635) (5 mg/kg, s.c.). We conclude that buspirone exhibits significant visceral analgesic property in two models of abdominal nociception.
The intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) has widespread projections to the basal forebrain and visual midbrain, including the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Here we describe IGL-afferent connections with cells in the ventral midbrain and hindbrain. Cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) injected into the IGL retrogradely labels neurons in a set of brain nuclei most of which are known to influence visuomotor function. These include the retinorecipient medial, lateral and dorsal terminal nuclei, the nucleus of Darkschewitsch, the oculomotor central gray, the cuneiform, and the lateral dorsal, pedunculopontine, and subpeduncular pontine tegmental nuclei. Intraocular CTB labeled a retinal terminal field in the medial terminal nucleus that extends dorsally into the pararubral nucleus, a location also containing cells projecting to the IGL. Distinct clusters of IGL-afferent neurons are also located in the medial vestibular nucleus. Vestibular projections to the IGL were confirmed by using anterograde tracer injection into the medial vestibular nucleus. Other IGL-afferent neurons are evident in Barrington's nucleus, the dorsal raphe, locus coeruleus, and retrorubral nucleus. Injection of a retrograde, trans-synaptic, viral tracer into the SCN demonstrated transport to cells as far caudal as the vestibular system and, when combined with IGL injection of CTB, confirmed that some in the medial vestibular nucleus polysynaptically project to the SCN and monosynaptically to the IGL, as do cells in other brain regions. The results suggest that the IGL may be part of the circuitry governing visuomotor activity and further indicate that circadian rhythmicity might be influenced by head motion or visual stimuli that affect the vestibular system.

D-Lactate dehydrogenase protein 2 [Yeast 15 (1999) 1377; Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 295 (2002) 910] was initially identified as the actin interacting protein 2 (Aip2p) using a two-hybrid screen to search for proteins that interact with actin [Nat. Struct. Biol. 2 (1995) 28], but no other evidence indicating an interaction between Aip2p and actin cytoskeleton has been reported so far. During our search for the protein conformation modifying activity, we serendipitously identified Aip2p isolated from Saccharomyces cerevisiae as exhibiting an interaction with F-actin both in vitro and in vivo. Incubation with Aip2p facilitated the formation of the circular form of F-actin in vitro, which exhibited an aberrant trypsin susceptibility. Overexpression of Aip2p induced multi-buds in yeast cells, whereas reduced expression interfered with the formation of the cleavage furrow for the cell division, which was rescued by the introduction of wild-type Aip2p. While Aip2p-treated F-actin in the circular form was negligibly stained by rhodamine-labeled phalloidin (rhodamine-phalloidin) in vitro, rhodamine-phalloidin staining profiles in actin interacting protein 2 gene (AIP2)-modified cells suggested a correlation between the conformation of F-actin and the expression of Aip2p in vivo. AIP2-deleted cells became sensitive to osmotic conditions, a hallmark of actin dysfunction. Finally, immunoprecipitation of yeast cells using anti-Aip2p antibody demonstrated that Aip2p associates with actin. These properties suggest that Aip2p may interact with F-actin in vivo and play an important role in the yeast cell morphology.
Dicer plays an important role in the course of RNA interference (RNAi), i.e., it digests long double-stranded RNAs into 21-25 nucleotide small-interfering RNA (siRNA) duplexes functioning as sequence-specific RNAi mediators. In this study, we investigated the expression levels of Dicer and eIF2C1 approximately 4, which, like Dicer, appear to participate in mammalian RNAi, in various mouse tissues. Results indicate that the levels of eIF2C1 approximately 4 as well as Dicer are lower in skeletal muscle and heart than in other tissues. To see if RNAi could occur under such a condition with low levels of expression of Dicer and eIF2C1 approximately 4, we examined RNAi activity in mouse skeletal muscle fibers. The results indicate that RNAi can be induced by synthetic siRNA duplexes in muscle fibers. We further examined RNAi activity during myogenic differentiation of mouse C2C12 cells. The data indicate that although the expression levels of Dicer and eIF2C1 approximately 4 decrease during the differentiation, RNAi can be induced in the cells. Altogether, the data presented here suggest that muscle cells retain the ability to induce RNAi, although Dicer and eIF2C1 approximately 4 appear to be barely expressed in them.
A mutation in the mouse tub gene causes a phenotype characterized by maturity-onset obesity, blindness and deafness. The role of the intact tubby protein and the pathogenesis resulting in the phenotype of tub/tub mice remain largely unknown. In this study, we have investigated whether obese tub/tub mice exhibit altered expression levels for agouti-related protein (AGRP) or glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 (GAD65) in body weight-regulating neurons of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus. In situ hybridization revealed that AGRP, but not GAD65 mRNA levels, were significantly lower in obese tub/tub mice as compared to tub/+ mice. The lower levels of AGRP mRNA in the arcuate nucleus of tub/tub mice were paralleled by lower fluorescence intensity and numbers of AGRP- and neuropeptide Y (NPY)-immunoreactive (ir) nerve fibers and terminals in the arcuate, ventromedial, dorsomedial hypothalamic nuclei and perifornical and lateral hypothalamic areas. No obvious differences in GAD65-ir nerve fibers and terminals could be detected. Measurements of daily food intake revealed that tub/tub mice displayed progressively higher food consumption as compared to lean tub/+ littermates over a 15-day observation period. When moved to an unfamiliar environment, e.g. a novel cage, daily food intake was initially lower in tub/tub mice than in tub/+ mice suggesting that tub/tub mice may be more sensitive to psychogenic stress. The results together show that tub/tub mice are hyperphagic and exhibit, within the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, a depressed expression of neuropeptides involved in the regulation of feeding behavior.
ATP acts as a neurotransmitter in both the peripheral and central nervous systems by activating receptors in the P2Y and P2X families. P2Y receptors are coupled to intracellular signaling pathways, while P2X receptors contain an integral membrane-spanning pore and act as ion channels. Previous studies have established that certain abused drugs such as alcohol inhibit P2X receptors. In this study, we have examined the sensitivity of both homomeric and heteromeric P2X receptors to toluene, a commercial solvent widely used as a drug of abuse. P2X receptors were transiently expressed in HEK293 cells, and agonist-gated currents were measured using whole-cell patch clamp electrophysiology. Toluene potentiated currents in cells expressing homomeric P2X2 or P2X4 subunits when ATP concentrations were near or below the EC50 concentration. This potentiation was rapid in onset, voltage independent and was readily reversed upon washout of the toluene-containing solution. The toluene-induced potentiation of P2X2 currents was not altered by lowering the pH of the recording media to 5.5 or by including the heavy-metal chelator EDTA in the recording solution. At maximal ATP concentrations, toluene did not affect ATP-gated currents in cells expressing P2X2 or P2X4 receptors. ATP-gated currents were also markedly potentiated by toluene in cells transfected with both P2X4 and P2X6 subunits. In contrast, P2X3 receptor currents were inhibited by toluene at both low and high ATP concentrations. HEK293 cells transfected with both P2X2 and P2X3 subunits showed non-desensitizing currents when stimulated with alpha, beta-methylene ATP. In these cells, toluene potentiated currents only at sub-maximal concentrations of alpha, beta-methylene ATP. The results of this study suggest that the abused solvent toluene affects the function of P2X receptors in a subunit-dependent and agonist-dependent fashion.
Processes of neuronal differentiation involve activation of a set of neuronal specific genes and cessation of cell proliferation in postmitotic neurons. Previous studies revealed that bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) and retinoic acid (RA) play important roles in the differentiation of peripheral sympathetic neurons such as the synergistic induction of responsiveness to specific neurotrophic factors. In the present study, while trying to clarify the mechanism of the BMP/RA-actions, we identified a novel neural-specific protein, BMP/RA-inducible neural-specific protein-1 (BRINP1) which shows no similarity to other known proteins. Subsequently, two homologous proteins, BRINP2 and BRINP3, making up the BRINP family, are identified. Individual BRINP genes have distinct regulatory mechanisms of expression within the nervous system. In rodent brain, BRINP1 is expressed from earlier developmental stage, i.e. E9.5, and widely expressed in various neuronal layers and nuclei of the adult animal, while BRINP2 and BRINP3 were detectable from E11.5 and expressed in rather limited regions in a complementary manner. During the course of perinatal development of sympathetic neurons, BRINP1 is induced from earlier embryonic stage and further increased toward adult stage, while BRINP3 expressed from earlier stage is replaced by BRINP2 expression which increases postnatally in accordance with the action of BMP2 and RA. Furthermore, when expressed in nonneuronal cells, all three BRINP family proteins suppressed the cell cycle progression. Possible physiological functions of BRINP family members in the development of the nervous system are discussed.
We have used in situ hybridization to determine the distribution of pre-pro-neurotensin/neuromedin N (NT/N) mRNA in the brain of mice and rats. In rats and mice, expression was observed in the lateral septal nucleus, nucleus accumbens, medial preoptic area, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, lateral hypothalamus, central amygdaloid nucleus and the subicilum. However, several differences in the NT/N mRNA distribution were observed between rats and mice in other brain areas. In mice, NT/N expression was detected in the subthalamic nucleus and geniculate nucleus, whereas expression was not observed in these brain areas in rats. Surprisingly, expression was not observed in mouse mesencephalic dopaminergic (mesDA) neurons and the CA1 area of the hippocampus, areas known to contain NT/N mRNA in the rat brain. Taken together, these results show that although the brain NT/N mRNA distribution largely overlaps in mice and rats, species differences exist in specific brain areas in rodents. Moreover, these data indicate that the distribution in mice resembles most that of primates than rats.
Alpha-, beta-, gamma-, and delta-sarcoglycans (SGs) are transmembrane glycoprotein components of the dystrophin-associated protein (DAP) complex, which is critical for the stability of the striated muscle cell membrane. Epsilon-SG was found as a homologue of alpha-SG, but unlike other SG members, it is ubiquitously expressed in various tissues as well as in striated muscle. Moreover, mutations in the epsilon-SG gene cause myoclonus-dystonia, indicating the importance of epsilon-SG for the function in the central nervous system. To gain insight into the role of epsilon-SG, its expression and subcellular distribution in mouse tissues and especially in the mouse brain were investigated. Analysis by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction showed four splice variants of epsilon-SG transcripts in the mouse brain, two of which are major transcript forms. One is a conventional form including exon 8 (epsilon-SG1), and the other is a novel form excluding exon 8 but including a previously unknown exon, 11b (epsilon-SG2). Immunoblot analysis using various mouse tissues indicated a broad expression pattern for epsilon-SG1, but epsilon-SG2 was expressed exclusively in the brain. Therefore, both epsilon-SG isoforms coexist in various regions of the brain. Furthermore, these isoforms were found in neuronal cells using immunohistochemical analysis. Subcellular fractionation of brain homogenates, however, indicated that epsilon-SG1 and epsilon-SG2 are relatively enriched in post- and pre-synaptic membrane fractions, respectively. These results suggest that the two epsilon-SG isoforms might play different roles in synaptic functions of the central nervous system.
At present, the conformation-dependent monoclonal antibodies (mAb) provide the only information on folding of tau in the core PHF. Monoclonal antibody MN423 recognizes all and only those Alzheimer's disease (AD) core paired helical filaments (PHFs) subunits, which terminate at Glu391. Using recombinant analogs of the core PHF subunit corresponding to tau residues tau297-391, we found that the C-terminal pentapeptide (387)DHGAE(391) represented only one component of the structure recognized by mAb 423. Therefore, deletion mutants of the core subunit were generated to identify assembled parts of this conformational structure. We localized two spatially close components in the region 306-325 ((306)VQIVYK(311) and (321)KCGSL(325)) contributing to formation of the structure identified by mAb 423. Thus, the spatial proximity of three subunit segments (306)VQIVYK(311), (321)KCGSL(325) and (387)DHGAE(391) represents constraints for intramolecular folding of the core PHF subunit. Since PHF represents a compelling drug target in AD, structural knowledge presented could contribute to structure-based drug design.
To identify novel regulators of Galpha(o), the most abundant G-protein in brain, we used yeast two-hybrid screening with constitutively active Galpha(o) as bait and identified a new regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS) protein, RGS17 (RGSZ2), as a novel human member of the RZ (or A) subfamily of RGS proteins. RGS17 contains an amino-terminal cysteine-rich motif and a carboxyl-terminal RGS domain with highest homology to hRGSZ1- and hRGS-Galpha-interacting protein. RGS17 RNA was strongly expressed as multiple species in cerebellum and other brain regions. The interactions between hRGS17 and active forms of Galpha(i1-3), Galpha(o), Galpha(z), or Galpha(q) but not Galpha(s) were detected by yeast two-hybrid assay, in vitro pull-down assay, and co-immunoprecipitation studies. Recombinant RGS17 acted as a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) on free Galpha(i2) and Galpha(o) under pre-steady-state conditions, and on M2-muscarinic receptor-activated Galpha(i1), Galpha(i2), Galpha(i3), Galpha(z), and Galpha(o) in steady-state GTPase assays in vitro. Unlike RGSZ1, which is highly selective for G(z), RGS17 exhibited limited selectivity for G(o) among G(i)/G(o) proteins. All RZ family members reduced dopamine-D2/Galpha(i)-mediated inhibition of cAMP formation and abolished thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor/Galpha(q)-mediated calcium mobilization. RGS17 is a new RZ member that preferentially inhibits receptor signaling via G(i/o), G(z), and G(q) over G(s) to enhance cAMP-dependent signaling and inhibit calcium signaling. Differences observed between in vitro GAP assays and whole-cell signaling suggest additional determinants of the G-protein specificity of RGS GAP effects that could include receptors and effectors.


Vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) 1 and 2 show a mutually exclusive distribution in the adult brain that suggests specialization for synapses with different properties of release. Consistent with this distribution, inactivation of the VGLUT1 gene silenced a subset of excitatory neurons in the adult. However, the same cell populations exhibited VGLUT1-independent transmission early in life. Developing hippocampal neurons transiently coexpressed VGLUT2 and VGLUT1 at distinct synaptic sites with different short-term plasticity. The loss of VGLUT1 also reduced the reserve pool of synaptic vesicles. Thus, VGLUT1 plays an unanticipated role in membrane trafficking at the nerve terminal.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the evolution of complex behaviour are poorly understood. The mammalian genus Microtus provides an excellent model for investigating the evolution of social behaviour. Prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) exhibit a monogamous social structure in nature, whereas closely related meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus) are solitary and polygamous. In male prairie voles, both vasopressin and dopamine act in the ventral forebrain to regulate selective affiliation between adult mates, known as pair bond formation, as assessed by partner preference in the laboratory. The vasopressin V1a receptor (V1aR) is expressed at higher levels in the ventral forebrain of monogamous than in promiscuous vole species, whereas dopamine receptor distribution is relatively conserved between species. Here we substantially increase partner preference formation in the socially promiscuous meadow vole by using viral vector V1aR gene transfer into the ventral forebrain. We show that a change in the expression of a single gene in the larger context of pre-existing genetic and neural circuits can profoundly alter social behaviour, providing a potential molecular mechanism for the rapid evolution of complex social behaviour.
A major question in cell biology is how molecular specificity is achieved by different growth factor receptors that activate apparently identical signaling events. For the neurotrophin family, a distinguishing feature is the ability to maintain a prolonged duration of signal transduction. However, the mechanisms by which neurotrophin receptors assemble such a sustained signaling complex are not understood. Here we report that an unusual ankyrin-rich transmembrane protein (ARMS+kidins220) is closely associated with Trk receptor tyrosine kinases, and not the EGF receptor. This association requires interactions between transmembrane domains of Trk and ARMS. ARMS is rapidly tyrosine phosphorylated after binding of neurotrophins to Trk receptors and provides a docking site for the CrkL-C3G complex, resulting in Rap1-dependent sustained ERK activation. Accordingly, disruption of Trk-ARMS or the ARMS-CrkL interaction with dominant-negative ARMS mutants, or treatment with small interference RNA against ARMS substantially reduce neurotrophin-elicited signaling to ERK, but without any effect upon Ras or Akt activation. These findings suggest that ARMS acts as a major and neuronal-specific platform for prolonged MAP kinase signaling by neurotrophins.
There is evidence that the septohippocampal cholinergic system is activated in response to stressful stimuli. In addition, prior studies indicate that stimulating the hippocampal cholinergic neurotransmission increases open arm exploration in the elevated plus-maze. This raises the possibility that exposing the rat to an elevated platform, which would be similar to confining the animal to the open arms of the plus-maze, would alter hippocampal acetylcholine levels. Results from the present study suggest that an elevated platform can be used as an animal model of stress in that exposure to the platform significantly increased plasma corticosterone levels. Importantly, exposure to a platform significantly increased hippocampal acetylcholine efflux. Interestingly, the increase in plasma corticosterone and hippocampal acetylcholine levels upon exposure to an elevated platform could be prevented by chlordiazepoxide at a dose that had no effect on basal hippocampal acetylcholine or plasma corticosterone levels. However, the elevated platform-induced increase in hippocampal acetylcholine could not be blocked by prior administration of buspirone. These results provide direct evidence for the importance of the hippocampal cholinergic system in stress and provide validation for the elevated platform as a model of stress.
The mechanism of action of electroconvulsive seizures (ECS), one of the most effective treatments of major depression, may involve the regulation of gene expression. Chromatin remodeling at gene promoter regions is increasingly recognized as a key control point of gene expression and may, therefore, partly mediate acute and chronic effects of ECS on gene activity. Here, we assayed how posttranslational modifications of histones, a major form of chromatin remodeling, are altered at several gene promoters in rat hippocampus at 30 min, 2 hr, and 24 hr after acute or repeated ECS. We performed chromatin immunoprecipitation assays to measure levels of histone H3 and H4 acetylation and phosphoacetylation at the promoters of the c-fos, BDNF, and CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein) genes, the expression of which is altered by ECS. We found that, with few exceptions, levels of H4 acetylation correlated with mRNA levels for c-fos, BDNF, and CREB throughout the acute and chronic time course study, whereas acetylation and phosphoacetylation of H3 were detected more selectively. Our findings suggest that the chronic downregulation of c-fos transcription, observed in this study, may be achieved at the level of H4 acetylation, whereas chronic upregulation of BDNF transcription may be sustained via control of H3 acetylation, selectively at the BDNF P3 and P4 promoters. These data provide the first in vivo demonstration of the involvement of chromatin remodeling in ECS-induced regulation of gene expression in the brain and will help in understanding the mechanisms underlying the efficacy of ECS in the treatment of depression.
There are numerous experience-driven changes in cortical circuitry that correlate with improved performance. Improved motor performance on a reach-to-grasp task in rodents is associated with changes in long-term potentiation (LTP), synaptogenesis, and movement representations in primary motor cortex (M1) by training days 3, 7, and 10, respectively. We recorded single-cell activity patterns in M1 during reach-to-grasp training to test how neural-spiking properties change with respect to LTP, synaptogenesis, and motor map changes. We also tested how neural-spiking changes relate directly to improved performance by monitoring muscle activity patterns. We found that signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) of M1 spiking were significantly improved with practice but only after 7-12 d. Three sources of noise were assessed: signal-dependent noise exemplified by the slope of the relationship between mean spike count and count variance per burst, signal-independent noise exemplified by the offset of this relationship, and background firing rates before and after bursts. Signal-independent noise and pre-burst firing rates were reduced with practice. Early performance gains (days 1-6) were dissociated from SNR improvements, whereas later performance gains (day 7-12) were related directly to the magnitude of improvement in both muscle recruitment reliability and success rates. With training, an increased number of cells exhibited firing rates that were correlated with muscle recruitment patterns, with lags suggesting a primary direction of influence from M1 to muscles. These results suggest a functional linkage from local synaptogenesis in M1 to improved spiking reliability of M1 cells to more reliable recruitment of muscles and finally to improved behavioral performance.
Angiotensin II (AngII), acting through angiotensin type 1 (AT1) receptors, exerts powerful effects on central autonomic networks regulating cardiovascular homeostasis and fluid balance; however, the mechanisms of AngII signaling in functionally defined central autonomic neurons have not been fully elucidated. In vascular cells, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by the enzyme NADPH oxidase play a major role in AngII signaling. Thus, we sought to determine whether NADPH oxidase is present in central autonomic neurons and, if so, whether NADPH oxidase-derived ROS are involved in the effects of AngII on these neurons. The present studies focused on the intermediate dorsomedial nucleus of the solitary tract (dmNTS) because this region receives autonomic afferents via the vagus nerve and is an important site of AngII actions. Using double-label immunoelectron microscopy, we found that the essential NADPH oxidase subunit gp91phox is present in somatodendric and axonal profiles containing AT1 receptors. The gp91phox-labeled dendrites received inputs from large axon terminals resembling vagal afferents. In parallel experiments using patch clamp of dissociated NTS neurons anterogradely labeled via the vagus, we found that AngII potentiates the L-type Ca2+ currents, an effect mediated by AT1 receptors and abolished by the ROS scavenger Mn(III) tetrakis (4-benzoic acid) porphyrin chloride. The NADPH oxidase assembly inhibitor apocynin and the peptide inhibitor gp91phox docking sequence, but not its scrambled version, also blocked the potentiation. The results provide evidence that NADPH oxidase-derived ROS are involved in the effects of AngII on Ca2+ influx in NTS neurons receiving vagal afferents and support the notion that ROS are important signaling molecules in central autonomic networks.

Cell surface complex carbohydrates have emerged as key recognition molecules, mediating physiological interactions between cells. Typically, glycans on one cell surface are engaged by complementary carbohydrate binding proteins (lectins) on an apposing cell, initiating appropriate cellular responses. Although many cell surface lectins have been identified in vertebrates, only a few of their endogenous carbohydrate ligands have been established. Each major class of cell surface glycans-glycoproteins, glycolipids, and proteoglycans-has been implicated as physiologically relevant lectin ligands. The current minireview focuses on findings that implicate glycosphingolipids as especially important molecules in cell-cell recognition in two different systems: the recognition of human leukocytes by E-selectin on the vascular endothelium during inflammation and the recognition of nerve cell axons by myelin-associated glycoprotein in myelin-axon stabilization and the regulation of axon regeneration.


We have examined the projection of unmyelinated primary sensory neurones through the dorsal columns of the rat spinal cord using transganglionic transport of the plant lectin Bandeiraea simplicifolia I-isolectin B4. A small volume of the lectin was injected into the sciatic nerve of anaesthetised rats to label the central terminals of nociceptive primary sensory neurones. Following a survival period of 7 days, transverse and longitudinal sections of the superficial dorsal horn, dorsolateral funiculus and the dorsal columns from spinal segments L4 through to T13 were screened for lectin transport using light and electron microscopy. Longitudinal sections of the thoraco-lumbar region of spinal cord were also examined for lectin binding. Light and electron microscopy revealed transganglionically transported and bound lectin in the superficial dorsal horn and dorsolateral funiculus of the L3 and L4 segments of spinal cord. However, no lectin transport or binding was observed within the dorsal columns at any level of spinal cord examined. From these results, we suggest that the unmyelinated neurones within the dorsal columns do not express the binding site for BSI-B4 and, as such, may be responsible for visceral rather than cutaneous sensation. In line with the theories regarding a postsynaptic dorsal column pathway, these results suggest that nociceptors that bind BSI-B4 are not involved in a direct ascending projection through the dorsal columns.

Typically small animal radiological images are obtained after placing the animal in the center of the imaging device using beds or platforms, and then adjusting the position after obtaining a scout image. Such a process does not permit the reproducible visualization of the same anatomical plane with repeated examinations. We have developed a device that allows stereotaxic placement of an animal in precisely the same position for repeated examinations. The instrument incorporates a full range of physiological monitoring and life support systems including temperature control, anesthesia delivery and respiratory monitoring. Using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the accuracy and reliability of this device is demonstrated in a rat traumatic brain injury (TBI) model.
We have developed an effective technique for obtaining multi-electrode extracellular recordings from developing lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and visual cortex in awake behaving ferrets. Using this approach, we have been studying changes in the spatio-temporal patterns of spontaneous activity within the visual pathway during pre eye-opening development. In this paper, we describe the fabrication and implantation of 8- and 16-channel drivable multi-electrode arrays, which enable us to obtain high-quality multi-unit recordings from nearly 100% of our recording sites.
High-affinity glutamate and GABA transporters found in the plasma membrane of neurons and glial cells terminate neurotransmission by rapidly removing extracellular transmitter. Impairment of transporter function has been implicated in the pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying epileptogenesis. We characterized glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transport in synaptosomes, isolated from neocortical and hippocampal biopsies of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). We analyzed K(+)-evoked release in the presence and absence of Ca(2+) to determine vesicular and transporter-mediated release, respectively. We also analyzed (3)H-glutamate and (3)H-GABA uptake, the effect of glutamate uptake inhibitors L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (tPDC) and DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate (TBOA), and GABA uptake inhibitor N-(4,4-diphenyl-3-butenyl)-3-piperidinecarboxylic acid (SK&amp;F 89976-A). Neocortical synaptosomes from TLE patients did not show vesicular glutamate release, strongly reduced transporter-mediated release, and an increased basal release compared to that in rat synaptosomes. Furthermore, basal release was less sensitive to tPDC, and (3)H-glutamate uptake was reduced compared to that in rat synaptosomes. Vesicular GABA release from neocortical synaptosomes of TLE patients was reduced compared to that in rat synaptosomes, whereas transporter-mediated release was hardly affected. Furthermore, basal GABA release was more than doubled, but neither basal nor stimulated release were increased by SK&amp;F 89976-A, which did significantly increase both types of GABA release in rat synaptosomes. Finally, (3)H-GABA uptake by synaptosomes from TLE patients was reduced significantly in hippocampus (0.19 +/- 0.04%), compared to that in neocortex (0.32 +/- 0.04%). Control experiments with human peritumoral cortical tissue suggest that impaired uptake of glutamate, but not of GABA, was caused in part by the hypoxic state of the biopsy. Our findings provide evidence for impaired function of glutamate and GABA transporters in human TLE.
Studies with in-vitro-cultured neurons treated with amyloid-beta (A beta) peptides demonstrated neuronal loss by apoptosis that is due, at least in part, to the perturbation of intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis. In addition, it was shown that an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-specific apoptotic pathway mediated by caspase-12, which is activated upon the perturbation of ER Ca(2+) homeostasis, may contribute to A beta toxicity. To elucidate the involvement of deregulation of ER Ca(2+) homeostasis in neuronal death induced by A beta peptides, we have performed a comparative study using the synthetic peptides A beta(25-35) or A beta(1-40) and thapsigargin, a selective inhibitor of Ca(2+) uptake into the ER. Incubation of cortical neurons with thapsigargin (2.5 microM) increased the intracellular Ca(2+) levels and activated caspase-3, leading to a significant increase in the number of apoptotic cells. Similarly, upon incubation of cortical cultures with the A beta peptides (A beta(25-35), 25 microM; A beta(1-40), 0.5 microM), we observed a significant increase in [Ca(2+)](i), in caspase-3-like activity, and in number of neurons exhibiting apoptotic morphology. The role of ER Ca(2+) release through ryanodine receptors (RyR) or inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP(3)R) in A beta neurotoxicity has been also investigated. Dantrolene and xestospongin C, inhibitors of ER Ca(2+) release through RyR or IP(3)R, were able to prevent the increase in [Ca(2+)](i) and the activation of caspase-3 and to protect partially against apoptosis induced by treatment with A beta(25-35) or A beta(1-40). In conclusion, our results demonstrate that the release of Ca(2+) from the ER, mediated by both RyR and IP(3)R, is involved in A beta toxicity and can contribute, together with the activation of other intracellular neurotoxic mechanisms, to A beta-induced neuronal death. This study suggests that A beta accumulation may have a key role in the pathogenesis of AD as a result of deregulation of ER Ca(2+) homeostasis.
Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs) are a group of childhood-onset neurodegenerative disorders characterized by accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment in many tissues, especially in neurons. Mutations in the CLN8 gene underlie Northern epilepsy (progressive epilepsy with mental retardation [EPMR], OMIM 600143) and a subset of Turkish variant late infantile NCL, but the pathogenetic mechanisms have remained elusive. The CLN8 transmembrane protein is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) resident protein that recycles between ER and ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC) in non-neuronal cells. To explore the disease mechanisms, we have characterized the neuronal localization of wild-type CLN8 protein as well as CLN8 proteins representing patient mutations. Semliki Forest virus-mediated CLN8 protein localized in the ER of mouse hippocampal primary neurons when compared to subcellular markers by immunofluorescence analysis. We also analyzed the possible polarized targeting of CLN8 and observed basolateral targeting in polarized epithelial CaCo-2 cells, suggesting that CLN8 may locate outside the ER or in a specialized subcompartment of the ER. We were not able, however, to demonstrate differential distribution of CLN8 between axons and dendrites of neurons. Fractionation of mouse brain tissue indicated that endogenous mouse Cln8 is observed in light membrane fractions, different from ER, which further suggested differential localization for CLN8 in polarized cells. The disease mutations did not affect intracellular localization of CLN8 in non-neuronal or neuronal cells. Consequently, there is no obvious genotype-phenotype correlation at the level of protein localization and thus mutations most likely directly affect functionally important domains of CLN8.
The present study investigated the temporal relationship between neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) activity and expression and the development of neuronal damage occurring during anoxia and anoxia followed by reoxygenation. For this purpose, cerebellar granule cells were exposed to 2 hr of oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) and 24 hr of reoxygenation. To clarify the consequences of nNOS activity inhibition on neuronal survival, cerebellar granule cells were exposed to OGD, both in the absence of extracellular Na(+) ([Na(+)](e)), a condition that by reducing intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](I)) prevents Ca(2+)-dependent nNOS activation, and in the presence of selective and nonselective nNOS inhibitors, such as N(omega)-L-allyl-L-arginine (L-ALA), N(omega)-propyl-L-arginine (NPLA), and L-nitro-arginine-methyl-ester (L-NAME), respectively. The results demonstrated that the removal of [Na(+)](e) hampered the [Ca(2+)](i) increase and decreased expression and activity of nNOS. Similarly, the increase of free radical production present in cerebellar neurons, exposed previously to OGD and OGD/reoxygenation, was abolished completely in the absence of [Na(+)](e). Furthermore, the absence of [Na(+)](e) in cerebellar neurons exposed to 2 hr of OGD led to the improvement of mitochondrial activity and neuronal survival, both after the OGD phase and after 24 hr of reoxygenation. Finally, the exposure of cerebellar neurons to L-ALA (200 nM), and L-NAME (500 microM) was able to effectively reduce NO(*) production and caused an increase in mitochondrial oxidative activity and an improvement of neuronal survival not only during OGD, but also during reoxygenation. Similar results during OGD were obtained also with NPLA (5 nM), another selective nNOS inhibitor. These data suggest that the activation of nNOS is highly accountable for the neuronal damage occurring during the OGD and reoxygenation phases.
Neuronal excitability depends on the appropriate expression and localization of ion channels. Juxtaparanodal Kv1 channels have been used as a model to study the role of neuroglial interactions in regulating the expression and localization of channels in myelinated axons. Recent advances in our understanding of the composition of juxtaparanodal Kv1 channel protein complexes as well as the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying their localization at juxtaparanodes are discussed.
Phasic activity in magnocellular neurosecretory cells is characterized by alternating periods of activity (bursts) and silence. During phasic bursts, action potentials are superimposed on plateau potentials that are generated by summation of depolarizing after-potentials. Dynorphin is copackaged in vasopressin neurosecretory vesicles that are exocytosed from magnocellular neurosecretory cell dendrites and terminals, and both peptides have been implicated in the generation of phasic activity. Here we show that somato-dendritic dynorphin release terminates phasic bursts by autocrine inhibition of plateau potentials in magnocellular neurosecretory cells recorded intracellularly from hypothalamic explants using sharp electrodes. Conditioning spike trains caused an activity-dependent reduction of depolarizing after-potential amplitude that was partially reversed by alpha-latrotoxin (which depletes neurosecretory vesicles) and by nor-binaltorphimine (kappa-opioid receptor antagonist), but not by an oxytocin/vasopressin receptor antagonist or a micro-opioid receptor antagonist, indicating that activity-dependent inhibition of depolarizing after-potentials requires exocytosis of an endogenous kappa-opioid peptide. kappa-Opioid inhibition of depolarizing after-potentials was not mediated by actions on evoked after-hyperpolarizations since these were not affected by kappa-opioid receptor agonists or antagonists. Evoked bursts were prolonged by antagonism of kappa-opioid receptors with nor-binaltorphimine and by depletion of neurosecretory vesicles by alpha-latrotoxin, becoming everlasting in approximately 50% of cells. Finally, spontaneously active neurones exposed to nor-binaltorphimine switched from phasic to continuous firing as plateau potentials became non-inactivating. Thus, dynorphin coreleased with vasopressin generates phasic activity through activity-dependent feedback inhibition of plateau potentials in magnocellular neurosecretory cells.
We have recently reported that excitatory GABAergic and glutamatergic mechanisms may be involved in the generation of seizure-like (ictal) rhythmic synchronization (afterdischarge), induced by a strong synaptic stimulation of the CA1 pyramidal cells in the mature rat hippocampus in vitro. To clarify the network mechanism of this neuronal synchronization, dual whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of the afterdischarge responses were performed simultaneously from a variety of interneurones and their neighbouring pyramidal cells in hippocampal CA1-isolated slice preparations. According to morphological and electrophysiological criteria, the recorded interneurones were then classified into distinct subtypes. The non-fast-spiking interneurones located in the strata lacunosum-moleculare and radiatum hardly discharged during the afterdischarge, whereas most of the fast-spiking and non-fast-spiking interneurones in the strata oriens and pyramidale, including the basket, chandelier and bistratified cells, exhibited prominent firings that were precisely synchronous with oscillatory responses in the pyramidal cells. Field potential recordings showed that excitatory synaptic transmissions might take place primarily in the strata oriens and pyramidale during the afterdischarge. Restricted lesions in the strata oriens and pyramidale, but not in the other layers, resulted in the complete desynchronization of afterdischarge activity, and also, local application of glutamate receptor antagonists to these layers blocked the expression of afterdischarge. The present findings indicate that the neuronal synchronization of epileptic afterdischarge may be accomplished in a 'positive feedback circuit' formed by the excitatory GABAergic interneurones and the glutamatergic pyramidal cells within the strata oriens and/or pyramidale of the hippocampal CA1 region.

In order to test the effectiveness of a new advanced time-lapse microscopy imaging and image processing and analysis system, and to do quantitative and qualitative temporal analyses of in vitro peripheral nerve regeneration, long-term time-lapse imaging of cultures of mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) was performed. DRGs were placed in a Petri dish, covered with collagen gel, their attached peripheral nerves were cut in the middle, creating a gap, and the dish was filled with culture medium. Six preparations were kept on the time-lapse imaging system, which provides a suitable incubation environment and enables to capture images from multiple coordinates at x,y,z axes at desired time intervals for 13 days. In general, the time-lapse imaging system proved quite stable and efficient, although some improvements are certainly required. Two main components of peripheral nerve regeneration, outgrowth of axons and activities of resident cells, were examined. Axons started to grow during the first hour of incubation with a 16.5 microm/h rate and showed the slowest rates (0.7 microm/h) on days 8 and 9, after which they resumed higher speeds again. The first cell came out of the proximal end of the cut nerve on the second day and it was a Schwann cell (SC), which was the prominent cell type in the preparations throughout the experiment. SCs were higher in number (83.15% of all cells) but slower in migration (3.4 vs. 7.3 microm/h, P &lt; 0.001) than other cells. Other observed characteristics of axonal outgrowth and cellular activity and interactions between axons and the cells are discussed.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is exposed to reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced during oxidative phosphorylation. Accumulation of several kinds of oxidative lesions, including oxidized pyrimidines, in mtDNA may lead to structural genomic alterations, mitochondrial dysfunction and associated degenerative diseases. In Escherichia coli, oxidative pyrimidines are repaired by endonuclease III (EndoIII) and endonuclease VIII (EndoVIII). To determine whether the overexpression of two bacterial glycosylase/AP lyases which predominantly remove oxidized pyrimidines from DNA, could improve mtDNA repair and cell survival, we constructed vectors containing sequences for the EndoIII and EndoVIII downstream of the mitochondrial targeting sequence (MTS) from manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and placed them under the control of the tetracycline (Tet)-response element. Successful integrations of MTS-EndoIII or MTS-EndoVIII into the HeLa Tet-On genome were confirmed by Southern blot. Western blots of mitochondrial extracts from MTS-EndoIII and MTS-EndoVIII clones revealed that the recombinant proteins are targeted into mitochondria and their expressions are doxycycline (Dox) dependent. Enzyme activity assays and mtDNA repair studies showed that the Dox-dependent expressions of MTS-EndoIII and MTS-EndoVIII are functional, and both MTS-EndoIII and MTS-EndoVIII (Dox+) clones were significantly more proficient at repair of oxidative damage in their mtDNA. This enhanced repair led to increased cellular resistance to oxidative stress.
MutY homolog (MUTYH) excises adenine opposite 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) in DNA, thus preventing occurrence of G:C to T:A transversion. In cell-free extract prepared from the thymocytes of wild type but not MUTYH-null mice, adenine opposite 8-oxoG in DNA was excised by MUTYH, however, the generated apurinic (AP) site opposite 8-oxoG mostly remained unincised. Recombinant mouse MUTYH (mMUTYH) efficiently excised adenine opposite 8-oxoG and prevented mouse AP endonuclease (mAPEX1) from incising the generated AP site. In contrast, an AP site opposite 8-oxoG created by uracil DNA glycosylase or tetrahydrofuran opposite 8-oxoG was efficiently incised by mAPEX1 in the presence of an excess amount of mMUTYH. Mutant mMUTYH with R361A or G365D substitution, excised adenine opposite 8-oxoG as efficiently as did wild-type mMUTYH, but failed to prevent mAPEX1 from incising the generated AP site. Wild-type mMUTYH bound duplex oligonucleotides containing A:8-oxoG pair with a lower apparent K(d) than that of the mutants, and prevented OGG1 from excising 8-oxoG opposite adenine or the generated AP site. The G365D mutant failed to prevent OGG1 from excising 8-oxoG opposite the generated AP site, thus indicating that the protection of its own product by mMUTYH is an intrinsic function which depends on the C-terminal domain of mMUTYH.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is an environmental contaminant originating from industrial waste. At sublethal concentrations it induces anorexia and weight loss as part of the so-called wasting syndrome. To gain insight into its possible underlying mechanisms, mRNA expression of some key hypothalamic neuropeptides involved in the regulation of body weight was studied using in situ hybridization histochemistry in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats 6 days after single oral administration of TCDD (15 microg/kg) and in age-paired control rats. In TCDD-treated rats which displayed a decrease in body weight gain vs. controls, arcuate nucleus expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY), proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) mRNA was increased. In the lateral hypothalamic area, melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) mRNA expression was also increased, while levels of CART and orexin/hypocretin mRNA were not significantly changed. Since TCDD is known to bind to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), the distribution of the AhR repressor (AhRR), which is co-expressed with AhR in the same cells, was studied by immunohistochemistry in the mouse hypothalamus using mouse AhRR specific antiserum. AhRR immunoreactivity was present in the nuclei of neurons found in all main hypothalamic groups including NPY, CART, MCH and orexin/hypocretin neurons. Xenobiotic response elements were found in these neuropeptide genes with the exception of MCH. Thus changes in expression of orexigenic and anorexigenic neuropeptides after TCDD treatment may help to explain the occurrence of the TCDD-induced weight loss, which may be either directly or indirectly related to the effects of TCDD on neuropeptide expression.
We tested the hypothesis that the decrease in arterial pressure induced by adrenomedullin (ADM) in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) is mediated by nitric oxide (NO) and/or GABA. Unilateral microinjections of ADM into the PVN of anesthetized rats caused a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure (MAP). The ADM-induced decrease in MAP was significantly attenuated by pretreatment with N(psi)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, a non-selective NOS inhibitor), 7-nitroindazole sodium salt (7-NiNa, a selective neuronal NOS inhibitor), N5-(1-Iminoethyl)-L-ornithine (L-NIO, a selective endothelial NOS inhibitor) or bicuculline methiodide, but pretreatment with S-methylisothiourea (SMIT, a selective inducible NOS inhibitor) had no effect on this ADM-induced effect. In addition, coronal sections of rat brains were processed for combined NADPH-diaphorase (a marker of neuronal NOS-containing neurons) histochemistry and in situ hybridization for the receptor-activity-modifying protein 2 (a specific ADM receptor component). Double-labeled neurons were found in both parvocellular and magnocellular subdivisions of the PVN, confirming that NO-producing neurons in the PVN are capable of mediating ADM's effects. Thus, our data provide evidence that the ADM-induced decrease in MAP in the PVN is mediated by NO from neuronal and endothelial NOS, and by GABA.
Leptin regulates energy homeostasis and reproduction as evidenced by dysfunctions characterized in several genetic models of leptin pathway deficiency, such as the ob/ob and db/db mice and fa/fa Zucker rat. An additional model, the obese (f/f) Koletsky rat with a nonsense leptin receptor mutation has not been fully characterized. These rats are obese, hyperphagic, diabetic, and infertile; however, little else is known about the effects of the mutation. We have characterized alterations in hypothalamic appetite regulating neuropeptides as well as energy expenditure, metabolic hormones, and the reproductive axis of obese f/f rats. As expected, obese rats of both sexes were hyperinsulinemic, hyperglycemic, and hyperleptinemic. They exhibited reduced uncoupling protein-1 mRNA expression in brown fat, indicating reduced energy expenditure. In addition, hypothalamic expression of orexigenic neuropeptide Y and agouti-related peptide mRNA levels was upregulated while the anorexigenic cocaine and amphetamine regulated transcript and proopiomelanocortin mRNA levels were reduced. We also observed reproductive axis perturbations including reduced hypothalamic luteinizing hormone releasing hormone, serum estradiol and testosterone, and increased serum progesterone levels. In conclusion, obese Koletsky rats are phenotypically similar to other leptin pathway deficiency models with reduced energy expenditure and hypothalamic neuropeptidergic alterations that could account for their obesity and infertility.



Tubby and tubby-like proteins (TULPs) are encoded by members of a small gene family. An autosomal recessive mutation in the mouse tub gene leads to blindness, deafness, and maturity-onset obesity. The mechanisms by which the mutation causes the obesity syndrome has not been established. We compared obese tub/tub mice and their lean littermates in order to find abnormalities within the mediobasal hypothalamus, a region intimately associated with the regulation of body weight. Using an antiserum to the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), a marker for cholinergic neurons, many unusually large VAChT-immunoreactive (-ir) nerve terminals, identified by colocalization with the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin, were demonstrated in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus of obese tub/tub mice. Double-labeling showed that VAChT-ir nerve endings also contained glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), a marker for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons. The VAChT- and GAD-ir nerve terminals were in close contact with blood vessels, identified with antisera to platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM; also called CD31), laminin, smooth muscle actin (SMA), and glucose transporter-1 (GLUT1). Such large cholinergic and GABAergic nerve terminals surrounding blood vessels were not seen in the arcuate nucleus of lean tub/+ mice. The presence of abnormal cholinergic/GABAergic vascular innervation in the arcuate nucleus suggests that alterations in this region, which contains neurons that receive information from the periphery and which relays information about the energy status to other parts of the brain, may be central in the development of the obese phenotype in animals with an autosomal recessive mutation in the tub gene.
The norepinephrine (NE) system is implicated in the etiology and treatment of depression and drugs blocking the NE transporter (NET) are effective antidepressants. It is possible that dopamine (DA) also plays a role in depression and the action of antidepressant drugs, although the mechanisms whereby NE and DA interact have not been fully elaborated. We examined whether NE neurons might alter DA transmission via synaptic projections to cells in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) by using electron microscopic dual labeling immunocytochemistry in the rat and monkey. NET was used as a marker for NE axons, whereas the catecholamine synthetic enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), served as a label for DA neurons. We observed three types of spatial relationships between these profiles that were similar in type but varied in frequency between rodent and primate. The most common arrangement involved nonsynaptic appositions between NET-immunoreactive (-ir) axons and TH-ir dendrites. Such relationships may facilitate extrasynaptic actions of NE on DA cell activity. The other commonly observed arrangement involved adjacent profiles that were otherwise separated by glia. These relationships may represent regions where NE is prevented from reaching DA cells. In only a few cases were synapses observed between NET-ir axons and TH-ir dendrites. This finding suggests that NE can synaptically regulate DA neurons, although functional interactions are more likely to involve extrasynaptic mechanisms. Finally, in the VTA of both species the majority of NET-ir axons exhibited no detectable TH immunoreactivity. The latter finding agrees with observations in cortical regions and represents the first report of its type in a subcortical structure.
Small conductance calcium activated potassium channels (SK) are crucial in the regulation of cell firing frequency in the nervous system and other tissues. In the present work, a novel SK channel blocker, designated BmSKTx1, was purified from the scorpion Buthus martensi Karsh venom. The sequence of the N-terminal 22 amino acid residues was determined by Edman degradation. Using this sequence information, the full-length cDNA and genomic gene of BmSKTx1 were cloned and sequenced. By these analyses, BmSKTx1 was found to be a peptide composed of 31 amino acid residues with three disulfide bonds. It shared little sequence homology with other known scorpion alpha-KTxs but showed close relationship with SK channel blockers in the phylogenetic tree. According to the previous nomenclature, BmSKTx1 was classified as alpha-KTx14.1. We examined the effects of BmSKTx1 on different ion channels of rat adrenal chromaffin cells (RACC) and locust dorsal unpaired median (DUM) neurons. BmSKTx1 selectively inhibited apamin-sensitive SK currents in RACC with Kd of 0.72 microM and Hill coefficient of 2.2. And it had no effect on Na+, Ca2+, Kv, and BK currents in DUM neuron, indicating that BmSKTx1 was a selective SK toxin.
Transient receptor potential channel proteins (TRPs) constitute a steadily growing family of ion channels with a range of purported functions. It has been demonstrated that TRPV2 is activated by moderate thermal stimuli and, in the rat, is expressed in medium to large diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons. In this study, antisera specific for the human TRPV2 homologue were raised and characterized for immunohistochemical use. Subsequently, thorough investigation was made of the localization of this cation channel in the macaque primate brain. TRPV2-immunoreactive material was highly restrictively localized to hypothalamic paraventricular, suprachiasmatic, and supraoptic nuclei. Confocal double- and triple-labeling studies demonstrated that TRPV2 immunoreactivity is preferentially localized to oxytocinergic and vasopressinergic neurons. Few, if any, cells in these regions expressed TRPV2 immunoreactivity in the absence of oxytocin immunoreactivity or vasopressin immunoreactivity. Expression in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei suggests that TRPV2 is likely to play a fundamental role in mediating cation transport in neurohypophysial neurons. TRPV2 has been shown to be translocated upon cell activation and neurons expressing TRPV2 immunoreactivity in vivo are among those known to engage in sporadic, intense activity. Taken together, these data suggest that this channel may play a vital role in mediating physiological activities associated with oxytocin and vasopressin release such as parturition, lactation, and diuresis. These data may also implicate the involvement of TRPV2 in disorders of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, including anxiety, depression, hypertension, and preterm labor.
Tonically active neurons (TANs) in the mammalian striatum show a pause in their ongoing firing activity in response to an auditory cue that is paired with a reward. This response to reward-related cues develops through learning and becomes expressed synchronously by TANs located throughout the striatum. The pause response is abolished by inactivating the thalamic inputs to the striatum but a short-latency excitatory response to reward-related cues remains, which may originate in the cortex. We investigated the cortical inputs to striatal neurons to determine the electrophysiological properties of their cortical projections. We made in vivo intracellular recordings from 14 giant aspiny interneurons (which correspond to the TANs) and from a control group of spiny projection neurons (n=18) in urethane-anaesthetised rats. All giant aspiny interneurons were tonically active (firing rate: 3.0+/-1.5 Hz) and displayed small-amplitude subthreshold fluctuations in membrane potential. These fluctuations in membrane potential were correlated with the cortical electroencephalogram (EEG). Test stimulation of the contralateral cortex induced postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) in giant aspiny interneurons. These PSPs were significantly shorter in latency (5.1+/-1.6 ms) than those measured in spiny projection neurons (9.3+/-2.8 ms; p&lt;0.01), whereas the latencies of ipsilaterally evoked PSPs did not differ. Taken together, these observations suggest that giant aspiny interneurons are under the significant influence of spontaneous excitatory inputs and receive specialised input from either faster conducting or less branching cortical fibres than spiny projection neurons. These inputs may be involved in the synchronised convergence of reward-related cues from spatially distinct cortical areas onto giant aspiny interneurons.

Ankyrins-R, -B, and -G are a family of membrane-associated adaptors required for localization of structurally diverse proteins to specialized membrane domains, including axon initial segments, cardiomyocyte T-tubules, and epithelial cell lateral membranes. Ankyrins are often co-expressed in the same cells and, although structurally similar, have non-overlapping functions. We previously determined that the regulatory domain of ankyrin-B defines specificity between ankyrins B and G in cardiomyocytes. Here, we identify key residues on the surface of an amphipathic alpha-helix unique to the regulatory domain of ankyrin-B that are essential for the function of ankyrin-B in cardiomyocytes. Using circular dichroism, we determined that a peptide representing the predicted helix folds as a helix in solution. Alanine-scanning mutagenesis revealed that residues 1773, 1777, 1780, 1784, and 1788 located in a patch on one surface the helix are critical for ankyrin-B function in cardiomyocytes. In a parallel set of experiments we determined that the molecular co-chaperone human DnaJ homologue 1 (Hdj1)/Hsp40 interacts with the ankyrin-B regulatory domain. Moreover, interaction of Hdj1/Hsp40 with the regulatory domain was mapped by random mutagenesis to same surface of the alpha-helix that is required for ankyrin-B function. These results provide new insight into the molecular basis for specificity between ankyrin-based pathways by defining a key alpha-helix structure in the divergent regulatory domain of ankyrin-B as well as interaction of the helix with Hdj1/Hsp40, the first downstream target for ankyrin-B-specific function.
We studied the effects of the divalent cation ionophore A23187 on apoptotic signaling in MH1C1 cells. Addition of A23187 caused a fast rise of cytosolic Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](c)), which returned close to the resting level within about 40 s. The [Ca(2+)](c) rise was immediately followed by phospholipid hydrolysis, which could be inhibited by aristolochic acid or by pretreatment with thapsigargin in Ca(2+)-free medium, indicating that the Ca(2+)-dependent cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) was involved. These early events were followed by opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP) and by apoptosis in about 30% of the cell population. In keeping with a cause-effect relationship between addition of A23187, activation of cPLA(2), PTP opening, and cell death, all events but the [Ca(2+)](c) rise were prevented by aristolochic acid. The number of cells killed by A23187 was doubled by treatment with 0.5 microm MK886 and 5 microm indomethacin, which inhibit arachidonic acid metabolism through the 5-lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase pathway, respectively. Consistent with the key role of free arachidonic acid, its levels increased within minutes of treatment with A23187; the increase being more pronounced in the presence of MK886 plus indomethacin. Cell death was preceded by cytochrome c release and cleavage of caspase 9 and 3, but not of caspase 8. All these events were prevented by aristolochic acid and by the PTP inhibitor cyclosporin A. Thus, A23187 triggers the apoptotic cascade through the release of arachidonic acid by cPLA(2) in a process that is amplified when transformation of arachidonic acid into prostaglandins and leukotrienes is inhibited. These findings identify arachidonic acid as the causal link between A23187-dependent perturbation of Ca(2+) homeostasis and the effector mechanisms of cell death.
In this study, we have compared the functional consequences of three mutations (R218Q, V260M, and Q266H) in the alpha(1) subunit of the glycine receptor (GlyRA1) causing hyperekplexia, an inherited neurological channelopathy. In HEK-293 cells, the agonist EC(50s) for glycine-activated Cl(-) currents were increased from 26 microm in wtGlyRA1, to 5747, 135, and 129 microm in R218Q, V260M, and Q266H GlyRA1 channels, respectively. Cl(-) currents elicited by beta-alanine and taurine, which behave as agonists at wtGlyRA1, were decreased in V260M and Q266H mutant receptors and virtually abolished in GlyRA1 R218Q receptors. Gly-gated Cl(-) currents were similarly antagonized by low concentrations of strychnine in both wild-type (wt) and R218Q GlyRA1 channels, suggesting that the Arg-218 residue plays a crucial role in GlyRA1 channel gating, with only minor effects on the agonist/antagonist binding site, a hypothesis supported by our molecular model of the GlyRA1 subunit. The R218Q mutation, but not the V260M or the Q266H mutation, caused a marked decrease of receptor subunit expression both in total cell lysates and in isolated plasma membrane proteins. This decreased expression does not seem to explain the reduced agonist sensitivity of GlyRA1 R218Q channels since no difference in the apparent sensitivity to glycine or taurine was observed when wtGlyRA1 receptors were expressed at levels comparable with those of R218Q mutant receptors. In conclusion, multiple mechanisms may explain the dramatic decrease in GlyR function caused by the R218Q mutation, possibly providing the molecular basis for its association with a more severe clinical phenotype.
Mate attraction in Aplysia involves a long-distance water-borne signal (attractin) that is released during egg laying. Other pheromones are predicted to be released during egg laying that act in concert with albumen gland attractin to stimulate attraction, but their identities are unknown. To identify other candidate water-borne pheromones, we employed differential library screening of an albumen gland cDNA library, Northern blot analysis, purification, characterization, cloning, and expression of albumen gland proteins, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry, pheromone secretion assays, behavioral bioassays, immunolocalization studies, and comparative genomics. Four genes, Alb-23, Alb-24, Alb-69, and Alb-172, were highly expressed in Aplysia californica albumen glands and encoded novel proteins. The products of the Alb-24 (&quot;enticin&quot;) and Alb-172 (&quot;temptin&quot;) precursors were soluble and highly abundant in albumen gland extracts, whereas Alb-23 and Alb-69 were membrane-associated proteins. A comparative analysis showed that the predicted Aplysia brasiliana enticin and temptin proteins were 90 and 91% identical, respectively, to their A. californica homologs. T-maze attraction bioassay studies have previously demonstrated that egg cordons alone are attractive to Aplysia but that attractin alone is not. In the present study, however, the combination of attractin, enticin, and temptin was found to be significantly attractive to potential mates and doubled the number of animals attracted to this stimulus compared with control animals. The combined data strongly suggest that enticin and temptin are novel candidate water-borne protein pheromones that act in concert with attractin to attract Aplysia to form and maintain egglaying and mating aggregations.
We have examined the role of endogenous 70-kDa S6 kinase (p70(S6K)) in actin cytoskeletal organization and cell migration in Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts. Association of p70(S6K) with the actin cytoskeleton was demonstrated by cosedimentation of p70(S6K) with F-actin and by subcellular fractionation in which p70(S6K) activity was measured in the F-actin cytoskeletal fraction. Immunocytochemical studies showed that p70(S6K), Akt1, PDK1, and p85 phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) were localized to the actin arc, a caveolin-enriched cytoskeletal structure located at the leading edge of migrating cells. Using a phospho-specific antibody to mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), we find that activated mTOR is enriched at the actin arc, suggesting that activation of the p70(S6K) signaling pathway is important to cell migration. Using the actin arc to assess migration, epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulation was found to induce actin arc formation, an effect that was blocked by rapamycin treatment. We show further that actin stress fibers may function to down-regulate p70(S6K). Fibronectin stimulated stress fiber formation in the absence of growth factors and caused an inactivation of p70(S6K). Conversely, cytochalasin D and the Rho kinase inhibitor Y-27632, both of which cause stress fiber disruption, increased p70(S6K) activity. These studies provide evidence that the p70(S6K) pathway is important for signaling at two F-actin microdomains in cells and regulates cell migration.
The ability to use environmental stimuli to predict impending harm is critical for survival. Such predictions should be available as early as they are reliable. In pavlovian conditioning, chains of successively earlier predictors are studied in terms of higher-order relationships, and have inspired computational theories such as temporal difference learning. However, there is at present no adequate neurobiological account of how this learning occurs. Here, in a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study of higher-order aversive conditioning, we describe a key computational strategy that humans use to learn predictions about pain. We show that neural activity in the ventral striatum and the anterior insula displays a marked correspondence to the signals for sequential learning predicted by temporal difference models. This result reveals a flexible aversive learning process ideally suited to the changing and uncertain nature of real-world environments. Taken with existing data on reward learning, our results suggest a critical role for the ventral striatum in integrating complex appetitive and aversive predictions to coordinate behaviour.
Emotional events are remembered better than neutral events possibly because the amygdala enhances the function of medial temporal lobe (MTL) memory system (modulation hypothesis). Although this hypothesis has been supported by much animal research, evidence from humans has been scarce and indirect. We investigated this issue using event-related fMRI during encoding of emotional and neutral pictures. Memory performance after scanning showed a retention advantage for emotional pictures. Successful encoding activity in the amygdala and MTL memory structures was greater and more strongly correlated for emotional than for neutral pictures. Moreover, a double dissociation was found along the longitudinal axis of the MTL memory system: activity in anterior regions predicted memory for emotional items, whereas activity in posterior regions predicted memory for neutral items. These results provide direct evidence for the modulation hypothesis in humans and reveal a functional specialization within the MTL regarding the effects of emotion on memory formation.
Molecular and cellular mechanisms for memory consolidation in the cortex are poorly known. To study the relationships between synaptic structure and function in the cortex and consolidation of long-term memory, we have generated transgenic mice in which catalytic activity of PAK, a critical regulator of actin remodeling, is inhibited in the postnatal forebrain. Cortical neurons in these mice displayed fewer dendritic spines and an increased proportion of larger synapses compared to wild-type controls. These alterations in basal synaptic morphology correlated with enhanced mean synaptic strength and impaired bidirectional synaptic modifiability (enhanced LTP and reduced LTD) in the cortex. By contrast, spine morphology and synaptic plasticity were normal in the hippocampus of these mice. Importantly, these mice exhibited specific deficits in the consolidation phase of hippocampus-dependent memory. Thus, our results provide evidence for critical relationships between synaptic morphology and bidirectional modifiability of synaptic strength in the cortex and consolidation of long-term memory.
Variation in the acute response to ethanol between individuals has a significant impact on determining susceptibility to alcoholism. The degree to which genetics contributes to this variation is of great interest. Here we show that allelic variation that alters the functional level of NPR-1, a neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor-like protein, can account for natural variation in the acute response to ethanol in wild strains of Caenorhabditis elegans. NPR-1 negatively regulates the development of acute tolerance to ethanol, a neuroadaptive process that compensates for effects of ethanol. Furthermore, dynamic changes in the NPR-1 pathway provide a mechanism for ethanol tolerance in C. elegans. This suggests an explanation for the conserved function of NPY-related pathways in ethanol responses across diverse species. Moreover, these data indicate that genetic variation in the level of NPR-1 function determines much of the phenotypic variation in adaptive behavioral responses to ethanol that are observed in natural populations.
Ephrin-As act as retinal topographic mapping labels, but the molecular basis for two key aspects of mapping remains unclear. First, although mapping is believed to require balanced opposing forces, ephrin-As have been reported to be retinal axon repellents, and the counterbalanced force has not been molecularly identified. Second, although graded responsiveness across the retina is required for smooth mapping, a sharp discontinuity has instead been reported. Here, an axon growth assay was developed to systematically vary both retinal position and ephrin concentration and test responses quantitatively. Responses varied continuously with retinal position, fulfilling the requirement for smooth mapping. Ephrin-A2 inhibited growth at high concentrations but promoted growth at lower concentrations. Moreover, the concentration producing a transition from promotion to inhibition varied topographically with retinal position. These results lead directly to a mapping model where position within a concentration gradient may be specified at the neutral point between growth promotion and inhibition.
The somatotopical organization of the postcentral gyrus is well known, but less is known about the somatotopical organization of area 2, the somatosensory association areas in the postparietal cortex, and the parietal operculum. The extent to which these areas are modulated by attention is also poorly understood. For these reasons, we measured the BOLD signal when rectangular parallelepipeds of varying shape were presented to the immobile right hand or right foot of 10 subjects either discriminating these or just being stimulated. Activation areas in each subject were mapped against cytoarchitectural probability maps of area 2, IP1, and IP2 along the intraparietal sulcus and the parietal opercular areas OP1-OP4. In area 2, the somatotopical representation of the hand and foot were distinctly separate, whereas there was considerable overlap in IP1 and no clear evidence of separate representations in OP1, OP4, and IP2. The overlap of hand and foot representations increased in the following order: area 3a, 3b, 1, 2, IP1, OP4, IP2, and OP1. There were significant foot representations but no hand representations in right (ipsilateral) areas 3a, 3b, and 1. Shape discrimination using the foot as opposed to stimulation enhanced the signal in OP4 bilaterally, whereas discrimination with the hand enhanced the signal bilaterally in area 2, IP1, and IP2. These results indicate that somatosensory areas in humans are arranged from strong somatotopy into no somatotopy in the following order: 3a, 3b, 1, 2, IP1, OP4, IP2, and OP1. Higher order areas such as IP1, IP2, and OP4 showed task-related attentional enhancement.
The side chain of Gln143, a conserved residue in manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), forms a hydrogen bond with the manganese-bound solvent and is critical in maintaining catalytic activity. The side chains of Tyr34 and Trp123 form hydrogen bonds with the carboxamide of Gln143. We have replaced Tyr34 and Trp123 with Phe in single and double mutants of human MnSOD and measured their catalytic activity by stopped-flow spectrophotometry and pulse radiolysis. The replacements of these side chains inhibited steps in the catalysis as much as 50-fold; in addition, they altered the gating between catalysis and formation of a peroxide complex to yield a more product-inhibited enzyme. The replacement of both Tyr34 and Trp123 in a double mutant showed that these two residues interact cooperatively in maintaining catalytic activity. The crystal structure of Y34F/W123F human MnSOD at 1.95 A resolution suggests that this effect is not related to a conformational change in the side chain of Gln143, which does not change orientation in Y34F/W123F, but rather to more subtle electronic effects due to the loss of hydrogen bonding to the carboxamide side chain of Gln143. Wild-type MnSOD containing Trp123 and Tyr34 has approximately the same thermal stability compared with mutants containing Phe at these positions, suggesting the hydrogen bonds formed by these residues have functional rather than structural roles.





Presynaptic acetylcholine (ACh) synthesis and release is thought to be sustained by a hemicholinium-3-sensitive choline transporter (CHT). We disrupted the murine CHT gene and examined CHT-/- and +/- animals for evidence of impaired cholinergic neurotransmission. Although morphologically normal at birth, CHT-/- mice become immobile, breathe irregularly, appear cyanotic, and die within an hour. Hemicholinium-3-sensitive choline uptake and subsequent ACh synthesis are specifically lost in CHT-/- mouse brains. Moreover, we observe a time-dependent loss of spontaneous and evoked responses at CHT-/- neuromuscular junctions. Consistent with deficits in synaptic ACh availability, we also observe developmental alterations in neuromuscular junction morphology reminiscent of changes in mutants lacking ACh synthesis. Adult CHT+/- mice overcome reductions in CHT protein levels and sustain choline uptake activity at wild-type levels through posttranslational mechanisms. Our results demonstrate that CHT is an essential and regulated presynaptic component of cholinergic signaling and indicate that CHT warrants consideration as a candidate gene for disorders characterized by cholinergic hypofunction.
The same target luminance in different contexts can elicit markedly different perceptions of brightness, a fact that has long puzzled vision scientists. Here we test the proposal that the visual system encodes not luminance as such but rather the statistical relationship of a particular luminance to all possible luminance values experienced in natural contexts during evolution. This statistical conception of vision was validated by using a database of natural scenes in which we could determine the probability distribution functions of co-occurring target and contextual luminance values. The distribution functions obtained in this way predict target brightness in response to a variety of challenging stimuli, thus explaining these otherwise puzzling percepts. That brightness is determined by the statistics of natural light patterns implies that the relevant neural circuitry is specifically organized to generate these probabilistic responses.
A series of substituted 3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-ones with high binding affinity for the benzodiazepine site of GABAA receptors containing the alpha5-subunit has been identified. These compounds have consistently higher binding affinity for the GABAA alpha5 receptor subtype over the other benzodiazepine-sensitive GABAA receptor subtypes (alpha1, alpha2 and alpha3). Compounds with a range of efficacies for the benzodiazepine site of alpha5-containing GABAA receptors were identified, including the alpha5 inverse agonist 3,3-dimethyl-8-methylthio-5-(pyridin-2-yl)-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one 22 and the alpha5 agonist 8-ethylthio-3-methyl-5-(1-oxidopyridin-2-yl)-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one 19.
LPS pretreatment of human pro-monocytic THP-1 cells induces tolerance to secondary LPS stimulation with reduced TNFalpha production. However, secondary stimulation with heat-killed Staphylococcus aureus (HKSa) induces priming as evidenced by augmented TNFalpha production. The pro-inflammatory cytokine, IFNgamma, also abolishes suppression of TNFalpha in LPS tolerance. The effect of LPS tolerance on HKSa and IFNgamma-induced inflammatory mediator production is not well defined. We hypothesized that LPS, HKSa and IFNgamma differentially regulate pro-inflammatory mediators and chemokine production in LPS-induced tolerance. THP-1 cells were pretreated for 24 h with LPS (100 ng/ml) or LPS (100 ng/ml) + IFNgamma (1 microg/ml). Cells were subsequently stimulated with LPS or HKSa (10 microg/ml) for 24 h. The production of the cytokines TNFalpha, IL-6, IL-1beta, and GMCSF and the chemokine IL-8 were measured in supernatants. LPS and HKSa stimulated TNFalpha (3070 +/- 711 pg/ml and 217 +/- 9 pg/ml, respectively) and IL-6 (237 +/- 8.9 pg/ml and 56.2 +/- 2.9 pg/ml, p &lt; 0.05, n = 3, respectively) in control cells compared to basal levels (&lt; 25 pg/ml). LPS induced tolerance to secondary LPS stimulation as evidenced by a 90% (p &lt; 0.05, n = 3) reduction in TNFalpha. However, LPS pretreatment induced priming to HKSa as demonstrated by increased TNFalpha (2.7 fold, from 217 to 580 pg/ml, p &lt; 0.05, n = 3 ). In contrast to suppressed TNFalpha, IL-6 production was augmented to secondary LPS stimulation (9 fold, from 237 to 2076 pg/ml, p &lt; 0.01, n = 3) and also primed to HKSa stimulation (62 fold, from 56 to 3470 pg/ml, p &lt; 0.01, n = 3). LPS induced IL-8 production and to a lesser extent IL-1beta and GMCSF. LPS pretreatment did not affect secondary LPS stimulated IL-8 or IL-1beta, although HKSa stimulation augmented both mediators. In addition, IFNgamma pretreatment reversed LPS tolerance as evidenced by increased TNFalpha levels while IL-6, IL-1beta, and GMCSF levels were further augmented. However, IL-8 production was not affected by IFNgamma. These data support our hypothesis of differential regulation of cytokines and chemokines in gram-negative- and gram-positive-induced inflammatory events. Such changes may have implications in the pathogenesis of polymicrobial sepsis.
Humans with mutations in either DCX or LIS1 display nearly identical neuronal migration defects, known as lissencephaly. To define subcellular mechanisms, we have combined in vitro neuronal migration assays with retroviral transduction. Overexpression of wild-type Dcx or Lis1, but not patient-related mutant versions, increased migration rates. Dcx overexpression rescued the migration defect in Lis1+/- neurons. Lis1 localized predominantly to the centrosome, and after disruption of microtubules, redistributed to the perinuclear region. Dcx outlined microtubules extending from the perinuclear &quot;cage&quot; to the centrosome. Lis1+/- neurons displayed increased and more variable separation between the nucleus and the preceding centrosome during migration. Dynein inhibition resulted in similar defects in both nucleus-centrosome (N-C) coupling and neuronal migration. These N-C coupling defects were rescued by Dcx overexpression, and Dcx was found to complex with dynein. These data indicate Lis1 and Dcx function with dynein to mediate N-C coupling during migration, and suggest defects in this coupling may contribute to migration defects in lissencephaly.
The distribution and geometry of the dendritic trees of spinal motoneurons obey several well-established rules. Some of these rules are based on systematic relationships between quantitative geometrical features (e.g., total dendritic length) and the three-dimensional trajectory followed by dendrites from their origin to their termination. Because dendritic geometry partially determines the transmission of current and voltage signals generated by synapses on the dendritic tree, our goal was to compare the efficacy of signal transmission by dendritic trajectories that followed different directions. To achieve this goal, we constructed detailed compartmental models of the dendritic trees of three intracellularly stained biventer cervicis/complexus (BCCM) motoneurons and calculated the electronic properties of 361 dendritic paths. Each trajectory was classified according to its orientation, e.g., rostral, rostral-dorsal-lateral. The attenuation of current and voltage signals en route to the soma was strongly related to trajectory orientation. Trajectories with similar attenuation factors formed functional subunits that were arranged in distinct domains within the ventral horn. Changes in R(m) or R(i) had little effect on which trajectories belonged to each functional subunit. However, differences in the efficacy of signal transmission between subunits increased during high network activity (mimicked by decreases in R(m)). The most efficient subunit delivered two times more current and four times more voltage to the soma than the least efficient subunit. These results indicate that the input-output properties of motoneurons depend on the direction of the path taken by dendrites from their origin at the cell body to their terminals.
Sexual dimorphism in the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) of the Mongolian gerbil is achieved by two periods of postnatal increase, one in the first month after birth and one at puberty. The pubertal increase in motoneuron number is of particular interest because it occurs in a nearly adult animal. The purpose of this research was threefold. The first was to determine the response of the SNB in prepubertally castrated male gerbils receiving delayed hormone replacement as adults. Testosterone propionate (TP) treatment resulted in numbers of SNB motoneurons comparable to those seen in intact males, whereas androgen metabolites were less effective. The second purpose was to determine the latency of motoneurons to appear in response to TP. New SNB motoneurons appeared within 2 days of delayed TP replacement in prepubertally castrated males, and 16 days of treatment did not further increase SNB motoneuron numbers. The response of the motoneurons to TP appeared more rapid than the response of the bulbocavernosus (BC) muscle, scent gland, and seminal vesicles. The third purpose was to determine whether the new cells were connected to a target muscle. After 16 days of TP treatment, more motoneurons were labeled in the SNB following injection of a retrograde tract tracer into the BC muscle compared with the number seen in control animals. Thus, new motoneurons appeared in the SNB of prepubertally castrated male Mongolian gerbils within 2 days of the start of delayed TP treatment and were connected to a target within 16 days of TP treatment.
The organization of the laminar and topographical projections from the presubiculum to the entorhinal area was studied in the rat by anterograde labeling with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin and retrograde labeling with horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin. We found that the pattern of presubiculo-entorhinal projections differs between the superficial and deep layers of the presubiculum. The superficial layers (layers II and III) of the presubiculum gave rise to bilateral projections to layers I-VI of the medial entorhinal area (MEA). Many terminals were distributed in layer III, fewer in layer II and the deep portion of layer I, and many fewer terminals in the deep layers (layers V and VI) of MEA. In contrast, the deep layers (layers V and VI) of the presubiculum gave rise to ipsilateral projections to the entorhinal area. Many axon terminals were distributed in layers V and VI of MEA and the most superficial portion of layer I of MEA, but very few in layers II and III. In addition, the ramifications in layer I extended to the lateral entorhinal area (LEA). Using two-dimensional unfolded maps of parahippocampal cortices, we elucidated the distinct topographical relationship in the presubiculo-entorhinal projection: 1) The septotemporal or longitudinal axis of the presubiculum corresponded to the axis on the MEA/LEA boundary, where the septal presubiculum projected toward the rhinal fissure and the temporal presubiculum projected away from the fissure. 2) The proximodistal axis of the presubiculum corresponded to the axis from the MEA/LEA boundary to the MEA/parasubiculum boundary that was virtually perpendicular to the MEA/LEA boundary, where the proximal portion of the presubiculum (close to the subiculum) projected to the region near the MEA/LEA boundary.
The ventral lateral geniculate nucleus is a small extrageniculate visual structure that has a complex cytoarchitecture and diverse connections. In addition to small-celled medial and lateral divisions, we cytoarchitectonically defined a small-celled dorsal division. A large-celled intermediate division intercalated between the three small-celled divisions, which we divided into medial and lateral intermediate subdivisions. In WGA-HRP injection experiments, the different cytoarchitectonic divisions were shown to have connections with different nuclei. The medial division was reciprocally connected to the pretectum and projected to the superficial layers of the superior colliculus and the intralaminar nuclei. The medial intermediate division received projections from the intermediate layer of the superior colliculus and the lateral and interpositus posterior cerebellar nuclei, and projected to the intermediate layer of the superior colliculus, the periaqueductal gray of midbrain, and the intralaminar nuclei. The lateral intermediate divisions received projections from the pretectum, the intermediate layer of the superior colliculus, and the lateral and interpositus posterior cerebellar nuclei, and projected to the pretectum, superficial layers of the superior colliculus, and the pulvinar. The lateral division received projections from superficial layers of the superior colliculus and had reciprocal connections with the pretectum. The dorsal division received projections from the pretectum and had reciprocal connections with the periaqueductal gray of midbrain. The different cytoarchitectonic divisions of the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus are thus suggested to play different functional roles related to vision, eye and head movements, attention, and defensive reactions.
In an effort to clarify cellular abnormalities in Huntington's disease without the confounding factor of gross degeneration and postmortem alterations associated with studies of the brain, we have examined HD patient lymphoblasts. We report pronounced vacuole formation in patients. The vacuoles possess huntingtin remnants and cathepsin B staining, a lysosomal marker, suggesting autophagy. The number and size of vacuoles parallel the number of polyglutamine repeats in patients. Treatment with staurosporine, which augments apoptosis, leads to increased vacuole formation in Huntington's disease cells but does not influence control cells. Our findings provide direct evidence for abnormalities in Huntington's disease tissues outside the brain under basal conditions. Autophagic cellular alterations may be utilized as peripheral markers of Huntington's disease pathology.
The embryonically induced visual lateralization in pigeons can be modified by occlusion of one eye after hatching. Here we show that this deprivation effect could be also attained by short-term blocking of retinal activity with tetrodotoxin (TTX), leading to a dominance of the ipsilateral hemisphere in a visual discrimination task. This lateralization pattern resulted from a performance increase conveyed by the non-deprived hemisphere, while performance with the TTX-injected eye did not differ from that of saline-injected controls. Thus, post-hatch modulation of visual lateralization is mediated by TTX-sensitive, activity-dependent neuronal mechanisms. The transient silencing of one visual input alters the activity balance between the left and right eye system, enhancing visuoperceptive skills in the relatively higher active hemisphere.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was employed to probe the modulatory effects of transcranial direct current stimulation of motor cortex on motor evoked responses (MEPs) produced during motor imagery. MEP amplitudes at rest and during motor imagery were assessed before and for a period of 60 min after transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) applied over the primary motor cortex at 1 mA for 5 min. Cathodal stimulation induced a decrease of about 30% of MEP amplitude at rest and a 50% reduction of MEP size during imagery. Ten minutes after tDCS, MEPs at rest returned to baseline values while MEPs during motor imagery were suppressed for up to 30 min. No changes in MEP amplitude during imagery were found after anodal stimulation. tDCS could represent a powerful tool to modulate the excitability of motor areas involved in mental practice and motor imagery.
Among cocaine addicts, there is a strong variation in response to relapse provoking factors like conditioned cues and renewed contact with the drug. Here we show that such large individual differences also exist in rats. Reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior was triggered by contingent presentation of a cocaine-conditioned cue or an amphetamine priming injection. We found no positive correlation between cue- and drug-controlled reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Rather, a slight, but significant negative correlation was observed, which was particularly evident in two subgroups of rats that responded highest following either amphetamine priming or cue presentation. A large middle group responded equally for both relapse provoking factors. Further, cocaine-seeking behavior during the first extinction session correlated positively with cue-induced reinstatement. In conclusion, the present findings indicate that the therapeutic efficacy of relapse prevention strategies may depend on individual sensitivity to distinct relapse provoking stimuli.
We used magnetic source imaging (MSI) to investigate the spatio-temporal patterns of brain activity associated with line bisection judgments and double simultaneous visual stimulation in 14 healthy adults. Consistent with lesion and hemodynamic neuroimaging studies, we found the greatest number of activity sources in right inferior parietal cortex. These sources were most prominent, on average, between 200 and 300 ms after the onset of single (left, right, or center) target stimuli. A greater number of significant activity sources were found in right inferior parietal, occipital, and prefrontal cortices during bilateral compared with unilateral stimulus presentation. Based on these observations, we suggest that a more parsimonious physiological explanation of visual extinction than the hemispheric rivalry account may be the additional neuronal excitation required in right occipital and parietal cortices for accurate bilateral visual perception.
Previous studies have shown that the presence of hippocampal theta activity is important for learning and memory, and that the medial supramammillary nucleus (mSuM) is involved in the control of the frequency of theta rhythm. It has also been shown that the depression of mSuM activity by chlordiazepoxide causes modest impairment of spatial learning. On the other hand, the lateral supramammillary nucleus (lSum) increases long-term potentiation (LTP) of hippocampal population spikes. However, to our knowledge, no reports exist concerning the role of the supramammillary area (SuM) in passive avoidance (PA) learning. In the present study, rats were chronically implanted with a cannula aimed at SuM and were trained on a step-through PA task. They received intra-SuM injection of lidocaine or saline at the following intervals: 5 min before training, 5, 90, and 360 min after the acquisition trial, or 5 min before the retrieval test. When lidocaine was injected 5 min before training there was no effect on acquisition of PA but retrieval was significantly poorer than the control group injected with saline. Lidocaine injection 5 min after the acquisition trial impaired PA retention, but reversible inactivation of SuM at 90 and 360 min after training and 5 min before the retrieval test showed no significant effect on PA retention. It can be concluded that SuM contributes to PA consolidation at least 5 min after the acquisition trial and that this effect may be accomplished through SuM projections to the septal and/or hippocampal areas participating in the PA memorization processes.
Adult Long-Evans male rats were subjected to electrolytic lesions of the ventral subiculum, and tested for locomotor activity in the home cage, reference and working memory in the water maze, working memory in the radial maze, and D-amphetamine-induced locomotion (1mg/kg, i.p.). When compared to their sham-operated counterparts, lesioned rats showed nocturnal hyperactivity, no reference memory deficit, but working memory was impaired in the water maze and during the initial stage of radial-maze testing. Their locomotor responsiveness to D-amphetamine was exaggerated. Histological verifications confirmed lesions in the ventral subiculum. Material stained for acetylcholinesterase activity indicated septohippocampal and commissural/associational sprouting, accounting for partial damage to the perforant paths. These results showed that ventral subiculum lesions (i) do not alter the capability of rats to learn repeatedly presented spatial information, and (ii) impair, but do not prevent, spatial working memory, suggesting that the ventral subiculum is preferentially involved in short-term memory for spatial locations. Given the electrolytic nature of the lesion, the lesion-induced potentiation of the locomotor response to amphetamine is probably easier explained by partial disruption of the perforant paths than by damage to neurons of the ventral subiculum.
We asked whether the effects of exposure to two human sex-steroid derived compounds were context dependent. The effects of sniffing 4,16-androstadien-3-one (AND) and 1,3,5(10),16-estratetraen-3-ol (EST) on mood, memory, and autonomic nervous system responses were explored in 72 participants. Subjects were tested with AND, EST, or a Control compound within four mood contexts: neutral, sexually aroused, sad and happy. These moods were successfully induced using selected film segments (P &lt; 0.0001). During the neutral context, none of the compounds affected mood or autonomic nervous system function. However, compound effects were significantly increased within arousing contexts. During the sexually arousing context, both compounds increased sexual arousal (P &lt; 0.029). During the sad context, AND maintained positive mood in women (P&lt; 0.050) and increased negative mood in men (P &lt; 0.031). Memory for events during the sad context was impaired by AND in women (P &lt; 0.047) but not in men. Finally, effects of AND on physiology were observed during the sexually arousing context whereby AND increased skin temperature in both sexes (P &lt; 0.022) but reduced abdominal respiration rate in men only (P &lt; 0.034). These results suggest that sex-steroidal compounds modulate mood, memory and autonomic nervous system responses and increase their significance within specific behavioral contexts. These findings lend support to a specific role for these compounds in chemical communication between humans.
The effect of hypoxia (24 h) on TNF-alpha-mediated release of endothelin-1 (ET-1) from human optic nerve head astrocytes (hONAs) and TNF-alpha- and ET-1-induced hONA proliferation was determined. ET-1 synthesis and release was quantitated using ELISA while TNF-alpha (10 nM)- and ET-1 (100 nM)-mediated hONA proliferation was assessed by CellTiter 96 aqueous one-solution cell proliferation assay, respectively. hONAs appeared to be more rounded with fewer processes following 24 h hypoxia compared to thodr seen in normoxia. Hypoxia enhanced TNF-alpha-mediated ET-1 synthesis and release (by 5-fold) and also significantly increased TNF-alpha- and ET-1-mediated hONA proliferation. PD142893 (1 microM), an ET(A/B) receptor antagonist, blocked ET-1-mediated hONA proliferation both under normoxia and hypoxia, while doing so only under normoxia following TNF-alpha treatment. Also, U0126 (10 microM; an upstream ERK1/2 inhibitor) completely blocked agonist-induced hONA proliferation in normoxia and partially blocked the same in hypoxia. These results demonstrate for the first time that hONAs secrete ET-1 and that TNF-alpha and hypoxia can regulate its levels. Moreover, hypoxia augments the proliferative responses of hONAs to TNF-alpha and ET-1. These agonist-mediated effects following hypoxia could contribute to astroglial activation as seen in glaucomatous optic nerve heads.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in rodents receives a dense innervation from serotonin neurons of the midbrain raphe. This projection overlaps the terminal field of the retinohypothalamic tract in the SCN core, the central part of the nucleus characterized by a population of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-containing neurons. To determine whether a similar pathway is present in primates, we carried out an immnunocytochemical investigation of the primate SCN using antisera against either serotonin (monkey) or the serotonin transporter (human). This demonstrated a dense serotonergic plexus over the SCN core in both species. As in rodents, the distribution of the serotonin innervation of the primate SCN overlaps that of the retinohypothalamic input and the VIP neuronal population. We also find a supraependymal plexus of serotonin axons in the third and lateral ventricles of the human and monkey brains that is similar in distribution, but less dense, than the one reported in rodents.
Brain 5-HT2A receptors have been implicated in various behavioural and physiological processes including hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. To clarify the cellular localization and chemical identity of 5-HT2A receptor-immunoreactive (-ir) neurons in the rat septal complex and dorsal hippocampus, an immunofluorescence histochemical study was performed using a monoclonal antibody to the 5-HT2A receptor. Pretreatment with colchicine increased the number of 5-HT2A receptor-ir cell bodies, indicating that the 5-HT2A receptor protein undergoes microtubule-dependent anterograde transport in axons and dendrites. 5-HT2A receptor immunoreactivity was detected in septal cholinergic neurons, identified with an antiserum to the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), and in GABAergic cell bodies in the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca, identified with antisera to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin. In the dorsal hippocampus, 5-HT2A receptor immunoreactivity was demonstrated in cells located in the pyramidal cell layer (CA1-3) throughout the Ammon's horn and in the granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus. Furthermore, 5-HT2A receptor immunoreactivity was present in most hippocampal interneurons identified by the presence of GAD65, parvalbumin, calbindin D-28k, somatostatin and neuropeptide Y. In contrast, 5-HT2A receptor immunoreactivity was present in only a few interneurons containing cholecystokinin and calretinin immunoreactivity. The results suggest that serotonin acting on 5-HT2A receptors can modulate hippocampal functions via direct actions on hippocampal glutamatergic principal cells and indirectly via actions on hippocampal interneurons with different phenotypes as well as GABAergic and cholinergic septohippocampal neurons.
beta-Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a type I transmembrane protein. Its cleavages by beta- and gamma-secretases yield beta-amyloid, which is the main constituent of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In apoptotic cells and AD brains, APP is alternatively cleaved by caspases in the cytoplasmic region after the Asp664 residue (with respect to the numbering conversion for the APP695 isoform). Caspase-cleaved fragments of APP are cytotoxic and have been implicated in AD pathogenesis; however, the mechanisms regulating the cleavage have not been studied. APP is constitutively phosphorylated at Thr668 in brain. In the present study, we demonstrate that APP phosphorylated at Thr668 is less vulnerable to cytoplasmic cleavage by caspase-3 and caspase-8. This suggests that APP phosphorylation suppresses the generation of caspase-cleaved fragments of APP in the brain and that perturbation of this phosphorylation may be involved in APP-mediated neurotoxicity.
The voltage-gated sodium channel Na(v)1.8 is only expressed in subsets of neurons in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and trigeminal and nodose ganglia. We have isolated mouse partial length Na(v)1.8 cDNA clones spanning the exon 17 sequence, which have 17 nucleotide substitutions and 12 predicted amino acid differences from the published sequence. The absence of a mutually exclusive alternative exon 17 was confirmed by sequencing 4.1 kilobases of genomic DNA spanning exons 16-18 of Scn10a. A novel cDNA isoform was identified, designated Na(v)1.8c, which results from alternative 3'-splice site selection at a CAG/CAG motif to exclude the codon for glutamine 1031 within the interdomain cytoplasmic loop IDII/III. The ratio of Na(v)1.8c (CAG-skipped) to Na(v)1.8 (CAG-inclusive) mRNA in mouse is approximately 2:1 in adult DRG, trigeminal ganglion, and neonatal DRG. A Na(v)1.8c isoform also occurs in rat DRG, but is less common. Of the two other tetrodotoxin-resistant channels, no analogous alternative splicing of mouse Na(v)1.9 was detected, whereas rare alternative splicing of Na(v)1.5 at a CAG/CAG motif resulted in the introduction of a CAG trinucleotide. This isoform, designated Na(v)1.5c, is conserved in rat and encodes an additional glutamine residue that disrupts a putative CK2 phosphorylation site. In summary, novel isoforms of Na(v)1.8 and Na(v)1.5 are each generated by alternative splicing at CAG/CAG motifs, which result in the absence or presence of predicted glutamine residues within the interdomain cytoplasmic loop IDII/III. Mutations of sodium channels within this cytoplasmic loop have previously been demonstrated to alter electrophysiological properties and cause cardiac arrhythmias and epilepsy.
Amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) forms a transcriptionally active complex with the adaptor protein Fe65 and the histone acetyltransferase Tip60, but the mechanism of transcriptional activation that is mediated by APP and Fe65 remains unclear. APP is cleaved by gamma-secretase similar to Notch, whose intracellular domain activates transcription by interacting with nuclear transcription factors. To test whether the APP intracellular domain (AICD) functions analogously, we investigated how APP and Fe65 transactivate a Gal4 fusion protein of Tip60. Consistent with the Notch paradigm, we observe that gamma-cleavage of APP and nuclear translocation of Fe65 are required for transactivation. Surprisingly, however, we find that nuclear translocation of the AICD may be dispensable and that only membrane-tethered AICD (i.e. AICD coupled to a transmembrane region) and not free AICD (i.e. soluble AICD) is a potent transactivator of transcription. Membrane-tethered AICD recruits Fe65 and mediates the activation of bound Fe65 that is then released for nuclear translocation by gamma-cleavage together with the AICD. Our data suggest that transcriptional transactivation by APP and Notch may involve distinct mechanisms; whereas the Notch intracellular domain directly functions in the nucleus, the AICD acts indirectly by activating Fe65.
The Alcadeins (Alcs)/calsyntenins and the amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP) associate with each other in the brain by binding via their cytoplasmic domains to X11L (the X11-like protein). We previously reported that the formation of this APP-X11L-Alc tripartite complex suppresses the metabolic cleavages of APP. We show here that the metabolism of the Alcs markedly resembles that of APP. The Alcs are subjected to a primary cleavage event that releases their extracellular domain. Alcs then undergo a secondary presenilin-dependent gamma-cleavage that leads to the secretion of the amyloid beta-protein-like peptide and the liberation of an intracellular domain fragment (AlcICD). However, when Alc is in the tripartite complex, it escapes from these cleavages, as does APP. We also found that AlcICD suppressed the FE65-dependent gene transactivation activity of the APP intracellular domain fragment, probably because AlcICD competes with the APP intracellular domain fragment for binding to FE65. We propose that the Alcs and APP are coordinately metabolized in neurons and that their cleaved cytoplasmic fragments are reciprocally involved in the regulation of FE65-dependent gene transactivation. Any imbalance in the metabolism of Alcs and APP may influence the FE65-dependent gene transactivation, which together with increased secretion of amyloid beta-protein may contribute to neural disorders.


Structure-activity studies were performed on the alpha(1A)-adrenoceptor (AR) selective agonist N-[5-(1H-imidazol-4-yl)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-1-naphthalenyl]methanesulfonamide (4). Compounds were evaluated for binding activity at the alpha(1A), alpha(1b), alpha(1d), alpha(2a), and alpha(2B) subtypes. Functional activity in tissues containing the alpha(1A) (rabbit urethra), alpha(1B) (rat spleen), alpha(1D) (rat aorta), and alpha(2A) (rat prostatic vas deferens) was also evaluated. A dog in vivo model simultaneously measuring intraurethral pressure (IUP) and mean arterial pressure (MAP) was used to assess the uroselectivity of the compounds. Many of the compounds that were highly selective in vitro for the alpha(1A)-AR subtype were also more uroselective in vivo for increasing IUP over MAP than the nonselective alpha(1)-agonists phenylpropanolamine (PPA) (1) and ST-1059 (2, the active metabolite of midodrine), supporting the hypothesis that greater alpha(1A) selectivity would reduce cardiovascular side effects. However, the data also support a prominent role of the alpha(1A)-AR subtype in the control of MAP.
Structure-activity relationships were investigated on a novel series of tricyclic dihydropyridine-containing K(ATP) openers. This diverse group of analogues, comprising a variety of heterocyclic rings fused to the dihydropyridine nucleus, was designed to determine the influence on activity of hydrogen-bond-donating and -accepting groups and their stereochemical disposition. Compounds were evaluated for K(ATP) activity in guinea pig bladder cells using a fluorescence-based membrane potential assay and in a pig bladder strip assay. The inhibition of spontaneous bladder contractions in vitro was also examined for a subset of compounds. All compounds studied showed greater potency to inhibit spontaneous bladder contractions relative to their potencies to inhibit contractions elicited by electrical stimulation.
Structure-activity relationships were investigated on a novel series of sulfonyldihydropyridine-containing K(ATP) openers. Ring sizes, absolute stereochemistry, and aromatic substitution were evaluated for K(ATP) activity in guinea pig bladder cells using a fluorescence-based membrane potential assay and in a pig bladder strip assay. The inhibition of spontaneous bladder contractions in vitro was also examined for a select group of compounds. All compounds studied showed greater potency to inhibit spontaneous bladder contractions relative to their potencies to inhibit contractions elicited by electrical stimulation. In an anesthetized pig model of myogenic bladder overactivity, compound 14 and (-)-cromakalim 1 were found to inhibit spontaneous bladder contractions in vivo at plasma concentrations lower than those that affected hemodynamic parameters. Compound 14 showed approximately 5-fold greater selectivity than 1 in vivo and supports the concept that bladder-selective K(ATP) channel openers may have utility in the treatment of overactive bladder.
The opioid system has been implicated in mood disorders as well as in the mechanism of action of antidepressants. Since the opioid component in venlafaxine (VLX) is still a matter of discussion, we investigated the role of opioid receptors in the antidepressant-like effect of VLX in the forced swimming test in mice. The non-selective opiate antagonist naloxone at high dose (2 mg/kg, s.c.) antagonized the effect of VLX. In contrast, beta-funaltrexamine (40 mg/kg, s.c.), which preferentially blocks mu(1)/mu(2) opioid receptors, naloxonazine (35 mg/kg, s.c.), a selective mu(1) opioid antagonist, naltrindole (10 mg/kg, s.c.), a selective delta opioid antagonist, and Nor-binaltorphimine (10 mg/kg, s.c.), which selectively blocks kappa-opioid receptors, were all ineffective. Thus, although apparently mediated by the opioid system, the behavioural effect of VLX does not involve specific opioid receptors.
A major goal of neuroscience is to elucidate mechanisms of cortical information processing and storage. Previous work from our laboratory (Beggs and Plenz, 2003) revealed that propagation of local field potentials (LFPs) in cortical circuits could be described by the same equations that govern avalanches. Whereas modeling studies suggested that these &quot;neuronal avalanches&quot; were optimal for information transmission, it was not clear what role they could play in information storage. Work from numerous other laboratories has shown that cortical structures can generate reproducible spatiotemporal patterns of activity that could be used as a substrate for memory. Here, we show that although neuronal avalanches lasted only a few milliseconds, their spatiotemporal patterns were also stable and significantly repeatable even many hours later. To investigate these issues, we cultured coronal slices of rat cortex for 4 weeks on 60-channel microelectrode arrays and recorded spontaneous extracellular LFPs continuously for 10 hr. Using correlation-based clustering and a global contrast function, we found that each cortical culture spontaneously produced 4736 +/- 2769 (mean +/- SD) neuronal avalanches per hour that clustered into 30 +/- 14 statistically significant families of spatiotemporal patterns. In 10 hr of recording, over 98% of the mutual information shared by these avalanche patterns were retained. Additionally, jittering analysis revealed that the correlations between avalanches were temporally precise to within +/-4 msec. The long-term stability, diversity, and temporal precision of these avalanches indicate that they fulfill many of the requirements expected of a substrate for memory and suggest that they play a central role in both information transmission and storage within cortical networks.
Stimulant drugs of abuse have several effects on neural activity, including altering the excitability of dopamine neurons via the noradrenergic and glutamatergic systems. Thus, an interaction between noradrenergic and glutamatergic systems may play a role in drug-seeking behavior. Although many of the direct pharmacological effects of psychostimulants on dopamine neuron physiology are well established, the neurophysiological bases of drug-seeking behavior have yet to be fully elucidated. The present study measured short-term (3 d) and long-term (14 d) access to cocaine, by self-administration or passive exposure, and the regulation of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-mediated inhibition of dopamine cells in rat midbrain slices. The results indicated that alpha-adrenoreceptor modulation of the mGluR-mediated inhibition is selectively reduced in animals that self-administered cocaine for 3 d. This effect was not observed in slices from either yoked cocaine animals, which were given cocaine in an amount and pattern equal to that used for the self-administering animals, or saline control animals. However, after 14 d of cocaine, alpha-adrenoreceptor regulation of the mGluR-mediated inhibition was equally reduced in both self-administering and yoked cocaine animals relative to saline controls. The results suggest that alpha-adrenoreceptor regulation of the mGluR-mediated inhibition is an adaptive cellular mechanism involved in early cocaine self-administration that is distinct from a direct pharmacological effect of cocaine on dopamine neurons. The noradrenergic system could therefore serve to alter the reward value of stimuli that have significant effects on dopamine neuron firing pattern through mGluRs.
The release of the hormones oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (VP) into the circulation is dictated by the electrical activity of hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs). In the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), MNC neuronal activity is exquisitely sensitive to changes in input from inhibitory GABAergic synapses. To explore the hypothesis that efficacy at these synapses is dictated by the rate at which a given synapse is activated, we obtained whole-cell recordings from MNCs in postnatal day 21-27 male Sprague Dawley rat brain slices. IPSCs were elicited by electrically stimulating GABAergic projections from either the suprachiasmatic nucleus or putative interneuron populations immediately ventral to the fornix at 5, 10, 20, and 50 Hz. Short-term plasticity was observed at 88% of the synapses tested. Of this group, synaptic depression was observed in 58%, and synaptic facilitation was observed in 41%. Identification of cells using a combined electrophysiological and immunohistochemical approach revealed a strong correlation between cell phenotype and the nature of the plasticity. Short-term facilitation was observed preferentially in OT cells (86%), whereas short-term depression was predominant in VP neurons (69%). We next examined the effects of dopamine, which increases MNC excitability, on short-term plasticity. Activation of presynaptic D(4) receptors decreased the frequency of miniature IPSCs and prevented the development of synaptic depression at higher rates of activity. Synaptic facilitation, however, was unaffected by dopamine. These findings demonstrate that, by lowering GABA release probability, dopamine confers high-pass filtering properties to the majority of inhibitory synapses onto MNCs in PVN.
In the rhythmically active pyloric circuit of the spiny lobster, the pyloric dilator (PD) neurons are members of the pacemaker group of neurons that make inhibitory synapses onto the follower lateral pyloric (LP) neuron. The LP neuron, in turn, makes a depressing inhibitory synapse to the PD neurons, providing the sole inhibitory feedback from the pyloric network to its pacemakers. This study investigates the dynamic interaction between the pyloric cycle period, the two types of neurons, and the feedback synapse in biologically realistic conditions. When the rhythm period was changed, the membrane potential waveform of the LP neuron was affected with a consistent pattern. These changes in the LP neuron waveform directly affected the dynamics of the LP to PD synapse and caused the postsynaptic potential (PSP) in the PD neurons to both peak earlier in phase and become larger in amplitude. Using an artificial synapse implemented in dynamic clamp, we show that when the LP to PD PSP occurred early in phase, it acted to speed up the pyloric rhythm, and larger PSPs also strengthened this trend. Together, these results indicate that interactions between these two types of neurons can dynamically change in response to increases in the rhythm period, and this dynamic change provides a negative feedback to the pacemaker group that could work to stabilize the rhythm period.
Although the importance of dopamine (DA) for prefrontal cortical (PFC) cognitive functions is widely recognized, the nature of DA actions in the PFC remains controversial. A critical component in DA actions is its modulation of glutamate transmission, which can be different when specific receptors are activated. To obtain a clear picture of cellular mechanisms involved in these interactions, we studied the effects of DA-glutamate coactivation on pyramidal cell excitability in brain slices obtained from developmentally mature rats using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Bath application of NMDA, AMPA, and the D1 agonist SKF38393 induced concentration-dependent excitability increases, whereas bath application of the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole induced a concentration-dependent excitability decrease. The NMDA-mediated response was potentiated by SKF38393. This NMDA-D1 synergism required postsynaptic intracellular Ca2+ and protein kinase A (PKA) and was independent of membrane depolarization. On the other hand, the excitatory effects of both NMDA and AMPA were attenuated by a D2 agonist. Surprisingly, the D2-NMDA interaction was also blocked by the GABA(A) antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxin, suggesting that the inhibitory action of D2 receptors on NMDA-induced responses in the PFC may be mediated by GABAergic interneurons. In contrast, the D2-AMPA interaction involves inhibition of PKA and activation of phospholipase lipase C-IP3 and intracellular Ca2+ at a postsynaptic level. Thus, the modulatory actions of D1 and D2 receptors on PFC pyramidal cell excitability are mediated by multiple intracellular mechanisms and by activation of GABA(A) receptors, depending on the glutamate receptor subtypes involved.
In several hyperphagic models, including lactation, in which hypothalamic melanocortin signaling is reduced, a novel expression of NPY mRNA in the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) has been observed, suggesting that melanocortin signaling and the induced NPY in the DMH may constitute unique neurocircuitry in mediating energy balance. Using lactating rats as a model, the present study first showed that in the DMH abundant alpha-MSH and agouti-related protein fibers are in close apposition to NPY-positive cells. However, no NPY and MC4R (a melanocortin receptor) double-labeled neurons were observed. These data suggested that melanocortin input may synapse on presynaptic terminals that then synapse on DMH NPY cells. To study the function of DMH MC4Rs in energy balance, an MC3/4R-selective agonist, melanotan II (MTII), was injected bilaterally into the DMH. MTII injection significantly suppressed feeding induced by 24 hr fasting or suckling-induced hyperphagia. Furthermore, MTII treatment greatly attenuated suckling-induced NPY expression in the DMH. MTII treatment also stimulated uncoupling protein 1 activity in the brown adipose tissue of suckling female rats, indicative of increased sympathetic outflow. In summary, the present study demonstrated that the melanocortin system in the DMH not only plays an important role in inducing NPY expression in the DMH of lactating rats but also in regulating energy homeostasis, at least in part, by modulating appetite and energy expenditure.



Recreational Ecstasy/MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) users often take a variety of psychoactive drugs, but there is little empirical data on how these drug consumption patterns change with greater experience of Ecstasy. The aim of this study was to compare the polydrug usage patterns reported by non-Ecstasy users, novice Ecstasy users, moderate Ecstasy users, and heavy Ecstasy users. In a WWW study of 763 unpaid volunteers, 481 had never taken Ecstasy, whereas 282 reported they had taken it. The Ecstasy users comprised 109 novice users (1-9 occasions), 136 moderate Ecstasy users (10-99 occasions), and 36 heavy Ecstasy users (+100 occasions). Each participant also reported their experience with a range of other psychoactive drugs. The Ecstasy users reported significantly greater psychoactive drug usage than the non-Ecstasy users. The novice, moderate, and heavy Ecstasy users also differed significantly from each other in the use of cocaine, amphetamine, LSD, and psilocybin mushrooms, but not of alcohol, cannabis, or cigarettes/nicotine. Experienced Ecstasy users also took significantly more MDMA tablets on each occasion, and reported a higher maximum weekly intake. The increased use of Ecstasy is associated with more intensive patterns of Ecstasy/MDMA intake, and the greater use of illicit CNS stimulants and hallucinogens, but not of alcohol, nicotine, or cannabis. These results are discussed in the context of cross-tolerance and drug predisposition/preference.
Children with fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) may have impaired vision and various ocular abnormalities. All parts of the eye may be affected and anomalies such as microphthalmus, microcornea, Peters' anomaly, cataract, persistent hyperplastic primary hyaloid vitreous body, coloboma of the iris and choroid, retinal dysplasia and, most commonly, optic nerve hypoplasia and tortuosity of the retinal vessels, have been reported. The periocular facial features consist of short palpebral fissures (included in the criteria for diagnosis of FAS), telecanthus, epicanthus and blepharoptosis. Visual function may be reduced to a moderate or severe degree. Refractive errors and strabismus are common. Considering the high frequency of ocular pathology in FAS, an ophthalmological examination is helpful in making the diagnosis. The early detection of impaired vision and ocular abnormalities in affected children is important in the management of the disorder. In this article, the ophthalmological signs and symptoms in children with FAS are presented.


In ethological and behavioural toxicological studies, elaborate behavioural patterns shown by the animals under well-established experimental paradigms or naturalistic conditions are routinely observed and split into single behavioural items. Subsequently, these items are analysed in terms of their frequencies and/or durations. Behavioural observations are usually videotaped and scored by dedicated softwares, which collect the sequences of behavioural items together with frequencies and durations. So far, the Cox proportional hazards model, a method originally developed for the analysis of time-to-event data, has been employed for the analysis of the time-structure of behaviour, but its usefulness has been limited because of difficulties in including random effects in the model. Recent developments in mixed models for the analysis of time-to-event data may overcome this limitation and improve the analysis of behavioural patterns. Data from social interactions in mice on the effects of exposure to chlorpyrifos, a widely used organophosphorous pesticide, are presented to illustrate the use of these new statistical methods. Our results suggest that the study of behavioural sequences may highlight the role of the investigated conditions (treatments, genetic condition, social status) in setting behavioural organisations. In addition, the refinement of statistical methods by time-structured analysis provides more detailed information from an experimental data set, thus contributing to the reduction of the number of animals used in this field of the life sciences.
Improvement of primate facilities is potentially costly, and is constrained by health and safety considerations and by limited experience in smaller units. During the last decade, most units have progressed from two-tier, single housing on grid floors, but there are still opportunities for refinements to reduce contingent suffering. The methodology of housing rhesus monkeys loose in rooms without cages has been documented in a video presentation. The animals have defined health status, but routine room maintenance and animal handling encourage close staff contact, generating health and safety concerns. The management changes have resulted in less aggressive, more-cooperative animals that are less stressed by capture. There are more natural behaviours, together with decreased animal and staff stress, resulting in better experimental models. The cages remain cleaner, releasing staff to spend more time on positive reinforcement training. There is better use of available space, and experimental immunology studies have been included within the breeding colony. The project has demonstrated a way of providing a management system that results in major benefits to animal welfare, staff morale and to the quality of the scientific studies undertaken. The methodology is now being used in an experimental unit housing animals for neuroscience. Continuing challenges include some social unrest within groups, managing animal health and maintaining high levels of personnel safety.

A number of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels has recently been shown to mediate cutaneous thermosensitivity. Sensitivity to warm and cool stimuli has been demonstrated in both human and animal gastrointestinal tract; however, the molecular mechanisms that underlie this have not been determined. Vagal afferent neurons with cell bodies in the nodose ganglion are known to mediate nonnociceptive sensation from the upper gut. In this study, isolated cultured nodose ganglion from the mouse neurons showed changes in cytoplasmic-free Ca(2+) concentrations over a range of temperatures, as well as to icilin (a TRPM8 and TRPN1 agonist) and capsaicin (a TRPV1 agonist). RT-PCR was used to show the presence of six temperature-sensitive TRP channel transcripts (TRPV1-4, TRPN1, and TRPM8) in whole nodose ganglia. In addition, RT-PCR of single nodose cell bodies, which had been retrogradely labeled from the upper gut, detected transcripts for TRPV1, TRPV2, TRPV4, TRPN1, and TRPM8 in a proportion of cells. Immunohistochemical labeling detected TRPV1 and TRPV2 proteins in nodose ganglia. The presence of TRP channel transcripts and proteins was also detected in cells within several regions of the gastrointestinal tract. Our results reveal that TRP channels are present in subsets of vagal afferent neurons that project to the stomach and may confer temperature sensitivity on these cells.
We examined body fluid regulation by weanling (21-25 days) and adult (&gt;60 days) male rats that were offspring of dams fed chow containing either 0.1, 1, or 3% NaCl throughout gestation and lactation. Weanling rats were maintained on the test diets until postnatal day 30 and on standard 1% NaCl chow thereafter. Ad libitum water intake by weanlings was highest in those fed 3% NaCl and lowest in those fed 0.1% NaCl. Adult rats maintained on standard NaCl chow consumed similar amounts of water after overnight water deprivation or intravenous hypertonic NaCl (HS) infusion regardless of early NaCl condition. Moreover, baseline and HS-stimulated plasma Na(+) concentrations also were similar for the three groups. Nonetheless, adult rats in the early 3% NaCl group consumed more of 0.5 M NaCl after 10 days of dietary Na(+) deprivation than did rats in either the 1% or 0.1% NaCl group. Interestingly, whether NaCl was consumed in a concentrated solution in short-term, two-bottle tests after dietary Na(+) deprivation or in chow during ad libitum feeding, adult rats in the 3% NaCl group drank less water for each unit of NaCl consumed, whereas rats in the 0.1% NaCl group drank more water for each unit of NaCl consumed. Thus gestational and early postnatal dietary NaCl levels do not affect stimulated water intake or long-term body fluid regulation. Together with our previous studies, these results suggest that persistent changes in NaCl intake and in water intake associated with NaCl ingestion reflect short-term behavioral effects that may be attributable to differences in NaCl taste processing.

Familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy is a rare autosomal dominant disease, with clinical symptoms beginning in most kindreds within the third to seventh decades of life. The primary defect results from one of a number of mutations in the transthyretin (TTR) gene. Over 80 mutations in the TTR gene have been described. Most mutations give rise to adult onset progressive peripheral and autonomic neuropathy, due to amyloid deposition within the nerves, and often subclinical cardiac amyloid and vitreous deposits. We report here the clinical and molecular characterization of a rare TTR missense mutation discovered in a young woman from Macedonia, showing severe axonal sensory-motor polyneuropathy, restrictive cardiomyopathy and bilateral vitreous deposits. The transthyretin gene, analyzed by direct nucleotide sequencing, demonstrated a T to G transversion at nucleotide 183 in the exon 2 which is predicted to cause a heterozygous valine for phenylalanine substitution at codon 33 (TTR Phe33Val). This mutation has been previously reported only twice, without complete clinical descriptions.

The sexual quality of adult song is the result of genetic and epigenetic mechanisms shaping the neural song system throughout life. Genetic brain-intrinsic mechanisms determine the neuron pools that develop into forebrain song control areas independent of gonadal steroid hormones, androgens and estrogens. One fate of these neurons is the potential to express sex steroid receptors, such as androgen and estrogen receptors. Genetic brain-intrinsic mechanisms, too, determine the activity of hypothalamic-pituitary-gonad (HPG) axis, i.e., the working range and responsiveness of HPG axis to produce gonadal hormones. The epigenetic action of gonadal steroid hormones (androgens and estrogens) on determined vocal neurons is required to maintain and increase the pool of determined vocal neurons and to complete the connections of the vocal system, i.e., to make it function motorically. The subsequent influence of environmental information, including both external (socio-sexual and physical) and internal (body physiology) signals, specify the further neural phenotype of vocal areas either through acting on the HPG axis and differential release of gonadal hormones or through non-gonadal hormone systems, both of which have target neurons in the functional vocal system. Despite the clear evidence of hormone dependency of the development of both the adult song phenotype and song system phenotype, their causal relation is complex.
The song system of zebra finches (Taeniopygia gutatta) is highly sexually dimorphic. Only males sing, and the brain regions and muscles controlling song are much larger in males than in females. Development of the song system is highly sensitive to steroid hormones. However, unlike similar sexually dimorphic systems in other animal models, masculinization of song system structure and function is most likely not induced by testosterone secreted from the testes. Instead, sex-specific development of the neural song system appears to be regulated by factors intrinsic to the brain, probably by the expression of sex chromosome gene(s) that influence the levels of estradiol synthesized in the brain and/or the responses of brain tissue to estradiol. However, the existing data are complex and in some cases contradictory. More work is required to identify the critical genes and their relationships with steroid hormones.
Songbirds, much like humans, learn their vocal behavior, and must be able to hear both themselves and others to do so. Studies of the brain areas involved in singing and song learning could reveal the underlying neural mechanisms. Here we describe experiments that explore the properties of the songbird anterior forebrain pathway (AFP), a basal ganglia-forebrain circuit known to be critical for song learning and for adult modification of vocal output. First, neural recordings in anesthetized, juvenile birds show that auditory AFP neurons become selectively responsive to the song stimuli that are compared during sensorimotor learning. Individual AFP neurons develop tuning to the bird's own song (BOS), and in many cases to the tutor song as well, even when these stimuli are manipulated to be very different from each other. Such dual selectivity could be useful in the BOS-tutor song comparison critical to song learning. Second, simultaneous neural recordings from the AFP and its target nucleus in the song motor pathway in anesthetized adult birds reveal correlated activity that is preserved through multiple steps of the circuits for song, including the AFP. This suggests that the AFP contains highly functionally interconnected neurons, an architecture that can preserve information about the timing of firing of groups of neurons. Finally, in vitro studies show that recurrent synapses between neurons in the AFP outflow nucleus, which are expected to contribute importantly to AFP correlation, can undergo activity-dependent and timing-sensitive strengthening. This synaptic enhancement appears to be restricted to birds in the sensory critical and early sensorimotor phases of learning. Together, these studies show that the AFP contains cells that reflect learning of both BOS and tutor song, as well as developmentally regulated synaptic and circuit mechanisms well-suited to create temporally organized assemblies of such cells. Such experience-dependent sensorimotor assemblies are likely to be critical to the AFP's role in song learning. Moreover, studies of such mechanisms in this basal ganglia circuit specialized for song may shed light more generally on how basal ganglia circuits function in guiding motor learning using sensory feedback signals.
A central goal of neuroscience is to understand the cellular mechanisms enabling the cultural transmission of behaviors, such as speech and music. Birdsong is a rare non-human instance of a culturally transmitted vocal behavior. The songbird's brain provides a powerful system in which to study the cellular mechanisms underlying auditory-guided vocal learning. Identifying those mechanisms requires an analysis of synaptic function, because the synapse is the fundamental organizational unit of the neuronal networks that mediate behavior. Intracellular recordings provide a powerful method for simultaneously probing the activities of a single neuron and the synaptic networks in which that cell is embedded. This chapter details initial steps in the in vivo intracellular analysis of the synaptic connectivity of neurons important to singing and song learning. Our analysis is focused upon HVC and involves studies of interneurons as well as projection neurons of the two major output pathways of HVC. We test predictions derived from several models of how such learning may take place, including contributions from &quot;comparator&quot; and &quot;corollary discharge&quot; auditory feedback cancellation mechanisms. Our studies in anesthetized animals and brain slices provide insight into the synaptic properties of HVC that might be well suited for these mechanisms, although extrapolation to synaptic behavior in the awake, singing bird must be made with caution. We suggest that future work must extend the analysis of synaptic properties into the intact brain of the songbird, preferably as the bird learns to sing.
The anterior forebrain pathway (AFP) is a basal ganglia-dorsal forebrain circuit that is prominent specifically in birds that learn to sing. This circuit is interconnected with the song motor pathway, is active during song production, and contains neurons that are selective for the sound of the bird's own song, suggesting an important role for the AFP in vocal behavior. However, interruption of the AFP by lesions in adult birds has little overt effect on the production of learned song. In contrast, lesions in juvenile birds prevent the normal progression of song learning. Moreover, lesions in adults, while not disrupting production, can prevent experience-dependent plasticity of song. Such data implicate the AFP specifically in song learning and vocal plasticity. This chapter reviews some of the experimental evidence supporting a role for the AFP in these processes and discusses potential instructive and permissive functions of the AFP in vocal plasticity.
The sensorimotor neurons found in the song-system nuclei are responsive to the sounds of the bird's own song. This selectivity emerges during vocal learning and appears to follow the development of the bird's song vocalization in two ways: at each stage, the neurons are most selective for the bird's current vocalizations and this selectivity increases as the bird learns to produce a stable adult song. Also, because of their location in the sensori-vocal pathway and because their physiological properties are correlated with the motor program, it is postulated that these neurons play a crucial role in interpreting the auditory feedback during song to preserve a desirable vocal output. The neurons found in presynaptic auditory areas lack this selectivity for the bird's own song. Auditory neurons in the secondary auditory areas caudal nidopallium and caudal mesopallium show specific responses to familiar songs or behaviorally relevant songs. These auditory areas might therefore be involved in perceptual tasks. Neurons in the primary forebrain auditory area are selective for the spectrotemporal modulations that are common in song, yielding an efficient neural representation of those sounds. Neurons that are particularly selective for the tutor song at the end of the sensory period have not yet been described in any areas. Although these three levels of selectivity found in the primary auditory forebrain areas, the secondary auditory forebrain areas, and the song system suggest a form of hierarchical sensory processing, the functional connectivity between these areas and the mechanisms generating the specific selectivity for songs that are behaviorally relevant or crucial in song learning and production have yet to be revealed.
Understanding song perception and singing behavior in birds requires the study of auditory processing of complex sounds throughout the avian brain. We can divide the basics of auditory perception into two general processes: (1) encoding, the process whereby sound is transformed into neural activity and (2) decoding, the process whereby patterns of neural activity take on perceptual meaning and therefore guide behavioral responses to sounds. In birdsong research, most studies have focused on the decoding process: What are the responses of the specialized auditory neurons in the song control system? and What do they mean for the bird? Recently, new techniques addressing both encoding and decoding have been developed for use in songbirds. Here, we first describe some powerful methods for analyzing what acoustical aspects of complex sounds like songs are encoded by auditory processing neurons in songbird brain. These methods include the estimation and analysis of spectro-temporal receptive fields (STRFs) for auditory neurons. Then we discuss the decoding methods that have been used to understand how songbird neurons may discriminate among different songs and other sounds based on mean spike-count rates.
Birdsong is a complex learned motor behavior controlled by an interconnected network of vocal control nuclei that are present in both cerebral hemispheres. Unilateral lesions of song nuclei in the left or the right hemisphere result in different effects on song structure, suggesting that normal song output results from the activation of two parallel but functionally different motor pathways. Because each syringeal half is innervated primarily by ipsilateral motor structures and activity in both halves is tightly coordinated during singing, motor commands originating from both hemispheres must be tightly coordinated to produce the appropriate vocal output. This coordination occurs despite the absence of direct interhemispheric connections between song control nuclei. In this article, we discuss how motor commands in nucleus HVC, a key forebrain song control region, are coordinated by precisely timed inputs that act to synchronize premotor activity in both hemispheres. Synchronizing inputs are tightly linked to syllable and note onset, which suggests that bilaterally organized circuits in the midbrain or brainstem act in specifying higher-order song features, such as duration, order, and possibly even structure of individual song syllables. The challenge ahead lies in identifying the networks that generate the synchronizing timing inputs and to determine how these inputs specify the motor commands in HVC. Resolving these issues will help us gain a better understanding of how pattern-generating networks in the midbrain/brainstem interface with forebrain circuits to produce complex learned behaviors.
It has become increasingly clear that the standard nomenclature for many telencephalic and related brainstem structures of the avian brain is based on flawed once-held assumptions of homology to mammalian brain structures, greatly hindering functional comparisons between avian and mammalian brains. This has become especially problematic for those researchers studying the neurobiology of birdsong, the largest single group within the avian neuroscience community. To deal with the many communication problems this has caused among researchers specializing in different vertebrate classes, the Avian Brain Nomenclature Forum, held at Duke University from July 18-20, 2002, set out to develop a new terminology for the avian telencephalon and some allied brainstem cell groups. In one major step, the erroneous conception that the avian telencephalon consists mainly of a hypertrophied basal ganglia has been purged from the telencephalic terminology, and the actual parts of the basal ganglia and its brainstem afferent cell groups have been given new names to reflect their now-evident homologies. The telencephalic regions that were incorrectly named to reflect presumed homology to mammalian basal ganglia have been renamed as parts of the pallium. The prefixes used for the new names for the pallial subdivisions have retained most established abbreviations, in an effort to maintain continuity with the pre-existing nomenclature. Here we present a brief synopsis of the inaccuracies in the old nomenclature, a summary of the nomenclature changes, and details of changes for specific songbird vocal and auditory nuclei. We believe this new terminology will promote more accurate understanding of the broader neurobiological implications of song control mechanisms and facilitate the productive exchange of information between researchers studying avian and mammalian systems.
The biology of songbirds poses fundamental questions about the interplay between gene, brain, and behavior. New tools of genomic analysis will be invaluable in pursuing answers to these questions. This review begins with a summary of the broad properties of the songbird genome and how songbird brain gene expression has been measured in past studies. Four key problems in songbird biology are then considered from a genomics perspective: What role does differential gene expression play in the development, maintenance, and functional organization of the song control circuit? Does gene regulation set boundaries on the process of juvenile song learning? What is the purpose of song-induced gene activity in the adult brain? How does the genome underlie the profound sexual differentiation of the song control circuit? Finally, the range of genomic technologies currently or soon to be available to songbird researchers is briefly reviewed. These technologies include online databases of expressed genes (&quot;expressed sequence tags&quot; or ESTs); a complete library of the zebra finch genome maintained as a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library; DNA microarrays for simultaneous measurement of many genes in a single experiment; and techniques for gene manipulation in the organism. Collectively, these questions and techniques define the field of songbird neurogenomics.
We have found that developmental changes through the adolescent period in the rat cerebral cortex provide parallels to those seen in the human cortex. Like humans, the rat cerebral white matter increases during this time due to increases in the number of axons that become myelinated even while the total number of axons decreases. We have preliminary evidence that estrogen decreases the rate of myelination, which results in a sex difference in adult rats. Another parallel to the human cortex is the nonlinear changes in the size of the cortex. We have found that in some cortical regions, female rats show decreases in cortical volume and number of neurons across the time of puberty, and removal of the ovaries stops these decreases. The rat cortex may serve as a model for the cellular changes underlying the volume changes seen in adolescent humans.
The deficits of executive control of emotions and impulses of adult BD implicate involvement of a ventral prefrontal cortex (VPFC) neural system that subserves these functions that include the VPFC, as well as its subcortical connection sites of amygdala, striatum, and thalamus. Differences in the timing of major developmental changes in the structures within this neural system suggest that abnormalities in particular components of this neural system may emerge during critical developmental epochs during the course of the illness. Our recent neuroimaging data suggest that abnormalities in the subcortical components of VPFC neural systems may be evident by early adolescence in BD, whereas VPFC deficits progress over the course of adolescence and may be difficult to detect prior to late adolescence or early adulthood. This potential neurodevelopmental model for BD could have important implications for the recognition of early signs of the disorder and for age-specific treatment strategies.
Science education researchers have suggested that neuroscientists can play an important role in science education programs for adolescents by creating &quot;minds-on&quot; teaching and learning modules for scientists and teachers to use in classrooms. Effective educational partnerships between teachers and visiting scientists not only ignite student interest but also provide opportunities for scientist and teacher professional development. The aim of the present teaching module was threefold: (1) to introduce adolescents to the acute neurochemical effects of psychomotor stimulant drugs and their analysis using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), (2) to spur maturation of analytical reasoning skills among adolescents, and (3) to spark enthusiasm for science education.
This chapter introduces three papers that summarize research findings in clinical and basic neuroscience. They integrate prior research on clinical aspects of developmental psychopathology, basic research on brain development in nonhuman primates, and neuroimaging research on both normal and abnormal human development. From the clinical perspective these papers call attention to the unique relationship between adolescence and psychopathology. From the basic science perspective they call attention to the sequence of events that culminates in a fully mature central nervous system.
Impulsive choice, one aspect of impulsivity, is characterized by an abnormally high preference for small, immediate rewards over larger delayed rewards, and can be a feature of adolescence, but also attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), addiction, and other neuropsychiatric disorders. Both the serotonin and dopamine neuromodulator systems are implicated in impulsivity; manipulations of these systems affect animal models of impulsive choice, though these effects may depend on the receptor subtype and whether or not the reward is signaled. These systems project to limbic cortical and striatal structures shown to be abnormal in animal models of ADHD. Damage to the nucleus accumbens core (AcbC) causes rats to exhibit impulsive choice. These rats are also hyperactive, but are unimpaired in tests of visuospatial attention; they may therefore represent an animal model of the hyperactive-impulsive subtype of ADHD. Lesions to the anterior cingulate or medial prefrontal cortex, two afferents to the AcbC, do not induce impulsive choice, but lesions of the basolateral amygdala do, while lesions to the orbitofrontal cortex have had opposite effects in different tasks measuring impulsive choice. In theory, impulsive choice may emerge as a result of abnormal processing of the magnitude of rewards, or as a result of a deficit in the effects of delayed reinforcement. Recent evidence suggests that AcbC-lesioned rats perceive reward magnitude normally, but exhibit a selective deficit in learning instrumental responses using delayed reinforcement, suggesting that the AcbC is a reinforcement learning system that mediates the effects of delayed rewards.
Risk taking and novelty seeking are hallmarks of typical adolescent behavior. Adolescents seek new experiences and higher levels of rewarding stimulation, and often engage in risky behaviors, without considering future outcomes or consequences. These behaviors can have adaptive benefits with regard to the development of independence and survival without parental protection, but also render the adolescent more vulnerable to harm. Indeed, the risk of injury or death is higher during the adolescent period than in childhood or adulthood, and the incidence of depression, anxiety, drug use and addiction, and eating disorders increases. Brain pathways that play a key role in emotional regulation and cognitive function undergo distinct maturational changes during this transition period. It is clear that adolescents think and act differently from adults, yet relatively little is known about the precise mechanisms underlying neural, behavioral, and cognitive events during this period. Increased investigation of these dynamic alterations, particularly in prefrontal and related corticolimbic circuitry, may aid this understanding. Moreover, the investigation of mammalian animal models of adolescence-such as those examining impulsivity, reward sensitivity, and decision making-may also provide new opportunities for addressing the problem of adolescent vulnerability.
This article introduces and summarizes the goals of the symposium. It also provides an overview of a conceptual framework for understanding adolescence, which emphasizes how the very nature of this developmental transition requires an interdisciplinary approach-one that focuses on brain/behavior/social-context interactions during this important maturational period. More specifically it describes a set of neurobehavioral changes that appear to be linked to pubertal development, which appear to have a significant effect on motivation and emotion, and considers these puberty-specific changes in affect in relation to a much larger set of developmental changes in adolescence. This framework is used to argue for the need for a transdisciplinary dialogue that brings together work in several areas of neuroscience (including animal models) and normal development with clinical and social policy research aimed at early intervention and prevention strategies.
Although dietary caloric restriction (CR) can retard aging in laboratory rats and mice, it is unclear whether CR can exert similar effects in long-lived species, such as primates. Therefore, we tested the effect of CR on plasma levels of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), a reliable endocrine marker of aging. The study included six young (approximately 10 years) and ten old (approximately 25 years) male rhesus macaques, approximately half of the animals in each age group having undergone &gt;4 years of 30% CR. Hourly blood samples were collected remotely for 24 hours, through a vascular catheter, and assayed for DHEAS and cortisol. Both of these adrenal steroids showed a pronounced diurnal plasma pattern, with peaks occurring in late morning, but only DHEAS showed an aging-related decline. More importantly, there was no significant difference in plasma DHEAS concentrations between the CR animals and age-matched controls. These data fail to support the hypothesis that CR can attenuate the aging-related decline in plasma DHEAS concentrations, at least not when initiated after puberty.
The virus, herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV1), when present in brain, acts together with the type 4 allele of the APOE gene, a known susceptibility factor in Alzheimer disease (AD), to confer a strong risk of AD; in carriers of the other two main alleles of the gene, the virus does not confer a risk. It also has been shown that the outcome of infection in the case of five diseases known to be caused by viruses is determined by APOE. It is hoped that the discovery of the involvement of HSV1 in AD will lead to future antiviral therapy and possibly to immunization against the virus in infancy.
The nucleus of the solitary tract (nTS) is topographically organized with respect to the distribution of afferent sensory innervation and efferent projection patterns. Evidence suggests that the cells within the nTS, including medullary catecholaminergic (CA) neurons, are functionally diverse and that during peripheral inflammation they are recruited in a topographically organized manner that reflects their associations with afferent sensory systems. It is therefore feasible that topographically organized subdivisions of the nTS and the medullary CA neurons contained within them are differentially involved in signaling systemic (e.g., derived from blood-borne signals) versus visceral sensory information (e.g., derived from afferent sensory signals within the vagus nerve) during peripheral inflammation. The purpose of this review is to summarize (1) the topographic organization of afferent sensory input from vagal and systemic signaling pathways to the nTS in relation to medullary CA neurons and (2) the functional evidence to support the differential involvement of topographically organized subpopulations of CA and non-CA neurons in relaying signals of visceral versus systemic sensory information.
Ataxia telangiectasia (A-T) is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder that arises because of mutations in the ATM gene. The 5762ins137 A--&gt;G point mutation activates a cryptic splice donor site resulting in a 137 bp intronic insert being aberrantly spliced into the ATM transcript. However, normal ATM transcript also is produced from this affected allele, albeit at significantly reduced levels. An exceptionally mild A-T phenotype occurs as a result of homozygosity for the 5762ins137 mutation because of relative preservation of ATM protein expression/kinase activity.
A new restless legs syndrome locus on chromosome 14 recently has been reported in one family of Italian origin. Our study aimed to replicate this finding and determine the importance of this locus in the French Canadian population. Markers spanning the region were genotyped in 14 large families and linkage assessed using two-point and multipoint logarithm of odds scores. Possible linkage to this locus was found in one of our kindreds providing support for the existence of this locus and indicating that this locus may be responsible for a small fraction of French Canadian restless legs syndrome.
After stroke, the pattern of brain activation during performance of a motor task is related to outcome. Here, we compare this relationship in the early (10-14 days) and late (at least 3 months) phases after first-ever stroke. A negative linear relationship between task-related brain activation, as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging, and outcome is seen in several identical primary and nonprimary motor regions that is independent of time after stroke. In other words, patients with poorer outcome scores recruit more widely within motor-related regions in both the early or late poststroke phase. However, in contralesional middle intraparietal sulcus, contralesional cerebellum, and ipsilesional rostral premotor cortex, this relationship is seen only in the early poststroke phase. Thus, patients with poorer outcome scores recruit these areas in only the early and not the late poststroke phase. These results suggest that there are differences in the cerebral implementation of action in patients with poor outcome that are dependent on the time since stroke. Thus, in those patients with the most to gain from rehabilitation, different therapeutic approaches may be required at different stages after stroke.
Effects of a combination of caffeine and glucose were assessed in two double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over studies during extended performance of cognitively demanding tasks. In the first study, 30 participants received two drinks containing carbohydrate and caffeine (68 g/38 mg; 68 g/46 mg, respectively) and a placebo drink, in counter-balanced order, on separate days. In the second study 26 participants received a drink containing 60 g of carbohydrate and 33 mg of caffeine and a placebo drink. In both studies, participants completed a 10-min battery of tasks comprising 2-min versions of Serial 3s and Serial 7s subtraction tasks and a 5-min version of the Rapid Visual Information Processing task (RVIP), plus a rating of 'mental fatigue', once before the drink and six times in succession commencing 10 min after its consumption. In comparison to placebo, all three active drinks improved the accuracy of RVIP performance and both the drink with the higher level of caffeine in first study and the active drink in the second study resulted in lower ratings of mental fatigue. These results indicate that a combination of caffeine and glucose can ameliorate deficits in cognitive performance and subjective fatigue during extended periods of cognitive demand.
This paper presents a series of 12 cases of chronic tinnitus patients who participated in 4 weeks of auditory discrimination training either close to or far removed from the tinnitus frequency. The training was based on the assumption that tinnitus is related to a shift of the representation of the tinnitus frequency in auditory cortex outside of the normal tonotopic map and that training close to but not removed from the tinnitus frequency should result in a reduction in the severity of the tinnitus. Tinnitus severity was measured 4 times per day during the entire treatment and other tinnitus-related variables were assessed 1 week before and 1 month posttreatment. The comparison of the training close to as compared to remote from the tinnitus frequency did not yield a statistically significant difference. However, a post hoc analysis revealed that patients who engaged in regular training as compared to those who practiced irregularly were significantly more successful in reducing tinnitus severity independent of the trained frequencies. Treatment success was best predicted by days of training and general activity levels. The data suggest that auditory discrimination training shows a dose response effect irrespective of training location and that treatment success is also related to psychological variables. For more substantial changes in multiple variables an extended training period with additional consideration of emotional variables would be necessary. In addition, controls for nonspecific training effects need to be implemented.


Burning mouth syndrome is a debilitating disorder involving oral pain that may have at least 4 underlying causes. Although several treatments have been proposed, none seems to be universally effective. We report the case of a 67-year-old woman with unremitting oral burning that is increased with the application of anesthetic agents. Initial treatments with nortriptyline hydrochloride and sertraline hydrochloride were contraindicated because of adverse effects, but the administration of gabapentin significantly reduced oral burning. The present case illustrates the effectiveness of gabapentin as a treatment of burning mouth syndrome.




Much work has been done in the past 10 years to research and document best practices in stroke care along the continuum of care. The challenge now for stroke care practitioners is to turn those best practices into reality in a clinical setting. In spite of a general understanding and acceptance of the benefits to the patient, an organization's culture and limited access to resources can frustrate our best efforts to introduce best practices at the bedside. Trillium Health Centre, a community hospital serving a diverse community of more than one million people, has turned best practice stroke care guidelines into reality by developing a 14-bed comprehensive stroke unit. This innovative approach to care uses specialized stroke teams, an interdisciplinary approach to care, and a single unit where the patient remains in the same bed throughout the acute and rehabilitation stages of care. Commitment to the new delivery model by formal leaders, informal leaders, and front-line staff and a supportive organizational structure contributed to an expedited and successful implementation. All changes were implemented without an increase in the overall resources assigned to the unit. Early results show that the average length of stay is shorter than the national standard and that provider and patient satisfaction have improved.
Psychoneuroimmunology (PNI) emerged in the neurosciences in the late 1970s to early 1980s and has extended to influence the fields of psychology, psychiatry, endocrinology, physiology, and the biomedical research community. This review documents the journey of PNI from the early 1980s to the present. Today, we recognize that the highly complex immune system interacts with an equally complex nervous system in a bidirectional manner. Evolutionarily old signals continue to play a role in these communications, as do mechanisms for protection of the host. The disparity between physical and psychological stressors is only an illusion. Host defense mechanisms respond in adaptive and meaningful ways to both. The present review will describe a new way of thinking about evolutionarily old molecules, heat shock proteins, adding to a body of evidence suggesting that activation of the acute stress response is a double-edged sword that can both benefit and derail optimal immunity.
Many recent studies have examined the neural basis of category learning. Behavioral neuroscience results suggest that both the prefrontal cortex and the basal ganglia play important category-learning roles; neurons that develop category-specific firing properties are found in both regions, and lesions to both areas cause category-learning deficits. Similar studies indicate that the inferotemporal cortex does not mediate the learning of new categories. The cognitive neuroscience literature on category learning appears contradictory until the results are partitioned according to the type of category-learning task that was used. Three major tasks can be identified: rule based, information-integration, and prototype-distortion. Recent results are consistent with the hypotheses that (a) learning in rule-based tasks requires working memory and executive attention and is mediated by frontal-striatal circuits, (b) learning in information-integration tasks requires procedural memory and is mediated primarily within the basal ganglia, and (c) learning in prototype-distortion tasks depends on multiple memory systems, including the perceptual representation system.
Empathy accounts for the naturally occurring subjective experience of similarity between the feelings expressed by self and others without loosing sight of whose feelings belong to whom. Empathy involves not only the affective experience of the other person's actual or inferred emotional state but also some minimal recognition and understanding of another's emotional state. In light of multiple levels of analysis ranging from developmental psychology, social psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and clinical neuropsychology, this article proposes a model of empathy that involves parallel and distributed processing in a number of dissociable computational mechanisms. Shared neural representations, self-awareness, mental flexibility, and emotion regulation constitute the basic macrocomponents of empathy, which are underpinned by specific neural systems. This functional model may be used to make specific predictions about the various empathy deficits that can be encountered in different forms of social and neurological disorders.
Mice from which the olfactory marker protein (OMP) gene has been deleted demonstrate a number of neurophysiologic and behavioral defects that suggest OMP is an important component in olfactory signal transduction and is critically involved in odor processing. Recently, the potential pleiotropic effects of gene deletion were addressed by adenoviral vector-mediated rescue of the neurophysiologic defects, in vivo. As a complement to this study, the authors used a recombinant adenoviral vector to transiently introduce OMP into olfactory sensory neurons of adult OMP-null mice and, using psychophysical methods, demonstrated the resulting reacquisition of behavioral function subsequent to gene replacement. The rescue of the OMP-null behavioral phenotype further supports the hypothesis that OMP is an important component in olfactory signal amplification and/or transduction processing.
In behavioral tests, rats performed learned escape responses to thermal stimulation of the paws by 44.0. 47.0. or 0.3 degrees C. Licking, guarding, and jumping reflexes were evaluated at these temperatures. The frequency, latency, and duration of escape and reflex responses were compared and were related to hind-paw skin temperatures measured during stimulation of awake and anesthetized rats. The duration and latency of escape from heat were appropriately related to stimulus intensity. Escape occurred reliably for each intensity. Reflexes occurred unreliably and at long latency to 44.0 or 0.3 degrees C and were not appropriately related to heat intensity. The reflexes were relatively insensitive to thermal nociceptive stimulation other than heating of the skin at a high rate.
The authors measured the effects of centrally infused peptides on social approach behaviors in goldfish (Carassius auratus), a social teleost. Vasotocin (VT) inhibited approach responses toward the visual stimuli of conspecifics in the absence of aggressive or sexual olfactory contextual cues in males, and a V1 receptor antagonist stimulated such responses, at least in males that were not highly social in baseline conditions, as did isotocin (IT). In the absence of social stimuli, VT did not affect activity, therefore indicating that the inhibition was not the result of nonspecific effects on arousal or motor functioning. These experiments indicate that VT and IT induce opposite effects on social approach responses in male goldfish and that endogenous VT, at least, is associated with levels of sociality.
To examine whether the hippocampus is required for memory for unique experiences independent of their spatial or temporal context, the authors devised a novel task that requires rats to remember odor-reward associations formed within a single training trial. Unlike previous tests of 1-trial memory, in this task new associations with otherwise familiar stimuli must be formed, and accurate judgments cannot be based on relative familiarity or recency of the stimuli. The authors show that intact rats performed well on this novel test of event memory. Furthermore, rats with lesions of the hippocampus showed no impairments, even over long retention intervals. These data suggest that the hippocampus is not required for event-specific stimulus-reward associations and that other brain structures mediate this aspect of episodic memory.
The role of the claustrum in Pavlovian heart rate (HR) conditioning was studied in the rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) by (a) mapping claustral projections to the prefrontal cortex (PFC), (b) recording claustral single-unit discharge to sensory stimulation and conditioning stimuli during HR conditioning, and (c) assessing the effects of claustral damage on HR conditioning. Contralateral and ipsilateral claustral projections to the PFC were found. Claustral cells responded to nonsignal stimulation with increased discharge and also showed conditioned stimulus-evoked increases in discharge during Pavlovian HR conditioning. Moreover, claustral lesions diminished the magnitude of the HR-conditioned response without affecting the cardiac-orienting response to the conditioned stimulus or the cardiac-unconditioning response to the unconditioned stimulus, suggesting a role for the claustrum in associative learning.
These studies investigated the circadian effects of light and gamma aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA) receptor activation in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the diurnal unstriped Nile grass rat (Arvicanthis niloticus). Microinjection of the GABAA agonist muscimol into the SCN during the day produced phase shifts that were opposite in direction to those previously reported in nocturnal rodents. In addition, light had no significant effect on the magnitude of muscimol-induced phase delays during the daytime. Injection of muscimol during the night, however, significantly inhibited light-induced phase delays and advances in a manner similar to that previously reported in nocturnal rodents. Therefore, the circadian effects of GABAA receptor activation are similar in diurnal and nocturnal species during the night but differ significantly during the day.
A study was performed involving phonological priming and tip-of-the-tongue states (TOTs) in which participants took either 200 mg of caffeine or placebo. Results show a clear positive priming effect produced for the caffeine group when primed with phonologically related words. When primed with unrelated words, the caffeine subgroup produced a significant increase in the number of TOTs. This contrasting effect provides evidence that the positive priming of caffeine was not a result of caffeine's well-known alertness effects. For placebo, a significant negative effect occurred with the related-word priming condition. The results support the novel hypothesis that the blocking of A, adenosine receptors by caffeine induces an increased short-term plasticity effect within the phonological retrieval system.
FoxO (forkhead box O; forkhead members of the O class) are transcription factors that function under the control of insulin/insulin-like signalling. FoxO factors have been associated with a multitude of biological processes, including cell-cycle, cell death, DNA repair, metabolism and protection from oxidative stress. Central to the regulation of FoxO factors is a shuttling system, which confines FoxO factors to either the nucleus or the cytosol. Shuttling of FoxO requires protein phosphorylation within several domains, and association with 14-3-3 proteins and the nuclear transport machinery. Description of the FoxO-shuttling mechanism contributes to the understanding of FoxO function in relation to signalling and gene regulation.
A broad repertory of G-protein-coupled receptors shows effective coupling with the haematopoietic G16 protein. In the present study, individual residues along the C-terminal alpha5 helix of Galpha16 were examined for their contributions in defining receptor-coupling specificity. Residues that are relatively conserved within, but diverse between, the subfamilies of cloned Galpha subunits were mutated into the corresponding Galpha(z) residues. Six G(i)-linked receptors with different coupling efficiencies to Galpha16 were examined for their ability to utilize the various Galpha16 mutants to mediate agonist-induced inositol phosphate accumulation and Ca2+ mobilization. Co-operative enhancements of receptor coupling were observed with chimaeras harbouring multiple mutations at Glu350, Lys357 and Leu364 of Galpha16. Mutation of Leu364 into isoleucine appeared to be more efficient in enhancing receptor recognition compared with mutations at the other two sites. Mutation of a stretch of six consecutive residues (362-367) lying towards the end of the alpha5 helix was found to broaden significantly the receptor-coupling profile of Galpha16, and the effect was mediated partly through interactions with the beta2-beta3 loop. These results suggested that a stretch of six distinctive residues at the alpha5 helix of Galpha16 is particularly important, whereas other discrete residues spreading along the alpha5 helix function co-operatively for determining the specificity of receptor recognition.
The rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) is one of the most widely used fish species in aquaculture and physiological research. In the present paper, we report the first cloning, 3D (three-dimensional) modelling, pharmacological characterization and tissue distribution of two melanocortin (MC) receptors in rainbow trout. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that these receptors are orthologues of the human MC4 and MC5 receptors. We created 3D molecular models of these rainbow trout receptors and their human counterparts. These models suggest greater divergence between the two human receptors than between their rainbow trout counterparts. The pharmacological analyses demonstrated that ACTH (adrenocorticotropic hormone) had surprisingly high affinity for the rainbow trout MC4 and MC5 receptors, whereas alpha-, beta- and gamma-MSH (melanocyte-stimulating hormone) had lower affinity. In second-messenger studies, the cyclic MSH analogues MTII and SHU9119 acted as potent agonist and antagonist respectively at the rainbow trout MC4 receptor, indicating that these ligands are suitable for physiological studies in rainbow trout. Interestingly, we found that the rainbow trout MC4 receptor has a natural high-affinity binding site for zinc ions (0.5 microM) indicating that zinc may play an evolutionary conserved role at this receptor. Reverse transcription PCR indicates that the rainbow trout receptors are expressed both in peripheral tissues and in the central nervous system, including the telencephalon, optic tectum and hypothalamus. Overall, this analysis indicates that the rainbow trout MC4 and MC5 receptors have more in common than their mammalian counterparts, which may suggest that these two receptors have a closer evolutionary relationship than the other MC receptor subtypes.
5-HT3 (5-hydroxytryptamine type 3) receptors are cation-selective ion channels of the Cys-loop transmitter-gated ion channel superfamily. Two 5-HT3 receptor subunits, 5-HT3A and 5-HT3B, have been characterized in detail, although additional putative 5-HT3 subunit genes (HTR3C, HTR3D and HTR3E) have recently been reported. 5-HT3 receptors function as homopentameric assemblies of the 5-HT3 subunit, or heteropentamers of 5-HT3A and 5-HT3B subunits of unknown stoichiometry. The single-channel conductances of human recombinant homomeric and heteromeric 5-HT3 receptors are markedly different, being &lt;1 and approx. 16 pS respectively. Paradoxically, from the results of studies performed on the closely related nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, the channel-lining M2 domain of the 5-HT3A subunit is predicted to enhance cation conduction, whereas that of the 5-HT3B subunit would not. The present study describes a novel determinant of single-channel conductance, out with the M2 domain, which accounts for this anomaly. Utilizing a panel of chimaeric 5-HT3A and 5-HT3B subunits, a profound determinant of single-channel conductance was traced to a putative amphipathic helix (the 'HA stretch') within the large cytoplasmic loop of the receptor. Replacement of three arginine residues (R432, R436 and R440) unique to the HA stretch of the 5-HT3A subunit with the aligned residues (Q395, D399 and A403) of the 5-HT3B subunit increased the single-channel conductance 28-fold. Significantly, from ultrastructural studies of the Torpedo nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, the key residues may be components of narrow openings within the inner vestibule of the channel, located in the cytoplasm, which contribute to the permeation pathway. Our findings indicate an important and hitherto unappreciated function for the HA stretch in the Cys-loop family of transmitter-gated ion channels.
Ligand-gated ion channels function as rapid signal transducers, converting chemical signals (in the form of neurotransmitters) into electrical signals in the postsynaptic neuron. This is achieved by the recognition of neurotransmitter at its specific-binding sites, which then triggers the opening of an ion channel ('gating'). For this to occur rapidly (&lt; 1 ms), there must be an efficient coupling between the agonist-binding site and the gate, located more than 30 angstroms (1 angstroms = 0.1 nm) away. Whereas a great deal of progress has been made in elucidating the structure and function of both the agonist-binding site and the ion permeation pathway in ligand-gated ion channels, our knowledge of the coupling mechanism between these domains has been limited. In this review, we summarize recent studies of the agonist-binding site and the ion channel in the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor, and discuss those structural elements that may mediate coupling between them. We will also consider some possible molecular mechanisms of receptor activation.
The Cys-loop receptors constitute an important superfamily of LGICs (ligand-gated ion channels) comprising receptors for acetylcholine, 5-HT3 (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT3 receptors), glycine and GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid; GABAA receptors). A vast knowledge of the structure of the Cys-loop superfamily and its impact on channel function have been accrued over the last few years, leading to exciting new proposals on how ion channels open and close in response to agonist binding. Channel opening is initiated by the extracellular association of agonists to discrete binding pockets, leading to dramatic conformational changes, culminating in the opening of a central ion pore. The importance of channel structure is exemplified in the allosteric modulation of channel function by the binding of other molecules to distinct sites on the channel, which exerts an additional level of control on their function. The subsequent conformational changes (gating) lead to channel opening and ion transport. Following channel pore opening, ion selectivity is determined by receptor structure in, and around, the ion pore. As a final level of control, cytoplasmic determinants control the magnitude (conductance) of ion flow into the cell. Thus the Cys-loop receptors are complex molecular motors, with moving parts, which can transduce extracellular signals across the plasma membrane. Once the full mechanical motions involved are understood, it may be possible to design sophisticated therapeutic agents to modulate their activity, or at least be able to throw a molecular spanner into the works!

In fertilized mouse eggs, de novo transcription of embryonic genes is first observed during the S phase of the one-cell stage. This transcription, however, is mostly limited to the male pronucleus and possibly uncoupled from translation, making the functional meaning obscure. We found that one-cell mouse embryos respond to the osmotic shock of in vitro isolation with migration of HSF1, the canonical stress activator of mammalian heat shock genes, to pronuclei and by transient transcription of the hsp70.1, but not hsp70.3 and hsp90, heat shock genes. Isolated growing dictyate oocytes also display a nuclear HSF1 localization, but, in contrast with embryos, they transcribe both hsp70.1 and hsp70.3 genes only after heat shock. Intranuclear injection of double-stranded oligodeoxyribonucleotides containing HSE, GAGA box or GC box consensus sequences, and antibodies raised to transcription factors HSF1, HSF2, Drosophila melanogaster GAGA factor, or Sp1 demonstrated that hsp70.1 transcription depends on HSF1 in both oocytes and embryos and that Sp1 is dispensable in oocytes and inhibitory in the embryos. Hsp70.1 thus represents the first endogenous gene so far identified to be physiologically activated and tightly regulated after fertilization in mammals.
Intracranial germinomas arising primarily in the midbrain are extremely rare and only one case has been reported in the literature. A 15-year-old boy presented with headache, diplopia, unsteadiness and personality changes. Brain MRI showed a heterogeneous lesion in the midbrain. The pineal body region was free. The preoperative diagnosis included brain-stem glioma, metastasis and lymphoma. Stereotactic biopsy was permitted in order to take a specimen and the diagnosis of germinoma was established. The patient responded well to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Germinoma should be included in the differential diagnosis of midbrain lesions. Preoperative diagnosis is difficult and biopsy is still needed for such lesions.
Wrapping or coating of ruptured cerebral aneurysms was an acceptable method of surgical treatment until the 1980s. Occasionally, patients still present with a re-bleed. Management of these patients can be challenging. The author describes his experience of surgically treating ruptured aneurysms that have been previously wrapped. Technical issues in the surgical treatment are discussed with three illustrative cases of aneurysms at different locations encountered from 1999 to 2003. Despite operative difficulties satisfactory surgical results can be accomplished in the majority of these cases.
Two rare cases of akinetic mutism induced by aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage are reported. The literature is reviewed, the possible pathophysiological mechanism of akinetic mutism is considered and the association between these two conditions is explored with an attempt to address the roles of medical treatment and surgery and to discuss prognosis.
An audit was performed to describe the current training conditions of senior house officers in neurosurgery in the UK and Eire. A postal questionnaire was sent to all neurosurgery senior house officers in a 6-month training period between February and August 2003. The questionnaire covered most aspects of working pattern, training and job satisfaction by the end of the 6-month post. The results from the audit showed that there are deficiencies in certain areas of the current system being employed for senior house officer training. Improvements to this training system in line with the establishment of a generic neurosciences training programme will benefit future surgical trainees.
1. Signaling networks involving different receptor systems allow extracellular signals to be integrated and transformed into various biological activities. In this report, we studied the activity of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) subgroup of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), in response to stimulation by G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and co-activation with epithermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). 2. Stimulation of exogenous GPCRs in Cos-7 cells induced JNK activation of different magnitudes depending on their G-protein coupling specificities (G(q)&gt;G(i)&gt;G(s)), and a moderate JNK activation was linked to stimulation of endogenous EGFR by EGF. 3. Co-stimulation with GPCR agonists and EGF resulted in differential augmentation of JNK activities, with G(i)-coupled receptors associated with a synergistic JNK activation upon co-stimulation with EGF, while G(q)- and G(s)-coupled receptors were incapable of triggering this effect. 4. This G(i)/EGF-induced synergistic JNK activation was inhibited by pertussis toxin and AG1478, and may involve Src family tyrosine kinases, PI3 K, Ca(2+)/calmodulin and small GTPases as important intermediates, while Ca(2+) mobilization was triggered by the stimulation of G(q)-coupled receptor or EGF treatment, but not by the G(i)- or G(s)-coupled receptors. 5. Transient expression of Gbetagamma subunits with EGF treatment, or co-activation of exogenous G(i)-coupled receptor with thapsigargin also resulted in a synergistic JNK activation. Activation of G(i)-coupled receptor accompanied with EGF treatment enhanced the expression level and activity of MAPK phosphatase type I, which occurred after the maximal synergistic JNK activation. 6. Our results support a mechanistic model where EGF signaling may differentially regulate the JNK activities triggered by GPCRs of different coupling specificities.
1 Stress is a risk factor in psychiatric illnesses such as schizophrenia. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of different circulating levels of the adrenal steroid corticosterone (CORT) on locomotor hyperactivity and prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle, two behavioural animal models of aspects of schizophrenia. 2 Male C57BL/6J mice (n=10 per group) were anaesthetised with isoflurane and sham-operated or adrenalectomised (ADX). ADX mice were implanted with 50 mg pellets consisting of 100% cholesterol, or 2, 10 or 50 mg of CORT mixed with cholesterol. CORT pellet implantation dose dependently increased plasma CORT levels 3 weeks after surgery. Starting 1 week after surgery, mice were tested for prepulse inhibition after injection of saline or 5 mg kg(-1) of haloperidol. 3 In intact mice and in mice implanted with 10 mg of CORT, haloperidol treatment significantly increased prepulse inhibition (average values from 38 - 42 to 52%). Similar results were observed when testing the mice for amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity (5 mg kg(-1)). In contrast, there was no significant effect of haloperidol in mice implanted either with cholesterol or 2 or 50 mg of CORT. 4 These results in behavioural animal models of schizophrenia suggest an important role of the stress hormone CORT in modulating dopaminergic activity in this illness.
1 Microdialysis was used to study the acute and chronic effects of escitalopram (S-citalopram; ESCIT) and chronic citalopram (CIT), together with the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY100,635 (N-[2-[methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl) cyclohexane carboxamide trihydrochloride) and the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), on extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) levels in the rat prefrontal cortex. 2 Extracellular 5-HT rose to 234 and 298% of basal values after subcutaneous (s.c.) acute doses of 0.15 and 0.63 mg kg(-1) ESCIT. No further increase was observed at 2.5 mg kg(-1) ESCIT (290%). 3 The effect of 13-day s.c. infusion of 10 mg kg(-1) day(-1) ESCIT on extracellular 5-HT (422% of baseline) was greater than after 2 days (257% of baseline), whereas exposure to ESCIT was similar. In contrast, the increase in extracellular 5-HT induced by the infusion of CIT for 2 (306%) and 13 days (302%) was similar. However, brain and plasma levels of S-citalopram in rats infused with CIT for 13 days were lower than after 2 days. 4 Acute treatment with 2.5 mg kg(-1) ESCIT or 5 mg kg(-1) CIT raised extracellular 5-HT by 243 and 276%, respectively, in rats given chronic vehicle but had no effect in rats given ESCIT (10 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) or CIT (20 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) for 2 or 13 days, suggesting that the infused doses had maximally increased extracellular 5-HT. WAY100,635 (0.1 mg kg(-1) s.c.) increased extracellular 5-HT levels by 168, 174 and 169% of prechallenge values in rats infused with vehicle or ESCIT for 2 or 13 days, respectively. WAY100,635 enhanced extracellular 5-HT levels to 226, 153 and 164% of prechallenge values in rats infused with vehicle or CIT for 2 and 13 days, respectively. 5 8-OH-DPAT (0.025 mg kg(-1)) reduced extracellular 5-HT by 54% in control rats, but had no effect in those given ESCIT and CIT for 13 days. 6 This series of experiments led to the conclusion that chronic treatment with ESCIT desensitizes the 5-HT1A receptors, regulating the release of 5-HT in the prefrontal cortex and enhances the effect of the drug on extracellular 5-HT. They also indicate that chronic treatment with ESCIT and CIT did not prevent WAY100,635 from raising extracellular 5-HT.
The effects of hydro-alcoholic extracts of Hypericum perforatum L on extracellular serotonin (5-HT), noradrenaline (NA) and dopamine (DA) levels and the acidic metabolites (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxy-3-indoleacetic acid (5-HIAA)) were examined by in vivo microdialysis in the prefrontal cortex of awake rats. Thus, a single dose (60 mg kg(-1) i.p. or 300 mg kg(-1) p.o.) of H. perforatum increased DA concentrations to 165 and 140% of control values, respectively, and increased locomotor activity in nonhabituated rats. DOPAC and HVA levels were markedly reduced. 5-HT concentrations were elevated only moderately, while the NA levels were not affected by any treatment. The whole-tissue analysis revealed that hypericum increased, whereas the monoamine oxidase (MAO) A/B inhibitor phenelzine decreased DA and 5-HT turnover. The present data indicate that the mechanism of action of hypericum extract in vivo is more complex than the inhibition of monoamine reuptake or metabolism observed in vitro. The finding of preferential enhancement of DA transmission is in agreement with human studies measuring DA-mediated neuroendocrine responses.
We compared suicide attempts associated with melancholic v. non-melancholic major depression in 377 patients. Controlling for depression severity and other covariates, melancholia at baseline assessment was associated with more serious past suicide attempts and with the probability of suicide attempt during follow-up.
Neuropsychological (NP) testing is now often used to help to determine if the cognitive function of a concussed athlete has declined. The NP test score after concussion is compared with the baseline test score. Many clinicians simply subtract one from the other and make a clinical decision about the significance or otherwise of the resulting &quot;difference score&quot;. Such techniques are inadequate, as they fail to account for the many factors that may confound interpretation of serially acquired cognitive test scores. This is a review of a number of alternative approaches used in other areas of medicine for differentiating &quot;true&quot; changes from changes caused by these confounding factors. A case example is used to illustrate the effect that the statistical approach may have on clinical decision making.
To investigate striatal and cortical pre- and postsynaptic dopaminergic function in parkin-linked parkinsonism, 13 unrelated patients homozygous or compound heterozygous for parkin mutations were studied with [(18)F]dopa and [(11)C]raclopride (RAC) PET. Data were compared with a young-onset Parkinson's disease (YOPD) cohort, matched for age, disease severity and duration, but negative for parkin mutations. Significant changes in [(18)F]dopa uptake and RAC binding potential (BP) were localized in striatum using regions of interest (ROIs) and throughout the entire brain volume with statistical parametric mapping (SPM). As expected, both YOPD and parkin patients showed significant decreases in striatal [(18)F]dopa uptake; however, in parkin patients, additional reductions in caudate and midbrain were localized with SPM. The RAC-BP was significantly decreased in striatal, thalamic and cortical areas (temporal, orbito-frontal and parietal cortex) in parkin compared with YOPD patients. Our [(18)F]dopa PET findings suggest that, compared with YOPD, parkin disease is associated with more severe and widespread presynaptic dopaminergic deficits. The global decreases in D2 binding found in parkin compared with YOPD patients could be a direct consequence of the parkin genetic defect itself or a greater susceptibility to receptor downregulation following long-term dopaminergic agent exposure. Cortical reductions in D2 binding may contribute to the behavioural problems reported in parkin patients.
It is widely assumed that following extensive damage to the left hemisphere sustained in early childhood, language functions are likely to reorganize and develop in the right hemisphere, especially if the lesion affects the classical Broca's or Wernicke's language areas. In the present study, functional MRI (fMRI) was used to examine language lateralization in 10 children and adolescents with intractable epilepsy who sustained an early lesion in the left hemisphere. Lesions were adjacent to or within anterior language cortex in five patients, while they were remote from both Broca's and Wernicke's areas in the remainder. A lateralization index was calculated on the basis of the number of voxels activated in the left and right inferior frontal gyri when performing a covert verb generation task. Only two patients were right-handed, suggesting a high incidence of functional reorganization for motor control in the remaining patients. Five out of 10 showed bilateral or right language lateralization, but lateralization could not be inferred from the proximity of lesions to classical language areas on an individual basis. Lesions in or near Broca's area were not associated with inter-hemispheric language reorganization in four out of five cases, but with perilesional activation within the damaged left hemisphere. Paradoxically, lesions remote from the classical language areas were associated with non-left language lateralization in four out of five cases. Finally, handedness, age at onset of chronic seizures, and site of EEG abnormality also showed no obvious association with language lateralization. In conclusion, it is difficult to infer intra- versus inter-hemispheric language reorganization on the basis of clinical observations in the presence of early pathology to the left hemisphere.
This study analyses the evolution of metabolite changes in an 8-year-old boy with focal Rasmussen encephalitis. Five MRI examinations, including magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) were performed over 9 months. Following complex partial status, T2-weighted imaging showed transient dramatic signal increase in the left superior temporal gyrus and mesial temporal structures. Subsequent scans showed resolution of the swelling and signal normalization, with development of slight focal atrophy. MRS after status showed a reduction in N-acetylaspartate, total creatine and trimethylamines. Subsequent scans showed complete resolution of these metabolite abnormalities, followed later by development of further abnormal metabolite values. Lactate and glutamine/glutamate were elevated after status. After surgery, ex vivo high-field (1)H and (31)P MRS confirmed metabolite abnormalities (elevated choline and decreased aspartate, N-acetylaspartate, [(1)H]glutamate together with altered [(31)P]phospholipid ratios. These findings suggested active disease process in the anterior region of the excised superior temporal gyrus. We conclude that Rasmussen encephalitis is a combination of progressive encephalitic damage and fluctuating seizure effects, in which neuronal injury and recovery can occur. MRS measurements at a single time point should consider the fluctuating metabolite profile related to seizure activity.
In this report, we describe the clinical and neuropathological features of a case of familial frontotemporal dementia (FTD), with onset at 58 years of age and disease duration of 10 years, associated with a novel mutation, Q336R, in the tau gene (tau). In vitro studies concerning the properties of tau proteins bearing this mutation, with respect to microtubule assembly and tau filament aggregation, are reported. Clinically, the patient showed alterations in memory, language and executive functions and marked behavioural change consistent with FTD, although the extent of memory impairment was more than is characteristic of FTD. At autopsy, there was degeneration of the frontal and temporal lobes associated with the presence of hyperphosphorylated tau proteins in swollen (Pick) cells and intraneuronal inclusions (Pick bodies). By immunohistochemistry, the Pick bodies contained both 3-repeat and 4-repeat tau proteins although, because no fresh tissues were available for analysis, the exact isoform composition of the aggregated tau proteins could not be determined. Neurons within frontal cortex contained neurofibrillary tangle-like structures, comprising both straight and twisted tubules, or Pick bodies in which the filaments were short and randomly orientated. In vitro, and in common with other tau missense mutations, Q336R caused an increase in tau fibrillogenesis. However, in contrast to most other tau missense mutations, Q336R increased, not decreased, the ability of mutant tau to promote microtubule assembly. Nonetheless, this latter functional change may likewise be detrimental to neuronal function by inducing a compensatory phosphorylation that may yield increased intracellular hyperphosphorylated tau species that are also liable to fibrillize. We believe the mutation is indeed pathogenic and disease causing and not simply a coincidental rare and benign polymorphism. Since this mutation is segregating with the FTD clinical and neuropathological phenotype, it has not been found in unaffected individuals and it has novel functional properties in vitro which are likely to be detrimental to neuronal function in vivo.
This paper reviews the role of orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) lesions in antisocial behaviors and the adequacy of a strict OFC account of antisocial disorders where there is no evidence of lesion. Neurocognitive accounts of antisocial behaviors are extended beyond the OFC. Several methodological shortcomings specific to this neuroscience approach to antisocial behavior are identified. A developmental approach is advocated to chart the developmental sequences of impaired brain development and of the various comorbid states typically seen in antisocial disorders.
We compare the effects of psychoactive drugs such as morphine and amphetamine on the synaptic organization of neurons in the orbital frontal (OFC) and medial frontal (mPFC) regions in the rat. Both regions are altered chronically by exposure to intermittent doses of either drug but the effects are area-dependent. For example, whereas morphine produces increased spine density in OFC but decreased spine density in mPFC. The differential response of the OFC and mPFC to drugs is paralleled by an areal-dependent effect of gonadal hormones on these regions as well: males have greater dendritic arborization in the mPFC whereas females have a greater arborization in the OFC. We also compared the effects of neonatal injury to the OFC and mPFC on cognitive, motor, and social behaviors as well as on the anatomical organization of the remaining brain. Again, there were differential effects of the treatments to the OFC and mPFC. Neonatal OFC lesions allowed virtually complete functional recovery of cognitive and motor behaviors, which was correlated with mild abnormalities in cerebral development compared to the more severe deficits and morphological sequelae following mPFC lesions at the same ages. One exception was the effect of OFC on social behavior, which was severe regardless of whether the injury was in infancy or adulthood. It is proposed that both drug-induced and developmental abnormalities in the integrity of OFC neurons may lead to deficits in social behavior or other behavioral pathologies, possibly including depression.
The neuropsychological bases of cognitive, social, and moral development are minimally understood, with a seemingly wide chasm between developmental theories and brain maturation models. As one approach to bridging ideas in these areas, we review 10 cases of early prefrontal cortex damage from the clinical literature, highlighting overall clinical profiles and real life developmental outcomes. Based on these cases, there is preliminary evidence to support distinctive developmental differences after: (1) dorsolateral, (2) mesial, and (3) orbital-polar prefrontal lesions, for more profound impairments after bilateral damage, and possibly for recovery differences after very early vs. later childhood lesion onset. Further case and group studies are needed to confirm reliable effects of specific lesion locations, the influence of age of lesion onset, and related experiential and treatment variables in determining adult outcomes. Rather than a single underlying deficit associated with early prefrontal cortex damage, we interpret the findings to suggest that it is the altered integration and interplay of cognitive, emotional, self-regulatory, and executive/metacognitive deficits that contribute to diverse developmental frontal lobe syndromes. The findings support the fundamental importance of prefrontal cortex maturation in protracted cognitive, social-emotional, and moral development.
Autobiographical remembering reflects an advanced state of consciousness that mediates awareness of the self as continuous across time. In naturalistic autobiographical memory, self-aware recollection of temporally and spatially specific episodes and generic factual information (both public and personal) operate in tandem. Evidence from both laboratory and real-life studies, however, suggests that these two processes can be dissociated. This paper reviews aging, lesion, and functional neuroimaging research on the anatomical substrates of autobiographical memory processes using a new measure, the Autobiographical Interview, and prospective collection of autobiographical material. Results indicate that autobiographical recollection is mediated by a distributed fronto-temporo-parietal system, with the anteromedial prefrontal cortex positioned to integrate sensory information with self-specific information. The emergence of autobiographical recollection at around age four coincides with the timing of prefrontal regressive cortical and progressive white matter changes that may support the development of this high-level capacity.
The orbitofrontal cortex contains the secondary taste cortex, in which the reward value of taste is represented. It also contains the secondary and tertiary olfactory cortical areas, in which information about the identity and also about the reward value of odours is represented. The orbitofrontal cortex also receives information about the sight of objects from the temporal lobe cortical visual areas, and neurons in it learn and reverse the visual stimulus to which they respond when the association of the visual stimulus with a primary reinforcing stimulus (such as taste) is reversed. This is an example of stimulus-reinforcement association learning, and is a type of stimulus-stimulus association learning. More generally, the stimulus might be a visual or olfactory stimulus, and the primary (unlearned) positive or negative reinforcer a taste or touch. A somatosensory input is revealed by neurons that respond to the texture of food in the mouth, including a population that responds to the mouth feel of fat. In complementary neuroimaging studies in humans, it is being found that areas of the orbitofrontal cortex are activated by pleasant touch, by painful touch, by taste, by smell, and by more abstract reinforcers such as winning or losing money. Damage to the orbitofrontal cortex can impair the learning and reversal of stimulus-reinforcement associations, and thus the correction of behavioural responses when there are no longer appropriate because previous reinforcement contingencies change. The information which reaches the orbitofrontal cortex for these functions includes information about faces, and damage to the orbitofrontal cortex can impair face (and voice) expression identification. This evidence thus shows that the orbitofrontal cortex is involved in decoding and representing some primary reinforcers such as taste and touch; in learning and reversing associations of visual and other stimuli to these primary reinforcers; and in controlling and correcting reward-related and punishment-related behavior, and thus in emotion. The approach described here is aimed at providing a fundamental understanding of how the orbitofrontal cortex actually functions, and thus in how it is involved in motivational behavior such as feeding and drinking, in emotional behavior, and in social behavior.
A middle-aged man suffering from acute carbon monoxide intoxication was clinically assessed to be in an akinetic and mute state. In order to elucidate regional cerebral disturbances, brain metabolism was investigated with fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography ((18)FDG-PET) 5.5 months after intoxication. Significantly reduced metabolic rates of glucose were revealed in selected brain regions, especially in both the frontal and anterior cingulate cortices, as well as in the subcortical white matter. Frontal and cingulate cortices showed a preserved metabolism of 35-53%, whereas the regional glucose consumption in cerebral white matter was reduced by more than 70%. In contrast, other areas of the brain such as the sensory-motor cortex, parts of the temporal lobes, basal ganglia and brainstem disclosed normal metabolic values. This lesion topography is discussed in relation to the development of akinetic mutism in the present case and in comparison with recent reports on the topic. Considering a plausible pathophysiology, akinetic mutism appears to be based on a different structural neuropathology when compared with the locked-in syndrome and the vegetative state. It is suggested that akinetic mutism is regarded as a specific condition characterized by injury of the frontal neuronal systems which promote executive functions.
In the first part of this study, we investigated effects of item and task type on span performance in a group of aphasic individuals with word processing and STM deficits. Group analyses revealed significant effects of item on span performance with span being greater for digits than for words. We also investigated associations between subjects' lexical-semantic and phonological processing abilities and performance on four measures of verbal span (digit and word span, each varied for type of response, verbal vs. pointing) as well as one measure of nonverbal span. We predicted and found that the patterns of association between verbal span tasks and lexical abilities reflected the integrity of language processes and representations deployed in each paradigm used to assess span. Performance on the pointing span task, which engages both lexical-semantic and phonological processes, correlated with measures of both lexical-semantic and phonological abilities. Performance on repetition span, which engages primarily input and output phonological processes, correlated with measures of phonological abilities but not measures of lexical-semantic abilities. However, when partial correlations were performed for two subject groups based on their relative preservation of lexical-semantic ability (less or more than phonological ability), repetition span correlated with lexical-semantic measures only in the subgroup with relatively impaired lexical-semantics. Additionally, performance on the nonverbal span task correlated with measures of phonological abilities, suggesting either a general cognitive deficit affecting verbal and nonverbal STM or possibly, the use of a verbal strategy to perform this task. Our discussion focuses on the interpretation of span measurements in clinical practice and research, as well as the implications of these data for theories of short-term memory and word processing.
In this paper we examine a central issue in cognitive neuroscience: are there separate conceptual representations associated with different input modalities (e.g., Paivio, 1971, 1986; Warrington &amp; Shallice, 1984) or do inputs from different modalities converge on to the same set of representations (e.g., Caramazza, Hillis, Rapp, &amp; Romani, 1990; Lambon Ralph, Graham, Patterson, &amp; Hodges, 1999; Rapp, Hillis, &amp; Caramazza, 1993)? We present an analysis of four PET studies (three semantic categorisation tasks and one lexical decision task), two of which employ words as stimuli and two of which employ pictures. Using conjunction analyses, we found robust semantic activation, common to both input modalities in anterior and medial aspects of the left fusiform gyrus, left parahippocampal and perirhinal cortices, and left inferior frontal gyrus (BA 47). There were modality-specific activations in both temporal poles (words) and occipitotemporal cortices (pictures). We propose that the temporal poles are involved in processing both words and pictures, but their engagement might be primarily determined by the level of specificity at which an object is processed. Activation in posterior temporal regions associated with picture processing most likely reflects intermediate, pre-semantic stages of visual processing. Our data are most consistent with a hierarchically structured, unitary system of semantic representations for both verbal and visual modalities, subserved by anterior regions of the inferior temporal cortex.
We describe a method to record single unit neuronal activity from mouse spinal cord using volatile anesthesia. The small size of the mouse can complicate usual methods that are used for single-unit recording in rats, but simple modifications can significantly increase the number of successful recordings. Stabilization of the vertebral column is particularly important, as are adequate ventilation of the animal, control of body temperature and accurate determination of anesthetic concentrations in respiratory gas samples.
Biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) and biocytin are well transported both retrogradely and anterogradely. Both tracers have stable molecular structure for long-term storage and examination, and their visualizations can be realized by simple histochemical reactions. Therefore, the BDA and biocytin are widely used in neuroanatomical studies as the tract-tracing markers. The results obtained by BDA and biocytin applications to various areas of the nervous system in teleosts were qualitatively identical, and the retrogradely and anterogradely labeled structures could be clearly identified with reference to the counter-staining. Iontophoretic injections or crystal insertions resulted in filling of cell bodies, dendrites and terminals in the core of injection side, revealing morphological details of the local and distant somata, dendritic arborizations and axonal terminals. However, biocytin exhibited superior to BDA in anterograde transport, and could label very thin axons, axonal collaterals and terminal ramifications. In contrast, retrograde transport of BDA was superior to that of biocytin, and resulted in more complete dendritic filling of retrograde labeled neurons including dendritic arborizations and spines.
A method of measuring transmembrane potential and electric field of neural cells cultured in vitro is described in this paper. The high resolution and scanning speed of the method make it considerable to be used to observe the viability of the neurons cultured on opaque substrate. Rhodamine 123 was used to stain the cells in order to display different intensity corresponding to transmembrane potential. The fluorescence data were collected by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). Then the data were processed to create the graphs of transmembrane potential and electric field. This is the first paper describes a reliable method for three-dimensional visualization of potential voltage of neurons at the best of our knowledge.
Emotional and attentional functions are known to be distributed along ventral and dorsal networks in the brain, respectively. However, the interactions between these systems remain to be specified. The present study used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate how attentional focus can modulate the neural activity elicited by scenes that vary in emotional content. In a visual oddball task, aversive and neutral scenes were presented intermittently among circles and squares. The squares were frequent standard events, whereas the other novel stimulus categories occurred rarely. One experimental group [N=10] was instructed to count the circles, whereas another group [N=12] counted the emotional scenes. A main effect of emotion was found in the amygdala (AMG) and ventral frontotemporal cortices. In these regions, activation was significantly greater for emotional than neutral stimuli but was invariant to attentional focus. A main effect of attentional focus was found in dorsal frontoparietal cortices, whose activity signaled task-relevant target events irrespective of emotional content. The only brain region that was sensitive to both emotion and attentional focus was the anterior cingulate gyrus (ACG). When circles were task-relevant, the ACG responded equally to circle targets and distracting emotional scenes. The ACG response to emotional scenes increased when they were task-relevant, and the response to circles concomitantly decreased. These findings support and extend prominent network theories of emotion-attention interactions that highlight the integrative role played by the anterior cingulate.
Findings from neurophysiology have supported the view that visual working memory (WM) relies on modulation of activity in object-selective populations of neurons in inferior temporal cortex. Here, using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging, we investigated whether similar mechanisms support human visual working memory encoding and maintenance processes. We identified regions in inferior temporal cortex that exhibited category-specific responses during perception of faces (fusiform face area [FFA]) or scenes (parahippocampal place area [PPA]) and investigated whether activity in these regions would be modulated by demands to actively encode and maintain faces and scenes. Results showed that independent of perceptual stimulation, the FFA and PPA exhibited greater encoding- and maintenance-related activity when their favored stimulus was relevant to the recognition task. In contrast, maintenance-related activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) was modulated by memory load, regardless of the type of information that was task relevant. These results are consistent with the view that visual working memory encoding and maintenance processes are implemented through modulation of inferior temporal activity by prefrontal cortex.
1. In this study we investigated whether electrical stimulation accelerates the upregulation of Talpha1-tubulin and GAP-43 (regeneration-associated genes; RAGs) and the downregulation of the medium-molecular-weight neurofilament (NFM), in concert with stimulation-induced acceleration of BDNF and trkB gene expression and axonal regeneration. 2. Two weeks prior to unilateral femoral nerve transection and suture, fluorogold (Fluorochrome Inc., Denver) or fluororuby (Dextran tetramethylrhodamine, Mol. Probes, D-1817, Eugene, OR) was injected into quadriceps muscles of the left and right hindlimbs to label the femoral motoneuron pools as previously described. Over a period of 7 days, fresh spinal cords were processed for semiquantitation of mRNA by using in situ hybridization. 3. There was an increase in Talpha1-tubulin and GAP-43 mRNA and a decline in the NFM mRNA at 7 days after nerve suture and sham stimulation but not in intact nerves. In contrast, 1-h stimulation of sutured but not intact nerves dramatically accelerated the changes in gene expression: mRNA levels of Talpha1-tubulin and GAP-43 were significantly elevated above control levels by 2 days while NFM mRNA was significantly reduced by 2 days in the sutured nerves. Thereby, the neurofilament/tubulin expression ratio was reduced at 2 days after suture and stimulation, possibly allowing more tubulin to be transported faster into the growing axons to accelerate the elongation rate following stimulation. Importantly, the changes in RAGs and NFM gene expression were delayed relative to the accelerated upregulation of BDNF and trkB mRNA by electrical stimulation. 4. The temporal sequence of upregulation of BDNF and trkB, altered gene expression of RAGs and NFM, and accelerated axonal outgrowth from the proximal nerve stump are consistent with a key role of BDNF and trkB in mediating the altered expression of RAGs and, in turn, the promotion of axonal outgrowth after electrical stimulation.
Characterising the mechanisms of cell death following focal cerebral ischaemia has been hampered by a lack of an in vitro assay emulating both the apoptotic and necrotic features observed in vivo. The present study systematically characterised oxygen-glucose-deprivation (OGD) in primary rat cortical neurones to establish a reproducible model with components of both cell-death endpoints. OGD induced a time-dependent reduction in cell viability, with 80% cell death occurring 24 h after 3 h exposure to 0% O2 and 0.5 mM glucose. Indicative of a necrotic component to OGD-induced cell death, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor inhibition with MK-801 attenuated neuronal loss by 60%. The lack of protection by the caspase inhibitors DEVD-CHO and z-VAD-fmk suggested that under these conditions neurones did not die by an apoptotic mechanism. Moderating the severity of the insult by decreasing OGD exposure to 60 min did not reduce the amount of necrosis, but did induce a small degree of apoptosis (a slight reduction in cell death was observed in the presence of 10 uM DEVD-CHO). In separate experiments purported to enhance the apoptotic component, cells were gradually deprived of O2, exposed to 4% O2 (as opposed to 0%) during the OGD period, or maintained in serum-containing media throughout. While NMDA receptor antagonism significantly reduced cortical cell death under all conditions, a caspase-inhibitor sensitive component of cell death was not uncovered. These studies suggest that OGD of cultured cortical cells models the excitotoxic, but not the apoptotic component of cell death observed in vivo.
Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins function as GTPase accelerating proteins (GAP) for Galpha subunits, attenuating G-protein-coupled receptor signal transduction. The present study tested the ability of members of different subfamilies of RGS proteins to modulate both G-protein-dependent and -independent signaling in mammalian cells. RGS4, RGS10, and RGSZ1 significantly attenuated Galphai-mediated signaling by 5-HT1A, but not by dopamine D2, receptor-expressing cells. Additionally, RGS4 and RGS10 significantly inhibited forskolin-stimulated cAMP production in both cell lines. In contrast, RGS2, RGS7, and RGSZ1 had no effect on forskolin-stimulated cAMP production in these cells. RGS2 and RGS7 significantly decreased Galphaq-mediated signaling by 5-HT2A receptors, confirming that the RGS4 and RGS10 effects on forskolin-stimulated cAMP production were specific, and not simply due to overexpression. Interestingly, similar expression levels of RGS4 protein resulted in greater inhibition of G-protein-independent cAMP production compared to G-protein-dependent GAP activity. Our results suggest specificity and selectivity of RGS proteins on G-protein-dependent and -independent signaling in mammalian cells.
Taking tissue slices of the embryonic and newborn pancreas is a novel approach for the study of the perinatal development of this gland. The aim of this study was to describe the morphology and physiology of in vivo and in vitro developing beta-cells. In addition, we wanted to lay a foundation for the functional analysis of other pancreatic cells, either alone or as part of an integrative pancreatic physiology approach. We used cytochemistry and light microscopy to detect specific markers and the whole-cell patch-clamp to assess the function of single beta-cells. The insulin signal in the embryonic beta-cells was condensed to a subcellular compartment and redistributed throughout the cytosol during the first 2 days after birth. The hormone distribution correlated well with the development of membrane excitability and hormone release competence in beta-cells. Endocrine cells survived in the organotypic tissue culture and maintained their physiological properties for weeks. We conclude that our preparation fulfills the criteria for a method of choice to characterize the function of developing pancreas in wild-type and genetically modified mice that die at birth. We suggest organotypic culture for in vitro studies of the development and regeneration of beta-cells.
The ability to remember the past depends on cognitive operations that are recruited when information is initially encountered. In the current experiment, we investigated neural processes that subserve the memorability of a fundamental class of social information: self-knowledge. Participants evaluated the extent to which a series of personality characteristics were self-descriptive. Brain activation was measured using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and contrasted based on: (i) whether each word was later remembered or forgotten; and (ii) whether or not each item was judged to be self-relevant. Results revealed that activity in medial prefrontal cortex predicted both subsequent memory performance and judgements of self-relevance. These findings extend current understanding of the nature and functioning of human memory.
Using systematic electrophysiological mapping, architectonics and the global pattern of interhemispheric connectivity, we have identified three visual areas in the lateral most part of the posterior suprasylvian gyrus. The most posterior and largest area we call area 20a and anterior to this we defined a smaller area, area 20b. These areas lie lateral to the visual areas 18, 19 and 21 and posterior to a third, but incompletely defined, visual area, area PS. Areas 20a and 20b, emphasize the representation of the upper hemifield. Their interhemispheric connections conform to the so called 'midline rule' in that they are abundant in regions representing central portions of the visual field, scarce or absent elsewhere. These areas are probably homologous to the homonymous areas of the cat and might be indicative of a Bauplan from which the temporal areas of primates may have evolved.

The myopic eye is generally considered to be a vulnerable eye and, at levels greater than 6 D, one that is especially susceptible to a range of ocular pathologies. There is concern therefore that the prevalence of myopia in young adolescent eyes has increased substantially over recent decades and is now approaching 10-25% and 60-80%, respectively, in industrialized societies of the West and East. Whereas it is clear that the major structural correlate of myopia is longitudinal elongation of the posterior vitreous chamber, other potential correlates include profiles of lenticular and corneal power, the relationship between longitudinal and transverse vitreous chamber dimensions and ocular volume. The most potent predictors for juvenile-onset myopia continue to be a refractive error &lt;/=+0.50 D at 5 years of age and family history. Significant and continuing progress is being made on the genetic characteristics of high myopia with at least four chromosomes currently identified. Twin studies and genetic modelling have computed a heritability index of at least 80% across the whole ametropic continuum. The high index does not, however, preclude an environmental precursor, sustained near work with high cognitive demand being the most likely. The significance of associations between accommodation, oculomotor dysfunction and human myopia is equivocal despite animal models that have demonstrated that sustained hyperopic defocus can induce vitreous chamber growth. Recent optical and pharmaceutical approaches to the reduction of myopia progression in children are likely precedents for future research, for example progressive addition spectacle lens trials and the use of the topical M1 muscarinic antagonist pirenzepine.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Most evidence supports the autoimmune pathogenesis of the disease. According to this hypothesis, the activation of autoreactive T-cells is a central event in the development of autoimmune response in MS. We examined molecular events involved in the initiation of autoimmune response in MS. Recent studies in our laboratory have reported an unexpectedly high degree of T-cell receptor (TCR) degeneracy and molecular mimicry as a frequent phenomenon that might play a role in the initiation of autoimmune response in MS. This paper provides insights into the physiologic and pathologic role of autoreactive T-cells, and characterizes structurally and functionally the specific targets for new therapies of MS.
We have previously demonstrated that there is a high-risk focus for multiple sclerosis (MS) in the southern Ostrobothnian region of western Finland (population 376121 in 1993). Of the two southern Ostrobothnian health-care districts, Vaasa and Seinjoki, the incidence and prevalence of MS were especially high in the latter. In recent genetic studies, we identified haplotypes of the myelin basic protein (MBP) gene in a group of MS patients originating from southern Ostrobothnia, suggesting a founder effect. This finding led us to explore the population history of the southern Ostrobothnia and correlate it with MS epidemiology. Southern Ostrobothnia can be divided into three distinct regions with respect to its historical settlement: Vaasa, Seinjoki-south, and Seinjoki-north. Vaasa, the coastal region was settled by Swedes, who immigrated during the 13th century. In Vaasa, the prevalence of clinically definite MS (CDMS) in 1993 was 107/10(5) (95% CI 90-124). Seinjoki-south was populated from the 13th century onwards from southwestern Finland, a region which has been recognised as a high-risk focus of MS. In Seinjoki-south, the prevalence of CDMS in 1993 was 219/10(5) (95% CI 190-247). Seinjoki-north was inhabited rather late starting in the 16th century from eastern Finland. In Seinjoki-north the prevalence of CDMS in 1993 was 136/10(5) (95% CI 108-164). The historical settlement pattern of the southern Ostrobothnia indicates that its population is quite heterogeneous. Seinjoki-south has a very high prevalence of MS, significantly higher than its two neighbouring regions. The distinctive settlement history of Seinjoki-south, the historical link with the other southwestern high-risk foci and molecular genetic evidence, suggest that a founder effect plays an important role in the high-risk of MS in western Finland.





Stroke affects up to 13 of 100,000 children, is more common in boys and African Americans, and is associated with considerable cognitive and psychiatric morbidity, as well as motor disability. Around half are hemorrhagic and half are ischemic. Underlying conditions include sickle cell disease, cardiac abnormalities, chromosomal abnormalities (eg, Down syndrome), and neurocutaneous conditions (eg, neurofibromatosis), but up to half the patients with ischemic stroke have no previously diagnosed condition. Although there is almost certainly an important genetic component to stroke risk, head trauma, infections, drugs and radiation appear to play an etiological role in some patients. The majority of the patients with infarction in an arterial distribution have associated cerebrovascular disease. Vascular pathologies include carotid or vertebrobasilar dissection, intracranial vasculopathy affecting the middle and anterior cerebral arteries, which is often transient, and moyamoya. Intermediate risk factors may include hypertension, hypoxia, and poor nutrition leading, for example, to iron deficiency and hyperhomocysteinemia. Some chronic conditions may directly influence the child's behavior and stroke recurrence risk, although large cohorts and randomized controlled trials will be needed before strategies for modification can be evidence-based.
Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality are far less in pre-menopausal women compared to age-matched men. Ovarian hormones are believed to be mainly responsible for this &quot;female advantage&quot; in cardiovascular function although the underlying mechanism has not been fully elucidated. A gender difference exists in vascular nitric oxide (NO) synthesis, which may play a key role in ventricular function and cardiac remodeling. This study was designed to compare NO production, basal NO synthase (NOS) expression and activity, as well as insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-1)-induced response on NOS activity in left ventricular myocytes from age-matched adult male and female Sprague-Dawley rats. NO production and protein expression of NOS, IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) and IGF binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) were measured by Griess assay and Western blot analysis, respectively. NOS activity was evaluated by conversion of (3)H-arginine to (3)H-citrulline. Basal NO production, endothelial NOS expression and NOS activity were both significantly higher in female left ventricular myocytes than their male counterparts. However, protein expression of inducible and neuronal NOS as well as IGFBP-3 was comparable between the two genders. IGF-1R expression was less in female than male group. IGF-1 (10(-10)-10(-6) m) induced a concentration-dependent inhibition of NOS activity in male myocytes with a maximal inhibition of 22.2%. However, the IGF-1-induced inhibition in NOS activity was not present in left ventricular myocytes from female rats. These data revealed a gender difference in myocardial basal NO levels, endothelial NOS expression, basal NOS activity and IGF-1-induced inhibition on NOS activity, which may contribute to the gender-related difference of cardiac function.
Computation of eye rotation about the line of sight (torsion) using image processing techniques has traditionally used cross-correlation of iral signatures sampled from circular arcs centered on the pupil. We have developed a new algorithm that utilizes a template-matching technique to calculate torsional eye position. Iral signatures are obtained from two annuli centered on the pupil center. By assuming that torsional rotation of the eye is constrained between successive video frames (&lt;2 degrees), only a small window of the previous reference signature is necessary to determine relative torsional eye displacement. This dramatically reduces the number of pixels needed for computing torsion. This algorithm is considerably faster, attains a higher accuracy, and exhibits considerably less noise than the cross-correlation technique. Running on a 800 MHz Intel-based Dual Processor Pentium III, with a Matrox frame grabber, the system is capable of processing three-dimensional eye position at a rate of 120 frames/s.
Image analysis is a rapidly evolving field with growing applications in science and engineering. In cancer research, it has played a key role in advancing techniques of major diagnostic importance, minimising human intervention and providing vital clinical information. Especially in the field of tissue microscopy, the use of computers for the automated analysis of histological sections is becoming increasingly important. This paper presents an overview of various image analysis methodologies and summarises developments in this field, with great emphasis given on the assessment of three major biological factors known to influence the outcome of radiotherapy: proliferation, vasculature and hypoxia. A brief introduction followed by a survey is provided in each of these areas.
Saccadic chronostasis refers to the subjective temporal lengthening of the first visual stimulus perceived after an eye movement. It has been quantified using a duration discrimination task. Most models of human duration discrimination hypothesise an internal clock. These models could explain chronostasis as a transient increase in internal clock speed due to arousal following a saccade, leading to temporal overestimation. Two experiments are described which addressed this hypothesis by parametrically varying the duration of the stimuli that are being judged. Changes in internal clock speed predict chronostasis effects proportional to stimulus duration. No evidence for proportionality was found. Two further experiments assessed the appropriateness of the control conditions employed. Results indicated that the chronostasis effect is constant across a wide range of stimulus durations and does not reflect the pattern of visual stimulation experienced during a saccade, suggesting that arousal is not critical. Instead, alternative processes, such as one affecting the onset of timing (i.e., the time of internal clock switch closure) are implicated. Further research is required to select between these alternatives.
In this paper, it is examined how neuroscience can help to understand the nature of volition by addressing the question whether volitions can be localized in the brain. Volitions, as acts of the will, are special mental events or activities by which an agent consciously and actively exercises her agency to voluntarily direct her thoughts and actions. If we can pinpoint when and where volitional events or activities occur in the brain and find out their neural underpinnings, this can substantively aid to demystify the concept of volition. After first discussing some methodological issues regarding whether it is possible to locate volition in the brain, various approaches by which neuroscientists and psychologists explore the neural correlates and substrates of volition are examined. Although different psychological conceptualizations of volition shape different perspectives toward understanding the functions of volition, the explorations of the neural basis of volition converge on certain common brain areas and structures. A unifying conception of volition that helps to make better sense of recent empirical findings is then suggested.
In the physical sciences a rigorous theory is a hierarchy of descriptions in which causal relationships between many general types of entity at a phenomenological level can be derived from causal relationships between smaller numbers of simpler entities at more detailed levels. The hierarchy of descriptions resembles the modular hierarchy created in electronic systems in order to be able to modify a complex functionality without excessive side effects. Such a hierarchy would make it possible to establish a rigorous scientific theory of consciousness. The causal relationships implicit in definitions of access consciousness and phenomenal consciousness are made explicit, and the corresponding causal relationships at the more detailed levels of perception, memory, and skill learning described. Extension of these causal relationships to physiological and neural levels is discussed. The general capability of a range of current consciousness models to support a modular hierarchy which could generate these causal relationships is reviewed, and the specific capabilities of two models with good general capabilities are compared in some detail.
In his novel Remembrance of Things Past, Marcel Proust argues that conventional descriptions of the phenomenology of consciousness are incomplete because they focus too much on the highly-salient sensory information that dominates each moment of awareness and ignore the network of associations that lies in the background. In this paper, I explicate Proust's theory of conscious experience and show how it leads him directly to a theory of aesthetic perception. Proust's division of awareness into two components roughly corresponds to William James' division of the stream of thought into a &quot;nucleus&quot; and &quot;fringe.&quot; Proust argues that the function of art is to evoke the underlying associative network indirectly in the mind of the observer by using carefully chosen sensory surfaces to control the stream of thought. I propose a possible neural basis for this Proustian/Jamesian phenomenology, and argue that the general principles of Proustian aesthetics can be applied to all forms of art. I conclude that a scientific theory of art should follow in a straightforward manner from a scientific theory of consciousness.
Slit scanning confocal microscopy (Tomey Confoscan P4) was used to evaluate the central cornea of 22 subjects who had been wearing rigid lenses on a long-term, daily wear basis. Anterior and posterior keratocyte densities appeared unaffected by rigid lens wear (P = 0.10 and 0.34 for anterior and posterior keratocyte densities, respectively). Subjects with a previous history of polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) lens wear showed a reduction in anterior keratocyte density (AKD) (P &lt; 0.0001) and an increased level of haze in the anterior stroma. This may represent previous hypoxic damage. Endothelial cell density (ECD) was unaffected by rigid lens wear (P = 0.36) although an increase in endothelial polymegethism was evident (P &lt; 0.0001). Subjects who had only worn rigid lenses with no history of PMMA lens wear did not show an increase in endothelial polymegethism (P = 0.10). An increased number of microdot opacities compared to the non-lens wearing eye was apparent (P = 0.05). The number of microdot opacities induced by rigid lenses, as reported in this study, appears to be less than that reported by others in respect of soft lenses.

One of the conundrums of neuropharmacology is to understand the therapeutic mechanisms of action of antipsychotic drugs. Every drug with antipsychotic activity is a dopamine (DA) D(2)-like receptor antagonist and therefore this function is critical to reducing psychotic symptoms. However, the actions of the archetypal atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine go beyond antipsychotic effects because the drug is efficacious in treating psychotic symptoms that do not respond to drugs mainly directed at antagonizing the DA D(2) receptor, has benefits in cognition and has recently been shown to reduce levels of suicide. A growing understanding of the mechanisms of clozapine and other atypical antipsychotic drugs suggests that both partial and inverse agonism, as well as receptor antagonism, at specific neurotransmitter receptors is required to give full therapeutic benefits. It is, therefore, timely to review the evolving nature of the mechanisms of action of different antipsychotic drugs.
Sensorineural hearing loss, characterized by damage to sensory hair cells and/or associated nerve fibers is a leading cause of hearing disorders throughout the world. To date, treatment options are limited and there is no cure for damaged inner ear cells. Because the inner ear is a tiny organ housed in bone deep within the skull, access to the inner ear is limited, making delivery of therapeutic agents difficult. In recent years scientists have investigated a number of growth factors that have the potential to regulate survival or recovery of auditory neurons. Coinciding with the focus on molecules that may restore function are efforts to develop novel delivery methods. Researchers have been investigating the use of mini osmotic pumps, viral vectors and stem cells as a means of providing direct application of growth factors to the inner ear. This review summarizes recent findings regarding the molecules that may be useful for restoring damaged spiral ganglion neurons, as well as the advantages and disadvantages of various delivery systems.
Gamma-secretase is a membrane protease complex that possesses presenilin as a catalytic subunit. Presenilin generates amyloid beta peptides in the brains of Alzheimer's patients and is indispensable to Notch signaling in tissue development and renewal. Recent studies have revealed how presenilin is assembled with its cofactor proteins and acquires the gamma-secretase activity: Aph-1 and nicastrin initially form a subcomplex to bind and stabilize presenilin, and then Pen-2 confers the gamma-secretase activity and facilitates endoproteolysis of presenilin. Understanding the mechanism of gamma-secretase cleavage will help to clarify how intercellular cell signaling through transmembrane proteins is regulated by intramembrane proteolysis, and will hopefully eventually lead to a cure for Alzheimer's disease.
Glutamate transporters (GluTs) prevent the accumulation of glutamate and influence the occupancy of receptors at synapses. The ability of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors and metabotropic glutamate receptors to participate in signaling is tightly regulated by GluT activity. Astrocytes express the highest density of GluTs and dominate clearance away from these receptors; synapses that are not associated with astrocyte processes experience greater mGluR activation and can be exposed to glutamate released at adjacent synapses. Although less abundant, neuronal transporters residing in the postsynaptic membrane can also shield receptors from the glutamate that is released. The diversity in synaptic morphology suggests a correspondingly rich diversity of GluT function in excitatory transmission.
This review highlights five areas of recent discovery concerning the role of extracellular-signal regulated kinases (ERKs) in the hippocampus. First, ERKs have recently been directly implicated in human learning through studies of a human mental retardation syndrome. Second, new models are being formulated for how ERKs contribute to molecular information processing in dendrites. Third, a role of ERKs in stabilizing structural changes in dendritic spines has been defined. Fourth, a crucial role for ERKs in regulating local dendritic protein synthesis is emerging. Fifth, the importance of ERK interactions with scaffolding and structural proteins at the synapse is increasingly apparent. These topics are discussed within the context of an emerging role for ERKs in a wide variety of forms of synaptic plasticity and memory formation in the behaving animal.

Neural plasticity is emerging as a fundamental and critical mechanism of neuronal function, which allows the brain to receive information and make the appropriate adaptive responses to subsequent related stimuli. Elucidation of the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying neural plasticity is a major goal of neuroscience research, and significant advances have been made in recent years. These mechanisms include regulation of signal transduction and gene expression, and also structural alterations of neuronal spines and processes, and even the birth of new neurons in the adult brain. Altered plasticity could thereby contribute to psychiatric and neurological disorders. This article revievi/s the literature demonstrating altered plasticity in response to stress, and evidence that chronic antidepressant treatment can reverse or block the effects, and even induce neural piasiicity-iike responses. Continued elucidation of the mechanisms underlying neural plasticity will lead to novel drug targets that could prove to be effective and rapidly acting therapeutic interventions.
Extract: Brain dopamine was first recognized as a neurotransmitter when it was found to be concentrated in a small group of cells that degenerate in Parkinson's disease. Since Parkinson's disease results in tremor, rigidity, and an inability to initiate voluntary movement, and since the cells are localized in the basal ganglia, a region with the primary motor mechanism of the sub-mammalian brain, dopamine was initially identified with motor function. Recent studies indicate, however, that the basal ganglia is much more than simple motor structures. Brain dopamine is now known to play a major role in the ability of rewards to establish learned response habits and preferences. While its importance in reward has caused it to be identified primarily with motivational function, close inspection reveals that one of its primary roles in motivated behavior is a role in the stamping-in of learning and memory.
Alzheimer's disease is a dementing neurodegenerative disorder for which there is no effective treatment at present. Genetic and biological studies provide evidence that the production and deposition of amyloid-beta peptides (Abeta contribute to the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. gamma-Secretase is the pivotal enzyme in generating the C terminus of Abeta which determines its aggregability and speed of deposition. Drugs that regulate the production of Abeta by inhibiting gamma-secretase activity could provide an effective therapy for Alzheimer's disease, although recent studies suggest that gamma-secretase plays important roles in cellular signaling. This review focuses on studies of the gamma-secretase biology and provides the direction for developing effective and selective gamma-secretase inhibitors as drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
In recent years a number of studies of personality have been performed in subjects with Eating Disorders (EDs) to investigate the clinical differences between controls and ED patients and among EDs subtypes, and its role in the development and course of symptoms. The Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire (TPQ) and the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) have been widely used at this purpose, allowing the description of specific temperament and character profiles for EDs. High Harm Avoidance (HA) and low Self-Directedness (SD) are shared by all EDs. Slight differences on some facets have been found among ED subgroups. Nevertheless, HA is influenced by mood and both high HA and low SD are personality traits shared by many mental disorders, whose specificity is rather low. Restrictor anorectics are characterized by high Persistence (P) and a relatively higher SD, and bulimics by higher Novelty Seeking (NS) and the lowest SD, while binge/purging and purging anorectics share some traits with anorexia and some with bulimia. Though current data justify the discrimination among anorexia subtypes, they are not in contrast with the thesis of a continuum in ED personality traits. Since some personality traits display a prognostic value with regard to therapy and clinical outcome, further studies are needed on treatments and prognostic factors in EDs. Moreover, studies attempting to define the neurobiological and genetic correlates of temperament should be supported by clinical pharmacological trials.
We present a transversal alternating field electrophoresis chamber that allows modifiable inner widths to accommodate low- or high-throughput formats, with 7.8 cm opposite electrode separation and 30.4 cm electrode length. Removable slotted sheets divide the chamber into four smaller compartments, each one supporting a minigel of 3.85 cm in length and 7.1 cm in width. Replacements of slotted sheets with solid dielectric blocks with the sizes and shapes of compartments permit to occlude chamber compartments, changing from 4 to 1 the numbers of minigels per run, from 88 to 13 the maximum numbers of samples, and from 1688 to 422 mL the volume of buffer poured into the chamber. Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosomes gave its characteristic DNA band pattern in all compartments, whereas migrations of DNA molecules are not affected by the occlusion of compartments.
A method originally developed for the separation of the three neurotransmitters gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate (Glu) and L-aspartate (L-Asp) in microdialysis samples from rat brain (Sauvinet et al., Electrophoresis 2003, 24, 3187-3196) was applied to human spinal dialysates obtained during peroperative microdialysis from patients undergoing surgery against chronic pain. Molecules were tagged on their primary amine function with the fluorogene agent, naphthalene-2,3-dicarboxaldehyde (NDA), and, after separation by capillary electrophoresis (CE, 75 mmol/L borate buffer, pH 9.2, containing 70 mmol/L sodium dodecyl sulfate and 10 mmol/L hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin, + 25 kV voltage), were detected by laser-induced fluorescence detection (LIFD) using a 442 nm helium-cadmium laser. The complete method, including microdialysis sampling and analysis by CE-LIFD, has been validated for the analysis of human spinal microdialysates. The analytical detection limits were 1, 3.7 and 17 nmol/L for GABA, Glu and L-Asp respectively. This method allows an accurate measurement of the three amino acid neurotransmitters during an in vivo monitoring performed as rapidly as every minute in the human spinal dorsal horn. In addition, the effect of a brief peroperative electrical stimulation of the dorsal rootlets was investigated. The results obtained illustrate the advantages of combining microdialysis with CE-LIFD for studying neurotransmitters with such a high sampling rate.
The arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH) is a critical component of the forebrain pathways that regulate energy homeostasis, and it plays a particularly important role in relaying leptin signal to other part of the hypothalamus. However, until recently, little was known about the development of these critical pathways. Recent work investigating the development of leptin-sensitive hypothalamic pathways suggests possible developmental mechanisms that may contribute to obesity later in life. Anatomic findings indicate that ARH circuits are structurally and functionally immature until the third week of postnatal life in mice. Recent data also suggest that leptin is required for normal development of ARH pathways and that this developmental activity of leptin is restricted to a neonatal window of maximum sensitivity that corresponds to a period of elevated leptin secretion. Thus, leptin may function to organize formation of hypothalamic circuitry in much the same way that sex steroids act on sexually dimorphic circuits. Perturbations in perinatal nutrition that alter leptin levels may, therefore, have enduring consequences for the formation and function of circuits regulating food intake and body weight.
The present review aims at highlighting selective aspects of the medical risks in epilepsy and their prevention. Emphasis is put on accidents and physical injuries, including risk factors and effectiveness of prevention; mortality, its causes, risk factors and prevention of seizure-related deaths, as well as traffic accidents, their risk factors and the effectiveness of prevention. Accidents and injuries are slightly more frequent among people with epilepsy than in the general population. This increased risk is probably most prevalent in patients with symptomatic epilepsy and frequent seizures, most often in combination with associated handicaps. The majority of accidents are trivial and occur at home. The most frequent injuries among patients with epilepsy are contusions, wounds, fractures, abrasions and brain concussions. The standardised mortality ratio (SMR; the ratio of observed number of deaths in a population with epilepsy to that expected, based on age and sex-specific mortality rates in a reference population) in population-based studies of epilepsy is 2-3 compared to the general population. This increased mortality is largely related to the etiology of the epilepsy and is probably not influenced by the treatment of the epilepsy. On the other hand, most fatalities in patients with chronic, therapy resistant epilepsy seem to be seizure-related and often sudden unexpected deaths (SUDEP). The frequency of such seizure-related deaths is most likely to be reduced by intensified treatment aiming at early seizure control, although appropriate studies for definitive evidence are still lacking. Apparently, there is an increased rate of traffic accidents in drivers with epilepsy, even if population-based prospective data are lacking. Many of these accidents are seizure-related. Probably, the extent to which physicians report their patients with uncontrolled epilepsy to the authorities is too low, but this has not yet been explored. Moreover, the preventive measures in legislation may be ignored by many people with epilepsy.
The brain operates as a constellation of modular functions focused on processing information. Neurons are arranged into repetitive circuits called minicolumns which themselves are assembled into macrocolumns. Most of the attention in neuroscience has focused on the experiences of organization--neuronal cellular function at one end and signal cascades and macrocolumns at the other. However, the search for pathological substrates of varied mental conditions are leading to a reassessment of the role of minicolumns in mental disorders. An appreciation of the modular framework of the brain provides a better insight as to how minicolumns contribute to the larger scope of information processing in the normal and pathological state.
Magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex with electromyographic recordings from exercising muscles has shown corticospinal excitability to be depressed following exercise. We now investigate whether this depression spreads to non-exercising muscles and its influence on performance. Healthy volunteers made unilateral biceps curls to exhaustion and, in another later session, for 25% of the time to exhaustion. Bilateral motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) in biceps brachii and first dorsal interosseus muscles were measured at 2-min intervals before and after exercise. In another experiment, subjects performed exhaustive curls and, in addition to MEP areas, force production in biceps, hand-grip force, simple reaction times and movement times were measured bilaterally. MEPs were depressed after exhaustive exercise in the exercising biceps for over 60 min; depression was also observed 10-15 min after exercise in the non-exercising biceps but not in the first dorsal interosseus of either hand. The shorter exercise period produced depression of MEPs only in the exercising muscle. After exhaustive exercise maximum voluntary contraction fell in the exercising biceps and this correlated with MEP areas. No reduction in force was seen in the non-exercising biceps but hand-grip force fell slightly in both arms. There was no change in reaction times or movement times. Depression of MEPs can occur in non-exercising homonymous muscles but not in heteronymous muscles and only when exercise levels are high. There was no measurable functional deficit in the non-exercising limb, so we conclude that the reduced corticospinal excitability observed in this limb has little or no consequence on the performance parameters measured.


Thrombolytic therapy not always improves clinical outcome in ischemic stroke patients. This could cause lymphomonocyte accumulation in the infarcted brain area. These produce an excessive amount of proinflammatory cytokines, such as IL-1 beta, IL-6 and TNF-alfa. The aim of our study was to determine ILs levels in fibrinolytic therapy treated patients, compared with healthy controls and to evaluate if the varying levels can predictors of neurological outcome. Eighteen patients underwent thrombolytic treatment with t-PA within 3 h. Plasma levels of IL-1 beta, IL-6, TNF-alfa and IL-10 were determined by ELISA method before and within 24 h after t-PA infusion and compared with controls. Significantly higher levels of IL-1 beta and Il-6 emerged in stroke patients before treatment compared with the control group (P &lt; 0.05 and 0.04, respectively). Slightly higher plasma levels of TNF-alfa and lower plasma levels of IL-10 were also found at base line in stroke patients. After thrombolytic treatment no significant variations were observed in the levels of TNF-alfa and IL-6, whereas a trend toward lower values for IL-1 beta and higher levels for IL-10 was observed. Positive correlations among the values of IL-6, TNF-alfa and National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) at discharges were observed. A similar correlation with modified Rankin scale score at 3 month was found. Pre-treatment cytokine status seems to influence pre-and long-term clinical outcome. Therefore an investigation into the possible predictor of cytokines seem worthy.
Linkage between the prefrontal cortex and the primary motor cortex is mediated by nonprimary motor-related areas of the frontal lobe. In an attempt to analyse the organization of the prefrontal outflow from area 46 toward the frontal motor-related areas, we investigated the pattern of projections involving the higher-order motor-related areas, such as the presupplementary motor area (pre-SMA) and the rostral cingulate motor area (CMAr). Tracer injections were made into these motor-related areas (their forelimb representation) on the medial wall that had been identified electrophysiologically. The following data were obtained from a series of tract-tracing experiments in Japanese monkeys. (i) Only a few neurons in area 46 were retrogradely labelled from the pre-SMA and CMAr; (ii) terminal labelling from area 46 occurred sparsely in the pre-SMA and CMAr; (iii) a dual labelling technique revealed that the sites of overlap of anterograde labelling from area 46 and retrograde labelling from the pre-SMA and CMAr were evident in the rostral parts of the dorsal and ventral premotor cortices (PMdr and PMvr); (iv) and tracer injections into the PMdr produced neuronal cell labelling in area 46 and terminal labelling in the pre-SMA and CMAr. The present results indicate that a large portion of the prefrontal signals from area 46 is not directly conveyed to the pre-SMA and CMAr, but rather indirectly by way of the PMdr and PMvr. This suggests that area 46 exerts its major influence on the cortical motor system via these premotor areas.
Double-mutant mice (DKO) lacking the two voltage-gated K(+) channels Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 display a series of phenotypic alterations that include ataxia, myoclonus, tremor and alcohol hypersensitivity. The prominent cerebellar expression of mRNAs encoding Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 subunits raised the question as to whether altered electrical activity resulting from the lack of these K(+) channels might be related to the dramatic motor changes. We used the tremorogenic agent harmaline to probe mutant mice lacking different K(+) channel alleles for altered olivocerebellar circuit properties. Harmaline induced the characteristic 13-Hz tremor in wildtype mice (WT); however, no tremor was observed in DKO suggesting that the ensemble properties of the olivocerebellar circuitry are altered in the absence of Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 subunits. Harmaline induced tremor in Kv3.1-single mutants, but it was of smaller amplitude and at a lower frequency indicating the participation of Kv3.1 subunits in normal olivocerebellar system function. In contrast, harmaline tremor was virtually absent in Kv3.3-single mutants indicating an essential role for Kv3.3 subunits in tremor induction by harmaline. Immunohistochemical staining for Kv3.3 showed clear expression in the somata and proximal dendrites of Purkinje cells and in their axonal projections to the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN). In DCN, both Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 subunits are expressed. Action potential duration is increased by approximately 100% in Purkinje cells from Kv3.3-single mutants compared to WT or Kv3.1-single mutants. We conclude that Kv3.3 channel subunits are essential for the olivocerebellar system to generate and sustain normal harmaline tremor whereas Kv3.1 subunits influence tremor amplitude and frequency.
Two prominent characteristics of Alzheimer's disease are basal forebrain cholinergic degeneration and neuroinflammation characterized by glial activation and the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Mu p75- saporin (SAP) is a novel immunotoxin that mimics the selective loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and induces cognitive impairment in mice. We report that cholinergic cell loss in the medial septal nucleus and ventral diagonal band after i.c.v. injection of mu p75-SAP is accompanied by simultaneous activation of microglia and astrocytes in the basal forebrain region as well as significant memory loss. Consistent with a role of glial cells in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease, minocycline, a second-generation tetracycline with known anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties, attenuated mu p75-SAP-induced cholinergic cell loss, glial activation and transcription of downstream pro-inflammatory mediators. In addition to neuroprotection, minocycline treatment mitigated the cognitive impairment that appears to be a functional consequence of mu p75-SAP lesioning. The current study demonstrates that glial-related inflammation plays a significant role in the selective neurotoxicity of mu p75-SAP, and suggests that minocycline may provide a viable therapeutic option for degenerating cholinergic systems.
The type of K(+) channels controlling the waveform of the presynaptic spike and synaptic transmission were examined in the lamprey spinal cord. Reticulospinal neuron somata displayed a transient K(+) current with a high voltage-activation and inactivation. This current was selectively blocked by catechol at 100 microM. Reticulospinal axons also displayed a high voltage-activated fast K(+) current sensitive to catechol. The function of this presynaptic high voltage-activated fast K(+) current in controlling synaptic transmission was investigated by using paired intracellular recordings from reticulospinal axons and their targets. Blockade of this current by catechol (100 microM) prolonged the presynaptic spike elicited by a single stimulus leading to a potentiation of the postsynaptic EPSP. Calcium imaging of reticulospinal axons showed an increase in presynaptic calcium transients after blockade of the presynaptic K(+) current by catechol. During high frequency firing, catechol revealed an activity-dependent decrease in the spike duration, which resulted in a depression of synaptic transmission. These results suggest that the presynaptic high voltage-activated transient K(+) current acts to optimize the temporal fidelity of synaptic transmission by minimizing activity-dependent changes in the presynaptic spike waveform and calcium dynamics.
Certain disorders of the nervous system may have their origin in disturbances in the development of synaptic connections and network structure that may not become overt until later in life. As inflammatory cytokines can influence synaptic activity in neuronal cultures, we analysed whether cytokine exposure during synaptogenesis can lead to imbalances in a neuronal network. Short-term application of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), but not tumour necrosis factor-alpha, during peak synaptogenesis (but not before or after) in Sprague-Dawley rat hippocampal cultures, caused both a decrease in the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and an increase in the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs). These effects were only detected in recordings made weeks later. This was not due to a depression of glutamatergic synapses or to a change in the relative number of neurons containing glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). There was an increase in the average amplitude of miniature IPSCs, and in GAD-expressing neurons the amplitude of miniature EPSCs were larger as well as the responses to glutamate. This indicates that IFN-gamma-treatment induced increased inhibition via postsynaptic changes. These effects of IFN-gamma treatment were not observed when neuronal nitric oxide synthase was inhibited. Our study therefore shows that exposure to IFN-gamma during a restricted period of development, which coincides with the peak of excitatory synaptogenesis, can cause progressive changes in synaptic activity in the network. Thus, cytokine exposure at a critical period of development may constitute a 'hit-and-run' mechanism for certain nervous system disorders that become manifest after a latency period.
The processes by which a Schwann cell (SC) migrates towards, wraps around and, in some cases, myelinates an axon are incompletely understood. The complex morphological rearrangements involved in these events require fundamental changes in the actin cytoskeleton. Sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) and lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) are two modulators of the actin cytoskeleton, and receptors for these signalling lipids are expressed on SCs at the time of differentiation. Previous work has revealed a role for LPA in SC survival, morphology and differentiation, but the effects of S1P have received less attention. Here we show that S1P and LPA both cause major rearrangements to the actin cytoskeleton in primary rat SCs and the SCL4.1/F7 rat SC line. S1P and LPA caused formation of lamellipodia and a circular geodesic actin network. We also show that S1P and LPA increased cell migration. The small GTPases RhoA and Rac1 were both activated by S1P/LPA treatment, but the actin rearrangements were dependent on Rac1 and not RhoA. These effects of S1P/LPA could be mimicked by SCL4.1/F7 cell-conditioned medium, which was found to contain S1P. Reduction in cellular synthesis of S1P by adding the sphingosine kinase inhibitor dimethyl sphingosine during medium conditioning reduced the ability of conditioned medium to cause actin rearrangements. These results support a role for S1P as an autocrine signal regulating the actin cytoskeleton during Schwann cell development.
Using event-related fMRI, this study investigated the neural dynamics of response inhibition under fluctuating task demands. Fourteen participants performed a GO/NOGO task requiring inhibition of a prepotent motor response to NOGO events that occurred as part of either a Fast or Slow presentation stream of GO stimuli. We compared functional activations associated with correct withholds (Stops) required during the Fast presentation stream of stimuli to Stops required during the Slow presentation stream. A predominantly right hemispheric network was activated across conditions, consistent with previous studies. Furthermore, a functional dissociation of activations between conditions was observed. Slow Stops elicited additional activation in anterior dorsal and polar prefrontal cortex and left inferior parietal cortex. Fast Stops showed additional activation in a network that included right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, insula and dorsal striatum. These results are discussed in terms of our understanding of the impact of preparation on the distributed network underlying response inhibition and the contribution of subcortical areas, such as the basal ganglia, to executive control processes.
Increased kynurenine pathway metabolism has been implicated in the aetiology of lentiviral encephalopathy. Indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) initiates the increased production of kynurenine pathway metabolites like quinolinic acid (QUIN). QUIN itself is elevated in AIDS-diseased monkey and human brain parenchyma and cerebrospinal fluid at levels excitotoxic for neurons in vitro. This study investigates the cellular origin of IDO biosynthesis in the brain of rhesus monkeys infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) and explores the effects of CNS-permeant antiretroviral treatment. IDO transcript and protein were absent from the brain of non-infected and SIV-infected asymptomatic monkeys. IDO biosynthesis was induced in the brain of monkeys exhibiting AIDS. Nodule and multinucleated giant cell-forming macrophages were the main sources of IDO synthesis. Treatment with the lipophilic 6-chloro-2',3'-dideoxyguanosine suppressed IDO expression in the brain of AIDS-diseased monkeys. The effectiveness of this treatment was confirmed by the reduction of virus burden and SIV-induced perivascular infiltrates, mononuclear nodules and multinucleated giant cells. Our data demonstrate that brain IDO biosynthesis is induced in a subset of monocyte-derived cells, depends on viral burden and is susceptible to antiretroviral treatment. Thus, IDO induction is associated with reversible overt inflammatory events localized to areas of active viral replication in the SIV-infected brain.
The hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system (HNS) is composed of hypothalamic magnocellular neurons and neural lobe pituicytes that accommodate the nerve terminals. Here we have investigated if the communication of the peptidergic neurons of the HNS with neighbouring cells plays a role in the development and assembly of the HNS. We employed munc18-1-deficient mice, which completely lack neurotransmitter secretion. Morphological and immunohistological analysis of the HNS in these mutant embryos during brain development showed that this peptidergic system was formed normally during early embryogenesis. However, the development arrested at embryonal day 14.5, the stage when terminal differentiation has to take place. The peptidergic neurons targeted axons in the correct direction, but few arrived at their final location and the neurons were not maintained in later stages. The pituicytes in the neural lobe of the pituitary were generated, but failed to organize normally. Our results indicate that peptide gene expression, axon outgrowth and migration are intrinsic developmental events in these peptidergic neurons, that are initiated in the munc18-1 null mutant. The further expansion and the integration of outgrowing axon terminals with neural lobe pituicytes requires munc18-1-dependent processes, probably exocytosis, at multiple levels. Firstly, to maintain and propagate neuronal outgrowth and guidance, and secondly, to control the cellular organization of the pituicytes. Thus, the communication between the outgrowing neurons and the pituicytes could serve to integrate these two cell types to constitute a functional peptidergic system.

Experimental evidence suggests that release of neurotransmitters in response to acute noxious stimulation and inflammation can differ in superficial and deeper dorsal horn (DH) laminae. Using two different microdialysis probes, we studied changes in levels of glutamate, aspartate, arginine and GABA in dialysates collected from the surface of the spinal cord and within the DH induced by pinching the paw or paw inflammation. In penthotal anaesthetized rats, a flexible microdialysis probe was placed on the dorsal surface of the L4-L5 or L6-S2 spinal segments. In other rats, a rigid microdialysis probe was implanted within the DH of the same segments. Samples were collected every minute before, during and after pinching the hind paw (acute pain), and every half an hour after injecting either carrageenan or saline into the same paw (inflammation-induced pain). Amino acids were measured by capillary zone electrophoresis with laser-induced fluorescence detection (CZE-LIFD). Pinching the paw induced a significant but short lasting increase in extracellular glutamate and aspartate in dialysates from the surface of the DH. Carrageenan, but not saline, injected into the paw significantly increased concentrations of glutamate, aspartate and arginine both on the surface and within the DH of L4-L5 and also within the DH of the L6-S2 segments. The GABA level was significantly increased following carrageenan only within the DH. The maximum increase on the surface was detected 60-120 min after the onset of inflammation whereas the response within the DH reached a maximum between 150 and 180 min after carrageenan. These results indicate that unlike acute mechanical noxious stimulation which enhances amino acid neurotransmitters in surface dialysate, inflammation induced neurotransmitter release in all layers of the DH suggesting sensitization of the DH.
Relatively little is known about the process whereby the endocannabinoid anandamide (AEA) is released from cells. A simple way of studying this process is to sample the appearance in the medium of tritium following preloading of cells with [(3)H]AEA under conditions where its metabolism is prevented. However, this approach may be complicated by the ability of AEA to be adsorbed reversibly to the cell culture wells. In the present study, it is found that cell culture wells adsorb almost half of the added AEA in a manner prevented by fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin, and by the prototypical uptake inhibitors AM404 and VDM11 with IC(50) values of 3 and 1 microM, respectively. After incubation followed by washing of the plates, AEA is released into the medium from the wells by a first order process (K approximately 0.1 min(-1)) that is temperature-dependent and increased by AM404 and fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin. When assays were run with 0.15% fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin during the loading, washing and release phases of the assay, the release from the well was greatly reduced and a first order, temperature-sensitive release from C6 glioma cells could be unmasked. It is concluded that the reversible adsorption of AEA by cell culture wells can be a confounding factor in release experiments.
In internal medicine German authors tend to publish randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with non-significant findings in German journals, RCTs with significant findings in international journals. In the neurosciences a similar trend was seen but the findings were not statistically significant. The reason for this inconclusive finding might be the low number of RCTs published in German.
The DSM-IV criteria recognize the existence of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) with poor insight. However, there is paucity of literature on the clinical correlates and treatment response in poor and good insight OCD. In this study, insight is measured by using the Brown Assessment of Beliefs Scale (BABS) developed specifically to assess insight. One hundred subjects with DSM-IV OCD were ascertained from the OCD clinic of a large psychiatric hospital in India. All subjects were evaluated extensively by using structured instruments and established measures of psychopathology. The subjects were treated with adequate doses of drugs for adequate period. The results showed that 25% of the subjects had poor insight. Poor insight was associated with earlier age-at-onset, longer duration of illness, more number of obsessive-compulsive symptoms, more severe illness and higher comorbidity rate, particularly major depression. Of the subjects who were treated adequately (N = 73), 44 (60%) were treatment responders. Poor insight was associated with poor response to drug treatment. In the step-wise logistic regression analysis, baseline BABS score was highly predictive of poor treatment response. Poor insight appears to be associated with specific clinical correlates and poor response to drug treatment. Further studies are needed in larger samples to replicate our findings.
Among the many deleterious effects of maternal smoking during pregnancy on foetal development, is a higher incidence of persistent pulmonary hypertension. The recent identification of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) on cells of the pulmonary vessel walls suggests that maternal smoking during pregnancy may produce morphological alterations in foetal pulmonary vasculature. Timed-pregnant rhesus monkeys were treated with nicotine (1 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1)) delivered by subcutaneous osmotic mini-pumps from days 26-134 of gestation (term: 165 days). Lung sections from 134-day foetal monkeys were used for morphometric analysis, in situ hybridisation and immunohistochemical staining. Following nicotine treatment, total wall and tunica adventitia thickness of airway associated vessels (AAV) increased significantly. Nicotine exposure significantly increased collagen I and III mRNA and protein in tunica adventitia in all AAV but not in tunica media. By contrast, levels of elastin protein were significantly decreased. alpha7 nAChR were detected in AAV fibroblasts that expressed collagen mRNA. Choline acetyltransferase, the enzyme which synthesises acetylcholine, the ligand for alpha7 nAChR was also detected in endothelium and fibroblasts. These findings suggest that with smoking during pregnancy, nicotine is transported across the placenta and directly interacts with nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in pulmonary vessels to alter connective tissue expression and therefore produce vascular structural alterations.
It has been reported that a brief perturbation of a stationary target during fixation induces larger eye movement when monkeys anticipate future smooth pursuit than when they do not. Here, we recorded eye movements in human subjects after briefly perturbing a target and the eccentricity of its initial position was changed under three conditions: (1) subjects anticipated saccades for a target that appeared before; (2) they anticipated smooth pursuit for a target that appeared before; and (3) they anticipated smooth pursuit but did not know beforehand where the target started from. We found that in condition 2 substantial eye movements were induced by the perturbation started moving toward the center. However, weak responses were observed in conditions 1 and 3. These results indicate that ocular responses to brief perturbations of the target at eccentric positions are increased with centripetal bias when human subjects prepare for future smooth pursuit.
We examined primary afferent depolarization (PAD) in the anesthetized cat elicited in 109 pairs of intraspinal collaterals of single group I afferents from the gastrocnemius nerve, one of the pair ending in the L3 segment, around the Clarke's column nuclei, and the other in the L6 segment within the intermediate zone. Tests for refractoriness were made to assess whether the responses produced by intraspinal stimulation in the L3 and L6 segments were due to activation of collaterals of the same afferent fiber. PAD in each collateral was estimated by independent computer-controlled measurement of the intraspinal current required to maintain a constant probability of antidromic firing. In most fibers, stimulation of the ipsilateral posterior biceps and semitendinosus (PBSt) nerve with trains of pulses maximal for group I afferents had a qualitatively similar effect but produced a larger PAD in the L6 than in the L3 collaterals. Stimulation of cutaneous nerves (sural and superficial peroneus) with single pulses and of the posterior articular nerve, the ipsilateral reticular formation, nucleus raphe magnus and contralateral motor cortex with trains of pulses often had qualitatively different effects. They could produce PAD and/or facilitate the PBSt-induced PAD in one collateral, and produce PAH and/or inhibit the PAD in the other collateral. These patterns could be changed in a differential manner by sensory or supraspinal conditioning stimulation. In summary, the present investigation suggests that the segmental and ascending collaterals of individual afferents are not fixed routes for information transmission, but parts of dynamic systems in which information transmitted to segmental reflex pathways and to Clarke's column neurons by common sources can be decoupled by sensory and descending inputs and funneled to specific targets according to the motor tasks to be performed.
In various studies subjects have been shown to misperceive the positions of targets that are flashed during pursuit eye movements. They mislocalise them in the direction of pursuit. Nevertheless, Hansen (1979) found that subjects accurately hit targets that are flashed during pursuit with a quick hammer blow. We examined whether this is because there is a fundamental difference between the information that determines our perceptual judgements of a target's position and the information that is used to guide our hand to a similar target. Subjects were asked to quickly tap targets that were flashed during pursuit with their index finger. They systematically tapped ahead of the position of the flash, in accordance with the above-mentioned perceptual mislocalisations. Thus the lack of systematic errors in Hansen's study is not a general property of fast motor responses.
Weak transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can induce long lasting changes in cortical excitability. In the present study we asked whether tDCS applied to the left primary motor cortex (M1) also produces aftereffects distant from the site of the stimulating electrodes. We therefore tested corticospinal excitability in the left and the right M1 and transcallosal excitability between the two cortices using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) before and after applying tDCS. Eight healthy subjects received 10 min of anodal or cathodal tDCS (1 mA) to the left M1. We examined the amplitude of contralateral motor evoked potentials (MEPs) and the onset latency and duration of transcallosal inhibition with single pulse TMS. MEPs evoked from the tDCS stimulated (left) M1 were increased by 32% after anodal and decreased by 27% after cathodal tDCS, while transcallosal inhibition evoked from the left M1 remained unchanged. The effect on MEPs evoked from the left M1 lasted longer for cathodal than for anodal tDCS. MEPs evoked from the right M1 were unchanged whilst the duration of transcallosal inhibition evoked from the right M1 was shortened after cathodal tDCS and prolonged after anodal tDCS. The duration of transcallosal inhibition returned to control values before the effect on the MEPs from the left M1 had recovered. These findings are compatible with the idea that tDCS-induced aftereffects in the cortical motor system are limited to the stimulated hemisphere, and that tDCS not only affects corticospinal circuits involved in producing MEPs but also inhibitory interneurons mediating transcallosal inhibition from the contralateral hemisphere.
When subjects repetitively lift an object, the grip force they select is influenced by the mechanical object properties of the preceding lift. Similar effects on grip force scaling are observed whether the subsequent lift is performed with the same hand or the hand contralateral to the preceding lift. Here we demonstrate that passive vibration of the hand muscles involved in the generation of grip force in the interval between two blocks of lifting trials interferes with predictive grip force scaling. Following ten trials in which subjects lifted an object with constant mechanical properties with the dominant hand, muscle vibration was given to the first interosseus and adductor pollicis muscles of the dominant hand during a 10-min rest period. Compared with the last lift preceding vibration, peak rates of grip force increase and peak grip forces were scaled too high during the first lift following vibration whether the lift was made with the dominant or non-dominant hand. Subjects scaled grip force accurately to the object properties within three lifts following vibration. If subjects rested for 10 min after the first ten trials and received no vibration, then there was no significant difference in the peak grip force or its rate of increase between the last lift preceding rest and the first lift following it. We suggest that vibration impairs the memory processes responsible for predictive grip force scaling. Our data are consistent with the recent suggestion that these memory processes are neither specific for a certain motor action nor do they reflect internal representations of mechanical object properties.
Engraftment of olfactory ensheathing cells (OEC), a unique type of glia required for olfactory nerve growth throughout life, has been shown to foster axonal regeneration in different types of CNS and PNS injuries. However, a lack of suitable markers of OEC has hindered studies assessing survival and function of OEC grafts following transplantation. The aim of this study was to examine the possible usefulness of superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (magnetodendrimers) as a label to allow in vivo tracking of grafted OEC by MR imaging and to determine temporal and spatial migration of OEC in normal and injured rat spinal cords, including the possibility of such cells to cross a complete spinal cord injury zone. We found that labeled OEC were readily detectable in vivo by MR imaging for at least 2 months. Labeled OEC migrated extensively in normal spinal cord as shown by MRI and histological markers. In contrast, OEC showed limited migration in transected spinal cord and were not able to cross the transection gap. Furthermore, iron-containing hemorrhage products confounded interpretation of MR contrast patterns in the injured spinal cord. We conclude that (1) MR imaging is useful for noninvasive observation of cell migration dynamics after grafting in vivo, although interpretation in severe injuries should be cautious, and that (2) OEC migratory and thus regeneration-enhancing ability is limited when confronted with the glial scar of a transected spinal cord.
In the present study, we have studied the expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and its receptors Ret, GFRalpha1, and GFRalpha2 in the retino-tectal system before and after optic nerve transection. Using retrograde neuronal tracing in combination with in situ hybridization, we found that Ret and GFRalpha1 are expressed by 13-14% of the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). These Ret-expressing RGCs could not be identified as belonging to any particular of the RG(A), RG(B), and RG(C) sub types. Ret is co-expressed with the brain-derived neurotrophic factor receptor TrkB in these RGCs. Optic nerve transection resulted in reduced Ret mRNA levels in retina, while the levels of GDNF, GFRalpha1, and 2 mRNA increased. Administration of GDNF protein supported the axotomized RGCs. Analysis of normal superior colliculus (SC) did not show any expression of GDNF mRNA, yet GDNF mRNA levels in SC increased after injury. Together, these findings identify a portion of RGCs as being possible targets for pharmacological treatment with GDNF in a direct mode of action. The absence of detectable GDNF mRNA in normal SC questions the role for GDNF as being a target-derived factor produced in the SC for adult RGCs. The results support a function for GDNF locally in the retina and as part of an injury-induced system that may act to enhance neuroprotective and neuroregenerative responses both to endogenous GDNF ligands and those administered exogenously.
We investigated in vivo in rats whether sufficient glutamate is released following spinal cord injury (SCI) to kill oligodendrocytes. Microdialysis sampling was used to establish the level of glutamate released (550 +/- 80 microM) in the white matter during SCI. This glutamate concentration was administered into the spinal cords of other rats and the densities of oligodendrocytes remaining 24 and 72 h later determined by counting cells immunostained with the oligodendrocyte marker CC-1. Administration of ACSF, 4.0 mM glutamate (estimated resulting tissue exposure 500 microM) and 10.0 mM glutamate by microdialysis reduced oligodendrocyte density 22%, 57%, and 74%, respectively, relative to normal at 24 h post-exposure. Therefore, sufficient glutamate is released following SCI to damage white matter. Oligodendrocyte densities near the fiber track were not significantly different at 72 h from 24 h post-exposure, so most glutamate-induced oligodendrocyte death occurs within 24 h after exposure. Injecting the AMPA/kainate receptor blocker NBQX into the spinal cord during glutamate administration reduced the glutamate-induced decrease in oligodendrocyte density, evidence for AMPA/kainate receptor involvement in glutamate-induced oligodendrocyte death. This work directly demonstrates in vivo that following SCI glutamate reaches concentrations toxic to white matter and that AMPA/kainate receptors mediate this glutamate toxicity to oligodendrocytes.
The behavior and myelinogenic properties of glial cells have been well documented following transplantation into regions of focal experimental demyelination in animal models. However, the ability of glial cell preparations to remyelinate in such models does not necessarily indicate that their transplantation into demyelinated lesions in clinical disease will be successful. One of the precluding factors in this regard is a greater understanding of the environmental conditions that will support transplant-mediated remyelination. In this study, we determined whether the complex and reactive CNS environment of the mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) model of multiple sclerosis (MS) could support transplant-mediated remyelination. Striatal neural precursors derived from postnatal day 1 mice were committed to a glial cell lineage and labeled. Immunohistochemical staining indicated that this population generated &gt;93% glial cells following differentiation in vitro. Transplantation of glial-committed progenitor cells into the T8 spinal cord of MHV-infected mice demonstrating complete hindlimb paralysis resulted in migration of cells up to 12 mm from the implantation site and remyelination of up to 67% of axons. Transplanted-remyelinated animals contained approximately 2x the number of axons within sampled regions of the ventral and lateral columns as compared to non-transplanted animals, suggesting that remyelination is associated with axonal sparing. Furthermore, transplantation resulted in behavioral improvement. This study demonstrates for the first time that transplant-mediated remyelination is possible in the pathogenic environment of the MHV demyelination model and that it is associated with locomotor improvement.

The purpose of this study was to determine if relatively short-term vitamin E supplementation could reverse age-associated impairments in cognitive or motor function and the accumulated oxidative damage in the brain of aged mice. Separate groups of 5- or 20-month-old C57BL6 mice were placed on either a control diet or the same diet supplemented with alpha-tocopheryl acetate (1.65 g/kg). After 4 weeks on the diets, mice were tested for cognitive and motor functions over the next 8 weeks, during which the supplementation was maintained. Vitamin E supplementation increased the concentration of alpha-tocopherol in the cerebral cortex of both the young and old mice, but did not significantly affect oxidative damage to proteins and lipids in the brain cortex. When compared with young controls, the old control mice showed slower learning of a swim maze, longer reaction times, diminished auditory and shock-startle responsiveness, and diminished motor performance on tests of coordinated running and bridge walking. The vitamin E-administered old mice failed to show improvement of function relative to age-matched controls on any of the tests, but did show altered retention performance on the swim maze task and impaired performance in the test of coordinated running. The latter effects were not evident in young mice on the supplemented diet. Results of this study suggest that, when implemented in relatively old mice, supplementation of vitamin E is ineffective in reversing preexisting age-related impairments of cognitive or motor function, and has little effect on common measures of protein or lipid oxidative damage in the mouse brain. Moreover, the current findings indicate that vitamin E could have detrimental effects on some brain functions when implemented in older animals.
One of the possible therapies for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the introduction of a functional copy of the dystrophin gene into the patient. For this approach to be effective, therapeutic levels and long-term expression of the protein need to be achieved. However, immune responses to the newly expressed dystrophin have been predicted, particularly in DMD patients who express no dystrophin or only very truncated versions. In a previous study, we demonstrated a strong humoral and cytotoxic immune response to human dystrophin in the mdx mouse. However, the mdx mouse was tolerant to murine dystrophin, possibly due to the endogenous expression of dystrophin in revertant fibres or the other nonmuscle dystrophin isoforms. In the present study, we delivered human and murine dystrophin plasmids by electrotransfer after hyaluronidase pretreatment to increase gene transfer efficiencies. Tolerance to murine dystrophin was still seen with this improved gene delivery. Tolerance to exogenous recombinant full-length human dystrophin was seen in mdx transgenic lines expressing internally deleted versions of human dystrophin. These results suggest that the presence of revertant fibres may prevent the development of serious immune responses in patients undergoing dystrophin gene therapy.

The chicken neural tube serves as an ideal model for new techniques to alter gene expression. We show that short-hairpin RNA delivered by a plasmid vector can effectively knock down expression of both exogenous and endogenous genes in the chicken neural tube. We also assay the effects of short-hairpin RNA on the interferon response and find no difference between electroporation of a control plasmid and a short-hairpin RNA plasmid.





Various infectious agents, and viruses in particular, have been proposed as potential causes of Alzheimer's disease. Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) is one of the stronger candidates because it is neurotropic, ubiquitous in the general population and able to establish lifelong latency in the host. The body of evidence for the role of HSV-1 in Alzheimer's disease is contentious but centres around its presence in the regions of the brain affected by Alzheimer's disease. The fact that HSV-1 is also present in elderly patients without the disease suggests that the virus is not an independent cause of the condition. The incidence of Alzheimer's disease is highest in carriers of the apolipoprotein (APO) E-e4 allele who harbour HSV-1 DNA in the CNS, so it is possible that these agents are co-factors for the disease. However, studies investigating this have been small and limited by the need to access brain tissue from non-diseased APOE-e4 carriers. Human herpesvirus type 6 (HHV-6) is another virus investigated as a potential contributor to Alzheimer's disease. However, it is uncertain whether its presence is a cause or a consequence of the disease and it may be that HHV-6 merely exacerbates the potentially harmful effects of HSV-1 in APOE-e4 carriers. It is difficult to ascertain the role of an infectious agent in Alzheimer's disease due to the difficulty of establishing the timepoint at which the agent becomes involved. Further research into the possible link between herpesviruses and Alzheimer's disease is therefore required.
The most common form of autosomal recessive (AR) hereditary inclusion-body myopathy (HIBM), originally described in Persian-Jewish families, is characterized by onset in early adult life with weakness and atrophy of distal lower limb muscles, which progress proximally and relatively spare the quadriceps. AR HIBM is associated with mutations in the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase gene (GNE) on chromosome 9p12-13. In the present study we have identified seven novel GNE mutations in patients from five unrelated Italian families with clinical and pathologic features indicative of AR HIBM. Four were missense mutations (c.1556A&gt;G [p.N519S], c.79C&gt;T [p.P27S], c.1798G&gt;A [p.A600T] and c.616G&gt;A [p.G206S]), two consisted in a single-base deletion (c.616delG [p.G206fsX4] and c.1130delT [p.I377fsX16]) and one in an intronic single-base insertion (c.1070+2dupT). These latter findings further extend the type of GNE mutations associated with HIBM. Furthermore, in one patient we also identified the c.737G&gt;A [p.R246Q] missense mutation that corresponds to the one previously reported in a family from the Bahamas. Interestingly, in two of our families distinct mutations affected nucleotide c.616 in exon 3 (c.616delG and c.616G&gt;A). The possibility of specific portions of the gene being more prone to mutations remains to be elucidated.
The analysis of action potentials, or &quot;spikes,&quot; is central to systems neuroscience research. Spikes are typically identified from raw waveforms manually for off-line analysis or automatically by human-configured algorithms for on-line applications. The variability of manual spike &quot;sorting&quot; is studied and its implications for neural prostheses discussed. Waveforms were recorded using a micro-electrode array and were used to construct a statistically similar synthetic dataset. Results showed wide variability in the number of neurons and spikes detected in real data. Additionally, average error rates of 23% false positive and 30% false negative were found for synthetic data.
During early postnatal development in the rat, the tissue architecture of the pituitary gland shows changes, revealing an intense migration process of the cells. The aim of this work was to examine anterior pituitary cell migration over type I and III collagen as well as type IV collagen, of cultured pituitary cells from infantile rats and adult rats, and the participation of the epidermal growth factor in this process. Differences in cell migration rate over these two types of collagen substrates were observed at both ages, and all in all, three times more cells migrated over type I/III collagen than over type IV collagen. These data show the migration-promoting role of type I/III collagen for pituitary cells. Furthermore, when infantile cells were challenged to migrate over bovine serum albumin, the migration rate diminished, and, on the contrary, adult cell migration was higher. However, over collagen, infantile cells increased their migration rate with epidermal growth factor stimulation and adult cells showed a decrease in migration when the growth factor was in the medium. During migration, pituitary cells associated and arranged in clusters. This behavior increased in the presence of epidermal growth factor in the infantile cultures. Moreover, epidermal growth-factor-stimulated infantile cells formed larger aggregates. Adult cells also showed associative behavior, but more cells were observed isolated than in cluster arrangements and the growth factor did not induce changes in this behavior. Results showed a difference in the response of cell migration and cell association capacity to epidermal growth factor after migration of infantile and adult pituitary cells. With these observations we propose that epidermal growth factor is a cell regulator of the pituitary tissue re-arrangement process during the infantile period.
Neural progenitor cells have shown the effectiveness in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, but the therapeutic efficacy remains variable. One of important factors that determine the efficacy is the necessity of pre-differentiation of progenitor cells into dopaminergic neurons before transplantation. This study therefore investigated the therapeutic efficacy of mesencephalon-derived human neural progenitor cells with or without the pre-differentiation in alleviating a rat model of Parkinson's disease. We found that a combination of 50 ng/ml fibroblast growth factor 8, 10 ng/ml glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and 10 microM forskolin facilitated the differentiation of human fetal mesencephalic progenitor cells into dopaminergic neurons in vitro. More importantly, after transplanted into the striatum of parkinsonian rats, only pre-differentiated grafts resulted in an elevated production of dopamine in the transplanted site and the amelioration of behavioral impairments of the parkinsonian rats. Unlike pre-differentiated progenitors, grafted intact progenitors rarely differentiated into dopaminergic neurons in vivo and emigrated actively away from the transplanted site. These data demonstrates the importance of pre-differentiation of human progenitor cells before transplantation in enhancing therapeutic potency for Parkinson's disease.
The objectives of this study are to compare the two definitions of female sexual dysfunction, namely dysfunction per se (A category) and personal distress caused by dysfunction (B category), and to gauge their associations with some sociodemographic aspects and level of sexual well-being. The subjects were a nationally representative sample of sexually active Swedish women (n: 1056) aged 18-65 y, who participated in a combined structured interview/questionnaire investigation. The functions analysed were: self-reported sexual desire, interest, lubrication, orgasm, genital pain and vaginism, which were subclassified for the A and B categories into no, mild (sporadically occurring) and manifest dysfunction. Sexual well-being was reported along a six-grade scale ranging from very satisfied to very dissatisfied. The sociodemographic items registered were: education, occupation, financial situation, social group, immigrant status, location of domicile and church-going. Aggregated mild and manifest dysfunction per se of sexual interest, orgasm and vaginal lubrication were reported by about 60-90%. More than one-third had dyspareunia, but few reported vaginism. Mild dysfunctions were clearly more common than manifest dysfunctions. Not fully 45% of those with manifest low interest and orgasm perceived these dysfunctions as manifestly distressing, while in 60-70% lubricational insufficiency of dyspareunia led to manifest distress. Age and the included sociodemographic variables had marginal or no influence on sexual functions. A four-factor sexual function pattern was identified, closely linking A and B categories in a pairwise manner. Three factors, labelled sexual desire, orgasm and genital function were powerful classifiers (discriminant analysis) of level of sexual well-being. Hence, it is a matter of taste whether to use the A or the B category. Together, they can explain the gross level of satisfaction with sexual life to an adequate extent.

There is extensive comorbidity between depression and anxiety disorders. Dimensional psychiatric and psychometric approaches have suggested that dysregulation of a limited number of behavioural dimensions that cut across diagnostic categories can account for both the shared and unique symptoms of depression and anxiety disorders. Such an approach recognizes that anxiety, the emotional response to stress, is a key element of depression as well as the defining feature of anxiety disorders, and many antidepressants appear to be effective in the treatment of anxiety disorders as well as depression. Therefore, the pharmacological actions of these drugs must account for their efficacy in both. Brain noradrenergic and serotonergic systems, and perhaps to a more limited extent the dopaminergic system, regulate or modulate many of the same behavioural dimensions (e.g. negative or positive affect) that are affected in depression and anxiety disorders, and that are ameliorated by drug treatment. Whereas much recent research has focused on the regulatory effects of antidepressants on synaptic function and cellular proteins, less emphasis has been placed on monoaminergic regulation at a more global systemic level, or how such systemic alterations in monoaminergic function might alleviate the behavioural, cognitive, emotional and physiological manifestations of depression and anxiety disorders. In this review, we discuss how chronic antidepressant treatment might regulate the tonic activity and/or phasic reactivity of brain monoaminergic systems to account for their ability to effectively modify the behavioural dimensions underlying improvement in both depression and anxiety disorders.

The effect of transient hypertension on blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, particularly on extravasation of immunoglobulin G (IgG), has not been fully understood. In the present experiment, we investigated the time course of endogenous albumin and IgG extravasation through BBB and the localization of extravasated IgG in brain parenchyma during adrenaline(AD)-induced transient hypertension in the rat by using Evans blue fluorescence, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot. The results showed that a bolus injection of AD (10 microg/kg) induced a transient elevation of arterial pressure lasting about 1 min. The endogenous albumin and IgG entered the brain parenchyma via BBB only when hypertension occurred. Electron microscopically, the IgG-like immunoreactivities were predominantly seen in the cytoplasm of endothelia of capillaries, pericytes, extracellular space of parenchyma, and the cytoplasm of glial cells. The results suggest that circulating IgG or antibodies might contact the structures of brain parenchyma through passage of BBB when its permeability is temporally changed by transient hypertension. This phenomenon implies a possible mechanism of pathogenesis for immune-mediated diseases in the brain.

The histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PB) is a non-toxic compound that can induce differentiation and promote maturation of various types of malignant cells. In the present study we show that 4-PB inhibit glioma cell proliferation, induce apoptosis and decrease mRNA expression of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) in a concentration-dependent manner. Proliferation of established rat glioma cell lines (RG2 and C6) in culture was significantly decreased after treatment with 4-PB (2-40 mM). Low concentrations of 4-PB (2-20 mM) induced cell differentiation followed by apoptosis, whereas higher concentrations of 4-PB (40 mM) induced cell necrosis. Also, low concentrations of 4-PB significantly decreased GAPDH mRNA expression in C6 and RG2 rat glioma cells, suggesting a link between decreased cell proliferation, energy consumption, and down-regulation of GAPDH gene expression. We have found that GAPDH mRNA expression is markedly increased in human glioblastoma tissues. Therefore, the novel effect of 4-PB described here may offer means to suppress growth of glioma cells by diminishing the key reaction in glycolysis as a therapeutic approach for cancer.
The angry facial expression is an important socially threatening stimulus argued to have evolved to regulate social hierarchies. In the present study, event-related potentials (ERP) were used to investigate the involvement and temporal dynamics of the frontal and parietal regions in the processing of angry facial expressions. Angry, happy and neutral faces were shown to eighteen healthy right-handed volunteers in a passive viewing task. Stimulus-locked ERPs were recorded from the frontal and parietal scalp sites. The P200, N300 and early contingent negativity variation (eCNV) components of the electric brain potentials were investigated. Analyses revealed statistical significant reductions in P200 amplitudes for the angry facial expression on both frontal and parietal electrode sites. Furthermore, apart from being strongly associated with the anterior P200, the N300 showed to be more negative for the angry facial expression in the anterior regions also. Finally, the eCNV was more pronounced over the parietal sites for the angry facial expressions. The present study demonstrated specific electrocortical correlates underlying the processing of angry facial expressions in the anterior and posterior brain sectors. The P200 is argued to indicate valence tagging by a fast and early detection mechanism. The lowered N300 with an anterior distribution for the angry facial expressions indicates more elaborate evaluation of stimulus relevance. The fact that the P200 and the N300 are highly correlated suggests that they reflect different stages of the same anterior evaluation mechanism. The more pronounced posterior eCNV suggests sustained attention to socially threatening information.
Working memory capacity has been consistently shown to decline with increasing age. Mechanisms underlying this decline are poorly understood. One index that has been found to predict performance on memory tests is alpha peak frequency, the peak of spectral alpha power of the EEG. Activity in the alpha band has been also associated with higher cognitive functions including attention and anticipation and has been shown to slow with age. Few studies, however, have examined whether there might be a relationship between WM decline and alpha peak frequency. The present study specifically investigated this relationship. Digit span was used as the index of WM function. The study made use of 550 normal subjects aged between 11 and 70 years in the Brain Resource International Database. The data were acquired from six laboratories located in the USA (2), Europe (2) and Australia (2). Forward and reverse digit span were found to be lower in older relative to younger age groups. Spontaneous alpha peak frequency slowed with age and more so at anterior than posterior sites. Frontal alpha peak frequency was found to be a significant predictor of reverse digit span, with each 1 Hz increase in frequency associated with a 0.21 increase in reverse digit span score and this was independent of age, indicating a positive relationship between alpha peak frequency and working memory performance.



With the wide variety of health problems reported by adults who experienced childhood sexual abuse (CSA), and no universality for any of them, it is vital that treatment and research be theory-based. The purpose of this article is to review the highlights of major theories, models, and conceptual frameworks found in the literature that explain the relationship of CSA with adult health problems, along with their associated moderating or mediating variables. The theories vary in their scope (macro, middle range, or micro), and in the health problems they explain, from purely psychosocial to both physical and psychosocial problems.
Thresholds for interaural intensitive disparities (IIDs) for a 500-Hz tone were measured in several stimulus conditions including those in which the use of intracranial position as a cue was effectively eliminated by roving the interaural temporal disparity of the stimuli. Removing position as a cue resulted in substantial degradation of sensitivity to IID. The overall patterning of the data suggests that threshold-IIDs measured in standard binaural paradigms that yield fused intracranial images reflect the use of changes in intracranial position. That is, comparisons among the data suggest that listeners' judgments depend upon binaural spatial cues and not on comparisons of the concomitant monaural increments and decrements in level, per se, that inevitably result from the imposition of IIDs.

The persistence of neuroscientists in exploring aluminium's (Al) possible contribution to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has resulted in a wealth of researches detailing the biological toxicity of this metal. However, to date, there have been few accounts of the interference of Al with aging and its relevance to the pathogenesis of AD. We investigated the behavioral and the ultrastructural signatures of Al in the hippocampus on young and aging rats which were exposed for three months to aluminium gluconate. The aging animals displayed decreased scores of activity and emotionality, and the Al-exposed aging males had altered emotional reactivity behaviors. The electron-microscopic analysis indicated that Al promoted in the aging hippocampus a variety of cellular and ultrastructural degenerative signs, such as granulo-vacuolar degenerations, deposition of lipofuscin and amyloid in the cytoplasm of neurons and astrocytes, and in extracellular compartments, Hirano bodies, demyelination and the atrophy of the mitochondria. Moreover, the quantitation of myelin sheath width and the diameter of mitochondria measured on randomly selected samples confirmed that myelin and mitochondria are primary targets of Al's toxicity. Demyelination and mitochondrial atrophy seemed more advanced in the hippocampus of Al-exposed aging males, supporting the effect of sex suggested by the behavioral results. These findings and other collateral results also reported here are discussed in the context of a possible involvement of Al in AD, mediated by aging and catalyzed by hepatic morphopathology.
There is currently intense controversy regarding the use of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in postmenopausal women, in relation to its therapeutic efficacy in Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been suggested that the benefits of HRT may be modified by apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype (the major genetic risk factor for AD). Here we report the findings of the first study designed to systematically explore the interaction of (a) oestrogen replacement therapy (ERT) and (b) possession of an epsilon4 allele of APOE on specific elements of episodic learning and memory that are commonly used indices of age-related cognitive decline. This data represents a cross-sectional analysis of the interaction of ERT and APOE genotype on learning and memory in a cohort of 181 healthy postmenopausal women [ERT users (n = 101, mean age 65.40 +/- 6.34); ERT non-users (n = 80, mean age 67.03 +/- 6.80)] residing in Perth, Western Australia. The highest level of learning (trials 2-5; P &lt; 0.05) and memory (e.g. total number of items recalled; P &lt; 0.05) performance was observed in women taking ERT who were not carriers of the APOE epsilon4 allele. APOEepsilon4 carriers receiving ERT performed no better on episodic memory testing than APOE epsilon4 carriers who were not receiving ERT. These cognitive differences related to genetic profile, were noted on both recall and recognition (P = 0.005) tests of memory. The findings have significance for evaluating whether and when ERT may be clinically indicated. Specifically, ERT may benefit the cognitive functioning of women not carrying the APOE epsilon4 allele.

Proteomics requires an optimized level of sample-processing, including a minimal sample-processing time and an optimal peptide recovery from protein digests, in order to maximize the percentage sequence coverage and to improve the accuracy of protein identification. The conventional methods of protein characterization from one-dimensional or two-dimensional gels include the destaining of an excised gel piece, followed by an overnight in-gel enzyme digestion. The aims of this study were to determine whether: (1) stained gels can be used without any destaining for trypsin digestion and mass spectrometry (MS); (2) tryptic peptides can be recovered from a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) target plate for a subsequent analysis with liquid chromatography (LC) coupled to an electrospray ionization (ESI) quadrupole ion trap MS; and (3) an overnight in-gel digestion is necessary for protein characterization with MS. These three strategies would significantly improve sample throughput. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was the model biological fluid used to develop these methods. CSF was desalted by gel filtration, and CSF proteins were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DGE). Proteins were visualized with either silver, Coomassie, or Stains-All (counterstained with silver). None of the gels was destained. Protein spots were in-gel trypsin digested, the tryptic peptides were purified with ZipTip, and the peptides were analyzed with MALDI and ESI MS. Some of the samples that were spotted onto a wax-coated MALDI target plate were recovered and analyzed with ESI MS. All three types of stained gels were compatible with MALDI and ESI MS without any destaining. In-gel trypsin digestion can be performed in only 10-60 min for protein characterization with MS, the sample can be recovered from the MALDI target plate for use in ESI MS, and there was a 90% reduction in sample-processing time from overnight to ca. 3 h.
Deletion studies in transgenic mice indicate that the potassium inward rectifying channel Kir4.1 is crucial for oligodendrocyte differentiation and has a special role in regulation of extracellular potassium (K(+)), a major function of astrocytes. However, there are conflicting reports on whether Kir4.1 is expressed by white matter astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, raising doubts over its functions. Here, we have examined Kir4.1 expression in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes of the rat optic nerve, a typical central nervous system white matter tract. Single and double immunofluorescence labelling was performed on frozen sections from optic nerves aged postnatal day (P)5, 10, 15, 20 and adult, using anti-Kir4.1 antibodies and the glia-specific antibodies glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP, astrocytes), carbonic anhydrase II (CAII, oligodendrocyte somata and processes) and myelin basic protein (MBP, oligodendrocyte myelin sheaths). The results demonstrate Kir4.1 expression in rows of glial cells as early as P5, and this pattern persisted throughout development and into adulthood, consistent with early expression of Kir4.1 on developing oligodendrocytes. Clear co-expression of Kir4.1 and GFAP is first evident at P10 and increases to adult levels by P15 and P20, which correlates with the development of K(+) regulation between P15 and P20. Astrocyte expression of Kir4.1 is localized to perivascular end-feet and fine processes within the fascicles of myelinated axons, consistent with a role in K(+) spatial buffering between nodes of Ranvier and blood vessels. By contrast, Kir4.1 is concentrated in the cell bodies of oligodendrocytes, and there is no apparent co-expression with MBP(+) myelin sheaths, suggesting oligodendroglial Kir4.1 channels are not involved in K(+) regulation. The results support roles for Kir4.1 in both oligodendrocyte differentiation and K(+) regulation by astrocytes.
Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy and congenital muscular dystrophy 1C are congenital muscular dystrophies that commonly display reduced levels of glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan in skeletal muscle. The genes responsible for these disorders are fukutin and fukutin-related protein (FKRP), respectively. Both gene products are thought to be glycosyltransferases, but their functions have not been established. In this study, we determined their subcellular localizations in cultured skeletal myocytes. FKRP localizes in rough endoplasmic reticulum, while fukutin localizes in the cis-Golgi compartment. FKRP was also localized in rough endoplasmic reticulum in skeletal muscle biopsy sample. Our data suggest that fukutin and FKRP may be involved at different steps in O-mannosylglycan synthesis of alpha-dystroglycan, and FKRP is most likely involved in the initial step in this synthesis.
A shorter phase angle between habitual wake time and underlying circadian rhythms has been reported in evening types (E types) compared to morning-types (M types). In this study, phase angles were compared between 12 E types and 12 M types to verify if this difference was observed when the sleep schedule was relatively free from external social constraints. Subjects were selected according to their Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire score (MEQ score). There were 6 men and 6 women in each group (ages 19-34 years), and all had a habitual sleep duration between 7 and 9 h. Sleep schedule was recorded by actigraphy and averaged over 7 days. Circadian phase was estimated by the hour of temperature minimum (T(min)) in a 26-h recording and by the timing of the onset of melatonin secretion (dim-light melatonin onset [DLMO]) measured in saliva samples. Phase angles were defined as the interval between phase markers and averaged wake time. Results showed that, in the present experimental conditions, phase angles were very similar in the 2 groups of subjects. However, results confirmed the previously reported correlation between phase and phase angle, showing that a later circadian phase was associated with a shorter phase angle. Gender comparisons showed that for a same MEQ score, women had an earlier DLMO and a longer phase angle between DLMO and wake time. Despite a significant difference in the averaged circadian phases between E-type and M-type groups, there was an overlap in the circadian phases of the subjects of the 2 groups. Further comparisons were made between the 2 circadian types, separately for the subgroups with overlapping or nonoverlapping circadian phases. In both subgroups, the significant difference between MEQ scores, bedtimes, and wake times were maintained in the expected direction. In the subgroup with nonoverlapping circadian phases, phase angles were shorter in E-type subjects, in accordance with previous studies. However, in the overlapping subgroup, phase angles were significantly longer in E types compared to M types. Results suggest that the morningness-eveningness preference identified by the MEQ score refers to 2 distinct mechanisms, 1 associated with a difference in circadian period and phase of entrainment and the other associated with chronobiological aspects of sleep regulation.
Arctic and subarctic environments are exposed to extreme light: dark (LD) regimes, including periods of constant light (LL) and constant dark (DD) and large daily changes in day length, but very little is known about circadian rhythms of mammals at high latitudes. The authors investigated the circadian rhythms of a subarctic population of northern red-backed voles (Clethrionomys rutilus). Both wild-caught and third-generation laboratory-bred animals showed predominantly nocturnal patterns of wheel running when exposed to a 16:8 LD cycle. In LL and DD conditions, animals displayed large phenotypic variation in circadian rhythms. Compared to wheel-running rhythms under a 16:8 LD cycle, the robustness of circadian activity rhythms decreased among all animals tested in LL and DD (i.e., decreased chi-squared periodogram waveform amplitude). A large segment of the population became noncircadian (60% in DD, 72% in LL) within 8 weeks of exposure to constant lighting conditions, of which the majority became ultradian, with a few individuals becoming arrhythmic, indicating highly labile circadian organization. Wild-caught and laboratory-bred animals that remained circadian in wheel running displayed free-running periods between 23.3 and 24.8 h. A phase-response curve to light pulses in DD showed significant phase delays at circadian times 12 and 15, indicating the capacity to entrain to rapidly changing day lengths at high latitudes. Whether this phenotypic variation in circadian organization, with circadian, ultradian, and arrhythmic wheel-running activity patterns in constant lighting conditions, is a novel adaptation to life in the arctic remains to be elucidated.
The release of gentamicin as a function of time was measured for Palacos and two-solution bone cements by using a novel pH technique. The pH of an aqueous solution of gentamicin is a function of the gentamicin concentration and it decreases linearly over concentrations of 0.0-0.1 wt %. Therefore, a new, direct, and inexpensive in vitro technique was developed based on continuous readings of the pH in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) at 37 degrees C to determine the release kinetics of gentamicin from poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA)-based bone cement. In addition, this method was used to compare the release profiles of Palacos R-40 bone cement with a two-solution bone cement developed in our laboratory and loaded with two different concentrations of gentamicin sulfate. Finally, the pH-based method was used to track the elution of gentamicin in both mixed and static conditions to determine the effect of mixing on the diffusion of gentamicin out of the cement. It was found that Palacos R-40 released 4.95 +/- 0.22 wt % of its gentamicin after 24 h in PBS solution. This data compares favorably with previously reported values of gentamicin elution from Palacos R-40, which ranged from 3 to 8 wt % of the total amount of incorporated gentamicin, depending on the size and the surface area of the samples. The results show that Palacos samples released 4.84 +/- 0.27 mg after 24 h, a two-solution cement loaded with an equivalent concentration of gentamicin sulfate released 3.81 +/- 0.52 mg, and two-solution cement loaded with twice the concentration of Palacos released 5.53 +/- 0.26 mg of gentamicin. A higher percentage of release was recorded from Palacos than from the two-solution bone cement, and the effect of PBS mixing conditions on the release kinetics was only significant in the early stages of release and not at 24 h. It was concluded that monitoring the pH is an effective technique to measure gentamicin release from PMMA-based bone cements in PBS solution.
Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) promotes brain tolerance against subsequent ischemic insults. Using the organotypic hippocampal slice culture, we conducted the present study to investigate (1) the role of adenosine A1 receptor (A1AR) activation in IPC induction, (2) whether epsilon protein kinase C (epsilonPKC) activation after IPC is mediated by the phosphoinositol pathway, and (3) whether epsilonPKC protection is mediated by the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway. Our results demonstrate that activation of A1AR emulated IPC, whereas blockade of the A1AR during IPC diminished neuroprotection. The neuroprotection promoted by the A1AR was also reduced by the epsilonPKC antagonist. To determine whether epsilonPKC activation in IPC and A1AR preconditioning is mediated by activation of the phosphoinositol pathway, we incubated slices undergoing IPC or adenosine treatment with a phosphoinositol phospholipase C inhibitor. In both cases, preconditioning neuroprotection was significantly attenuated. To further characterize the subsequent signal transduction pathway that ensues after epsilonPKC activation, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase was blocked during IPC and pharmacologic preconditioning (PPC) (with epsilonPKC, NMDA, or A1AR agonists). This treatment significantly attenuated IPC- and PPC-induced neuroprotection. In conclusion, we demonstrate that epsilonPKC activation after IPC/PPC is essential for neuroprotection against oxygen/glucose deprivation in organotypic slice cultures and that the ERK pathway is downstream to epsilonPKC.
A retrospective clinical and biochemical analysis of 41 pediatric patients with cerebral lipidoses seen between 1995 to 2003 was performed at a tertiary referral center for neurologic disorders in southern India. Enzyme assays in serum and leukocytes, including histopathology, neuroimaging, and neurophysiology studies, were performed. There were 20 cases of metachromatic leukodystrophy (infantile,14; juvenile, 6), 12 cases of Tay-Sachs disease (infantile, 9; late G(M2-M3) gangliosidoses, 3), 8 cases of Sandhoff's disease, and 1 male case with multiple sulfatase deficiency. Consanguinity was present in 51.2% of cases. The male-to-female ratio was 23:17. Similar illness in the families was noted in 24.4%. The prominent clinical features in sulfatide lipidoses were regression of motor and mental milestones, seizures, and speech impairment, and in G(M2) gangliosidoses, the features were delayed milestones, startle myoclonus, seizures, and the presence of cherry-red spots. The case with multiple sulfatase deficiency had low levels of arylsulfatase A and B. This study indicates that these autosomal recessive inherited disorders are indeed prevalent in India.
Medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) commonly is used in contraception and hormone replacement therapy. However, little is known about its effects within the central nervous system. Using ovariectomized pigtail macaques (Macaca nemestrina), we evaluated the potential for MPA to antagonize estradiol (E2) effects on female sociosexual behavior. Subjects (n = 6) were treated sequentially with placebo, E2 alone, E2 + progesterone (P4), and E2 + MPA. The order of treatments was balanced among subjects, and equimolar quantities of P4 and MPA were administered. During each treatment period, female sexual initiation rates, anxiety-related behavior, and aggression were recorded. Treatment with E2 alone induced a substantial rise in female sexual initiation rates. Although concurrent P4 treatment failed to significantly inhibit sexual behavior, MPA treatment markedly antagonized E2's effects. Neither the E2-only nor the E2 + P4 treatment had an impact on aggression rates, but the E2 + MPA treatment induced a significant rise in this behavior. Both MPA and P4 counteracted the effect of E2 on measures of anxiety. These findings suggest that MPA antagonizes certain behavioral effects of E2 that may be beneficial to women, and that it does so more profoundly or in ways that endogenous P4 does not. The marked increase in aggression seen during MPA treatment suggests that production of negative affect may be a particularly serious side effect of MPA.
OCH, a sphingosine-truncated analog of alpha-galactosylceramide (alphaGC), is a potential therapeutic reagent for a variety of Th1-mediated autoimmune diseases through its selective induction of Th2 cytokines from natural killer T (NKT) cells. We demonstrate here that the NKT cell production of IFN-gamma is more susceptible to the sphingosine length of glycolipid ligand than that of IL-4 and that the length of the sphingosine chain determines the duration of NKT cell stimulation by CD1d-associated glycolipids. Furthermore, IFN-gamma production by NKT cells requires longer T cell receptor stimulation than is required for IL-4 production by NKT cells stimulated either with immobilized mAb to CD3 or with immobilized &quot;alphaGC-loaded&quot; CD1d molecules. Interestingly, transcription of IFN-gamma but not that of IL-4 was sensitive to cycloheximide treatment, indicating the intrinsic involvement of de novo protein synthesis for IFN-gamma production by NKT cells. Finally, we determined c-Rel was preferentially transcribed in alphaGC-stimulated but not in OCH-stimulated NKT cells and was essential for IFN-gamma production by activated NKT cells. Given the dominant immune regulation by the remarkable cytokine production of ligand-stimulated NKT cells in vivo, in comparison with that of (antigen-specific) T cells or NK cells, the current study confirms OCH as a likely therapeutic reagent for use against Th1-mediated autoimmune diseases and provides a novel clue for the design of drugs targeting NKT cells.
Myokymic discharges are spontaneous bursts of semirhythmic potentials that are sometimes correlated with rippling movements of skin and muscle. They have been reported in limb muscles in patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome, spinal stenosis, nerve root and nerve compression, and envenomations. They commonly occur with radiation induced plexopathies (approximately 60% of patients), but have not been reported in obstetrically related brachial plexopathies. We report 2 instances of myokymia in children with obstetric brachial plexus palsies. Each child was studied twice, and it was only at the later study, when the child was 10 or 11 months of age, that these potentials were noted. This could represent ongoing recovery from lesions incurred at birth or developmental changes. The final common pathway of all causes of myokymia could be to generate axonal membrane hyperexcitability.
Plasma cell granulomas are rare intracranial lesions that can mimic a variety of intracranial tumours. As they are usually benign lesions, their identification assumes importance. We report a case of plasma cell granuloma in a 52-year-old man presenting with features of left sided V, VII and bilateral VIII nerve involvement who underwent subtotal excision of the lesion. The relevant literature is reviewed.
We present a 37-year-old female, who was admitted with a long standing history of menstrual abnormalities and galactorrhoea followed by progressive visual loss. X-ray of the skull showed an enlarged sella with destruction of the floor. CT scan of the head revealed a giant pituitary adenoma with sellar and parasellar extension. At surgery, through a transsphenoidal approach, solid tissue and cystic areas containing pus from which Escherichia coli was cultured were encountered. She had an uneventful postoperative recovery. At 2 years follow up, she was doing well.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system associated with progressive cognitive and memory loss. Molecular hallmarks of the disease are characterized by extracellular deposition of the amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) in senile plaques, the appearance of intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), cholinergic deficit, extensive neuronal loss and synaptic changes in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus and other areas of brain essential for cognitive and memory functions. Abeta deposition causes neuronal death via a number of possible mechanisms including oxidative stress, excitotoxicity, energy depletion, inflammation and apoptosis. Despite their multifactorial etiopathogenesis, genetics plays a primary role in progression of disease. To date genetic studies have revealed four genes that may be linked to autosomal dominant or familial early onset AD (FAD). These four genes include: amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 1 (PS1), presenilin 2 (PS2) and apolipoprotein E (ApoE). Plaques are formed mostly from the deposition of Abeta, a peptide derived from APP. The main factors responsible for Abeta formation are mutation of APP or PS1 and PS2 genes or ApoE gene. All mutations associated with APP and PS proteins can lead to an increase in the production of Abeta peptides, specifically the more amyloidogenic form, Abeta42. In addition to genetic influences on amyloid plaque and intracellular tangle formation, environmental factors (e.g., cytokines, neurotoxins, etc.) may also play important role in the development and progression of AD. A direct understanding of the molecular mechanism of protein aggregation and its effects on neuronal cell death could open new therapeutic approaches. Some of the therapeutic approaches that have progressed to the clinical arena are the use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, nerve growth factors, nonsteroidal inflammatory drugs, estrogen and the compounds such as antioxidants, neuronal calcium channel blockers or antiapoptotic agents. Inhibition of secretase activity and blocking the formation of beta-amyloid oligomers and fibrils which may inhibit fibrilization and fibrilization-dependent neurotoxicity are the most promising therapeutic strategy against the accumulation of beta-amyloid fibrils associated with AD. Furthermore, development of immunotherapy could be an evolving promising therapeutic approach for the treatment of AD.

Actions of certain anticonvulsants upon voltage-gated sodium channels may not only explain why they are effective mood stabilizers but may also explain why they could be useful adjuncts to antipsychotics for resistant psychosis.
The study evaluates the expression and production of cytokines in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with Alzheimer disease treated or not treated with acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, which enhances neuronal transmission. Cytokines associated with brain inflammation such as interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha have been implicated in the regulation of amyloid peptide protein synthesis. The anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-4, may suppress the activity of IL-1beta. Patients were assessed for clinical and immunologic features at baseline and after 1 month of treatment with Donepezil, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were cultured with and without phytohemagglutinin stimulation. IL-1beta and IL-4 levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction was used to determine the expression of cytokines in peripheral mononuclear cells. Compared with untreated patients and healthy control subjects, IL-1beta levels and expression decreased in Alzheimer disease patients treated with Donepezil (P &lt; 0.001). In contrast, IL-4 levels and expression were significantly higher in Alzheimer patients treated with the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. This increment was observed in both unstimulated and phytohemagglutinin-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
Neurons in the song system nuclei of songbirds exhibit a strong preference for the sound of the bird's own song relative to that of conspecific songs. This selectivity is observed in the high vocal center and the nucleus interface of the nidopallium, two song nuclei that receive input from the bird's auditory system. To investigate the role of the auditory system in generating the selective responses observed in the song system, we recorded auditory responses in the zebra finch primary auditory forebrain, field L, and in a secondary auditory area, the caudal mesopallium. Field L and caudal mesopallium project directly or indirectly to the high vocal center and nucleus interface of the nidopallium and are presumed to provide substantial auditory input to the song system. We found that, on average, neurons in field L and caudal mesopallium did not show positive selective responses for the bird's own song or tutor song relative to conspecific song. Moreover, there were no particular sub-areas in the auditory telencephalon that were relatively more selective than the average. The selectivity for the bird's own song would therefore be restricted to song nuclei and would arise in one processing step, potentially found at the interface between the auditory and the song systems.
The male-offspring biased visual kin recognition in chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) reported by L. A. Parr and F. B. M. de Waal (1999) was replicated with human (Homo sapiens) participants and a principal components analysis (PCA) of pixel maps of the chimpanzee face photos. With the same original materials and methods, both humans and the PCA produced the same asymmetry in kin recognition as found with the chimpanzees. The PCA suggested that the asymmetry was a function of differences in the distribution of global characteristics associated with the framing of the faces in the son and daughter test sets. Eliminating potential framing biases, either by cropping the photos tightly to the faces or by rebalancing the recognition foils, eliminated the asymmetry but not human participants' ability to recognize chimpanzee kin.
A number of nucleoside analogues, consisting of antiviral compounds and agents designed as adenosine A1 receptor agonists, were examined for nucleoside transporter affinity using an in vitro model of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), the rat brain endothelial cell line, RBE4. Structure-activity relationships (SAR) were also performed to identify the key structural requirements for transporter recognition and the suitability of these systems for carrier-mediated strategies to deliver therapeutics across the BBB. Adenosine receptor agonists did not show transport affinity for concentrative nucleoside carriers, but exhibited affinity for equilibrative systems (Ki=10.8-97.9 microM) within the range of Kms for natural substrates. However, none of the antiviral compounds tested in this study showed affinity for either class of nucleoside transporter. SAR studies suggest that the hydroxyl group located at the 3'-position of the ribose moiety is an essential requirement for transporter recognition. This may explain the inability of nucleoside derived anti-viral compounds to use these systems despite the significant structural homology with naturally occurring nucleosides. Sites have also been identified which accommodate structural additions with retention of carrier affinity, suggesting that compounds which fail to penetrate the BBB could be attached to these sites for carrier-mediated delivery using a prodrug strategy.
We have previously identified a series of age-dependent, temporally constrained and closely interdependent mitotic and apoptotic events in the male rat anterior pituitary that occur in response to timed single and repeated hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis stimuli. One of the most dramatic of these is the short burst of apoptosis that occurs 24-48 h after exposure to dexamethasone. If bilateral adrenalectomy precedes exposure to dexamethasone by 1-2 weeks, mitotic activity is transiently increased and the subsequent apoptotic response to dexamethasone greatly enhanced. This study was designed to determine whether adrenalectomy-induced augmentation of the apoptotically sensitive pituitary cell population is mediated via glucocorticoid withdrawal at the level of the pituitary, or whether increased exposure to hypothalamo-hypophyseal trophic hormones of paraventricular origin is responsible. We used stereotaxic surgery to isolate both paraventricular nuclei without disturbing either median eminence input from the arcuate and supraoptic nuclei, or the hypothalamo-hypophyseal-portal blood flow that carries a significant proportion of the pituitary systemic supply. When bilateral adrenalectomy and paraventricular nucleus disconnection were combined, the adrenalectomy-induced increase in anterior pituitary pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) transcript prevalence was abolished, confirming the loss of paraventricular corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) input. However, the amplitude and pattern of the adrenalectomy-induced anterior pituitary mitotic response and enhancement of the apoptotic response to dexamethasone 1 week later remained completely intact. These data demonstrate that anterior pituitary trophic responses following bilateral adrenalectomy are more likely to be mediated through direct glucocorticoid withdrawal at the level of the pituitary rather than via changes in hypothalamo-hypophyseal releasing factor exposure. This finding highlights the presence of distinct control systems for pituitary hormone gene expression and pituitary mitotic and apoptotic responses.
We have studied the changing use of spatial memories in wood ants by charting how the ants' paths transform when ants are first trained to feed at one site and must then switch to another site. Because ants, which are trained to approach a single feeding site from a single starting point, are attracted directly to that goal when started from unfamiliar positions, we describe the ants' paths in terms of the use of two stored snapshots. Each snapshot consists of retinotopic views of the ants' surroundings acquired at one of the two feeding sites. When a snapshot is activated, it draws an ant to the related site from a wide range of directions. Here, we focus on routes that occur before ants have learnt to go directly from the start to the second site. The initial direction of the ant's path is then mostly aimed either at the first site or between the two sites. On 62.2% of all recorded paths, this segment is followed by an abrupt turn, after which the ant often aims directly at the second feeding site. The details of this behaviour suggest that, after the turn, control of the path switches from the snapshot recorded at the first feeding site (or some combination of the two snapshots) to the snapshot recorded at the second feeding site. We discuss different ways in which control might be transferred from one snapshot to the other.
Male glow-worms Lampyris noctiluca find their bioluminescent mates at night by phototaxis. There is good evidence that location of mates by lampyrid beetles is achieved by a single spectral class of photoreceptor, whose spectral sensitivity is tuned to the bioluminescent spectrum emitted by conspecifics, and is achromatic. We ask whether glow-worm phototaxis involves interactions between two spectral classes of photoreceptor. Binary choice experiments were conducted in which males were presented with artificial light stimuli that differ in spectral composition. The normal preference for a green stimulus (lambdamax=555 nm), corresponding to the bioluminescence wavelength produced by signalling females, was significantly reduced by adding a blue (lambdamax=485 nm) component to the signal. This implies an antagonistic interaction between long- and short-wavelength sensitive photoreceptors, suggesting colour vision based on chromatic opponency. Cryosections showed a band of yellow filter pigment in the fronto-dorsal region of the male compound eye, which could severely constrain colour vision in the dim conditions in which the insects signal. This apparent paradox is discussed in the context of the distribution of the pigment within the eye and the photic niche of the species.


Monoamine storage in secretory granules is mediated by the vesicular monoamine transporters 1 and 2 (VMAT1 and VMAT2). The aim of our study was to identify monoamine-handling normal and neoplastic inflammatory cells in the skin by their expression of VMAT1 and VMAT2. Normal skin from various parts of the body, as well as 21 cases of cutaneous mastocytosis and 10 cases of cutaneous Langerhans cell histiocytosis were analyzed by immunohistochemistry, radioactive in situ hybridization, and double-fluorescence confocal microscopy. VMAT2-positive cells in the subepidermal layer were identified as mast cells by their expression of tryptase. Neoplastic mast cells in all cases of cutaneous mastocytosis retained their VMAT2 positivity. The intraepidermal VMAT2-expressing cells were identified as Langerhans cells by their CD1a positivity. VMAT2 was absent from Langerhans cell histiocytosis. VMAT2 is an excellent marker for normal and neoplastic mast cells. The expression of VMAT2 demonstrates the capacity of mast cells for monoamine storage and handling. The presence of VMAT2 in epidermal Langerhans cells revealed a previously unrecognized monoamine-handling phenotype of these cells and indicates possible involvement of amine storage and release associated with antigen presentation. Absence of VMAT2 in neoplastic Langerhans cells indicates a loss of monoamine handling capacity of these cells during tumorigenesis.
T cell Ig- and mucin-domain-containing molecules (TIMs) comprise a recently described family of molecules expressed on T cells. TIM-3 has been shown to be expressed on murine Th1 cell clones and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Th1-driven experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. In contrast, association of TIM-1 polymorphisms to Th2-related airway hyperreactivity has been suggested in mice. The TIM molecules have not been investigated in human Th1- or Th2-mediated diseases. Using real-time (TaqMan) RT-PCR, we show that human Th1 lines expressed higher TIM-3 mRNA levels, while Th2 lines demonstrated a higher expression of TIM-1. Analysis of cerebrospinal fluid mononuclear cells obtained from patients with multiple sclerosis revealed significantly higher mRNA expression of TIM-1 compared with controls. Moreover, higher TIM-1 expression was associated with clinical remissions and low expression of IFN-gamma mRNA in cerebrospinal fluid mononuclear cells. In contrast, expression of TIM-3 correlated well with high expression of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha. These data imply the differential expression of human TIM molecules by Th1 and Th2 cells and may suggest their differential involvement in different phases of a human autoimmune disease.
The late Professor Gen Matsumoto not only accomplished pioneering work of neuroscience such as nerve excitation as a dissipative structure in far-from-equilibrium systems but also inspired many students and young researchers by his sincere and attractive personality.
At the opening of this special issue dedicated to the work of the late Prof. Gen Matsumoto, I would like to look back at Gen Matsumoto's research life and to personally share with the readers of this journal his dream of creating a real brain-like computer. Gen Matsumoto had been planning to create a brain-like computer for thirty years. I have been most fortunate in being able to personally see progress toward Gen Matsumoto's ultimate goal, and have been inspired by his persistence, perseverance, and full belief that one day a brain-like computer would be operative. Gen Matsumoto left a definite impression on me so much, so that I considered him my reference of life rather than just my research partner.
Proinflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-1beta can cause cognitive impairment, activate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and impair monoaminergic neurotransmission in the rat. IL-1beta has also been shown to increase the concentration of the inflammatory mediator prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in the blood. Omega (n)-3 fatty acids, such as eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), which are components of fish oil, have been shown to reduce both the proinflammatory cytokines and the synthesis of PGE2. The purpose of this study was to determine whether dietary supplements of EPA would attenuate the inflammation-induced impairment of spatial memory by centrally administered IL-1beta. Rats were fed with a diet of coconut oil (contained a negligible quantity of fatty acids), soybean oil (contained mainly n-6 fatty acids), or a diet of coconut oil enriched with ethyl-EPA (E-EPA). The rats were then injected intracerebroventricularly with IL-1beta or saline. The results of this study demonstrated that the IL-1-induced deficit in spatial memory was correlated with an impairment of central noradrenergic and serotonergic (but not dopaminergic) function and an increase in the serum corticosterone concentration. IL-1beta also caused an increase in the hippocampal PGE2 concentration. These effects of IL-1 were attenuated by the chronic administration of E-EPA. By contrast, rats fed with the soybean oil diet showed no effect on the changes induced by the IL-1 administration.

Integrins are a family of cell-surface receptors that link the extracellular matrix (ECM) to the cellular cytoskeleton. The goal of this study was to determine the importance of the integrin beta(1) subunit in regulating cardiac L-type Ca(2+) channel function. Neonatal rat ventricular myocytes were cultured on collagen membranes and infected with adenovirus expressing either the human beta(1A) integrin (Adbeta(1A)) or a chimeric protein consisting of the cytoplasmic tail domain of the beta(1A) integrin and the extracellular/transmembrane domain of the interleukin-2 receptor (AdTAC-beta(1)). Expression of the free beta(1) integrin tail (TAC-beta(1)), but not the full-length beta(1A) integrin, altered cell morphology and disrupted normal cell adhesion. When compared with myocytes infected with control virus, neither Adbeta(1A) nor AdTAC-beta(1) infection produced any significant change in the current vs. voltage relationship of the whole-cell Ca(2+) current (I(Ca)) or the kinetics of I(Ca) decay. Expression of TAC-beta(1), but not beta(1A), induced a negative shift in the Ca(2+) channel steady-state inactivation curve. Application of the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol produced over a 90% increase in I(Ca) in control cells, but caused only an 18% increase in myocytes overexpressing the full-length beta(1A) integrin. In addition, beta-adrenergic stimulation resulted in a 5-10-fold increase in intracellular cAMP levels in control cells, but produced no significant response in Adbeta(1A)-infected cells. In contrast, expression of TAC-beta(1) was associated with an augmentation in the Ca(2+) channel response to isoproterenol (160% increase) and the Ca(2+) channel agonist BayK8644. Thus, integrin/ECM interactions may be critical in the regulation of I(Ca)
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is associated with psychiatric illness, suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and completed suicide. We investigated the relationship between mild TBI and other risk factors for suicidal behavior in major depressive episode. We hypothesized that mild TBI would be associated with suicidal behavior at least partly because of shared risk factors that contribute to the diathesis for suicidal acts. Depressed patients (N = 325) presenting for treatment were evaluated for psychopathology, traumatic history, and suicidal behavior. Data were analyzed using Student t -test, chi-square statistic, or Fisher exact test. A backward stepwise logistic regression model (N = 255) examined the relationship between attempter status and variables that differed in the TBI and non-TBI patients. Forty-four percent of all subjects reported mild TBI. Subjects with TBI were more likely to be male, have a history of substance abuse, have cluster B personality disorder, and be more aggressive and hostile compared with subjects without TBI. They were also more likely to be suicide attempters, although their suicidal behavior was not different from that of suicide attempters without TBI. Attempt status was mostly predicted by aggression and hostility, but not the presence of TBI. Of note, for males, a history of TBI increased the likelihood of being a suicide attempter, whereas the risk was elevated for females regardless of TBI history. Our data suggest that suicidal behavior and TBI share antecedent risk factors: hostility and aggression. Future studies may yield confirmation using a prospective design.
Pycnogenol (PYC), a patented combination of bioflavonoids extracted from the bark of French maritime pine (Pinus maritima), scavenges free radicals and promotes cellular health. The protective capacity of PYC against ethanol toxicity of neurons has not previously been explored. The present study demonstrates that in postnatal day 9 (P9) rat cerebellar granule cells the antioxidants vitamin E (VE) and PYC (1) dose dependently block cell death following 400, 800, and 1600 mg/dL ethanol exposure (2) inhibit the ethanol-induced activation of caspase-3 in the same model system; and (3) reduce neuronal membrane disruption as assayed by phosphatidylserine translocation to the cell surface. These results suggest that both PYC and VE have the potential to act as therapeutic agents, antagonizing the induction of neuronal cell death by ethanol exposure.
The dorsal column-medial lemniscal system is a significant sensory pathway that mediates touch and limb position sense. In this system, axons from the second-order neurons in the dorsal column nuclei form the internal arcuate fibers, cross the ventral midline (floor plate) within the medulla oblongata, and then project to the thalamus as the medial lemniscus. Here we demonstrate that Netrin-1, which is secreted from the floor plate in the medulla oblongata, is indispensable to the formation of the dorsal column-medial lemniscal system. Axons from the dorsal column nuclei cross the midline at around embryonic day 11 in mice. Concurrently, Netrin-1 mRNA and its receptor DCC (deleted in colorectal cancer) were expressed in the floor plate and commissural axons there, respectively. In our explant culture experiments, the floor plates of the embryonic 11-day-old mutant Netrin-1 homozygous mice did not attract axons from the dorsal column nuclei of ICR mice, while those from the wild type littermates did. Moreover, we observed that although the dorsal column nuclei developed in situ in mutant mice, their axons were not attracted toward the floor plate: they did not cross midline and remained ipsilaterally, without forming the internal arcuate fibers, in embryonic 17-day-old mutant Netrin-1 homozygous mice.
Activation of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) has been shown to reduce caspase-dependent apoptosis in primary neuronal cultures induced by staurosporine and etoposide. beta-Amyloid (Abeta)-induced neurotoxicity in culture appears to be in part caspase mediated. In the present studies the effects of treatment with an mGluR5 agonist or antagonist on Abeta-induced neuronal apoptosis were examined in rat cortical neuronal cultures. Pretreatment with the selective mGluR5 agonist (RS)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) markedly reduced the number of apoptotic cells after exposure to Abeta (25-35), as well as associated LDH release. Blockade of mGluR5 by the selective antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP) attenuated these effects of CHPG. A similar neuroprotective effect of mGluR5 activation by CHPG was observed in cultures treated with full-length Abeta peptide (1-42). CHPG attenuated Abeta (25-35)-induced cytochrome c release and decreased levels of active caspase-3 protein. CHPG also reduced translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) induced by Abeta (25-35). Thus, mGluR5 activation limits the release of mitochondrial proteins associated with induction of both caspase-dependent and -independent apoptosis.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain reveals high rates of oxygen consumption and oxidative stress, altered antioxidant defences, increased oxidized polyunsaturated fatty acids, and elevated transition metal ions. Mitochondrial dysfunction in AD is perhaps relevant to these observations, as such may contribute to neurodegenerative cell death through the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the release of molecules that initiate programmed cell death pathways. In this study, we analyzed the effects of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) on human teratocarcinoma (NT2) cells expressing endogenous mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), mtDNA from AD subjects (AD cybrids), and mtDNA from age-matched control subjects (control cybrids). In addition to finding reduced cytochrome oxidase activity, elevated ROS, and reduced ATP levels in the AD cybrids, when these cell lines were exposed to Abeta 1-40 we observed excessive mitochondrial membrane potential depolarization, increased cytoplasmic cytochrome c, and elevated caspase-3 activity. When exposed to Abeta, events associated with programmed cell death are activated in AD NT2 cybrids to a greater extent than they are in control cybrids or the native NT2 cell line, suggesting a role for mtDNA-derived mitochondrial dysfunction in AD degeneration.
A growing body of evidence suggests a relationship between oxidative stress and beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide accumulation, a hallmark in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, a direct causal relationship between oxidative stress and Abeta pathology has not been established in vivo. Therefore, we crossed mice with a knockout of one allele of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), a critical antioxidant enzyme, with Tg19959 mice, which overexpress a doubly mutated human beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP). Partial deficiency of MnSOD, which is well established to cause elevated oxidative stress, significantly increased brain Abeta levels and Abeta plaque burden in Tg19959 mice. These results indicate that oxidative stress can promote the pathogenesis of AD and further support the feasibility of antioxidant approaches for AD therapy.
Tissue-type transglutaminase (TG-2) has been implicated in neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, induction of TG-2 was studied in rats following transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Alterations in 2,3,5-triphenylterazolium chloride staining revealed maximum infarction 3 days after injury. Measurement of mRNA transcript levels by real-time PCR analysis showed both forms of TG-2 mRNA peaking on day 5 after injury in ipsilateral cortex, with greater induction of the full-length TG-2 (TG-L) transcript than the truncated form of the TG-2 (TG-S) transcript. However, in the ipsilateral hippocampus, peak induction of both forms of TG-2 mRNA peaked 1 day after injury and to a lesser extent than observed in the ipsilateral cortex. Western blot analysis demonstrated that TG-L protein expression progressively increased from 1 to 7 days after ischemia, with greater expression in cortex than hippocampus (525 +/- 10% vs. 196 +/- 8% of control, respectively). However, expression of TG-S was not detected. These results demonstrate that increased TG-2 mRNA and protein expression occurs in a delayed fashion following ischemic injury. The temporal profile of TG-2 induction after ischemia was similar to that observed after traumatic brain injury (previously described), suggesting a similar role of TG-2 in both pathological conditions.
Progesterone influences most processes involved in female reproduction, including ovulation, sexual behaviour, pregnancy, parturition, lactation and maternal behaviour. One neurotransmitter through which progesterone might regulate many of these functions is dopamine. To determine where in the brain progesterone might alter dopaminergic activity necessary for these and other processes in rats via cell nuclear progestin receptors, ovariectomized rats were injected subcutaneously with either 4 micro g oestradiol benzoate to induce high levels of hypothalamic progestin receptor expression, or oil, and perfused 48 h later. Dual-label immunocytochemistry was used to visualize cells having immunoreactivity (ir) for progestin receptors and tyrosine hydroxylase, a rate-limiting enzyme for dopamine synthesis. Many cells containing both progestin receptor-ir and tyrosine hydroxylase-ir were found throughout the periventricular hypothalamus of oestradiol-treated females. Conversely, very few cells in the hypothalamus of oil-treated controls contained progestin receptor-ir and, consequently, few dual-labelled cells were found in this group. The greatest percentage of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells expressing progestin receptors in oestradiol-treated females was in, or near, the arcuate nucleus (A12 group), where up to 55% of tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing cells coexpressed progestin receptors. Notably, dual-labelled cells in oestradiol-treated females were also found more rostrally than previously reported, with approximately 15-20% of tyrosine hydroxylase-ir cells in the preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus (A14 group) also containing progestin receptor-ir. No dual-labelled cells were found for either group in the posterodorsal hypothalamus (A11 group), zona incerta (A13 group), retrorubral field (A8 group), ventral tegmental area (A10 group) or substantia nigra (A9 group) because little or no progestin receptor-ir was found in these sites. These data provide new information about the neural substrate where progesterone might regulate dopamine release in the preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus. Using more sensitive techniques than those used previously, they also confirm the relationship between progestin receptor and tyrosine hydroxylase in the arcuate nucleus, which could be important for the regulation of prolactin release throughout the female reproductive cycle. Additionally, although progesterone alters mesolimbic and nigrostriatal dopamine release, and the numerous behaviours that these pathways influence, these data again suggest that it does not do so via nuclear progestin receptor in dopaminergic cells of the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra.
The preovulatory luteinizing hormone (LH) surge in female rats is dependent upon signals from the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the site of a dominant circadian pacemaker. Various lines of evidence indicate that arginine-vasopressin (AVP)-containing projections from the SCN to the preoptic area (POA) contribute to the production of the surge of LH-releasing hormone (LHRH). These actions may be mediated by V(1a) because the transcript for this AVP receptor subtype is predominant within the POA of the female rat. In this study, in situ hybridization histochemistry was used to examine V(1a) mRNA expression, either by itself or together with LHRH or glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (GAD(65)) mRNA, within the POA of ovariectomized rats in the presence or absence of oestrogen. V(1a) mRNA was found in cells across the rostro-caudal axis of the POA; some were in close proximity to cells expressing LHRH mRNA. Coexpression of V(1a) and LHRH mRNAs was detected only very rarely. By contrast, cells with V(1a) mRNA commonly displayed GAD(65) mRNA. The density of V(1a) mRNA-expressing cells was particularly high within the anteroventral periventricular nucleus; at this site, V(1a) mRNA expression was elevated following oestrogen treatment. The present results indicate that V(1a)-mediated AVP actions may influence LHRH release via cells in the immediate vicinity of LHRH neurones and/or via oestrogen-regulated cells in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus, which is a site that lacks LHRH neurones but plays an essential role in initiating the preovulatory LH surge.
Changes in the function of neuropeptide synthesizing cells within the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the site of the predominant circadian pacemaker, may underlie the disturbance of rhythms observed during ageing. Arginine vasopressin (AVP) is synthesized by nearly one-third of SCN neurones in the rat. This peptide has predominantly excitatory actions within the SCN mediated by V(1)-type receptors; the extent to which the V(1a) and/or V(1b) receptor subtypes are involved in SCN functions remains to be determined. The present study used isotopic in situ hybridization histochemistry to examine the effects of ageing on expression of mRNAs for AVP and V(1a) in the SCN and for V(1b) in the SCN and supraoptic nucleus (SON) of male rats kept under a 12 : 12 h light/dark cycle. Analysis of film autoradiographs from young adult (2-3-month-old; n = 40) or aged (19-20-month-old; n = 40) animals, at eight time points across the light/dark cycle, revealed an equivalent pattern and amplitude for the diurnal rhythm of AVP mRNA in the SCN of the young adult and aged groups. Both groups also displayed a significant diurnal rhythm in the expression of V(1a) receptor mRNA; however, the amplitude of this rhythm was reduced in the aged group, due to increased levels during the light phase and early part of night. Although the expression of V(1b) mRNA did not display a significant diurnal rhythm within the SCN or SON, persistently elevated levels for V(1b) mRNA were observed in the aged group at both sites.
In the present study, we demonstrate that sodium butyrate repressed IFN-gamma-induced expression of iNOS and TNF-alpha, but had little effect on LPS-induced expression in BV2 murine microglial cells. Sodium butyrate significantly inhibited NF-kappa B binding and NF-kappa B-mediated transcription induced by IFN-gamma, suggesting that the anti-inflammatory effect of sodium butyrate is mediated via specific inhibition of the NF-kappa B pathway. IFN-gamma is a major stimulator of innate and adaptive immune response. Thus, the specific down-regulation of IFN-gamma-induced microglial activation by sodium butyrate may provide potential therapeutic strategies for a variety of inflammatory diseases in the central nervous system.
Pixantrone is less cardiotoxic and is similarly effective to mitoxantrone (MTX) as an antineoplastic drug. In our study, pixantrone reduced the severity of acute and decreased the relapse rate of chronic relapsing experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in rats. A marked and long-lasting decrease in CD3+, CD4+, CD8+ and CD45RA+ blood cells and reduced anti-MBP titers were observed with both pixantrone and MTX. In vitro mitogen- and antigen-induced T-cell proliferation tests of human and rodents cells evidenced that pixantrone was effective at concentrations which can be effectively obtained after i.v. administration in humans. Cardiotoxicity was present only in MTX-treated rats. The effectiveness and the favorable safety profile makes pixantrone a most promising immunosuppressant agent for clinical use in multiple sclerosis (MS).
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) has a negative impact on long-term potentiation (LTP) in the rat hippocampus, which has been correlated with increased concentration of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) and activation of p38 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). It has been documented that phosphatidylserine (PS)-containing liposomes induce anti-inflammatory signals and we report that pre-treatment of rats with PS liposomes prevented these LPS-induced effects while also inhibiting microglial activation. We also observed increased concentration of the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 (IL-10), whose intracerebroventricular injection administration mimicked the effects of PS liposomes on LTP. This suggests that administration of PS liposomes protects against the deleterious effects of LPS possibly through generation of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10.
Twelve patients with left unilateral spatial neglect were examined with a newly devised &quot;coloured line bisection task&quot;. They were presented with a horizontal line printed in blue on one side and in red on the other side; the proportions of the blue and red segments were varied. Immediately after placement of the subjective midpoint, the line was concealed and the patients were asked to name the colours of the right and left ends. Five patients who identified the left-end colour almost correctly had no visual field defect, while the other seven whose colour naming was impaired on the left side had left visual field defect. The rightward bisection errors were similarly distributed in the fair and poor colour-naming patients except for two patients from the latter group. The lesions of the fair colour-naming patients spared the lingual and fusiform gyri, which are known to be engaged in colour processing. Patients with neglect whose visual field is preserved may neglect the leftward extension of a line but not the colour in the neglected space. The poor colour-naming patients frequently failed to name the left-end colour that appeared to the left of their subjective midpoint, which indicates that they hardly searched leftward beyond that point. In such trials, they reported that the left end had the same colour as the right end. The results suggest that in patients with neglect and left visual field defect, both the leftward extent and the colour of a line may be represented on the basis of the information from the attended right segment.
Clinical expressions of cognition and behaviour in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients are heterogeneous. Therefore, assessing the entire range of selective cognitive and behavioural characteristics of dementia in minute detail is extremely important. However, considering that groups of different symptoms may respond to the same pharmacological agent, it is also evident that a correct evaluation of the behaviour requires the grouping of symptoms in fewer syndromes. Thus, the authors have analysed various connections between selective cognitive domains and behavioural symptoms (BPSD) in probable AD outpatients. Two hundred and forty four patients with diagnosis of probable AD, according to DSM-IV and NINCDS-ADRDA criteria were enrolled. The evaluation included the Mini Mental State Examination, the Mental Deterioration Battery, and the Neuropsychiatric Inventory. Treatment with low doses of neuroleptic drugs only was allowed. Principal component analysis condensed the 18 cognitive/behavioural variables in 7 factors namely general-cognitive, constructional abilities, hyperactivity, psychosis, anxiety, mood-excitement and mood-depression/apathy. None of the cognitive domains were included in the behavioural factors and vice-versa. Furthermore, the only BPSD which impaired continuously with progression of disease severity was apathy which was also the most severe symptom. In conclusion, many cognitive and behavioural syndromes exist in patients with AD. However, the results of this study suggest that cognition and behaviour are independent dimensions.



Anti-basal ganglia antibodies (ABGA) have been associated with movement disorders (usually tics and chorea) and psychiatric disturbance in children. This report describes five adult and adolescent patients (one male, four females; mean age of onset, 16 years (range, 13-35)) who presented subacutely with a clinical syndrome dominated by dystonia and had ABGA binding to antigens of similar molecular weights to those seen in Sydenham's chorea. Three patients had a clear history of respiratory infection before the onset of their symptoms. Three patients received immunosuppressive treatment, with three showing a notable reduction in symptoms. It is hypothesised that dystonia in adults or adolescents may be part of the clinical spectrum of the post-infectious syndrome associated with ABGA.



Possible pathogenic mechanisms of sporadic inclusion-body myositis (sIBM) include abnormal production and accumulation of amyloid beta (A beta), muscle aging, and increased oxidative stress. Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I), an endocrine and autocrine/paracrine trophic factor, provides resistance against A beta toxicity and oxidative stress in vitro and promotes cell survival. In this study we analyzed the IGF-I signaling pathway in sIBM muscle and found that 16.2% +/- 2.5% of nonregenerating fibers showed increased expression of IGF-I, phosphatidylinositide 3'OH-kinase, and Akt. In the majority of sIBM abnormal muscle fibers, increased IGF-I mRNA and protein correlated with the presence of A beta cytoplasmic inclusions. To investigate a possible relationship between A beta toxicity and IGF-I upregulation, normal primary muscle cultures were stimulated for 24 hours with the A beta(25-35) peptide corresponding to the biologically active domain of A beta. This induced an increase of IGF-I mRNA and protein in myotubes at 6 hours, followed by a gradual reduction thereafter. The level of phosphorylated Akt showed similar changes. We suggest that in sIBM. IGF-I overexpression represents a reactive response to A beta toxicity, possibly providing trophic support to vulnerable fibers. Understanding the signaling pathways activated by IGF-I in sIBM may lead to novel therapeutic strategies for the disease.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is critical for the regulation, differentiation, and survival of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons that degenerate in the late stage of Alzheimer disease (AD). The precursor of NGF (proNGF) is the predominant form of NGF in brain and is increased in end stage AD. To determine whether this increase in proNGF is an early or late change during the progression of cognitive decline, we used Western blotting to measure the relative amounts of proNGF protein in the parietal cortex from subjects clinically classified with no cognitive impairment (NCI; n = 20), mild cognitive impairment (MCI; n = 20), or mild to moderate AD (n = 19). We found that proNGF increased during the prodromal stage of AD. The amount of proNGF protein was 1.4-fold greater in the MCI group as compared to NCI, and was 1.6-fold greater in mild-moderate AD as compared to NCI, similar to our previous findings of a 2-fold increase in end stage AD. There was a negative correlation between proNGF levels and Mini Mental Status Examination (MMSE) score, demonstrating that the accumulation of proNGF is correlated with loss of cognitive function. These findings demonstrate that proNGF levels increase during the preclinical stage of AD and may reflect an early biological marker for the onset of AD.
Sensory neurons in diabetes may be primarily targeted by diabetes and their involvement may account for prominent sensory loss and pain in diabetic patients. Previous studies demonstrating evidence of excessive polyol flux, microangiopathy, and oxidative stress involving sensory axons and ganglia have been joined by more recent work demonstrating altered neuron phenotype, mitochondrial dysfunction, ion channel alterations, and abnormal growth factor signaling. As such, an interesting and unique panoply of molecular changes in primary sensory neurons has been identified in diabetic models. Insulin deficiency and subsequent changes in second messenger signaling may also play an important role in how sensory neurons respond to diabetes. Applying approaches to support sensory neurons in diabetes may be an important therapeutic direction in diabetic patients.
In neocortical neurons, network activity can activate a large number of synaptic inputs, resulting in highly irregular subthreshold membrane potential (V(m)) fluctuations, commonly called &quot;synaptic noise.&quot; This activity contains information about the underlying network dynamics, but it is not easy to extract network properties from such complex and irregular activity. Here, we propose a method to estimate properties of network activity from intracellular recordings and test this method using theoretical and experimental approaches. The method is based on the analytic expression of the subthreshold V(m) distribution at steady state in conductance-based models. Fitting this analytic expression to V(m) distributions obtained from intracellular recordings provides estimates of the mean and variance of excitatory and inhibitory conductances. We test the accuracy of these estimates against computational models of increasing complexity. We also test the method using dynamic-clamp recordings of neocortical neurons in vitro. By using an on-line analysis procedure, we show that the measured conductances from spontaneous network activity can be used to re-create artificial states equivalent to real network activity. This approach should be applicable to intracellular recordings during different network states in vivo, providing a characterization of the global properties of synaptic conductances and possible insight into the underlying network mechanisms.

This study examines the influence of behavioral context on the activity of visuomotor neurons in primate central thalamus. Neurons that combine information about sensory stimuli and their behavioral relevance are thought to contribute to the decision mechanisms that link specific stimuli to specific responses. We reported in a previous study that neurons in central thalamus carry spatial information throughout the instructed delay period of a visually guided delayed saccade task. The goal of the current study was to determine whether the delay-period activity of thalamic neurons is modulated by behavioral context. Single neurons were evaluated during performance of visually guided and memory-guided variants of a saccadic choice task in which a cue designated the response field stimulus as the target of a rewarded saccade or as an irrelevant distracter. The relative influence of the physical stimulus and context on delay-period activity suggested a minimum of 3 neural groups. Some neurons signaled the locations of visible stimuli regardless of behavioral relevance. Other neurons preferentially signaled the locations of current saccadic goals and did so even in the absence of the physical stimulus. A third group signaled only the locations of currently visible saccadic goals. For the latter 2 groups, activity was the product of both stimulus and context, suggesting that central thalamic neurons play a role in the context-dependent linkage of sensory signals and saccadic commands. More generally, these data suggest that the anatomical substrate of sensorimotor decision making may include the cortico-subcortical loops for which central thalamus serves as the penultimate synapse.
The contribution of Ca(2+) release from intracellular Ca(2+) stores (ICS) for regulation of synaptic plasticity thresholds during aging was investigated in hippocampal slices of old (22-24 mo) and young adult (5-8 mo) male Fischer 344 rats. Inhibition of Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release by thapsigargin, cyclopiazonic acid (CPA), or ryanodine during pattern stimulation near the threshold for synaptic modification (5 Hz, 900 pulses) selectively induced long-term potentiation (LTP) to CA1 Schaffer collateral synapses of old rats. Increased synaptic strength was specific to test pathways and blocked by AP-5. Intracellular recordings demonstrated that ICS plays a role in the augmentation of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) in old rats. The decrease in the AHP by ICS inhibition was reversed by the L-channel agonist, Bay K8644. Under conditions of ICS inhibition and a Bay K8644-mediated enhancement of the AHP, pattern stimulation failed to induce LTP, consistent with the idea that the AHP amplitude shapes the threshold for LTP induction. Finally, ICS inhibition was associated with an increase in the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor component of synaptic transmission in old animals. This increase in the synaptic response was blocked by the calcineurin inhibitor FK506. The results reveal an age-related increase in susceptibility to LTP-induction that is normally inhibited by ICS and suggest that the age-related shift in Ca(2+) regulation and Ca(2+)-dependent synaptic plasticity is coupled to changes in cell excitability and NMDA receptor function through ICS.
Primates are able to track a moving target with their eyes, even when the target is seen against a stationary textured background. In this situation, the tracking eye movement induces motion of the background images on the retina (reafference) that competes with the motion of the target's retinal image, potentially disrupting the tracking of the target. Previous work on humans reported that brief perturbations of the background in the opposite direction to pursuit were much less disruptive than perturbations in the same direction as pursuit. Furthermore, if the background moved together with the pursuit target--so as to effectively eliminate the reafference--then the effects of a subsequent background perturbation showed less dependence on direction. This suggested that the direction selectivity to background perturbations during pursuit against a stationary background was due, at least in part, to the prior motion of the background secondary to the pursuit. We now report similar findings in monkeys, and in addition, have investigated the effect of moving the background while the animal was fixating a stationary target. In this situation, the ocular tracking responses to subsequent brief perturbations of the moving background were weaker when the perturbations were in the same direction as the prior background motion than when in the opposite direction. This suggests that the selective insensitivity to the reafferent visual input associated with pursuit across a stationary background is, at least in part, independent of pursuit per se and attributable to a progressive reduction in the sensitivity to sustained background motion.
Neurons in primary visual cortex are highly sensitive to the contrast, orientation, and temporal frequency of a visual stimulus. These three stimulus properties can be varied independently of one another, raising the question of how they interact to influence neuronal responses. We recorded from individual neurons in ferret primary visual cortex to determine the influence of stimulus contrast on orientation tuning, temporal-frequency tuning, and latency to visual response. Results show that orientation-tuning bandwidth is not affected by contrast level. Thus neurons in ferret visual cortex display contrast-invariant orientation tuning. Stimulus contrast does, however, influence the structure of orientation-tuning curves as measures of circular variance vary inversely with contrast for both simple and complex cells. This change in circular variance depends, in part, on a contrast-dependent change in the ratio of null to preferred orientation responses. Stimulus contrast also has an influence on the temporal-frequency tuning of cortical neurons. Both simple and complex cells display a contrast-dependent rightward shift in their temporal frequency-tuning curves that results in an increase in the highest temporal frequency needed to produce a half-maximum response (TF(50)). Results show that the degree of the contrast-dependent increase in TF(50) is similar for cortical neurons and neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and indicate that subcortical mechanisms likely play a major role in establishing the degree of effect displayed by downstream neurons. Finally, results show that LGN and cortical neurons experience a contrast-dependent phase advance in their visual response. This phase advance is most pronounced for cortical neurons indicating a role for both subcortical and cortical mechanisms.
Understanding how the CNS controls reach-to-grasp will require behavioral and neurophysiological studies of reach-to-grasp in the monkey, including the evaluation of whole-hand grasp with explicit force requirements. In this study, monkeys performed a reach-to-grasp task in which the size, shape, and orientation of the objects were varied. The monkeys were required to grasp each object at five force levels based on visual feedback. Seventeen positions on the wrist and hand were monitored to quantify kinematics. Hand shaping began with initiation of reach and continued throughout the reach, matching object properties even without vision of the hand or object. Grasp aperture scaled to object size. Singular value decomposition analysis of the marker positions identified two dominant hand postures. The first eigenvector or &quot;eigenposture&quot; consisted of an open hand configuration midway between flexion and extension that explained &gt;93% of the variance. The second eigenposture consisted of hyperextension of all joints that accounted for another 4-5% of the variance. The two eigenpostures were similar across force levels and between monkeys. Reach kinematics consisted of a U-shaped hand path with a bell-shaped velocity profile. Trajectory and speed were independent of grasp force and object properties. In summary, hand shaping during the reach occurred without vision of the hand or object, and hand kinematics were not dependent on grasp force. Furthermore, the reach was independent of grasp force and object properties. These observations imply that the kinematics of reach-to-grasp and grasp force are controlled independently. Similar to humans, monkeys may use a simplifying strategy to reduce the degrees of freedom of the hand during reach-to-grasp.
Despite the many studies on the visual control of grasping, little is known about how and when small variations in shape affect grasping kinematics. In the present study we asked subjects to grasp elliptical cylinders that were placed 30 and 60 cm in front of them. The cylinders' aspect ratio was varied systematically between 0.4 and 1.6, and their orientation was varied in steps of 30 degrees. Subjects picked up all noncircular cylinders with a hand orientation that approximately coincided with one of the principal axes. The probability of selecting a given principal axis was the highest when its orientation was equal to the preferred orientation for picking up a circular cylinder at the same location. The maximum grip aperture was scaled to the length of the selected principal axis, but the maximum grip aperture was also larger when the length of the axis orthogonal to the grip axis was longer than that of the grip axis. The correlation between the grip aperture--or the hand orientation--at a given instant, and its final value, increased monotonically with the traversed distance. The final hand orientation could already be inferred from its value after 30% of the movement distance with a reliability that explains 50% of the variance. For the final grip aperture, this was only so after 80% of the movement distance. The results indicate that the perceived shape of the cylinder is used for selecting appropriate grasping locations before or early in the movement and that the grip aperture and orientation are gradually attuned to these locations during the movement.
It has been hypothesized that mammalian sensory systems are efficient because they reduce the redundancy of natural sensory input. If correct, this theory could unify our understanding of sensory coding; here, we test its predictions for color coding in the primate primary visual cortex (V1). We apply independent component analysis (ICA) to simulated cone responses to natural scenes, obtaining a set of colored independent component (IC) filters that form a redundancy-reducing visual code. We compare IC filters with physiologically measured V1 neurons, and find great spatial similarity between IC filters and V1 simple cells. On cursory inspection, there is little chromatic similarity; however, we find that many apparent differences result from biases in the physiological measurements and ICA analysis. After correcting these biases, we find that the chromatic tuning of IC filters does indeed resemble the population of V1 neurons, supporting the redundancy-reduction hypothesis.
Previous research has shown that visually responsive neurons in the frontal eye field of macaque monkeys select the target for a saccade during efficient, pop-out visual search through suppression of the representation of the nontarget distractors. For a fraction of these neurons, the magnitude of this distractor suppression varied with the proximity of the target to the receptive field, exhibiting more suppression of the distractor representation when the target was nearby than when the target was distant. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the variation of distractor suppression related to target proximity varied with target-distractor feature similarity. The effect of target proximity on distractor suppression did not vary with target-distractor similarity and therefore may be an endogenous property of the selection process.
In executing a voluntary movement, one is faced with the problem of translating a specification of the movement in task space (e.g., a visual goal) into a muscle-recruitment pattern. Among many brain regions, the primary motor cortex (MI) plays a prominent role in the specification of movements. In what coordinate frame MI represents movement has been a topic of considerable debate. In a two-dimensional wrist step-tracking experiment, Kakei et al. described some MI cells as encoding movement in a muscle-coordinate frame and other cells as encoding movement in an extrinsic-coordinate frame. This result was interpreted as evidence for a cascade of transformations within MI from an extrinsic representation of movement to a muscle-like representation. However, we present a model that demonstrates that, given a realistic extrinsic-like representation of movement, a simple linear network is capable of representing the transformation from an extrinsic space to the muscle-recruitment patterns implementing the movements on which Kakei et al. focused. This suggests that cells exhibiting extrinsic-like qualities can be involved in the direct recruitment of spinal motor neurons. These results call into question models that presume a serial cascade of transformations terminating with MI pyramidal tract neurons that vary their activation exclusively with muscle activity. Further analysis of the model shows that the correlation between the activity of an MI neuron and a muscle does not predict the strength of the connection between the MI neuron and muscle. This result cautions against the use of correlation methods as a measure of cellular connectivity.
The sleeping rat cycles between two well-characterized hippocampal physiological states, large irregular activity (LIA) during slow-wave sleep (SWS) and theta activity during rapid-eye-movement sleep (REM). A third, less well-characterized electroencephalographic (EEG) state, termed &quot;small irregular activity&quot; (SIA), has been reported to occur when an animal is startled out of sleep without moving and during active waking when it abruptly freezes. We recently found that the hippocampal population activity of a spontaneous sleep state whose EEG resembles SIA reflects the rat's current location in space, suggesting that it is also a state of heightened arousal. To test whether this spontaneous SIA state corresponds to the SIA state reported in the literature and to compare the level of arousal during SIA to the other well-characterized physiological states, we recorded unit activity from ensembles of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells, EEG from the hippocampus and the neocortex, and electromyography (EMG) from the dorsal neck musculature in rats presented with auditory stimuli while foraging for randomly scattered food pellets and while sleeping. Auditory stimuli presented during sleep reliably induced SIA episodes very similar to spontaneous SIA in hippocampal and neocortical EEG amplitudes and power spectra, EMG amplitude, and CA1 population activity. Both spontaneous and elicited SIA exhibited neocortical desynchronization, and both had EMG amplitude comparable to that of waking LIA. We conclude based on this and other evidence that spontaneous SIA and elicited SIA correspond to a single state and that the level of arousal in SIA is higher than in the well-characterized sleep states but lower than the active theta state.
A recent report demonstrated that, while fixating a central light, lateral intraparietal area (LIP) neurons are not modulated by the location of auditory stimuli until monkeys learn to saccade to the location of an auditory stimulus. This finding suggests that auditory spatial responses in area LIP are dependent on auditory-saccadic training. We found that, in monkeys that had not been trained to make behavioral responses to auditory stimuli, LIP neurons are modulated by auditory-stimulus location when a central light is not present in the environment. These results indicate that LIP auditory responses are not wholly dependent on behavioral training with auditory stimuli.
NICU stands for Neuro Integrated Care Unit. With the integration philosophy, from the time of admission the patients remain in the NICU even though their status and priority change, until they are ready for discharge home or discharge to a rehabilitation unit. This integration enhances patient satisfaction and decreases length of stay by providing consistent caregivers who have expertise in critical care nursing as well as neuroscience nursing. The interdisciplinary teamwork done in the NICU eliminates the fragmented process that can occur when patients are transferred to several units. The NICU is a unique design that works well in this community hospital.
Neuroscience nurses, whether they practice in an outpatient or hospital setting, should be aware of the new adult immunization schedule. In particular, they should be prepared to discuss vaccines needed after a traumatic injury and the risk of GBS or MS associated with vaccines. Anytime a vaccine is given, the patient needs to be observed for a reaction. Any post-vaccination reaction should be reported to the VAERS. The VAERS telephone number is 800/822-7967 and the Web site is http://www.vaers.org (Pinkowish, 2002).
Patients who experience a sudden ischemic stroke can benefit from administration of intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) to reduce the resulting disability, yet few arrive in time to be eligible for tPA administration. The purpose of this study was to determine (a) the stroke warning signs that most commonly result in the decision to seek hospital care, (b) who makes the decision to seek hospital care, (c) the most common mode of transportation to the hospital, (d) hospital arrival time in relation to the onset of the first warning sign, and (e) factors most associated with hospital arrival time for stroke survivors. Using a descriptive, cross-sectional design, data from a convenience sample of 50 stroke survivors and/or their companions (family, friends, or others seeking hospital care for the patient) were obtained by face-to-face interview during the patient's hospital stay using a structured interview guide developed by the investigator. The most common stroke warning sign resulting in the decision to seek medical care was sudden confusion and trouble speaking or understanding speech, followed by sudden numbness or weakness on one side of the body. Patients themselves were the most common initiators of care, followed by spouses, other relatives, and others. A majority of patients arrived by ambulance, followed by private car or taxi. Only 28.9% of patients arrived at the hospital within 3 hours of the first warning sign, with the mean arrival time for the group being 330.4 minutes (5.5 hours). Mode of transportation and perceived adequacy of income were the only significant factors associated with hospital arrival time, with no significant interaction effects. Patients arriving by private car or taxi and those perceiving their incomes as comfortable had the longest arrival times, suggesting public education efforts also should target people from higher socioeconomic groups. The nonsignificant associations between hospital arrival time, warning signs, and other demographic characteristics of initiators suggest there may be other unmeasured behavioral factors that play a more important role in reducing hospital arrival time for stroke patients. Further study of additional factors associated with early hospital arrival time is recommended to support educational efforts for early stroke treatment and prevention.
The large, medium-sized, and small neurons of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) have different functions in the processing of various senses. Hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated channels (HCN) contribute greatly to neuronal excitability. In the present study, which used whole-cell patch clamp techniques and immunohistochemical staining methods, the electrophysiological properties of DRG neurons were systematically compared, and the roles of HCN-1, -2, and -4 were examined. The main results were as follows. 1) The large neurons had significantly higher V0.5 values (membrane potential at which the HCN channels were half-activated) and shorter time constants (tau) than small or medium-sized DRG neurons. However, large DRG neurons had higher Ih density (HCN neuron current). 2) HCN-1 was found predominantly, but not exclusively, in large and medium-sized DRG neurons; HCN-2 was found in all DRG neurons; and HCN-4 was poorly visualized in all DRG neurons. HCN-1 and HCN-2 were colocalized in large and medium-sized neurons with immunostaining of adjacent sections. In the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, HCN-1, HCN-2, and HCN-4 were all expressed in laminae I-IV, although HCN-1 was not detectable in lamina II. 3) Blockade of Ih current in DRG neurons caused a significant decrease in V0.5, resting membrane potential, and repetitive firing number of action potential and a significant increase in time of rising phase of action potential. These results suggest that the different HCN channels in the three types of DRG neurons might contribute to their differential electrophysiological properties.
The principal cells of the chick tangential nucleus are vestibular nucleus neurons whose responses on vestibular nerve stimulation are abolished by glutamate receptor antagonists. Using confocal microscopy, we quantified immunolabeling for AMPA receptor subunits GluR1, GluR2, GluR2/3, and GluR4 in principal cells that were identified by the neuronal marker, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2). This work was focused primarily on 9 days after hatching (H9) when the principal cells have acquired some important mature electrophysiologic properties. At H9, the principal cell bodies stained strongly with GluR2/3 and GluR4, whereas GluR1 and GluR2 produced weak signals. Moreover, GluR2/3 and GluR4 receptor subunit clusters in principal cell bodies and dendrites were localized at sites contacted by biocytin-labeled vestibular nerve terminals and synaptotagmin-labeled terminals. Developmental expression of AMPA receptor immunolabeling was studied in the principal cell bodies at embryonic day 16 (E16) and hatching (H1). At E16, labeling for GluR4 was already strong, and continued to increase at H1 and H9. In contrast, GluR2/3 labeling was weak at E16, but increased significantly at H1, and more so by H9. GluR1 and GluR2 were present at low levels at E16 and H1. From E16 to H9, overall AMPA receptor subunit expression increased steadily, with H9 showing the strongest labeling. Ultrastructural observations at E16 and H3 confirmed the presence of immunogold labeling for AMPA receptor subunits at the vestibular nerve and non-vestibular nerve synapses on the principal cell bodies. In summary, these results indicate that GluR3 and GluR4 are the major AMPA receptor subunits involved in excitatory synaptic transmission in principal cells during the perinatal period.
The authors describe a case of spondylodiscitis from Aspergillus fumigatus which occurred subsequent to surgery for lumbar disc herniation in a non-immunodepressed patient. The results obtained by combined medical and surgical treatment are discussed.
The authors describe the rare case of a 65-year-old man, with absent clinical evidence of von Recklinghausen's disease, harbouring an isolated, benign schwannoma of the right supraorbital nerve. The patient presented a progressive, painless proptosis of the eye for the past 2 years, did not complain of any intra- or periorbital pain, and did not experience any form of visual disturbance or field defect. The lesion was completely resected using a fronto-orbitozygomatic approach. The clinicopathological, radiological and surgical features are discussed, and the literature on supraorbital nerve schwannomas reviewed. To the authors' knowledge the fronto-orbitozygomatic approach has not been previously reported for the removal of supraorbital nerve tumors.
Synthetic guidance channels or tubes have been shown to promote axonal regeneration within the spinal cord from brainstem motor nuclei with the inclusion of agents such as matrices, cells, or growth factors to the tube. We examined the biocompatibility and regenerative capacity of synthetic hydrogel tubular devices that were composed of poly(2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate-co-methyl methacrylate) (PHEMA-MMA). Two PHEMA-MMA channels, having a mean elastic modulus of either 177 or 311 kPa were implanted into T8-transected spinal cords of adult Sprague Dawley rats. The cord stumps were inserted into the channels and fibrin glue was applied to the cord-channel interface. An expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) membrane was used for duraplasty. Controls underwent cord transection alone. Gross and microscopic examination of the spinal cords showed continuity of tissue within the synthetic guidance channels between the cord stumps at 4 and 8 weeks. There was a trend towards an increased area and width of bridging neural tissue in the 311-kPa guidance channels compared to the 177-kPa channels. Neurofilament stained axons were visualized within the bridging tissue, and serotonergic axons were found to enter the 311-kPa channel. Retrograde axonal tracing revealed regeneration of axons from reticular, vestibular, and raphe brainstem motor nuclei. For both channels, there was minimal scarring at the channel-cord interface, and less scarring at the channel-dura interface compared to that observed next to the ePTFE. The present study is the first to show that axons from brainstem motor nuclei regenerated in unfilled synthetic hydrogel guidance channels after complete spinal cord transection.
The ability to measure brain tissue chemistry has led to valuable information regarding pathophysiological changes in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI). Over the last few years, the focus has been on monitoring changes in brain tissue oxygen to determine thresholds of ischemia that affect outcome. However, the variability of this measurement suggests that it may not be a robust method. We have therefore investigated the relationship of brain tissue pH (pH(b)) and outcome in patients with TBI. We retrospectively analyzed prospectively collected data of 38 patients admitted to the Neurosciences Critical Care Unit with TBI between 1998 and 2003, and who had a multiparameter tissue gas sensor inserted into the brain. All patients were managed using an evidence-based protocol targeting CPP &gt; 70 mm Hg. Physiological variables were averaged over 4 min and analyzed using a generalized least squares random effects model to determine the temporal profile of pH(b) and its association with outcome. Median (IQR) minimum pH(b) was 7.00 (6.89, 7.08), median (IQR) maximum pH(b) was 7.25 (7.18, 7.33), and median (IQR) patient averaged pH(b) was 7.13 (7.07, 7.17). pH(b) was significantly lower in those who did not survive their hospital stay compared to those that survived. In addition, those with unfavorable neurological outcome had lower pH(b) values than those with favorable neurological outcome. pH(b) differentiated between survivors and non-survivors. Measurement of pH(b) may be a useful indicator of outcome in patients with TBI.
The aim was to investigate the predictive validity of the Worker Role Interview (WRI) for return to work at a 2-year follow-up of clients who attended an insurance medicine investigation center. The WRI identifies psychosocial and environmental factors that influence a person's abilities to return to work. Forty-eight of 202 consecutively selected clients constituted the study group. The Mann-Whitney U test was used to test the statistically significant differences in WRI ratings between those who were working (n = 6) and those who were not (n = 42) 2 years after their investigations. Five of the 17 items in WRI had a tentative predictive validity of return to work. The content area &quot;personal causation&quot; in WRI, had the best predictive validity. The results emphasize the importance of considering the unique individual's beliefs and expectations of his/her effectiveness at work when assessing clients' work ability and planning for further rehabilitation.


Sixty-eight outpatients from a veterans' administration psychiatry clinic and community mental health center were assessed with 3 measures of depressive personality disorder (DPD)-the Diagnostic Interview for Depressive Personality Disorder (Gunderson, Phillips, Triebwasser, &amp; Hirschfeld, 1994), the Depressive Personality Disorder Inventory (Huprich, Margrett, Barthelemy, &amp; Fine, 1996), and the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis II Disorders (First, Gibbon, Spitzer, Williams, &amp; Benjamin, 1997a)-to evaluate their convergent and discriminant validity. Evidence supporting the measures' validity was mixed. The rate of convergence of depressive personality diagnoses across 3 measures was less than optimal, but the degree of intercorrelation among the measures was strong. Although depressive personality scores had moderate levels of intercorrelations with other personality disorders, the degree of intercorrelation decreased substantially after controlling for depressive symptoms. I conclude that further work is needed to strengthen the validity of measures of DPD.
The massive activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) by DNA-damaging stimuli, such as exposure to reactive oxygen species (ROS), can lead to cell injury via severe, irreversible depletion of the NAD and ATP pool, and PARP-1 inhibitors have been expected to rescue neurons from degeneration in a number of disease models. We have recently identified 2-[3-[4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-piperazinyl] propyl]-4(3H)-quinazolinone (FR255595) as a novel and potent PARP-1 inhibitor through structure-based drug design and high-throughput screening. This compound potently inhibited PARP activity with an IC(50) value of 11 nM and was orally active and highly brain penetrable. Here, we show that prevention of PARP activation by FR255595 protects against both ROS-induced cells injury in vitro and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced nigrostriatal dopaminergic damage in an in vivo Parkinson's disease (PD) model. In cell death models in vitro, exposure of hydrogen peroxide induced cell death with PARP overactivation in PC12 cells and SH-SY5Y cells, and pre- and post-treatment with FR255595 (10(-9)-10(-5) M) significantly reduced PARP activation and cell death. In mouse MPTP model, MPTP (20 mg/kg i.p.) intoxication lead to PARP activation and cell damage in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, which was significantly ameliorated by oral administration of FR255595 (10-32 mg/kg), both in the substantia nigra and in the striatum via marked reduction of PARP activation, even with delayed treatment. These findings clearly indicate that the novel PARP-1 inhibitor FR255595 exerts neuroprotective effect through its potent PARP-1 inhibitory actions in PD model, suggesting that the drug could be an attractive candidate for several neurodegenerative disorders, including PD.
In forced-swim tests in mice and rats, the novel D(3)/D(2) receptor agonist S32504 [(+)-trans-3,4,4a,5,6,10b-hexahydro-9-carbamoyl-4-propyl-2H-naphth[1,2-b]-1,4-oxazine] dose-dependently (0.04-2.5 mg/kg) and stereospecifically suppressed immobility compared with its enantiomer S32601 [(-)-trans-3,4,4a,5,6,10b-hexahydro-9-carbamoyl-4-propyl-2H-naphth-[1,2-b]-1,4-oxazine]. Ropinirole was less potent than S32504 in this procedure, and it was likewise less potent than S32504 (0.04-2.5 mg/kg) in attenuating motor-suppressant properties of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist S18616 [(S)-spiro[(1-oxa-2-amino-3-azacyclopent-2-ene)-4,2'-(1',2',3',4'-tetrahydronaphthalene)]]. In a learned helplessness paradigm, S32504 (0.08-2.5 mg/kg) suppressed escape failures. Furthermore, in a chronic mild stress model of anhedonia, S32504 (0.16-2.5 mg/kg) rapidly restored the suppression of sucrose consumption. S32504 inhibited marble-burying behavior in mice (0.04-0.16 mg/kg) and aggressive behavior in isolated mice (0.04-2.5 mg/kg): only higher doses of ropinirole mimicked these actions of S32504. In tests of anxiolytic activity, S32504 was more potent (0.0025-0.16 mg/kg) than ropinirole in suppressing fear-induced ultrasonic vocalizations, and S32601 was inactive. Furthermore, in contrast to ropinirole, S32504 modestly enhanced punished responses in a Vogel conflict procedure and increased open-arm entries in a plus-maze. At doses active in the above-described procedures, S32504 did not elicit hyperlocomotion. In the forced-swim, marble-burying, and ultrasonic vocalization models, actions of S32504 were blocked by the D(2)/D(3) antagonists haloperidol and raclopride and by the D(2) antagonist L741,626 [4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)piperidin-4-ol], but not by the D(3) receptor antagonist S33084 [(3aR,9bS)-N-[4-(8-cyano-1,3a,4,9b-tetrahydro-3H-benzopyrano[3,4-c]pyrrole-2-yl)-butyl]-(4-phenyl)benzamide. Finally, chronic administration of S32504 did not, in contrast to venlafaxine, modify corticolimbic levels of serotonin(2A) receptors or brain-derived neurotrophic factor. In conclusion, S32504 displays a broad and distinctive profile of activity in models of potential antidepressive and anxiolytic properties. Its actions are more pronounced than those of ropinirole and principally involve engagement of D(2) receptors.
S32504 [(+)-trans-3,4,4a,5,6,10b-hexahydro-9-carbamoyl-4-propyl-2H-naphth[1,2-b]-1,4-oxazine] displayed marked affinity for cloned, human (h)D(3) receptors (pK(i), 8.1) at which, in total G-protein ([(35)S]GTPgammaS binding, guanosine-5'-O-(3-[(35)S]thio)-triphosphate), Galpha(i3) (antibody capture/scintillation proximity), and mitogen-activated protein kinase (immunoblot) activation procedures, it behaved as an agonist: pEC(50) values, 8.7, 8.6, and 8.5, respectively. These actions were blocked by haloperidol and the selective D(3) receptor antagonist S33084 [(3aR,9bS)-N-[4-(8-cyano-1,3a,4,9b-tetrahydro-3H-benzopyrano[3,4-c]pyrrole-2-yl)-butyl]-(4-phenyl) benzamide)]. S32504 showed lower potency at hD(2S) and hD(2L) receptors in [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding (pEC(50) values, 6.4 and 6.7) and antibody capture/scintillation proximity (hD(2L), pEC(50), 6.6) procedures. However, reflecting signal amplification, it potently stimulated hD(2L) receptor-coupled mitogen-activated protein kinase (pEC(50), 8.6). These actions were blocked by haloperidol and the selective D(2) receptor antagonist L741,626 [4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)piperidin-4-ol]. The affinity of S32504 for hD(4) receptors was low (5.3) and negligible for hD(1) and hD(5) receptors (pK(i), &lt;5.0). S32504 showed weak agonist properties at serotonin(1A) ([(35)S]GTPgammaS binding, pEC(50), 5.0) and serotonin(2A) (G(q), pEC(50), 5.2) receptors and low affinity for other (&gt;50) sites. In anesthetized rats, S32504 (0.0025-0.01 mg/kg, i.v.) suppressed electrical activity of ventrotegmental dopaminergic neurons. Correspondingly, S32504 (0.0025-0.63 mg/kg, s.c.) potently reduced dialysis levels (and synthesis) of dopamine in striatum, nucleus accumbens, and frontal cortex of freely moving rats, actions blocked by haloperidol and L741,626 but not by S33084. In contrast, S32504 only weakly inhibited serotonergic transmission and failed to affect noradrenergic transmission. Actions of S32504 were expressed stereospecifically versus its less active enantiomer S32601 [(-)-trans-3,4,4a,5,6,10b-hexahydro-9-carbomoyl-4-propyl-2H-naphth[1,2-b]-1,4-oxazine]. Although the D(3)/D(2) agonist and antiparkinsonian agent ropinirole mimicked the profile of S32504, it was less potent. In conclusion, S32504 is a potent and selective agonist at dopamine D(3) and D(2) receptors.
The purpose of this study was to examine the optimal dose and therapeutic window of opportunity of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug naproxen in an animal model of excitotoxic neuronal injury. Injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA; 18-20 nmol) into the CA1 region of the left hippocampus resulted in significant brain edema as measured by the percentage of total forebrain water content that occurred 24 h after intrahippocampal microinjection of NMDA with approximately 50% loss of CA1 neurons assessed 72 h later. Naproxen pretreatment (20 mg/kg) resulted in significantly less brain edema. Ten, 15, or 20 mg/kg naproxen, administered systemically 1 day (b.i.d.) before and for 3 days after (b.i.d.) NMDA injection, attenuated the neuronal damage by 27.2 +/- 7.8, 39.6 +/- 11.1, and 57.0 +/- 5.2%, respectively. By comparison, a single dose of MK-801 (2 mg/kg i.p.) given 20 min before NMDA injection inhibited subsequent hippocampal injury by 65.6 +/- 8.8%. Most importantly, neuroprotection was still evident when naproxen treatment (20 mg/kg i.p.) was initiated 6 h after NMDA microinjection. Protection was lost if administration of naproxen was delayed for 20 h. These findings demonstrate that naproxen can prevent excitotoxic neuronal injury in vivo, that it is nearly as effective as direct NMDA receptor antagonism, and that it has an extended therapeutic time window. As such, naproxen may be a particularly promising pharmaceutical for the treatment of neurological diseases associated with overactivation of NMDA receptors.
GABA(A) receptors are responsible for fast inhibitory neurotransmission in the mammalian brain and are the targets for many clinical drugs that act as antiepileptics, anxiolytics, and sedatives. The pharmacological characteristics of the receptor are largely determined by its subunit composition. Compared with all other alpha subtypes, the alpha6 subtype confers unique pharmacological properties. In particular, alpha6-containing receptors are more sensitive to both the agonist GABA and the antagonist amiloride. Results from chimeric constructs of the alpha1 and alpha6 subunits suggested that structural differences within the extracellular N-terminal domain were responsible for both these characteristics. Within this domain, we examined 15 amino acid residues unique to the alpha6 subtype. Each of these sites was individually mutated in the alpha6 subunit to the corresponding residue of the alpha1 subunit. The mutated subunits were expressed in human embryonic kidney-293T cells along with wild-type beta3 and gamma2L subunits and sensitivity to GABA and amiloride determined with whole-cell electrophysiological recordings. Serine83 in the alpha6 subunit influenced sensitivity to both GABA and amiloride. Leucine174 and tyrosine175 were also found to contribute to inhibition by amiloride but did not affect GABA sensitivity. These structural differences are at least partly responsible for the unique pharmacological properties associated with the alpha6 subunit.
A large number of patients with heroin dependency fail to enter a treatment program because of dropping out during or immediately after detoxification. This article presents an open study of symptom relief of 10 patients withdrawing from heroin with a high-dose rapid tapering buprenorphine detoxification protocol. It also presents a pseudo-experimental comparison between 208 patients treated with a clonidine/dextropropoxiphene detoxification protocol and 246 patients treated with the high-dose rapid tapering buprenorphine detoxification protocol to evaluate differences in patients' ability to continue in treatment of addiction immediately after detoxification. The results indicate that 24 mg of sublingually administered buprenorphine beginning when the patient judges himself to be in a withdrawal state followed by another three days of daily administered and rapidly decreased doses resulted in a significant reduction of withdrawal symptoms. Also, when the clonidine/dextropropoxiphene protocol was replaced with this buprenorphine protocol the number of patients continuing in treatment immediately after discharge from the detoxification ward increased from 41.3% to 58.1%. Buprenorphine given in high doses with rapid tapering when withdrawal symptoms occur seems to offer an effective symptom-alleviating treatment, probably also decreasing the number of drop-outs after detoxification.
This study investigates personality traits and psychiatric status among 174 methadone patients (121 men and 53 women) and 387 untreated controls (191 men and 196 women) in Sweden in 1993 and 1994. The methadone patients were followed up to 1998 with respect to being expelled from treatment. Pretreatment factors, like home background and behavioral factors, were studied in relation to treatment outcome. The methadone patients were interviewed using a structured questionnaire about alcohol and drug use and psychological, social, and behavioral factors. To obtain data about personality traits, the patients were asked to fill in a questionnaire, the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) questionnaire. The male methadone patients had significantly (p &lt; 0.0001) higher scores on somatic anxiety, muscular tension, impulsiveness, and psychasthenia, and significantly lower scores with regard to socialization, social desirability, and inhibited aggression compared with the controls. Compared with the female controls, the female methadone patients differed most significantly (p &lt; 0.0001) in respect of socialization. Low socialization, social desirability, detachment, feelings of guilt, and suspicion were most predictive for later expulsion from treatment. Nearly half of the methadone patients who suffered from human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection had difficulties with compliance with the treatment and were later expelled. The results suggest that awareness of personality traits and psychiatric status may be crucial for a better methadone treatment outcome.
Single-particle analysis is a 3-D structure determining method using electron microscopy (EM). In this method, a large number of projections is required to create 3-D reconstruction. In order to enable completely automatic pickup without a matching template or a training data set, we established a brand-new method in which the frames to pickup particles are randomly shifted and rotated over the electron micrograph and, using the total average image of the framed images as an index, each frame reaches a particle. In this process, shifts are selected to increase the contrast of the average. By iterated shifts and further selection of the shifts, the frames are induced to shift so as to surround particles. In this algorithm, hundreds of frames are initially distributed randomly over the electron micrograph in which multi-particle images are dispersed. Starting with these frames, one of them is selected and shifted randomly, and acceptance or non-acceptance of its new position is judged using the simulated annealing (SA) method in which the contrast score of the total average image is adopted as an index. After iteration of this process, the position of each frame converges so as to surround a particle and the framed images are picked up. This method is the first unsupervised fully automatic particle picking method which is applicable to EM of various kinds of proteins, especially to low-contrasted cryo-EM protein images.
Adult amblyopes can improve positional acuity through practice; however, the neural mechanisms underlying this improvement are still not clear. In this study, seven adult amblyopes repeatedly practiced a position discrimination task in the presence of positional noise. We found that six of the seven showed systematic and significant improvements in position acuity that were both eye and orientation specific. Using a position-averaging model, we were able to parse the improvement in performance with practice into two factors: improvement in sampling efficiency and reduction of equivalent input noise. Three of the seven showed improved efficiency with no change in equivalent noise, two showed a significant reduction in equivalent noise with no change in efficiency, and one showed both improved efficiency and reduced equivalent noise. Interestingly, all observers showed substantial improvement in visual acuity, and one observer showed substantial improvement in stereoacuity. Three observers were also tested on a counting task, and all three improved after practicing positional discrimination. Our results reveal the mechanisms underlying perceptual learning in amblyopic vision, and may provide a basis for developing more effective and efficient strategies for the treatment of amblyopia.
A post-stimulus time-histogram (PSTH) technique has been used for studying spinal reflex arcs in humans. In the PSTH technique, effects of the reflex arcs on the motoneuron excitability are examined by analyzing changes in firing probabilities of a motor unit after conditioning stimuli to afferent fibers. Recent studies with the PSTH technique have demonstrated reflex arcs mediated by low threshold muscle afferent fibers (group I afferents) among muscles in the human upper limb. The results have shown several differences of the reflex arcs between the human upper limb and animal forelimb. This paper has described the PSTH technique. Comparisons of the reflex arcs between humans and animals have been also described.
A 49-year-old woman presented with progressive dementia. Diffusion-weighted MR images showed abnormalities in the cerebral cortex as well as the putamen and caudate head bilaterally. MR spectroscopic imaging revealed marked asymmetric decrease of normal metabolites in the right basal ganglia, with concordant hypoperfusion on single photon emission computed tomography. Diffusion-weighted MR imaging is more sensitive to cortical involvement in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, and MR spectroscopy may yield evidence of asymmetric involvement. Combined functional and metabolic MR imaging may be useful in studying CJD.
A simple and sensitive NMR method for quantifying excess (13)C-enrichment in positions 2 and 3 of lactate by (1)H NMR spectroscopy of the lactate methyl signal is described. The measurement requires neither signal calibrations nor the addition of a standard and accounts for natural abundance (13)C-contributions. As a demonstration, the measurement was applied to approximately 3 micromol of lactate generated by erythrocyte preparations incubated with [2-(13)C]glucose to determine the fraction of glucose metabolized by the pentose phosphate pathway (PP). PP fluxes were estimated from the ratio of excess (13)C-enrichment in lactate carbon 3 relative to carbon 2 in accordance with established metabolic models. Under baseline conditions, PP flux accounted for 7 +/- 2% of glucose consumption while in the presence of methylene blue, a classical activator of PP activity, its contribution increased to 27 +/- 10% of total glucose consumption (P &lt; 0.01).
Continuous arterial spin labeling (CASL) using adiabatic inversion is a widely used approach for perfusion imaging. For the quantification of perfusion, a reliable determination of the labeling efficiency is required. A numerical method for predicting the labeling efficiency in CASL experiments under various experimental conditions, including spin relaxation, is demonstrated. The approach is especially useful in the case of labeling at the carotid artery with a surface coil, as consideration of the experimental or theoretical profile of the B(1) field is straightforward. Other effects that are also accounted for include deviations from a constant labeling gradient, and variations in the blood flow velocity due to the cardiac cycle. Assuming relevant experimental and physiological conditions, maximum inversion efficiencies of about 85% can be obtained.
Research in the neurosciences in recent decades has shown that the central nervous system is not a structurally static organ as was believed previously, but instead is a dynamic system that constantly undergoes structural and functional reorganization. The term brain plasticity refers to the constant cellular and intercellular modifications that occur during normal development and after neurologic injury and result in changes in neurologic function. The discovery that central nervous system plasticity after injury can be directed toward functional improvement with use of specific modalities has opened up a new dimension in the care of the neurologically impaired patient, termed restorative neurology.
The . opiate receptor gene (MOR) has at least 14 exons that can generate 15 different splice variants. Recently, two new human MOR splice variants (hMOR-1O and hMOR-1X) have been identified and characterized. The two variants containing human MOR exons 1, 2, and 3 and a fourth alternative exon O, or exon X, are expressed in human brain tissue, and are selective for mu opioid binding in transfected cells. It is unclear; however, what the biologic role of these two novel human splice variants is in vivo. The mu3 opiate receptor subtype found in various human tissues where it is coupled to constitutive nitric oxide synthase derived nitric oxide release is characterized by its opiate alkaloid selectivity and its insensitivity to opioid peptides. The mu3 clone exhibits 100% identity to the mu1 receptor subtype in the center and conserved region, but with a truncated 5'-end (position 503 of mu1 mRNA) (missing several hundred nucleotides). In addition, the 3'-end of the new clone contains the 3'-end of the mu1 receptor, followed by a new fragment of 263 bases, and then by a 202 bp fragment of the 3'-end of the mu1 gene untranslated region. When mu3 is expressed in a heterologous system, the protein produced from this cDNA exhibits all of the expected biochemical characteristics of the mu3 receptor. The isolation of this novel splice variant adds support to the presence of morphinergic signaling in animals.
Several techniques have been developed to deliver DNA directly into mammalian cells, spanning in difficulty from simple mixing procedures to complex systems requiring expensive equipment. Viral vectors have proven able to deliver genes into mammalian cells with high efficiency and low toxicity. In particular, herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1) amplicon vectors are well suited for gene transfer studies as they can infect many cell types, both non-dividing and dividing, have a large transgene capacity and are easy to manipulate. For some applications, it may be desirable to target gene delivery to specific cell populations or to transduce normally non-susceptible cells. This can be achieved by modifying one or more of the glycoproteins found in the viral envelope. Glycoprotein C (gC) has a well-characterized heparan sulfate binding domain (HSBD) necessary for HSV binding to cells. Replacing this region with unique ligands can result in less efficient binding to natural target cells and increase binding to cells which express receptors for these ligands. A method to retarget amplicon vectors by replacing gC HSBD with a model ligand, the hexameric histidine-tag, is described, as well as means to evaluate the binding of modified vector as compared to wild-type virus to cells with or without the appropriate receptor, in this case, a his-tag pseudo-receptor. This protocol demonstrates increased binding of modified virus to receptor-positive cells (at levels greater than wild-type) with no loss of infectivity. Retargeted vectors can provide an additional tool for increasing the efficiency of gene delivery to specific cell types.
Retroviral vectors have become an important tool for gene transfer in vitro and in vivo. Classical Moloney murine leukemia virus (MLV) based retroviral vectors have been used for over 20 years to transfer genes into dividing cells. Cell lines for production of retroviral vectors have become commonly available and modifications in retroviral vector design and use of envelope proteins have made the production of high titer, helper-free, infectious virus stocks relatively easy. More recently, lentiviral vectors, another class of retroviruses, have been modified for in vitro and in vivo gene transfer. The ability of lentiviral vectors to transduce non-dividing cells has made them especially attractive for in vivo gene transfer into differentiated, non-dividing tissues. Several improvements in helper plasmids and vectors have made lentivirus a safe vector system for ex vivo and in vivo gene transfer. This review will briefly summarize the background of these vector systems and provide some common protocols available for the preparation of MLV based retroviral vectors and HIV-1 based lentiviral vectors.
Most sleep disorders result from complex interactions between genes and the environment. Modern molecular techniques are increasingly applied to determine the contribution of genes to sleep and its disorders. The genetic basis of circadian rhythms has been explored using Drosophila and rodent models. This culminated in the identification of the molecular basis of one autosomal dominant form of familial advanced sleep phase syndrome: mutations in the human period 2 gene. Genetic studies in an autosomal recessive canine model of narcolepsy and in gene-targeted mice have identified the hypothalamic hypocretin (orexin) neuropeptide system as a key target for human narcolepsy. In this case, animal models have provided important clues to a human disorder with complex genetics. The study of the role of genes in the obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome is likely to provide important clues to a phenotype associated with respiratory, cardiovascular, and metabolic dysfunction. This brief review will present the role of genetic factors in the obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome, restless leg syndrome, narcolepsy, and circadian rhythm disorders.
Among the different pharmacological approaches that could be adopted in the treatment of myofascial pain of masticatory muscles, attention has to be paid to muscle relaxants drugs, since very few studies evaluated their efficacy, despite most authors suggest their use. The present paper is a critical review of the literature on the use of the most common drugs with muscle relaxant effects (benzodiazepines, tricyclic antidepressants) and of a muscle relaxant drug (tizanidine hydrochloride) in the treatment of such condition. From literature data it emerged that these drugs had phases of alternate enthusiasm, characterized by a not constant clinical use and a fair interest in research. Nevertheless, within all the limitations that have been discussed in this paper, the use of muscle relaxants in patients with myofascial pain of masticatory muscles seems to be justifiable, even though further research is needed to verify their usefulness in terms of risk-benefit ratio.
The use of targeted toxins in research applications has recently grown considerably. The ability to remove a few specific cells, even when surrounded by different populations, has given scientists a powerful tool for the understanding of systems biology. The use of targeted toxins in research is rich and varied; here we limit ourselves to describe some of those exciting results that researchers have made in the neurosciences.
The neural microtubule-associated protein tau binds to and stabilizes microtubules. Because of alternative mRNA splicing, tau is expressed with either 3 or 4 C-terminal repeats. Two observations indicate that differences between these tau isoforms are functionally important. First, the pattern of tau isoform expression is tightly regulated during development. Second, mutation-induced changes in tau RNA splicing cause neuronal cell death and dementia simply by altering the isoform expression ratio. To investigate whether 3- and 4-repeat tau differentially regulate microtubule behavior in cells, we microinjected physiological levels of these two isoforms into EGFP-tubulin-expressing cultured MCF7 cells and measured the effects on the dynamic instability behavior of individual microtubules by time-lapse microscopy. Both isoforms suppressed microtubule dynamics, though to different extents. Specifically, 4-repeat tau reduced the rate and extent of both growing and shortening events. In contrast, 3-repeat tau stabilized most dynamic parameters about threefold less potently than 4-repeat tau and had only a minimal ability to suppress shortening events. These differences provide a mechanistic rationale for the developmental shift in tau isoform expression and are consistent with a loss-of-function model in which abnormal tau isoform expression results in the inability to properly regulate microtubule dynamics, leading to neuronal cell death and dementia.
Myosin heavy chain (MYH) is a major structural protein, integral to the function of sarcomeric muscles. We investigated both exon-intron organization and amino acid sequence of sarcomeric MYH genes to infer their evolutionary history in vertebrates. Our results were consistent with the hypothesis that a multigene family encoded MYH proteins in the ancestral chordate, one gene ancestral to human MYH16 and its homologues and another ancestral to all other vertebrate sarcomeric MYH genes. We identified teleost homologues of mammalian skeletal and cardiac MYH genes, indicating that the ancestors of those genes were present before the divergence of actinopterygians and sarcopterygians. Indeed, the ancestral skeletal genes probably duplicated at least once before the divergence of teleosts and tetrapods. Fish homologues of mammalian skeletal MYH are expressed in skeletal tissue and homologues of mammalian cardiac genes are expressed in the heart but, unlike mammals, there is overlap between these expression domains. Our analyses inferred two other ancestral vertebrate MYH genes, giving rise to human MYH14 and MYH15 and their homologues. Relative to the skeletal and cardiac genes, MYH14 and MYH15 homologues are characterized by evolution of intron position, differences in evolutionary rate between the functionally differentiated head and rod of the myosin protein, and possible evolution of function among vertebrate classes. Tandem duplication and gene conversion appear to have played major roles in the evolution of at least cardiac and skeletal MYH genes in fish. One outcome of this high level of concerted evolution is that different fish taxa have different suites of MYH genes, i.e., true orthologs do not exist.
Forebrain vasopressin/vasotocin systems regulate a diverse set of complex social behaviors in a species-specific manner. Among mammals, vasopressin gene sequences and peptide distributions in the brain are highly conserved across species. In contrast, vasopressin V1a receptors (V1aR) are conserved at the protein level, but not at the level of gene structure or neuroanatomical distribution of the receptor. Here, we examine the functional role of a microsatellite segment in the 5' region of V1aR that differs significantly between monogamous and nonmonogamous vole species with divergent V1aR expression patterns. Using luciferase reporter assays, we demonstrate that this microsatellite plays a significant role in transcriptional regulation in a cell-type-specific manner. These results suggest that significant evolutionary changes in social behavior can occur through variation in regulatory regions of genes already involved in social behavior.
Neurofilament middle and heavy chains (NFM and NFH) are heavily phosphorylated on their carboxy-terminal side-arm domains in axons. The mechanisms that regulate this phosphorylation are complex. Here, we demonstrate that p38alpha, a member of the stress-activated protein kinase family, will phosphorylate NFM and NFH on their side-arm domains. Aberrant accumulations of neurofilaments containing phosphorylated NFM and NFH side-arms are a pathological feature of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and we also demonstrate that p38alpha and active forms of p38 family kinases are associated with these accumulations. This is the case for sporadic and familial forms of ALS and also in a transgenic mouse model of ALS caused by expression of mutant superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1). Thus, p38 kinases may contribute to the aberrant phosphorylation of NFM and NFH side-arms in ALS.
The highly complex geometry of dendritic trees is crucial for neural signal integration and the proper wiring of neuronal circuits. The morphogenesis of dendritic trees is regulated by innate genetic factors, neuronal activity, and external molecular cues. How each of these factors contributes to dendritic maturation has been addressed in the developing nervous systems of animals ranging from insects to mammals. The results of such investigations have shown that the contribution of intrinsic and extrinsic factors and activity, however, appear to be weighted differentially in different types of neurons, in different brain areas, and especially in different species. Moreover, it appears that dozens of molecules have been found to regulate dendritic maturation, but it is almost certain that each molecule plays only a specific role in this formidable cooperative venture. This article reviews our current knowledge and understanding of the role of various factors in the establishment of the architecture of mature dendritic trees.
The induction of synthesis or release of endogenous neurotrophic factors in the brain by low-molecular-weight drugs could be a feasible alternative for the direct administration of neurotrophic factors for the treatment of central nervous system disorders. Recent data suggest that several drugs already in clinical use increase the synthesis, release, or signaling of neurotrophins. Antidepressant drugs increase the synthesis and signaling of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and BDNF signaling appears to be both sufficient and necessary for the antidepressant-induced behavioral effects. Furthermore, neurotrophins and other neurotrophic factors play a role in the acute and chronic responses produced by addictive drugs. Moreover, several neuroprotective drugs influence neurotrophin synthesis or signaling, although the significance of these effects is still unclear. These findings reveal a wider role for neurotrophic factors in drug action than has previously been expected, and they suggest that neurotrophin-induced trophic responses in neuronal connectivity and plasticity may be involved in the mechanism of action of several classes of CNS drugs. Improved assay systems are needed for the systematic screening of the effects of putative neuroprotective drugs on the synthesis, release, and signaling of neurotrophic factors, and for the evaluation of the functional role of these factors in the action of novel drug candidates.
The hematopoietic-specific Galpha14 links a variety of G protein-coupled receptors to phospholipase Cbeta (PLCbeta) stimulation. Recent studies reveal that several Galpha subunits are capable of activating signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins. In the present study, we investigated the mechanism by which Galpha14 mediates receptor-induced stimulation of STAT3. In human embryonic kidney 293 cells, coexpression of Galpha14 with delta-opioid receptor supported [D-Pen2, D-Pen5]enkephalin (DPDPE)-induced STAT3 phosphorylations at both Tyr705 and Ser727 in a pertussis toxin-insensitive manner. The constitutively active Galpha4QL mutant also induced STAT3 phosphorylations at these sites and promoted STAT3-dependent luciferase activity. Requirements for PLCbeta, protein kinase C (PKC), and calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) in Galpha14QL-induced STAT3 activation were demonstrated by their respective inhibitors as well as by coexpression of their dominant-negative mutants. Inhibition of c-Src and Janus kinase 2 and 3 activities abolished STAT3 activation induced by Galpha14QL, but no physical association between Galpha14QL and c-Src could be detected by coimmunoprecipitation. Various intermediates along the extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling cascade were apparently required for Galpha14QL-induced STAT3 activation; they included Ras/Rac1, Raf-1, and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase-1/2. In contrast, functional blockade of c-Jun N-terminal kinase, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase had no effect on Galpha14QL-induced responses. PLCbeta, PKC, and CaMKII were shown to be involved in Galpha14QL-mediated c-Src phosphorylation. Similar results were obtained with human erythro-leukemia cells upon DPDPE treatment. These results demonstrate for the first time that Galpha14 activation can lead to STAT3 stimulation via a complex signaling network involving multiple intermediates.
Evidence is accumulating that, in addition to regulating peripheral energy metabolism, insulin is an important modulator of neuronal function. Indeed, high levels of insulin and insulin receptors are expressed in several brain regions including the hippocampus. We have shown previously that insulin inhibits aberrant synaptic activity in hippocampal neurons via activation of large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K+ (BK) channels. In this study, we have examined further the effects of insulin on native hippocampal and recombinant (hSlo) BK channels expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. Pipette or bath application of insulin evoked a rapid increase in hippocampal BK channel activity, an action caused by activation of insulin receptors because insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) failed to mimic insulin action. In parallel studies, insulin, applied via the pipette or bath, also activated hSlo channels expressed in HEK293 cells. Although phosphoinositide 3-kinase is a key component of insulin and IGF-1 receptor signaling pathways, activation of this lipid kinase does not underlie the effects of insulin because neither 2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenyl-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one (LY294002) nor wortmannin inhibited or reversed insulin action. However, specific inhibitors of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation, 2'-amino-3'-methoxyflavone (PD98059) or 1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis(2-aminophenylthio)-butadiene (U0126), attenuated insulin action, indicating that a MAPK-dependent mechanism underlies this process. Furthermore, insulin activation of this pathway enhances BK channel activity by shifting the Ca(2+)-sensitivity such that BK channels are active at more hyperpolarized membrane potentials. Because postsynaptic BK channels are important regulators of neuronal hyperexcitability, insulin-induced activation of BK channels, via stimulation of a MAPK-dependent pathway, may be an important process for regulating hippocampal function under normal and pathological conditions.
Acetaldehyde, the first product of ethanol metabolism, has been speculated to be involved in many pharmacological and behavioral effects of ethanol. In particular, acetaldehyde has been suggested to contribute to alcohol abuse and alcoholism. In the present paper, we review current data on the role of acetaldehyde and ethanol metabolism in alcohol consumption and abuse. Ethanol metabolism involves several enzymes. Whereas alcohol dehydrogenase metabolizes the bulk of ethanol within the liver, other enzymes, such as cytochrome P4502E1 and catalase, also contributes to the production of acetaldehyde from ethanol oxidation. In turn, acetaldehyde is metabolized by the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase. In animal studies, acetaldehyde is mainly reinforcing particularly when injected directly into the brain. In humans, genetic polymorphisms of the enzymes alcohol dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase are also associated with alcohol drinking habits and the incidence of alcohol abuse. From these human genetic studies, it has been concluded that blood acetaldehyde accumulation induces unpleasant effects that prevent further alcohol drinking. It is therefore speculated that acetaldehyde exerts opposite hedonic effects depending on the localization of its accumulation. In the periphery, acetaldehyde is primarily aversive, whereas brain acetaldehyde is mainly reinforcing. However, the peripheral effects of acetaldehyde might also be dependent upon its peak blood concentrations and its rate of accumulation, with a narrow range of blood acetaldehyde concentrations being reinforcing.
Presenilin 1 (PS1) plays a pivotal role in the production of the amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) that is central to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. PS1 regulates the intramembranous proteolysis of a 99-amino-acid C-terminal fragment of the amyloid precursor protein (APP-C99), a cleavage event that releases Abeta following a reaction catalyzed by an enzyme termed 'gamma-secretase'. The molecular mechanism of PS1-mediated, gamma-secretase cleavage remains largely unresolved. In particular, controversy surrounds whether PS1 includes the catalytic site of the gamma-secretase protease or whether instead PS1 mediates gamma-secretase activity indirectly, perhaps by regulating the trafficking or presentation of substrates to the 'authentic' protease, which may be a molecule distinct from PS1. To address this issue, the baculovirus expression system was used to co-express: (i) APP-C99; (ii) a pathogenic, constitutively active mutant form of PS1 lacking exon 9 (PS1DeltaE9); (iii) nicastrin and (iv) tropomyosin in Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) cells. Cells infected with APP-C99 alone produced an Abeta-like species, and levels of this species were enhanced by the addition of baculoviruses bearing the PS1DeltaE9 mutation. The addition to APP-C99-infected cells of baculoviruses bearing nicastrin, also a transmembrane protein, had a neutral or inhibitory effect on the reaction; tropomyosin viruses had the same effect as nicastrin viruses. These results suggest that PS1DeltaE9 molecules expressed in Sf9 cells retain the ability to modulate Abeta levels. Baculoviral-expressed PS1DeltaE9 provides a source of microgram quantities of bioactive molecules for use as starting material for purifying and reconstituting gamma-secretase activity from its individual purified component parts.
Manic-depressive (bipolar) illness is a serious psychiatric disorder with a strong genetic predisposition. The disorder is likely to be multifactorial and etiologically complex, and the causes of genetic susceptibility have been difficult to unveil. Lithium therapy is a widely used pharmacological treatment of manic-depressive illness, which both stabilizes the ongoing episodes and prevents relapses. A putative target of lithium treatment has been the inhibition of the myo-inositol monophosphatase (IMPase) enzyme, which dephosphorylates myo-inositol monophosphate in the phosphatidylinositol signaling system. Two genes encoding human IMPases have so far been isolated, namely myo-inositol monophosphatase 1 (IMPA1) on chromosome 8q21.13-21.3 and myo-inositol monophosphatase 2 (IMPA2) on chromosome 18p11.2. In the present study, we have scanned for DNA variants in the human IMPA1 and IMPA2 genes in a pilot sample of Norwegian manic-depressive patients, followed by examination of selected polymorphisms and haplotypes in a family-based bipolar sample of Palestinian Arab proband-parent trios. Intriguingly, two frequent single-nucleotide polymorphisms (-461C&gt;T and -207T&gt;C) in the IMPA2 promoter sequence and their corresponding haplotypes showed transmission disequilibrium in the Palestinian Arab trios. No association was found between the IMPA1 polymorphisms and bipolar disorder, neither with respect to disease susceptibility nor with variation in lithium treatment response. The association between manic-depressive illness and IMPA2 variants supports several reports on the linkage of bipolar disorder to chromosome 18p11.2, and sustains the possible role of IMPA2 as a susceptibility gene in bipolar disorder.
A patient presented at the age of 50 years with a right-sided, writing-specific dystonia which settled without treatment. Ten years later she developed focal seizures affecting the right leg and occasionally spreading to the right arm. A left parietal meningioma was removed and 2 years later she developed dystonic movements of her right hand. Gliotic changes were seen on magnetic resonance imaging in the superficial left parietal lobe. Mechanisms involved in the generation of dystonia associated with cortical injury are discussed.
A simple visual reaction time (RT) paradigm was used to investigate whether the velocity of relaxation is impaired in dystonia. In 16 subjects with a clinical diagnosis of adult-onset focal, segmental or multifocal dystonia and in 15 age-matched normal controls, the relaxation reaction time (R-RT) and the contraction reaction time (C-RT) were compared across different tasks involving the flexor carpi radialis (FCR), biceps brachii (BB) and triceps brachii (TR) arm muscles. In normal controls, the latency of EMG termination (R-RT) was significantly shorter than the latency of electromyographic (EMG) onset (C-RT) in the BB and TR muscles, but not in the FCR muscle. In dystonic patients, the latency of EMG termination (R-RT) was significantly longer than the latency of EMG onset (C-RT) in the FCR and BB muscles. No significant difference of the C-RT was observed between patients and controls whereas the R-RT was prolonged significantly in the BB and TR muscles of patients with dystonia and almost significantly in the FCR muscle. This study indicates that muscle relaxation is abnormal in patients with focal (multifocal or segmental) dystonia. The impaired muscle relaxation may contribute to the longer overlap of agonist-antagonist activities (co-contraction) typically observed in dystonia and to the slowness of voluntary movement sequencing.
Four patients, aged 25 to 42 years presented with acute onset of a movement disorder characterized by a tonic, sustained, lateral and outward protrusion of one half of the lower lip. The movement disorder was present at rest, while in some patients, it was also present during speech. In all cases, the abnormal lip posture could be suppressed voluntarily. Neurological examination was otherwise normal. Extensive laboratory investigation failed to reveal any causative factors for secondary focal dystonia. Treatment with oral medications and botulinum toxin was mostly ineffective. Spontaneous remissions were frequent.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) has been recognized recently as an uncommon cause of parkinsonism, an alternate presentation to the typical cerebellar disorder. This research review summarizes the existing literature on parkinsonism-predominant presentation SCA2 and presents new clinical cases of patients with this condition. Various phenotypes are noted in this subtype of SCA2, including parkinsonism indistinguishable from idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), parkinsonism plus ataxia, motor neuron disease, and postural tremor. In several kindreds with multiple affected family members, the SCA2 expansion segregated with disease; in addition, several single cases of parkinsonism with and without a family history are also described. The number of repeats in symptomatic patients ranged from 33 to 43. Interruption of the CAG repeat with CAA, CGG, or CCG was found in some individuals, possibly stabilizing the repeat structure and accounting for the relative stability of the repeat size across generations in some families; allele length is not necessarily indicative of trinucleotide repeat architecture. Positron emission tomography scanning in one family showed reduced fluorodopa uptake and normal to increased raclopride binding with a rostrocaudal gradient similar to that found in idiopathic PD. This review emphasizes the importance of testing for SCA2 in patients with parkinsonism and a family history of neurodegenerative disorders. Testing for SCA2 is also important in studies of inherited parkinsonism.
Inflammation and neurodegeneration characterize the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). Slow axonal degeneration, rather than acute inflammation, is considered the cause of chronic disability in MS. The signs of acute axonal damage and loss have been shown to occur early in the lesion development of patients with chronic MS and often correlate with demyelination and inflammation. While immune activity in the central nervous system has traditionally been considered to be a detrimental event in MS, recent studies have found that autoimmune T cells may play an important role in protecting neurons from the ongoing spreading damage. Neuroprotection in MS is a new and evolving concept, and many questions remain with regard to potential targets for therapeutic intervention. Preliminary studies, both in animals and in humans, have suggested that glatiramer acetate (GA) may confer neuroprotective activity in addition to bystander suppression. Additional research is needed to determine if these promising neuroprotective effects correlated with the long-term effect of GA in MS.
Axonal chemotaxis is believed to be important in wiring up the developing and regenerating nervous system, but little is known about how axons actually respond to molecular gradients. We report a new quantitative assay that allows the long-term response of axons to gradients of known and controllable shape to be examined in a three-dimensional gel. Using this assay, we show that axons may be nature's most-sensitive gradient detectors, but this sensitivity exists only within a narrow range of ligand concentrations. This assay should also be applicable to other biological processes that are controlled by molecular gradients, such as cell migration and morphogenesis.
Schizophrenia is a devastating psychiatric disease that affects 0.5-1% of the world's adult population. The hypothesis that this disease is a developmental disorder of the nervous system with late onset of its characteristic symptoms has been gaining acceptance in past years. However, the anatomical, cellular and molecular bases of schizophrenia remain unclear. Numerous studies point to alterations in different aspects of brain development as possible causes of schizophrenia, including defects in neuronal migration, neurotransmitter receptor expression and myelination. Recently, the gene that encodes neuregulin-1 (NRG1) has been identified as a potential susceptibility gene for schizophrenia, and defects in the expression of erbB3, one of the NRG1 receptors, have been shown to occur in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenic patients, suggesting that NRG1-erbB signaling is involved in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. These findings open new approaches to defining the molecular and cellular basis of schizophrenia in more mechanistic terms.
Attention powerfully influences auditory perception, but little is understood about the mechanisms whereby attention sharpens responses to unattended sounds. We used high-resolution surface mapping techniques (using functional magnetic resonance imaging, fMRI) to examine activity in human auditory cortex during an intermodal selective attention task. Stimulus-dependent activations (SDAs), evoked by unattended sounds during demanding visual tasks, were maximal over mesial auditory cortex. They were tuned to sound frequency and location, and showed rapid adaptation to repeated sounds. Attention-related modulations (ARMs) were isolated as response enhancements that occurred when subjects performed pitch-discrimination tasks. In contrast to SDAs, ARMs were localized to lateral auditory cortex, showed broad frequency and location tuning, and increased in amplitude with sound repetition. The results suggest a functional dichotomy of auditory cortical fields: stimulus-determined mesial fields that faithfully transmit acoustic information, and attentionally labile lateral fields that analyze acoustic features of behaviorally relevant sounds.
Adult male sexual behavior in mammals requires the neuronal organizing effects of gonadal steroids during a sensitive perinatal period. During development, estradiol differentiates the rat preoptic area (POA), an essential brain region in the male copulatory circuit. Here we report that increases in prostaglandin-E(2) (PGE(2)), resulting from changes in cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) regulation induced by perinatal exposure to estradiol, are necessary and sufficient to organize the crucial neural substrate that mediates male sexual behavior. Briefly preventing prostaglandin synthesis in newborn males with the COX inhibitor indomethacin permanently downregulates markers of dendritic spines in the POA and severely impairs male sexual behavior. Developmental exposure to the COX inhibitor aspirin results in mild impairment of sexual behavior. Conversely, administration of PGE(2) to newborn females masculinizes the POA and leads to male sex behavior in adults, thereby highlighting the pathway of steroid-independent brain masculinization. Our findings show that PGE(2) functions as a downstream effector of estradiol to permanently masculinize the brain.
Endogenous cannabinoids (eCB) mediate synaptic plasticity in brain regions involved in learning and reward. Here we show that in mice, a single in-vivo exposure to Delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) abolishes the retrograde signaling that underlies eCB-mediated synaptic plasticity in both nucleus accumbens (NAc) and hippocampus in vitro. This effect is reversible within 3 days and is associated with a transient modification in the functional properties of cannabinoid receptors.
Placebo administration is known to affect the brain both in pain and in Parkinson disease. Here we show that placebo treatment caused reduced activity in single neurons in the subthalamic nucleus of placebo-responsive Parkinsonian patients. These changes in activity were tightly correlated with clinical improvement; no decrease in activity occurred when the clinical placebo response was absent.



Receptor antagonist and knockout studies have demonstrated that blockade of signalling via nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) and its receptor (NOP) has antidepressant-like effects in mice submitted to the forced swimming test (FST). The aim of the present study was to explore further the antidepressant-like properties of the NOP antagonist UFP-101 in different species (mouse and rat) and using different assays [FST and tail suspension test (TST)], and to investigate the mechanism(s) involved in its actions.UFP-101 (10 nmol i.c.v.) reduced immobility time of Swiss mice in the TST (mean+/-SEM) from 179+/-11 to 111+/-10 s. N/OFQ (1 nmol i.c.v.) was without effect per se, but fully prevented the effect of UFP-101. The spontaneous immobility time of NOP(-/-) CD1-C57BL/6J-129 mice in the TST was much lower than that of wild-type (NOP(+/+)) littermates (75+/-11 vs. 144+/-17 s) or of Swiss mice. UFP-101 (10 nmol i.c.v.) decreased immobility time (-65%) and increased climbing time (71%) in rats submitted to the FST. In rat brain slices, N/OFQ (100 nM) triggered robust K(+)-dependent hyperpolarizing currents in locus coeruleus and dorsal raphe neurons. UFP-101 (3 microM) fully prevented N/OFQ-induced currents, but was inactive per se. Fluoxetine, desipramine (both 30 mg/kg i.p.) and UFP-101 (10 nmol i.c.v.) reduced immobility time of mice in the FST. The serotonin synthesis inhibitor p-chlorophenylalanine methylester (PCPA, 4 x 100 mg/kg per day i.p.) prevented the antidepressant-like effects of fluoxetine and UFP-101 (but not desipramine), whereas N-(2-chloroethyl)- N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4, neurotoxic for noradrenergic neurons; 50 mg/kg i.p., 7 days beforehand), suppressed only the effect of desipramine. Neither pretreatment affected spontaneous immobility time per se.Thus, UFP-101 exhibits pronounced antidepressant-like effects in different species and animal models, possibly by preventing the inhibitory effects of endogenous N/OFQ on brain monoaminergic (in particular serotonergic) neurotransmission. Participation of the N/OFQ-NOP receptor system in mood modulation sets new potential targets for antidepressant drug development.
When a monkey searches for a colour and orientation feature conjunction target, the scan path is guided to target coloured locations in preference to locations containing the target orientation [Vision Res. 38 (1998b) 1805]. An active vision model, using biased competition, is able to replicate this behaviour. As object-based attention develops in extrastriate cortex, featural information is passed to posterior parietal cortex (LIP), enabling it to represent behaviourally relevant locations [J. Neurophysiol. 76 (1996) 2841] and guide the scan path. Attention evolves from an early spatial effect to being object-based later in the response of the model neurons, as has been observed in monkey single cell recordings. This is the first model to reproduce these effects with temporal precision and is reported here at the systems level allowing the replication of psychophysical scan paths.
We studied top-down attentional effects on adaptation to two aspects of sinusoidal gratings: contrast (CTE: contrast threshold elevation for detection) and orientation (TAE: tilt aftereffect, bias in perceived orientation). Adaptation was examined under five different behavioral conditions designed to assess the effect of alertness, spatial attention and the dimension attended. Alertness increased CTE, but had no effect on TAE. Spatial attention increased TAE, but had no effect on CTE. TAE (but not CTE) was also sensitive to the attended dimension. It was greater when gratings' contrast rather than orientation was attended. The different patterns of top-down effects on CTE compared with TAE are consistent with these two types of adaptation taking place at different levels along the visual hierarchy: CTE occurs at very low-levels, where activity is affected by alertness but not by spatial attention, whereas TAE occurs at subsequent stages, which are modulated by selective attention.
Primate visual systems support an elaborate specialization for processing color information. Concentrating on the hue component, we observe that, contrary to Mondrian-like assumptions, hue varies in a smooth manner for ecologically important natural imagery. To represent these smooth variations, and to support those information processing tasks that utilize hue, a piecewise smooth hue field is postulated. The geometry of hue-patch interactions is developed analogously to orientation-patch interactions in texture. The result is a model for long-range (horizontal) interactions in the color domain, the power of which is demonstrated on a number of examples. Implications for computer image processing, computer vision, visual neurophysiology and psychophysics are discussed.
Neocortical network behavior and neocortical function emerge from synaptic interactions among neurons with specific electrophysiological and morphological characteristics. The intrinsic electrophysiological properties of neurons define their firing patterns and their input-output functions with critical consequences for their functional properties within the network. Understanding the role played by the active non-linear properties caused by ionic conductances distributed in the soma and the dendrites is a critical step towards understanding cortical function. Here I present a brief description of electrophysiological and morphological characteristics of neocortical cells that allow their classification in categories. I review some examples of differences in functional properties among different electrophysiological cell classes in the visual cortex, as well as the role played by specific ionic conductances in defining firing and accommodation properties of neocortical neurons.


Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1A (CMT1A) is a hereditary demyelinating neuropathy due to an increased genetic dosage of the peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22). The mechanisms leading from PMP22 overexpression to impairment of myelination are still unclear. We evaluated expression and processing of PMP22, viability, proliferation, migration, motility and shaping properties, and ability of forming myelin of PMP22 transgenic (PMP22(tg)) Schwann cells in culture. In basal conditions, PMP22(tg) Schwann cells, although expressing higher PMP22 levels than control ones, show normal motility, migration and shaping properties. Addition of forskolin to the media induces an additional stimulation of PMP22 expression and results in an impairment of cells migration and motility, and a reduction of cell area and perimeter. Similarly, co-culturing transgenic Schwann cells with neurons causes an altered cells differentiation and an impairment of myelin formation. In conclusion, exposure of PMP22(tg) Schwann to the axon or to axonal-mimicking stimuli significantly affects the transition of transgenic Schwann cells to the myelinating phenotype.
In parkinsonian patients as well as in primate models with levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID), an increase in the expression of preproenkephalin in the striatal output pathways has been demonstrated. Does this increase contribute to the development of LID, or does it rather act as a protection mechanism? To clarify this question, we have investigated the effect of different doses of morphine on the dyskinetic response to L-DOPA, a D2 agonist, and a D1 agonist. We have used MPTP-treated cynomolgus monkeys with a stable parkinsonian syndrome and reproducible dyskinesias to L-DOPA. Co-administration of morphine with dopaminergic agents produces a significant reduction in the severity of dyskinesias, while it does not affect the anti-parkinsonian efficacy of the treatment. This study suggests that the increased production of opioids in the striatal projection neurons might have a protective role to compensate the changes in synaptic transmissions that are responsible for dyskinesias, rather than be the cause of dyskinesias.
Acute phencyclidine induces schizophrenia-like symptoms in healthy humans and psychotic episodes in schizophrenics. Although phencyclidine is known as a N-methyl d-aspartate receptor antagonist (NMDA-R), the molecular events underlying the behavioral symptoms remain largely unknown. Statistical analysis of oligonucleotide microarray data was used to identify phencyclidine-induced alterations in rat cortical gene expression. Acute phencyclidine produced a statistically significant change in 477 genes in rat prefrontal cortex (PFC), a brain area associated with cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenics. Real-time quantitative PCR (RTQ-PCR) confirmed a subset of these changes ranging from -59% to 255% (smallest confirmation: -19%). Subsequent time-course and dose-response studies using RTQ-PCR confirmed and extended the original microarray results. At the molecular level, genes altered by phencyclidine are related to diverse biological processes including stress, inflammatory response, growth and development, neural plasticity and signal transduction. Further analysis, aimed at assessing the relevance of our results to schizophrenia, revealed dysregulation of genes related to: (i) thalamocortical projections, (ii) neurotransmission and neuromodulation, (iii) thyroid hormone activity, (iv) oligodendrocyte linage, (v) brain lipid metabolism, (vi) sleep architecture and (viii) the velocardiofacial syndrome.
Nine-day-old transgenic XIAP overexpressing (TG-XIAP) and wild-type mice were subjected to left carotid artery ligation and 10% O(2) for 60 min, leading to widespread infarctions in the ipsilateral hemisphere during reperfusion. The activation of caspase-3 and -9 seen in wild-type animals was virtually abolished in TG-XIAP mice. Tissue loss was significantly reduced from 54.4 +/- 4.1 mm(3) (mean +/- SEM) in wild-type mice to 33.1 +/- 2.1 mm(3) in the TG-XIAP mice. Injured neurons displayed stronger XIAP staining during reperfusion, particularly in the nuclei. XIAP was colocalized with XAF-1, Smac, and HtrA2 in injured neurons after hypoxia-ischemia (HI). XIAP was cleaved after HI, and Smac immunoprecipitation co-precipitated a 25-kDa C-terminal fragment of XIAP, indicating that Smac preferentially bound to cleaved XIAP. These findings provide the first evidence that increased XIAP levels protect the neonatal brain against HI.
Approximately 2% of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) cases are associated with mutations in the cytosolic Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene. Transgenic SOD1 mice constitute useful models of ALS to screen therapeutical approaches. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) holds promises for the treatment of motoneuron disease. In the present study, GDNF expression in motoneurons of SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice was assessed by facial nucleus or intraspinal injection of lentiviral vectors (LV) encoding GDNF. We show that lentiviral vectors allow the expression for at least 12 weeks of GDNF that was clearly detected in motoneurons. This robust intraspinal expression did, however, not prevent the loss of motoneurons and muscle denervation of transgenic mice. In contrast, LV-GDNF induced a significant rescue of motoneurons in the facial nucleus and prevented motoneuron atrophy. The differential effect of GDNF on facial nucleus versus spinal motoneurons suggests different vulnerability of motoneurons in ALS.
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia is a major complication of L-DOPA pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease, and is thought to depend on abnormal cell signaling in the basal ganglia. In this study, we have addressed the possibility to model L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in the mouse at both the behavioral and the molecular level. C57BL/6 mice sustained unilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) either in the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) or in the sensorimotor part of the striatum. Both types of lesion produced a similar degree of forelimb akinesia on the contralateral side of the body. The lowest dose of L-DOPA that could significantly relieve this akinetic deficit (i.e., 6 mg/kg) did not differ between MFB and intrastriatal lesions. The L-DOPA threshold dose for the induction of dyskinesia did however differ between the two lesion types. A daily dose of 6 mg/kg L-DOPA caused MFB lesioned mice to develop abnormal movements affecting orofacial, trunk, and forelimb muscles on the side contralateral to the lesion, whereas a daily dose of 18 mg/kg was required to produce comparable dyskinetic effects in the intrastriatally lesioned animals. The development of abnormal movements was accompanied by a striatal induction of DeltaFosB-like proteins and prodynorphin mRNA, that is, molecular markers that are associated with L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in both rats and nonhuman primates. We conclude that 6-OHDA lesioned mice exhibit behavioral and cellular features of akinesia and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia that are similar to those previously characterized in rats. The mouse model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia will provide a useful tool to study the molecular determinants of this movement disorder in transgenic mice strains.
Hearing deficit occurs in several lysosomal storage disorders but has so far not been recognized as a symptom of Pompe's disease (glycogen storage disease type II). We discovered quite unexpectedly 30-90 dB hearing loss in four infants with Pompe's disease, who participated in a study on the safety and efficacy of enzyme replacement therapy. Three other patients with juvenile Pompe's disease did not have this symptom. The ABR (auditory brainstem response) thresholds but not the interpeak latency times were increased. This pointed to middle or inner ear pathology rather than to involvement of the central auditory nervous system. The possible occurrence of cochlear pathology was supported by the absence of oto-acoustic emissions. We investigated this hypothesis in a knockout mouse model of Pompe's disease and found glycogen storage in the inner and outer hair cells of the cochlea, the supporting cells, the stria vascularis, and the spiral ganglion cells. We conclude that cochlear pathology is the most likely cause of hearing loss in infantile Pompe's disease and possibly a characteristic feature of this clinical subtype.
Using 15O-butanol positron emission tomography (PET), we measured regional cerebral blood flow changes in five healthy young women during exposure to androstadienone, a putative human pheromone, as well as pleasant (gamma-methyl-ionone), unpleasant (methyl-thio-butanoate), and neutral (dipropylene glycol; vehicle compound) odours. Compared with the odorous substances, androstadienone activated a widely distributed neuronal network. Two large cortical fields exhibited consistent activation in each contrast: the anterior part of the inferior lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the posterior part of the superior temporal cortex (STP). Intriguingly, these areas were deactivated by gamma-methyl-ionone and methyl-thio-butanoate. These brain regions can be identified as cortical fields underlying other than olfactory functions, including various aspects of social cognition and attention.
The term &quot;proteome&quot; describes the protein complement of a genome. Proteomes of cells are dynamic and are directly affected by environmental factors, such as stress and/or drug treatment, or as a result of aging and disease. One of the distinct advantages of proteomic analysis, not attainable with RNA expression data, is the ability to fractionate the cell's proteins into various subpopulations. In neuroscience, &quot;neuromics&quot; (proteomics in the central nervous system) is in its infancy, with a paucity of studies in the context of the brain. One of the objectives of this review is to illustrate the potential of neuromics to profile differences in the distribution of thousands of proteins as a function of disease markers. We have previously used this approach to determine the effects of varied postmortem interval in examining human brain tissue and to identify biomarkers. Here we review proteomic studies of schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease. Experimental results regarding Parkinson's disease are presented to illustrate the potential of neuromics to identify pathways of pathogenesis and novel therapeutic targets.
While specific components of normal brain aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) appear to be genetically determined, it is not well understood whether AD is due to accelerated aging or if AD represents an independent disease entity superimposed upon senescence. Using gene expression profiling, significant alterations in brain-specific transcription patterns have been observed between AD and age-matched controls. In AD, although a general depression in brain genetic output has been reported, there are robust increases in the expression of potentially neuropathological genes. The data in this study show increases in the RNA abundance patterns for a stress-response, proinflammatory, apoptotic, and angiogenic gene family that occur during the transition from fetal to aged, and again during the transformation from aged to AD brain. Significantly up-regulated RNAs include those encoding stress-induced factors (HSP70), transcriptional repressors (DAXX), pentraxins (SAP), proapoptosis factors (FAS and DAXX), and several inflammatory markers (betaAPP, CEX1, NF-IL6, NF-kappaBp100, cyclooxygenase-2, IL-1alpha and IL-1beta precursors and cPLA2). These findings support the hypothesis that there is a continuum of stress-related gene expression as the brain ages and an advancement of inflammatory, apoptotic, and angiogenic gene signaling that correlates with the transition to AD.
We have investigated gene expression changes produced by acute and chronic daily treatment with a prototypical antidepressant, imipramine, using DNA microarrays. The analysis of similarities in gene expression patterns among functionally related genes revealed four expression profile cluster areas that showed a highly significant overrepresentation of several functional classes. Genes encoding for proteins involved in cAMP metabolism, postsynaptic membrane proteins, and proto-oncogenes were overrepresented in different cluster areas. Furthermore, we found that serine proteases as a group were similarly regulated by chronic antidepressant treatment. Our data suggest that cAMP metabolism, synaptic function, and protein processing by serine proteases may be important targets of antidepressant treatment and potential objects for antidepressant drug development.
Neuropathological evidence from both human and experimental models of Parkinson's disease (PD) firmly supports a significant role for oxidative stress (OS) in the death of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in substantia nigra. Largely unknown are the genes underlying selective susceptibility of nigral DA neuron to OS and how they effect nigral DA cell death. The major barriers to high-throughput identification of candidate genes are the paucity of nigral DA neurons as well as the dilution effect of non-DA cells both in primary cultures and brain tissues. To overcome these barriers, we have developed a DA cell line model, SN4741, appropriate for cDNA microarray analysis. Candidate genes were selected from both the microarray analysis and the molecular implication of their pathological mechanisms (i.e., decreased mitochondrial complex I activity and proteasomal dysfunction) of PD. Subsequent secondary validation tests were devised to characterize genes including clone #45 that may underlie selective vulnerability of nigral DA neuron to OS.
As the technology of proteomics moves from a theoretical approach to a practical reality, neuroscientists will have to determine the most appropriate applications for this technology. Neuroscientists will have to surmount difficulties particular to their research, such as limited sample amounts, heterogeneous cellular compositions in samples, and the fact that many proteins of interest are rare, hydrophobic proteins. This review examines protein isolation and protein fractionation and separation using two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) and mass spectrometry proteomic methods. Methods for quantifying relative protein expression between samples (e.g., 2-DIGE, and ICAT) are also described. The coverage of the proteome, ability to detect membrane proteins, resource requirements, and quantitative reliability of different approaches is also discussed. Although there are many challenges in proteomic neuroscience, this field promises many rewards in the future.
Abstract These studies investigated receptors modulating release of mediators of fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in guinea pig ileum myenteric plexus using electrophysiological methods. Fast EPSPs inhibited by &gt;95% by hexamethonium (100 micromol L(-1)) were cholinergic; mixed fEPSPs were inhibited &lt;95% by hexamethonium. Non-cholinergic fEPSPs were studied in the presence of hexamethonium. The alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist UK 14304 inhibited cholinergic (maximum inhibition = 76%, EC(50) = 18 nmol L(-1)), mixed (81%, 21 nmol L(-1)) and non-cholinergic (76%, 44 nmol L(-1)) fEPSPs equally. The 5-HT(1) receptor agonist 5-carboxamidotryptamine inhibited cholinergic, mixed and non-cholinergic fEPSPs equally. Renzapride, increased non-cholinergic (33%) less than mixed (97%, 13 micromol L(-1)) fEPSPs. Renzapride inhibited the purely cholinergic fEPSPs (-29%) but potentiated the cholinergic component of mixed fEPSPs (39%). Prucalopride potentiated all fEPSPs equally (30-33%). 5-HT (0.1 micromol L(-1)) induced potentiation of cholinergic (75%), mixed (97%) and non-cholinergic (84%) fEPSPs was not statistically different. The potentiating effects of renzapride and 5-HT on fEPSPs were inhibited by the 5-HT(4) receptor antagonist, SB 204070 (10 nmol L(-1)). Renzapride (0.3 micromol L(-1)) blocked 5-HT-induced increases in cholinergic fEPSPs. alpha2-Adrenergic and 5-HT(1) receptors mediate inhibition of transmitter release from cholinergic and mixed terminals. 5-HT and prucalopride, acting at 5-HT(4) receptors, facilitate all fEPSPs; renzapride facilitates the cholinergic and non-cholinergic components of mixed fEPSPs but not purely cholinergic fEPSPs. Cholinergic synapses may express few 5-HT(4) receptors or a renzapride-insensitive 5-HT(4) receptor isoform.
Gastric accommodation is considered important in the pathophysiology of several upper gastrointestinal disorders including functional dyspepsia. The gold standard for its measurement is the barostat-balloon study which requires intubation. The aim was explore the reliability and performance characteristics of the techniques proposed for measurement of gastric accommodation. We undertook a literature search using MEDLINE with a broad range of key words. The accommodation reflex and its control are briefly described, based on human data. The performance characteristics of the intragastric barostat, transabdominal ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, single photon emission computed tomography, and satiation drinking tests are described. For each technique, we summarize the following: principle, validation studies, advantages, disadvantages, and potential applications. Three-dimensional methods to measure gastric volume non-invasively are promising and among the best validated to date. Simpler techniques would be of considerable appeal for clinical and research studies, but further validation is necessary before satiation drinking tests can be used as surrogates for more sophisticated measurements of gastric accommodation.
This study provides an expression signature of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-activated microglia. Microglia are macrophage precursor cells residing in the brain and spinal cord. The microglial phenotype is highly plastic and changes in response to numerous pathological stimuli. IFN-gamma has been established as a strong immunological activator of microglial cells both in vitro and in vivo. Affymetrix RG_U34A microarrays were used to determine the effect of IFN-gamma stimulation on migroglia cells isolated from newborn Lewis rat brains. More than 8,000 gene sequences were examined, i.e., 7,000 known genes and 1,000 expressed sequence tag (EST) clusters. Under baseline conditions, microglia expressed 326 of 8,000 genes examined (approximately 4% of all genes, 182 known and 144 ESTs). Transcription of only 34 of 7,000 known genes and 8 of 1,000 ESTs was induced by IFN-gamma stimulation. The majority of the newly expressed genes encode pro-inflammatory cytokines and components of the MHC-mediated antigen presentation pathway. The expression of 60 of 182 identified genes and of 9 of 144 ESTs was increased by IFN-gamma, whereas 29 of 182 known genes and 7 of 144 ESTs were down-regulated or undetectable in IFN-gamma-stimulated cultures. Overall, the activating effect of IFN-gamma on the microglial transcriptome showed restriction to pathways involved in antigen presentation, protein degradation, actin binding, cell adhesion, apoptosis, and cell signaling. In comparison, down-regulatory effects of IFN-gamma stimulation appeared to be confined to pathways of growth regulation, remodeling of the extracellular matrix, lipid metabolism, and lysosomal processing. In addition, transcriptomic profiling revealed previously unknown microglial genes that were de novo expressed, such as calponin 3, or indicated differential regulatory responses, such as down-regulation of cathepsins that are up-regulated in response to other microglia stimulators.
The autonomic responses to acute pain exposure usually habituate rapidly while the subjective ratings of pain remain high for more extended periods of time. Thus, systems involved in the autonomic response to painful stimulation, for example the hypothalamus and the brainstem, would be expected to attenuate the response to pain during prolonged stimulation. This suggestion is in line with the hypothesis that the brainstem is specifically involved in the initial response to pain. To probe this hypothesis, we performed a positron emission tomography (PET) study where we scanned subjects during the first and second minute of a prolonged tonic painful cold stimulation (cold pressor test) and nonpainful cold stimulation. Galvanic skin response (GSR) was recorded during the PET scanning as an index of autonomic sympathetic response. In the main effect of pain, we observed increased activity in the thalamus bilaterally, in the contralateral insula and in the contralateral anterior cingulate cortex but no significant increases in activity in the primary or secondary somatosensory cortex. The autonomic response (GSR) decreased with stimulus duration. Concomitant with the autonomic response, increased activity was observed in brainstem and hypothalamus areas during the initial vs. the late stimulation. This effect was significantly stronger for the painful than for the cold stimulation. Activity in the brainstem showed pain-specific covariation with areas involved in pain processing, indicating an interaction between the brainstem and cortical pain networks. The findings indicate that areas in the brainstem are involved in the initial response to noxious stimulation, which is also characterized by an increased sympathetic response.
Experimental data in animals show that 5-HT(1A) receptors are predominantly located in limbic areas and suggest that serotonin, via these receptors, mediates an antiepileptic and anticonvulsant effect. In this PET study, we used an antagonist of the 5-HT(1A) receptor, [(18)F]MPPF, to assess the extent of 5-HT(1A) receptor binding changes in a group of seven temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients with hippocampal ictal onset demonstrated by intracerebral EEG recording. On the basis of MRI-measured hippocampal volumes (HV), patients were classified into &quot;normal HV&quot; or &quot;hippocampal atrophy&quot; (HA). Voxel-based analyses (SPM99) were performed to objectively assess the differences in [(18)F]MPPF binding potential (BP) between patients (taken as a group or as individuals) and a database of 48 controls subjects. In the full group of patients, a significant decreased BP was detected ipsilateral to the epileptogenic zone in the hippocampus, temporal pole, insula, and temporal neocortex. This result was confirmed in the subgroup of patients with HA. In patients with normal HV, the BP decrease was restricted to the temporal pole. TLE patients also demonstrated an increased BP in various regions contralateral to the epileptogenic zone. These data suggest that in TLE patients with hippocampal seizure onset, the decrease in 5-HT(1A) receptor binding partly reflects hippocampal neuronal loss, but is also observed in various regions involved in temporo-limbic epileptogenic networks that appeared normal on MRI. Further studies are warranted to evaluate the clinical usefulness of [(18)F]MPPF-PET as compared to other established PET tracers in drug resistant TLE.
Optimising the number of subjects required for an event-related functional imaging study is critical for ensuring sufficient statistical power. We report an empirical investigation of this issue by employing a resampling approach to the data of 58 subjects drawn from four previous GO/NOGO studies. Using voxelwise measures and setting the activation map from the complete sample to be a &quot;gold standard&quot;, analyses revealed the statistical power to be surprisingly low at typical sample sizes (n = 20). However, voxels that were significantly active from smaller samples tended to be true positives, that is, they were typically active in the gold standard map and correlated well with the gold standard activation measure. The numerous false negatives that resulted from the lower SNR of the smaller samples drove the poor statistical power of those samples. Splitting the sample into two groups provided a test of the reproducibility of activation maps that was assessed using an alternative measure that quantified the distances between centres-of-mass of activated areas. These analyses revealed that although the voxelwise overlap may be poor, the locations of activated areas provide some optimism for studies with typical sample sizes. With n = 20 in each of two groups, it was found that the centres-of-mass for 80% of activated areas fell within 25 mm of each other. The reported analyses, by quantifying the spatial reproducibility for various sample sizes performing a typical event-related cognitive task, thus provide an empirical measure of the disparity to be expected in comparing activation maps.
Functional neuroimaging studies reveal differences in neural correlates of the retrieval of emotional and nonemotional memories. In the present experiment, encoding of emotionally neutral pictures in association with positively, neutrally or negatively valenced background contexts led to differential modulation of neural activity elicited in a subsequent recognition memory test for these pictures. Recognition of stimuli previously studied in emotional compared to neutral contexts elicited enhanced activity in structures previously implicated in episodic memory, including the parahippocampal cortex, hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. In addition, there was engagement of structures linked more specifically to emotional processing, including the amygdala, orbitofrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex. These emotion-related effects displayed both valence-independent and valence-specific components. We discuss the findings in terms of current models of emotional memory retrieval.
Dopaminergic neurotransmission in extrastriatal regions may play a crucial role in the pathophysiology and treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders. The high-affinity radioligands [(11)C]FLB 457, [(123)I]epidepride, and [(18)F]fallypride are now used in clinical studies to measure these low-density receptor populations in vivo. However, a single determination of the regional binding potential (BP) does not differentiate receptor density (B(max)) from the apparent affinity (K(D)). In this positron emission tomography (PET) study, we measured extrastriatal dopamine D2 receptor density (B(max)) and apparent affinity (K(D)) in 10 healthy subjects using an in vivo saturation approach. Each subject participated in two to three PET measurements with different specific radioactivity of [(11)C]FLB 457. The commonly used simplified reference tissue model (SRTM) was used in a comparison of BP values with the B(max) values obtained from the saturation analysis. The calculated regional receptor density values were of the same magnitude (0.33-1.68 nM) and showed the same rank order as reported from postmortem studies, that is, in descending order thalamus, lateral temporal cortex, anterior cinguli, and frontal cortex. The affinity ranged from 0.27 to 0.43 nM, that is, approximately 10-20 times the value found in vitro (20 pM). The area under the cerebellar time activity curve (TAC) was slightly lower (11 +/- 8%, mean +/- SD, P = 0.004, n = 10) after injection of low as compared with high specific radioactivity, indicating sensitivity to the minute density of dopamine D2 receptors in the this region. The results of the present study support that dopamine D2 receptor density and affinity can be differentiated in low-density regions using a saturation approach. There was a significant (P &lt; 0.001) correlation between the binding potential calculated with SRTM and the receptor density (B(max)), which supports the use of BP in clinical studies where differentiation of B(max) and K(D) is not required. In such studies, the mass of FLB 457 has to be less than 0.5 microg injected to avoid a mass effect of the radioligand itself.
We present a novel approach to MEG source estimation based on a regularized first-order multipole solution. The Gaussian regularizing prior is obtained by calculation of the sample mean and covariance matrix for the equivalent moments of realistic simulated cortical activity. We compare the regularized multipole localization framework to the classical dipole and general multipole source estimation methods by evaluating the ability of all three solutions to localize the centroids of physiologically plausible patches of activity simulated on the surface of a human cerebral cortex. The results, obtained with a realistic sensor configuration, a spherical head model, and given in terms of field and localization error, depict the performance of the dipolar and multipolar models as a function of variable source surface area (50-500 mm(2)), noise conditions (20, 10, and 5 dB SNR), source orientation (0-90 degrees ), and source depth (3-11 cm). We show that as the sources increase in size, they become less accurately modeled as current dipoles. The regularized multipole systematically outperforms the single dipole model, increasingly so as the spatial extent of the sources increases. In addition, our simulations demonstrate that as the orientation of the sources becomes more radial, dipole localization accuracy decreases substantially, while the performance of the regularized multipole model is far less sensitive to orientation and even succeeds in localizing quasi-radial source configurations. Furthermore, our results show that the multipole model is able to localize superficial sources with higher accuracy than the current dipole. These results indicate that the regularized multipole solution may be an attractive alternative to current-dipole-based source estimation methods in MEG.
Lateralization of scalp-recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) and functional MRI (fMRI) activation was investigated using a verb generation task in 10 healthy right-handed adults. ERPs showed an early transient positivity in the left inferior temporal region (500-1250 ms) following auditory presentation of the stimulus noun. A sustained slow cortical negativity of later onset (1250-3000 ms) was then recorded, most pronounced over left inferior frontal regions. fMRI data were in agreement with both ERP effects, showing left lateralized activation in inferior and superior temporal as well as inferior frontal cortices. Lateralized ERP effects occurred during the verb generation task but not during passive word listening or during word- and nonword repetition. Thus, ERPs and fMRI provided convergent evidence regarding language lateralization, with ERPs revealing the temporal sequence of posterior to anterior cortical activation during semantic retrieval.
Major neurophysiological principles of performance monitoring are not precisely known. It is a current debate in cognitive neuroscience if an error-detection neural system is involved in behavioral control and adaptation. Such a system should generate error-specific signals, but their existence is questioned by observations that correct and incorrect reactions may elicit similar neuroelectric potentials. A new approach based on a time-frequency decomposition of event-related brain potentials was applied to extract covert sub-components from the classical error-related negativity (Ne) and correct-response-related negativity (Nc) in humans. A unique error-specific sub-component from the delta (1.5-3.5 Hz) frequency band was revealed only for Ne, which was associated with error detection at the level of overall performance monitoring. A sub-component from the theta frequency band (4-8 Hz) was associated with motor response execution, but this sub-component also differentiated error from correct reactions indicating error detection at the level of movement monitoring. It is demonstrated that error-specific signals do exist in the brain. More importantly, error detection may occur in multiple functional systems operating in parallel at different levels of behavioral control.
In this paper, we describe a temporal model for event-related potentials (ERP) in the context of statistical parametric mapping (SPM). In brief, we project channel data onto a two-dimensional scalp surface or into three-dimensional brain space using some appropriate inverse solution. We then treat the spatiotemporal data in a mass-univariate fashion. This implicitly factorises the model into spatial and temporal components. The key contribution of this paper is the use of observation models that afford an explicit distinction between observation error and variation in the expression of ERPs. This distinction is created by employing a two-level hierarchical model, in which the first level models the ERP effects within-subject and trial type, while the second models differences in ERP expression among trial types and subjects. By bringing the analysis of ERP data into a classical hierarchical (i.e., mixed effects) framework, many apparently disparate approaches (e.g., conventional P300 analyses and time-frequency analyses of stimulus-locked oscillations) can be reconciled within the same estimation and inference procedure. Inference proceeds in the normal way using t or F statistics to test for effects that are localised in peristimulus time or in some time-frequency window. The use of F statistics is an important generalisation of classical approaches, because it allows one to test for effects that lie in a multidimensional subspace (i.e., of unknown but constrained form). We describe the analysis procedures, the underlying theory and compare its performance to established techniques.
In this paper, we frame the strategy and motivations behind developments in statistical parametric mapping (SPM) for the analysis of electroencephalogram (EEG) data. This work deals specifically with SPM procedures for the analysis of event-related potentials (ERP). We place these developments in the larger context of integrating electrophysiological and hemodynamic measurements of evoked brain responses through the fusion of EEG and fMRI data. In this paper, we consider some fundamental issues when selecting an appropriate statistical model that enables diverse questions to be asked of the data and at the same time retains maximum sensitivity. The three key issues addressed in this paper are as follows: (i) should multivariate or mass univariate analyses be adopted, (ii) should time be treated as an experimental factor or as a dimension of the measured response variable, and (iii) how to form appropriate explanatory variables in a hierarchical observation model. We review the relative merits of the different options and explain the rationale for our choices. In brief, we motivate a mass univariate approach in terms of sensitivity to region-specific responses. This involves modeling responses at each voxel or space bin separately. In contradistinction, we treat time as an experimental factor to enable inferences about temporally distributed responses that encompass multiple time bins. In a companion paper, we develop statistical models of ERPs in the time domain that follow from the heuristics established here and illustrate the approach using simulated and real data.
The technique of diffusion tensor tractography utilizes directions of maximum diffusion to reconstruct pathways of white matter structures in the brain. Critically, successful tracking of these white matter pathways depends on well-defined maximal diffusion directional information. By examination of diffusion tensor field properties in the human brain, we demonstrate that the geometry of tracked pathways is influenced by points in the field where the maximum diffusion direction is poorly defined. In common with tensor fields describing other mathematical and physical phenomena, such as 3D surface differential geometry and gravitational fields, we refer to these points as singularities. Here we describe an automated procedure for detecting singularities and demonstrate that these occur where there is (i) fiber crossing, (ii) pathways passing close to one another within a voxel (partial volume effect), and (iii) noise propagation into low anisotropy regions. In order to highlight the relevance of singularities in tracking white matter structures, we determined their effect on computation of the cortico-spinal pathway.
We report a case of surgically proven giant neurocysticercosis (NCC). MR imaging revealed an unusually large solitary parenchymal cystic lesion showing signal intensity similar to CSF on all pulse sequences, with internal septations and a small nodule in the anterior aspect of this lesion compatible with this diagnosis. Identification of a scolex in a cystic lesion with CSF intensity plays a key role in the diagnosis of NCC. The presence of internal septations is an atypical feature.
A case of pineal germinaoma spreading along the basal subarachnoid space, clinically and macroscopically at autopsy, resembling tuberculous basal arachnoiditis is reported. Need to carry out CSF cytology of even hemorrhagic CSF is stressed, to diagnose the condition.
Tuberous sclerosis (TS) is an autosomal dominant disease that affects the brain, skin, eye, heart and kidney. The diagnostic criteria for tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) have recently been revised. There are relatively few Indian studies on this disorder. Twenty-six patients diagnosed as having TS over a period of 18 years are being reported. The onset of seizures ranged from infancy to adolescence. The patterns of epilepsy encountered were generalized tonic clonic seizures (13), complex partial seizures (10), simple partial seizures (9) and myoclonic jerks (4) including infantile spasms (3). Patients often had more than one seizure type. Nineteen patients were mentally subnormal. Cutaneous manifestations were facial angiofibroma i.e. adenoma sebaceum (20), shagreen patches (7), hypopigmented macules (6), ash leaf spots (4), caf-au-lait spots (2), facial hypoplasia (2) and periungual fibromas (1). One patient each had retinal phakoma and renal angiomyolipoma. CT scan revealed sub-ependymal calcifications (12), parenchymal tubers (3), cerebral edema (3) and cortical atrophy (1). One patient had enhancement of peri-ventricular sub-ependymal lesions on MRI. Anticonvulsants prescribed were phenobarbitone (20), diphenyl hydantoin (14), carbamazepine (8), sodium valproate (4), benzodiazepines (4), ACTH (2), prednisone (1), mysoline (1) and vigabatrin (1). Most patients were on combinations of anti-convulsants and response to therapy was usually not very satisfactory. However, the child treated with vigabatrin did well.
An Italian collaborative group on motor neuron disorders, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and its variants, has been recently created, combining various academic groups and laboratories involved in basic and clinical research. The aim is to exploit all the specific expertise and combine efforts at a national level to better understand and fight these fatal diseases. This review summarizes the achievements of the different groups and outlines prospects for future research. Basic research deals with the etiopathogenesis of motor neuron diseases. In vitro and in vivo models of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mutations are used to investigate the mechanisms of motor neuron death associated with this gene defect. The role of excitotoxicity, immune response, intracellular aggregates and mitochondrial alterations is studied with an integrated approach, at the molecular and cellular levels. Transgenic mice carrying the human mutated SOD1, and the wobbler mouse, a spontaneous model for motor neuron degeneration, offer unique opportunities for testing new therapies in vivo related or not to SOD1 mutations. Clinical research has focused mostly on the incidence and determinants of ALS in several areas of Italy. The incidence of the disease is now among the highest according to the results of population-based regional registries. Compared to earlier studies, more recent Italian investigations show an increase in the incidence and mortality related to ALS. Findings on the role of environmental risk factors are inconsistent. Methodological issues have also been raised by Italian groups regarding the diagnosis and treatment. The validity of the El Escorial diagnostic classification has been questioned where investigators and carers have not received formal training. Pitfalls and methodological drawbacks of randomized clinical trials have been highlighted based on the results of collaborative trials by Italian investigators. Information is now available on non-pharmacological treatments and palliative care, and the economic aspects and quality of life of ALS patients are being investigated.
Using combined whole-cell voltage-clamp recording and Ca2+ imaging we have investigated further the characteristics and pharmacology of group I metabotropic l-glutamate receptor (mGluR)-mediated responses in CA1 pyramidal neurons of the rat hippocampus. The selective group I mGluR agonist, (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), evoked a transient increase in intracellular Ca2+ levels ([Ca2+]i), within neuronal somas and apical dendrites, together with a relatively long lasting inward current (I(DHPG)). Both types of response were enhanced by depolarisation (-30 mV), and this condition was used for their characterisation. The DHPG-induced [Ca2+]i rise was much more sensitive to manipulations of Ca2+ homeostasis, such as using the Ca2+ store depleting agent, cyclopiazonic acid (50-100 microM), the fast Ca2+ buffer, BAPTA (intracellular; 20-40 mM) and Ca(2+)-free/EGTA (1 mM) bath solution, than I(DHPG), suggesting that these responses are, in the main part, mediated by distinct processes. The selective mGluR1 and mGluR5 antagonists, (S)-(+)-alpha-amino-a-methylbenzeneacetic acid (LY367385; 100 microM) and 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP;10 microM), respectively, markedly inhibited both I(DHPG) and the DHPG-evoked increase in [Ca2+]i. Moreover, these antagonists inhibited the Ca2+ response by more than 50% suggesting a synergistic interaction between mGluR1 and mGluR5. This study demonstrates that in CA1 pyramidal neurons group I mGluR-mediated inward currents and Ca2+ release from intracellular stores are enhanced under depolarising conditions and that mGluR1 and mGluR5 both contribute to these phenomena.
The urinary bladder undergoes plastic changes during physiological alterations such as pregnancy. This study has shown that bladders from pregnant rats weighed three times more than bladders from virgin rats. Each milligram of detrusor muscle from pregnant rats contracted more strongly to nerve stimulation (150% greater) and agonists (50% greater or more) compared to detrusor from virgin rats at any stage during the oestrus cycle. The purinergic component of nerve-mediated responses altered during the oestrus cycle, being greatest during oestrus (oestrogen and progesterone fall rapidly) and dioestrus (low oestrogen and progesterone), smaller during pregnancy and even smaller during pro-oestrus (high oestrogen and progesterone); in contrast the cholinergic component remained relatively unchanged. In conclusion, during pregnancy the detrusor muscle generates larger contractions compared to virgin detrusor muscle, probably due to hormonal influences on smooth muscle contraction mechanisms. As agonist responses were unchanged during the oestrus cycle, changes in the purinergic component of nerve stimulation was not due to altered P2 receptor expression but possibly to an increase in ATP release or a reduction in breakdown. The hormonal effect may have implications for the treatment of bladder disorders due to alterations in hormones, such as stress incontinence in post-menopausal women.
We have used patch-clamp recording from cultured neurones, immunohistochemistry and gene deletion techniques to characterize the P2X receptors present in mouse otic ganglion neurones, and demonstrated the presence of similar receptors in rat neurones. All neurones from wild-type (WT) mice responded to ATP (EC(50) 109 microM), but only 38% also responded to alpha beta-meATP (EC(50) 39 microM). The response to alpha beta-meATP was blocked by TNP-ATP with an IC(50) of 38.6 nM. Lowering extracellular pH and co-application of Zn(2+) potentiated responses to ATP and alpha beta-meATP. In P2X(3)(-/-) mouse otic ganglion, all neurones tested responded to 100 microM ATP with a sustained current, but none responded to alpha beta-meATP. In P2X(2)(-/-) mice, no sustained currents were observed, but 36% of neurones responded to both ATP and alpha beta-meATP with transient currents. In P2X(2)/P2X(3)(Dbl-/-) mice, no responses to ATP or alpha beta-meATP were detected, suggesting that other P2X subunits were not involved. In rat otic ganglia, 96% of neurones responded to both ATP and alpha beta-meATP with sustained currents, suggesting a greater proportion of neurones expressing P2X(2/3) receptors. The maximum response to alpha beta-meATP was 40-60% of that evoked by ATP in the same cell. Immunohistochemistry revealed staining for P2X(2) and P2X(3) subunits in WT mouse otic ganglion neurones, which was absent in knockout animals. In conclusion, we have shown for the first time that at least two distinct P2X receptors are present in mouse and rat otic neurones, probably homomeric P2X(2) and heteromeric P2X(2/3) receptors.
Pain has a strong emotional component. A key player in emotionality, the amygdala is also involved in pain processing. Our previous studies showed synaptic plasticity in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) in a model of arthritic pain. Here, we address the role of group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in the regulation of synaptic transmission in CeA neurons. Whole-cell current- and voltage-clamp recordings were made from neurons in the latero-capsular part of the CeA in brain slices from control rats and arthritic rats (&gt;6 h postinduction). The latero-capsular part of the CeA is the target of the spino-parabrachio-amygdaloid pain pathway and is now designated as the &quot;nociceptive amygdala&quot;. Monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were evoked by electrical stimulation of afferents from the pontine parabrachial (PB) area. LAP4 decreased the amplitude of EPSCs more potently in CeA neurons from arthritic rats (EC(50)=1.2 nM) than in control animals (EC(50)=11.5 nM). The inhibitory effect of LAP4 was reversed by a selective group III mGluR antagonist (UBP1112). During the application of LAP4, paired-pulse facilitation was increased, while no significant changes in slope conductance and action potential firing rate of CeA neurons were observed. These data suggest that presynaptic group III mGluRs are involved in the regulation of synaptic plasticity in the amygdala in an arthritis pain model.
Although there is much evidence for a role of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the pathophysiology of anxiety and depression, the role of GABA(B) receptors in behavioral processes related to these disorders has not yet been fully established. GABA(B) receptors are G-protein-coupled receptors, which act as functional heterodimers made up of GABA(B(1)) and GABA(B(2)) subunits. Using recently generated GABA(B(1)) -/- mice, which lack functional GABA(B) receptors, and pharmacological tools we assessed the role of GABA(B) receptors in anxiety- and antidepressant-related behaviors. In the light-dark box, GABA(B(1)) -/- mice were more anxious than their wild-type littermates (less time spent in the light; reduced number of transitions). GABA(B(1)) -/- mice were also more anxious in the staircase test. Conversely, acute and chronic treatment with GS39783, a novel GABA(B) receptor positive modulator, decreased anxiety in the light-dark box and elevated zero maze tests for anxiety. On the other hand, GABA(B(1)) -/- mice had decreased immobility (antidepressant-like behavior) in the forced swim test (FST). These behavioral effects are unrelated to alterations in locomotor activity. In confirmation of the genetic data, acute and chronic treatment with CGP56433A, a selective GABA(B) receptor antagonist, also decreased immobility in the FST, whereas GS39783 did not alter this behavior. Taken together, these data suggest that positive modulation of the GABA(B) receptor may serve as a novel therapeutic strategy for the development of anxiolytics, whereas GABA(B) receptor antagonism may serve as a basis for the generation of novel antidepressants.
In a set of experiments, we applied 10-Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the left mid-dorsolateral frontal cortex (MDLFC) to investigate rTMS-induced changes in affective state and neural activity in healthy volunteers. In Experiment 1, we combined 10-Hz rTMS with a speech task to examine rTMS-induced changes in paralinguistic aspects of speech production, an affect-relevant behavior strongly linked to the ACC. In Experiment 2, we combined 10-Hz rTMS with positron emission tomography (PET) and used partial least squares (PLS) to identify a pattern of brain regions whose connectivity with the site of stimulation varied as a function of rTMS. The results of Experiment 1 revealed that following stimulation of the left MDLFC, subjects reported having less positive affect and vitality and displayed more monotonous speech. In Experiment 2, results revealed that 10-Hz rTMS influenced the covariation between blood flow at the site of stimulation (ie the left MDLFC) and blood flow in a number of affect-relevant brain regions including the perigenual anterior cingulate gyrus, insula, thalamus, parahippocampal gyrus, and caudate nucleus. Taken together, our results suggest that changes in affect and affect-relevant behaviour following 10-Hz rTMS applied over the left MDLFC may be related to changes in neural activity in brain regions widely implicated in affective states, including a frontocingulate circuit.
We performed a retrospective review of all patients admitted to a neurological rehabilitation unit over a 5-year period to identify the benefits and problems associated with inpatient rehabilitation of patients with a life-limiting illness. Twenty-one patients (14 men; mean age 54 years) with primary or nonprimary neurological malignancy resulting in disability were studied. For each patient the following data was extracted: gender, age, diagnosis, source of referral, mechanism of disability, prognosis at time of referral, length of inpatient stay, disability on admission and discharge, and the place of discharge. All patients made functional gains, and all but 2 were discharged home. One patient died and 4 required readmission to an acute unit because of worsening discomfort or debility within a month of discharge. Patients with life-limiting illness resulting in neurological disability can benefit from inpatient rehabilitation. Optimal management of such patients demands careful liaison with palliative care teams.
Sex steroids have been inferred to be involved in the regulation of affective status at least partly through the serotonergic (5-HT) system, particularly in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), which innervates enormous projections to the cerebral cortex and limbic system. In the present study, the expression of estrogen receptors-alpha and -beta (ERalpha, ERbeta), androgen receptor (AR) and 5-HT was examined immunohistochemically in the rat and mouse DRN in both sexes. The results showed that large numbers of ERalpha- and/or ERbeta-immunoreactive (ERalpha-I, ERbeta-I) cells were found in the DRN of both male and female mice, whereas only small numbers of ERalpha-I cells and no ERbeta-I cells were seen in the rat DRN of each sex. With respect to AR-immunoreactive (AR-I) cells, moderate numbers of such cells were present only in male rats and mice, and no or very few could be observed in female ones. The ERalpha-I, ERbeta-I, and AR-I cells were mainly distributed in the rostral DRN. In double-immunostaining, many 5-HT-I neurons were found to show ERalpha and/or ERbeta expression specifically in the rostral DRN (particularly dorsal, ventral and interfascicular parts) of mice of both sexes, but not in that of rats. In contrast, only a few 5-HT neurons were observed to show AR expression in the DRN of both rodents. The current results strongly suggest that sex steroids can modulate the affective regulation of the serotonergic system through ERalpha and/or ERbeta in 5-HT neurons of the mouse rostral DRN (but not so much through AR), and that such effects might be different depending on the sex and species, as shown by the prominent sex differences in AR expression and prominent species differences in ERalpha and ERbeta expression.
We aimed to clarify the overall distribution of glycinergic neurons in the midbrain, pons, and cerebellum in rats, using in situ hybridization for mRNA encoding glycine transporter 2 (GLYT2), which reliably detects glycinergic cell bodies. We combined this method with in situ hybridization for mRNA encoding glutamic acid decarboxylase isoform 67 (GAD67), and have presented for the first time global and detailed views of the distribution of glycinergic neurons in relation to GABAergic neurons. In addition to this single-detection study, we performed double-detection of GLYT2 mRNA and GAD67 mRNA to determine the distribution of neurons co-expressing these mRNAs. We have shown that many areas of the brainstem and cerebellum, not only areas where previous immunohistochemical studies have specified, involve double-labeled neurons with GLYT2 and GAD67 mRNAs. In particular, when lightly labeled GLYT2 mRNA-positive neurons were distributed within the area of GAD67 mRNA-positive neurons, almost all such GLYT2 mRNA-positive neurons were GAD67 mRNA-positive. Areas or neuron groups expressing exclusively GLYT2 mRNA or GAD67 mRNA were rather limited, such as the superior colliculus, nucleus of the trapezoid body, and Purkinje cells. The present study suggests that the corelease of glycine and GABA from single neurons is more widespread than has been reported.
Experimental work in animals has identified numerous neural structures involved in reward processing and reward-dependent learning. Until recently, this work provided the primary basis for speculations about the neural substrates of human reward processing. The widespread use of neuroimaging technology has changed this situation dramatically over the past decade through the use of PET and fMRI. Here, the authors focus on the role played by fMRI studies, where recent work has replicated the animal results in human subjects and has extended the view of putative reward-processing neural structures. In particular, fMRI work has identified a set of reward-related brain structures including the orbitofrontal cortex, amygdala, ventral striatum, and medial prefrontal cortex. Moreover, the human experiments have probed the dependence of human reward responses on learned expectations, context, timing, and the reward dimension. Current experiments aim to assess the function of human reward-processing structures to determine how they allow us to predict, assess, and act in response to rewards. The authors review current accomplishments in the study of human reward processing and focus their discussion on explanations directed particularly at the role played by the ventral striatum. They discuss how these findings may contribute to a better understanding of deficits associated with Parkinson's disease.
A reciprocal relationship exists between persistent pain and negative affective states such as fear, anxiety, and depression. Accumulating evidence points to the amygdala as an important site of such interaction. Whereas a key role of the amygdala in the neuronal mechanisms of emotionality and affective disorders has been well established, the concept of the amygdala as an important contributor to pain and its emotional component is still emerging. This article will review and discuss evidence from anatomical, neuroimaging, behavioral, electrophysiological, pharmacological, and biochemical data that implicate the amygdala in pain modulation and emotional responses to pain. The latero-capsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala is now defined as the &quot;nociceptive amygdala&quot; and integrates nociceptive information with poly-modal information about the internal and external bodily environment. Dependent on environmental conditions and affective states, the amygdala appears to play a dual facilitatory and inhibitory role in the modulation of pain behavior and nociceptive processing at different levels of the pain neuraxis. Only recently, electrophysiological, pharmacological, and biochemical neuroplastic changes were shown in the nociceptive amygdala in persistent pain. It is conceivable, however, that amygdala plasticity plays an important role in emotional pain behavior and its modulation by affective state.




The sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) and apposed regions of the sarcolemma passively trap Ca2+ entering the cell to limit the rise in cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration without SR pump involvement. When &quot;leaky,&quot; the SR facilitates Ca2+ entry to the cytoplasm. SR Ca2+ release via inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP(3)Rs) propagates as calcium waves; IP(3)Rs alone account for wave propagation.
The serotonin transporter (SET) is a member of the Na+/Cl(-)-dependent neurotransmitter transporter family and functions as a membrane protein which terminates the serotonergic neuronal transmission by re-uptaking serotonin into the pre-synaptic terminal. SET is thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of affective disorders, drug abuse and anxiety disorder. We have focused on SET regulation by phosphorylation/dephosphorylation since SET has many putative phosphorylation sites in its intracellular region. Our previous studies have revealed that phorbolesters, activators of PKC, decreased in SET uptake activity. Based on a mutagenesis analysis of PKC phosphorylation sites and an in vivo phosphorylation study of SET, we have concluded that PKC regulates SET activity via an indirect mechanism, probably via alternating actin cytoskeleton status. Recent reports and our investigation have demonstrated that the SET C-terminal region interacts with actin binding proteins, suggesting the crucial roles of this region in functional regulation of SET.

Many Trusts are considering overseas recruitment to cope with the current shortage of qualified nurses in the UK. The need to plan for and manage the socio-cultural process can divert attention from issues of professional adaptation. This article considers some of the legal, practical and theoretical guidance used by one Trust in developing its own adaptation programme for nurses recruited from overseas. Given the lack of detailed guidance or research available to identify factors which influence the success of adaptation programmes, learning theories were used to work out a set of guiding principles which were thought suitable for the particular challenges that overseas nurses face in learning to adapt their professional skills to a new environment.


Frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) are caused by mutations of the TAU gene. Many such mutations are located near the splicing site of exon 10 and affect the splicing ratio of 3-repeat/4-repeat tau isoforms (referred to as 3R-tau and 4R-tau) which contain 3 and 4 microtubule-binding domains, respectively. Little is known, however, concerning cellular localization of 3R-tau and 4R-tau. We examined the subcellular localization of tau isoforms in IMR-32 cells under differentiated conditions using the fusion proteins of tau isoforms probed with fluorescent protein (EGFP). 3R-tau was observed in spotty and rarely linear distributions while 4R-tau was observed in linear and sometimes spotty distributions. Together with findings of phase-contrast microscopy of cultured cells, these results indicated that 3R- and 4R-tau were predominantly localized at growth tips/branching points and along neurite processes, respectively. Due to their different localizations, balanced expression of 3R- and 4R-tau may coordinate plastic morphogenesis and stabilization of neurite processes.
Significant analgesic and calming effects in human infants and neonatal rodents are produced by orogustatory and orotactile stimuli associated with nursing. These naturally occurring analgesic stimuli may help to protect the vulnerable developing nervous system from the long-term effects of neonatal tissue injury. However, the efficacy of orotactile-induced analgesia across the pre-weaning period, as well as its effects on persistent inflammatory pain, is unknown. Here, we investigated the developmental profile of analgesia produced by orotactile stimulation during non-nutritive suckling in rats. The effects of suckling, as compared to non-suckling littermates, on nocifensive withdrawal responses to thermal and mechanical stimuli were examined at postnatal (P) days P0, P3, P10, P17 and P21. In some rats, Complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) was injected in a fore- or hindpaw to produce inflammation. For thermal stimuli, suckling significantly increased forepaw withdrawal latencies at P3, P10 and P17, while hindpaw responses were increased at P3 and P10, but not at P17. In inflamed pups, suckling increased fore- and hindpaw response latencies at P10 and P17, but not at P0 or P21. Suckling-induced analgesia was naloxone-insensitive. For mechanical stimuli, suckling-induced analgesia was present at P3, P10 and P17, but not at P21, for both fore- and hindpaws in nave and inflamed animals. Additionally, suckling had a small but significant effect at P0 for the forepaw in inflamed pups. In nearly all experiments, the peak effect of suckling for thermal and mechanical stimuli occurred at P10. These results indicate that orotactile analgesia, like orogustatory analgesia, is absent or minimal at P0, appears consistently at approximately P3 and is maximal at P10. Unlike gustatory analgesia in rats however, orotactile analgesia persists at least to P17. Orotactile stimulation during suckling effectively reduces transient pain elicited by thermal and mechanical stimuli, as well as persistent hyperalgesia and allodynia caused by inflammation.
Accumulating evidence suggests that cannabinoids can produce antinociception through peripheral mechanisms. In the present study, we determined whether cannabinoids attenuated existing hyperalgesia produced by a mild heat injury to the glabrous hindpaw and whether the antihyperalgesia was receptor-mediated. Anesthetized rats received a mild heat injury (55 degrees C for 30 s) to one hindpaw. Fifteen minutes after injury, animals exhibited hyperalgesia as evidenced by lowered withdrawal latency to radiant heat and increased withdrawal frequency to a von Frey monofilament (200 mN force) delivered to the injured hindpaw. Separate groups of animals were then treated with an intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of vehicle or the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 at doses of 1, 10, or 30 microg in 100 microl. WIN 55,212-2 attenuated both heat and mechanical hyperalgesia dose-dependently. The inactive enantiomer WIN 55,212-3 did not alter mechanical or heat hyperalgesia, suggesting the effects of WIN 55,212-2 were receptor-mediated. The CB1 receptor antagonist AM 251 (30 microg) co-injected with WIN 55,212-2 (30 microg) attenuated the antihyperalgesic effects of WIN 55,212-2. The CB2 receptor antagonist AM 630 (30 microg) co-injected with WIN 55,212-2 attenuated only the early antihyperalgesic effects of WIN 55,212-2. I.pl. injection of WIN 55,212-2 into the contralateral paw did not alter the heat-injury induced hyperalgesia, suggesting that the antihyperalgesia occurred through a peripheral mechanism. These data demonstrate that cannabinoids primarily activate peripheral CB1 receptors to attenuate hyperalgesia. Activation of this receptor in the periphery may attenuate pain without causing unwanted side effects mediated by central CB1 receptors.
The disinhibition hypothesis of post-stroke central pain (CPSP) suggests that 'the excessive response (dysesthesia/hyperalgesia/allodynia) is accompanied by a em leader loss of sensation' resulting from a lesion of a 'lateral nucleus' of thalamus or of 'cortico-thalamic paths' [Brain 34 (1911) 102]. One recent elaboration of this hypothesis proposes a submodality specific relationship, such that injury to a cool-signaling lateral thalamic pathway disinhibits a nociceptive medial thalamic pathway, thereby producing both burning, cold, ongoing pain and cold allodynia. The current study quantitatively evaluated the sensory loss and sensory abnormalities to discern submodality relationships between these sensory features of CPSP. The present results were statistically tested within individuals so that sensory loss and sensory abnormality are directly related by occurrence in the same individual. The results demonstrate that individuals with CPSP and normal tactile detection thresholds experience tactile allodynia significantly more often than those with tactile hypoesthesia. Most patients (11/13) exhibited hypoesthesia for the perception of cool stimuli, but few of these (2/11) showed cold allodynia. The most dramatic case of cold allodynia occurred in a patient who had a normal detection threshold for cold. Individuals with cold hypoesthesia, strictly contralateral to the cerebro-vascular accident (CVA or stroke), were often characterized by the presence of burning, cold, ongoing pain, and by the absence, not the presence, of cold allodynia. Overall, these results in CPSP suggest that tactile allodynia occurs in disturbances of thermal/pain pathways that spare the tactile-signaling pathways, and that cold hypoesthesia is neither necessary nor sufficient for cold allodynia.
Melatonin, its agonists/antagonists were administered intrathecally (i.t.) before/after intradermal injection of capsaicin. Capsaicin produced an increase in the paw withdrawal frequency (PWF) in the presumed area of secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia. Melatonin agonists in the absence of a capsaicin injection decreased the PWF significantly, whereas melatonin antagonists given intrathecally alone were ineffective in the absence of a capsaicin injection. Pre-treatment with a melatonin agonist i.t. caused a reduction in the PWF after capsaicin. In contrast, the PWF increased after capsaicin with pre-administration of a melatonin antagonist i.t. Combined pre-treatment with melatonin and a melatonin antagonist i.t. prevented the change in PWF induced by melatonin alone after capsaicin. Intrathecal post-treatment with a melatonin agonist reduced the enhanced PWF that followed an injection of capsaicin, but treatment with a combination of a melatonin agonist and its antagonist did not alter the responses. The PWF was unaffected when melatonin analogs were applied i.t. at the T6 level or were injected intramuscularly adjacent to the L4 vertebra. In spinal rats, the data showed comparable effects of melatonin analogs on capsaicin-induced secondary mechanical hyperalgesia. Animal motor function tested by 'activity box' showed that motion activity was not affected by i.t. melatonin or its antagonist. These results suggest that activation of the endogenous melatonin system in the spinal cord can reduce the generation, development and maintenance of central sensitization, with a resultant inhibition of capsaicin-induced secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia.

The nature of the visual perception deficits in Parkinson's disease (PD) has remained unclear. The present study explored whether there emerge deficits in the different stages of visual object recognition in early PD. Twenty-eight patients and 14 healthy controls were studied. A set of reaction time tasks were applied to measure the different stages of object recognition. The results indicate some selective problems in both basic perceptual and semantic visual processing at an early stage of cognitive deterioration in PD.



To quantify the variability in thermal pain perception of rats with chemically induced brain injury following subcutaneous lithium and pilocarpine administration, 9 female Wistar rats were subjected to a nociceptive (hotplate) paradigm. At approximately 200 days of age, subjects were injected subcutaneously with 3 mEq/kg of lithium chloride followed 4 hr. later by 30 mg/kg of the cholinergic agonist pilocarpine to generate lesions that mimic human temporal lobe (limbic) epilepsy. Over 2 trials 4 of 9 subjects exhibited thermal latencies that exceeded 60 sec. while the remaining subjects obtained mean latencies of 13.40 sec. before demonstrating the criterion nociceptive response. These findings suggest that the multifocal neuronal necrosis subsequent to single peripheral injections of lithium and pilocarpine, followed by the neuroleptic, acepromazine, may significantly augment pain thresholds in certain rats within experimentally epileptic populations.
The study of lateralization processes in olfaction in human subjects has given rise to many contradictory findings. Indeed, sensorial cerebral asymmetry in olfaction depends on several factors (nature of task, quality of stimulus, characteristics of subjects, etc.) and could be also related to differences between the nostrils. In this field, few studies have assessed simultaneously the left-right nostril differences and the hemispheric asymmetry. The present work dealt with this question in the same population with the same odorants, procedures, and stimulations. Seven different concentrations of four specific odorants (two pleasant and two unpleasant) were used by single nostril stimulation with 30 dextral subjects (20 women and 10 men). Threshold detection in unilateral stimulation was investigated using electrodermal response to confirm the first psychophysic measure. Moreover, bilateral recordings of electrodermal activity (EDA) with unilateral stimulation were used as a measure of functional hemispheric asymmetry. Analysis showed no differences between the two nostrils for the threshold detection regardless of the method used (psychophysic or EDA response). However, most subjects presented a constant direction of electrodermal asymmetry whichever nostril was stimulated and whichever odorant stimulus used. The constant bilateral differences in EDA recordings are discussed in terms of asymmetrical activation of the hemispheres.
In several experiments, robust analgesia (equivalent to about 4 mg/kg of morphine) in male rats to thermal stimuli following exposures to weak (1 microT) complex magnetic fields was explored. The analgesia occurred when patterns of magnetic fields with burst-firing-like configurations were presented for 30 min once every approximately 4 s. The analgesic effects were intensity dependent. A different frequency-modulated pattern produced analgesia more quickly. The analgesic effects following exposure to the burst-firing magnetic fields were augmented conspicuously by preinjections of morphine (4 mg/kg) or agmatine (10 mg/kg), but blocked by naloxone (1 mg/kg). The results of these experiments suggest that rational design of the temporal structure of weak magnetic fields may be a novel, inexpensive, and reliable technique for elevating thresholds to some classes of painful stimuli.
Research over the past decade has provided overwhelming evidence that photoreception in the vertebrate eye is not confined to the rods and cones. The discovery of non-rod, non-cone ocular photoreceptors in mammals and fish arose from quite different lines of investigation. In transgenic mice entirely lacking functional rod and cone photoreceptors a range of responses to light, including the regulation of the circadian system and a pupillary light reflex, are preserved. Electrophysiological and imaging approaches were then able to characterise a coupled plexus of directly light sensitive ganglion cells. Most recently action spectroscopy has shown that a novel 'blue-light' sensitive photopigment based upon opsin/vitamin A (OP480) mediates these responses to light. Several candidate genes have emerged for OP480, with melanopsin being by far the strongest. A definitive link, however, between this gene and OP480 has still to be established. In contrast to the mammals, the discovery of inner retinal photoreceptors (IRPs) in fish started with the discovery of a new gene family (VA opsin). The teleost VA opsins form functional photopigments and are expressed in several different types of inner retinal neuron, including retinal horizontal cells. Recent studies have investigated the electrical properties of these photosensitive neurones, but their light-sensing role remains a matter of speculation. Thus the study of IRP is developing along quite separate lines. In the mammals the research is directed towards a molecular identification of the photopigment (OP480) and its cascade, whilst in fish the major effort is directed towards identifying a role for these novel photoreceptors using physiological approaches. The discovery of IRPs in the vertebrates tells us that despite 150 years of research, we still have much to learn about how the eye processes light.
Random walks are used for modeling various dynamics in, for example, physical, biological, and social contexts. Furthermore, their characteristics provide us with useful information on the phase transition and critical phenomena of even broader classes of related stochastic models. Abundant results are obtained for random walk on simple graphs such as the regular lattices and the Cayley trees. However, random walks and related processes on more complex networks, which are often more relevant in the real world, are still open issues, possibly yielding different characteristics. In this paper, we investigate the return times of random walks on random graphs with arbitrary vertex degree distributions. We analytically derive the distributions of the return times. The results are applied to some types of networks and compared with numerical data.
Quantifying the dissimilarity (or distance) between two sequences is essential to the study of action potential (spike) trains in neuroscience and genetic sequences in molecular biology. In neuroscience, traditional methods for sequence comparisons rely on techniques appropriate for multivariate data, which typically assume that the space of sequences is intrinsically Euclidean. More recently, metrics that do not make this assumption have been introduced for comparison of neural activity patterns. These metrics have a formal resemblance to those used in the comparison of genetic sequences. Yet the relationship between such metrics and the traditional Euclidean distances has remained unclear. We show, both analytically and computationally, that the geometries associated with metric spaces of event sequences are intrinsically non-Euclidean. Our results demonstrate that metric spaces enrich the study of neural activity patterns, since accounting for perceptual spaces requires a non-Euclidean geometry.
The serotonin-3 (5-HT-3A) receptor has been localized in limbic and brainstem structures that regulate anxiety-related behavior and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity, but its role in regulating anxiety-related behaviors is equivocal, and evidence for its role in regulating HPA activity is limited. Therefore, we used 5-HT-3A receptor knockout (KO) mice to further study these issues. Behavior in the elevated plus maze, open field, light-dark box and after Pavlovian fear conditioning was examined in addition to HPA activity under basal and acute stress conditions. Compared to age-matched adult male wild-type (WT) controls, adult male KO mice exhibited increased distance traveled in the open arms of the elevated plus maze, consistent with decreased measures of anxiety. There were no differences between the two genotypes in exploratory behavior in the open field or light-dark test. KO mice displayed enhanced fear conditioning indexed by fear-induced freezing behavior. KO mice displayed lower adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) responses to restraint or lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In addition, lower vasopressin mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) and higher corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA in the central amygdala were observed in KO compared to WT mice. Therefore, deletion of the 5-HT-3A receptor revealed an important role for this receptor in regulating HPA responses to acute stress and a potential interaction between the 5-HT-3A receptor and CRH in the amygdala. Together, these data suggest that the 5-HT-3A receptor does not have a unitary role in the regulation of anxiety- and fear-related behaviors but has a potentially substantial role in the regulation of HPA activity.
Scalp-recorded electroencephalographic (EEG) signals produced by partial synchronization of cortical field activity mix locally synchronous electrical activities of many cortical areas. Analysis of event-related EEG signals typically assumes that poststimulus potentials emerge out of a flat baseline. Signals associated with a particular type of cognitive event are then assessed by averaging data from each scalp channel across trials, producing averaged event-related potentials (ERPs). ERP averaging, however, filters out much of the information about cortical dynamics available in the unaveraged data trials. Here, we studied the dynamics of cortical electrical activity while subjects detected and manually responded to visual targets, viewing signals retained in ERP averages not as responses of an otherwise silent system but as resulting from event-related alterations in ongoing EEG processes. We applied infomax independent component analysis to parse the dynamics of the unaveraged 31-channel EEG signals into maximally independent processes, then clustered the resulting processes across subjects by similarities in their scalp maps and activity power spectra, identifying nine classes of EEG processes with distinct spatial distributions and event-related dynamics. Coupled two-cycle postmotor theta bursts followed button presses in frontal midline and somatomotor clusters, while the broad postmotor &quot;P300&quot; positivity summed distinct contributions from several classes of frontal, parietal, and occipital processes. The observed event-related changes in local field activities, within and between cortical areas, may serve to modulate the strength of spike-based communication between cortical areas to update attention, expectancy, memory, and motor preparation during and after target recognition and speeded responding.
Cognitive deficits associated with frontal lobe dysfunction are a determinant of long-term disability in schizophrenia and are not effectively treated with available medications. Clinical studies show that many aspects of these deficits are transiently induced in healthy individuals treated with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists. These findings and recent genetic linkage studies strongly implicate NMDA receptor deficiency in schizophrenia and suggest that reversing this deficiency is pertinent to treating the cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia. Despite the wealth of behavioral data on the effects of NMDA antagonist treatment in humans and laboratory animals, there is a fundamental lack of understanding about the mechanisms by which a general state of NMDA deficiency influences the function of cortical neurons. Using ensemble recording in freely moving rats, we found that NMDA antagonist treatment, at doses that impaired working memory, potentiated the firing rate of most prefrontal cortex neurons. This potentiation, which correlated with expression of behavioral stereotypy, resulted from an increased number of irregularly discharged single spikes. Concurrent with the increase in spike activity, there was a significant reduction in organized bursting activity. These results identify two distinct mechanisms by which NMDA receptor deficiency may disrupt frontal lobe function: an increase in disorganized spike activity, which may enhance cortical noise and transmission of disinformation; and a decrease in burst activity, which reduces transmission efficacy of cortical neurons. These findings provide a physiological basis for the NMDA receptor deficiency model of schizophrenia and may clarify the nature of cortical dysfunction in this disease.
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is a lipid peroxidation target in oxidative injury to retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and retina. Photoreceptor and synaptic membranes share the highest content of DHA of all cell membranes. This fatty acid is required for RPE functional integrity; however, it is not known whether specific mediators generated from DHA contribute to its biological significance. We used human ARPE-19 cells and demonstrated the synthesis of 10,17S-docosatriene [neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1)]. This synthesis was enhanced by the calcium ionophore A-23187, by IL-1beta, or by supplying DHA. Under these conditions, there is a time-dependent release of endogenous free DHA followed by NPD1 formation, suggesting that phospholipase A(2) releases the mediator's precursor. Added NPD1 potently counteracted H(2)O(2)/tumor necrosis factor alpha oxidative-stress-triggered apoptotic RPE DNA damage. NPD1 also up-regulated the antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L) and decreased proapoptotic Bax and Bad expression. Moreover, NPD1 (50 nM) inhibited oxidative-stress-induced caspase-3 activation. NPD1 also inhibited IL-1beta-stimulated expression of cyclooxygenase 2 promoter transfected into ARPE-19 cells. Overall, NPD1 protected RPE cells from oxidative-stress-induced apoptosis, and we predict that it will similarly protect neurons. This lipid mediator therefore may indirectly contribute to photoreceptor cell survival as well. Because both RPE and photoreceptor cells die in retinal degenerations, our findings contribute to the understanding of retinal cell survival signaling and potentially to the development of new therapeutic strategies.
The migration of immature neurons constitutes one of the major processes by which the central nervous system takes shape. Completing the migration at the final destination requires the loss of cell body motility, but little is known about the signaling mechanisms underlying this process. Here, we show that a loss of transient Ca(2+) elevations triggers the completion of cerebellar granule cell migration. Simultaneous observation of the intracellular Ca(2+) levels and cell movement in cerebellar slices of the early postnatal mice revealed that granule cells exhibit distinct frequencies of the transient Ca(2+) elevations as they migrate in different cortical layers, and complete the migration only after the loss of Ca(2+) elevations. The reduction of the Ca(2+) elevation frequency by decreasing Ca(2+) influx, or by inhibiting the activity of phospholipase C, PKC, or Ca(2+)/calmodulin, halted the granule cell movement prematurely. In contrast, increasing the Ca(2+) elevation frequency by increasing Ca(2+) release from internal stores, or by elevating intracellular cAMP levels, significantly delayed the completion of granule cell migration. The timing of the loss of Ca(2+) elevations was intrinsically set in the granule cells and influenced by external cues. These results suggest that Ca(2+) signaling, dictated by multiple signaling systems, functions as a mediator for completing the migration of immature neurons.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder. The etiology of PD is likely due to combinations of environmental and genetic factors. In addition to the loss of neurons, including dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, a further morphologic hallmark of PD is the presence of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites. The formation of these proteinaceous inclusions involves interaction of several proteins, including alpha-synuclein, synphilin-1, parkin and UCH-L1. Animal models allow to get insight into the mechanisms of several symptoms of PD, allow investigating new therapeutic strategies and, in addition, provide an indispensable tool for basic research. In animals PD does not arise spontaneously, thus, characteristic and specific functional changes have to be mimicked by application of neurotoxic agents or by genetic manipulations. In this review we will focus on genes and gene loci involved in PD, the functions of proteins involved in the formation of cytoplasmatic inclusions, their interactions, and their possible role in PD. In addition, we will review the current animal models of PD.
This paper puts the case for the hippocampus as being central to the neuropathology and pathophysiology of schizophrenia. The evidence comes from a range of approaches, both in vivo (neuropsychology, structural and functional imaging) and post mortem (histology, morphometry, gene expression, and neurochemistry). Neuropathologically, the main positive findings concern neuronal morphology, organisation, and presynaptic and dendritic parameters. The results are together suggestive of an altered synaptic circuitry or &quot;wiring&quot; within the hippocampus and its extrinsic connections, especially with the prefrontal cortex. These changes plausibly represent the anatomical component of the aberrant functional connectivity that underlies schizophrenia. Glutamatergic pathways are prominently but not exclusively affected. Changes appear somewhat greater in the left hippocampus than the right, and CA1 is relatively uninvolved compared to other subfields. Hippocampal pathology in schizophrenia may be due to genetic factors, aberrant neurodevelopment, and/or abnormal neural plasticity; it is not due to any recognised neurodegenerative process. Hippocampal involvement is likely to be associated with the neuropsychological impairments of schizophrenia rather than with its psychotic symptoms.

Several lines of evidence implicate NMDA receptor dysfunction in the cognitive deficits of schizophrenia, suggesting that pharmacological manipulation of the NMDA receptor may be a feasible therapeutic strategy for treatment of these symptoms. Although direct manipulation of regulatory sites on the NMDA receptor is the most obvious approach for pharmacological intervention, targeting the G-protein coupled metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors may be a more practical strategy for long-term regulation of abnormal glutamate neurotransmission. Heterogeneous distribution, both at structural and synaptic levels, of at least eight subtypes of mGlu receptors suggests that selective pharmacological manipulation of these receptors may modulate glutamatergic neurotransmission in a regionally and functionally distinct manner. Two promising targets for improving cognitive functions are mGlu5 or mGluR2/3 receptors, which can modulate the NMDA receptor-mediated signal transduction by pre- or postsynaptic mechanisms. Preclinical studies indicate that activation of these subtypes of mGlu receptors may be an effective strategy for reversing cognitive deficits resulting form reduced NMDA receptor mediated neurotransmission.

During the past 20 years, advances in neuroimaging techniques have greatly improved the surgery of epilepsy. Nevertheless, for fifty percent of epileptic patients undergoing such surgery procedures, recordings with chronically implanted intracerebral electrodes are necessary to localize the epileptic focus. Since the fifties, these electrodes have been used to record the cerebral cortex during the surgical procedure. Due to technological progress, these electrodes can now be left implanted for several days to record the inter- and per-ictal electroencephalogram (EEG). In comparison with scalp recordings, intracortical assessment of epileptic patients allows exploring the cortical epileptic network with a higher spatial resolution and less artefacts. Moreover, this technique enables performing direct cortical electrical stimulation to map functionally eloquent cortices and epileptogenic areas. Each type of depth electrodes has been developed for a specific use. In this work, we review the different solutions used at the present time, their specific indications and finally their advantages and disadvantages. Moreover, we mention the new emerging therapeutic indications.
There is no validated classification of drug-resistant partial epilepsies in adults that have proved helpful to individualize homogeneous groups of patients, whose clinical course would be predictable at the early stage of the disease and whose treatment, eventually surgical, could be standardized. The only entity fitting with this definition is the syndrome of mesio-temporal lobe epilepsy, which accounts for a high percentage of surgical treatment indications. However the objective to perform surgical treatment in all of these patients is far from being reached in France, as in many other developed countries. Apart from this syndrome, therapeutic decisions are mostly based on case by case clinical and electrophysiological analysis of seizures, in relation with the localization and anatomy of the causal lesion, when the latter can be identified using brain MRI. The pragmatic approach consists in aiming at a consensus regarding the nature and the reliability of presurgical strategies, including invasive electrophysiological investigations, rather than in elaborating a syndromic classification, the pertinence of which cannot be validated. Some concepts and data that might be helpful to reach a consensus are discussed in this brief review article.
Clinicians rely on observational methods to assess obvious signs of postural abnormalities in schizophrenia, yet subtle signs of postural deficits may go unnoticed. Posture is controlled, in large part, by the cerebellum, which has been implicated in numerous reports of structural and functional deficits in schizophrenia. Given the possibility of an underlying disruption of cerebellar function in schizophrenia, this study used an objective, quantitative measure to assess the magnitude of postural stability in this disorder. A total of 36 schizophrenia patients and 36 non-psychiatric age-matched controls stood on a pressure-sensitive platform that recorded shifts in weight (body sway) through pressure points in the feet. Patients demonstrated more postural sway than did healthy controls (p&lt;0.01). When patients with noticeable signs of tardive dyskinesia were removed from analyses, group differences remained (p&lt;0.01). There was no significant correlation between neuroleptic medication level and degree of postural sway (r=0.16, p=0.37). These results indicate that patients with schizophrenia have subtle, yet quantifiable, disturbances in the control of posture and balance. Quantitative measures of postural sway may provide a more sensitive means of detecting disturbances of movement than do standard clinical observations alone.
Visual context processing was examined in relation to schizotypy in a large nonclinical university population. Schizotypal status was assessed with the Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ) [Schizophr. Bull. 17 (1991) 555]. Schizotypal (n=32) and non-schizotypal (n=37) subjects were tested on a contour integration task (where context processing is necessary for good performance) and a visual size perception task (where context processing impairs accurate performance). In addition, a short form of the Thought Disorder Index (TDI) [Psychol. Assess. 5 (1993) 75] was administered to 28 schizotypal subjects. Thought disordered schizotypal subjects showed significantly impaired performance on the contour integration task but more accurate performance on the visual size perception task. These results support the hypothesis that deficits in visual context processing are the manifestation of a larger disturbance of cognitive coordination in schizotypy and schizophrenia.
This short overview presents some of the current neuroanatomical knowledge concerning pathways and nuclei mediating pain sensations. The axonal membrane of the nociceptor is equipped with a multitude of receptor molecules that specifically bind pain-producing and sensitizing substances. Recently, adenosine triphosphate and protons have attracted much interest. The different nociceptor types are probably characterized by different sets of receptor molecules in the membrane of the nociceptive ending. Nociceptive cells are present in the superficial laminae and the neck of the dorsal horn. The cells in the former region include nociceptive-specific ones that receive input from nociceptors exclusively, whereas in the neck of the dorsal horn a convergent input from nociceptive and non-nociceptive afferent fibers prevails. At the spinal level, neuroplastic sensitizing processes take place that are assumed to underlie the allodynia and hyperalgesia of pain patients. In addition to the lateral spinothalamic tract, the spinoreticular and spinomesencephalic tracts are involved in pain sensations. The medial and lateral thalamus contains several nociceptive nuclei, the medial ones mediating the affective-emotional component of pain, the lateral ones the sensory-discriminative component. In contrast to other sensory modalities, the modality of pain does not have a specific cortical center. The cortical areas that are activated by painful stimuli are distributed over large parts of the cortex surface. During chronic painful conditions, at all levels massive neuroplastic changes take place that lead to rewiring of connections and structural alterations in the nuclei of the nociceptive pathways. In chronic pain patients the neuroanatomy of pain probably differs from that of healthy people.

We report the case of a 20 years aged male patient with seizures induced by nursery rhymes and children's games. Seizures were precipitated by various triggers, including thinking to a children's rhyme, to a children's game, to the action of giving a kiss with a hand. Among the above triggers, only the last one was able to induce a seizure during our observation, characterised by jerking of the upper limbs and loss of consciousness with a quick recovery. The electroclinical features were of a brief paroxysm and diffuse theta/delta activity on electroencephalogram, with frontal maximal expression. The playful aspect and the reference to childhood intrinsically associated with an emotional component seem to be the true feature all the stimuli have in common and therefore this form could be classified as an emotional one. To our knowledge seizures precipitated by these kind of stimuli have never before been reported.
We report the clinical, electrophysiological, radiological and morphological features in a series of 12 patients of histopathologically confirmed cases (infantile, juvenile and adult onset) of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL) observed from 1979 to 1998 at National Institute of Mental Health &amp; Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore (South India). The commonest type of NCL was juvenile (n = 8, 67%) while infantile and adult forms were two each (n = 2, 16.8%). The age at presentation ranged from 2 to 45 years (mean--12.6, 14.3 years; median--7 years; M:F ratio of 2:1). Four patients (33%) had positive family history and five patients had history of consanguineous parentage (41.6%). The commonest presenting symptoms were regression of milestones (83.3%) and/or seizures, myoclonus (83.8%) followed by involuntary choreiform movements (50%), visual loss (41.6%), ataxia (33.3%) and abnormal behaviour (16.6%). Neuro-ophthalmological abnormalities like optic atrophy (50%), macular degeneration (33.3%) and retinitis pigmentosa (8.3%) were seen in two thirds. Nerve conduction studies (n = 4) revealed abnormalities in two, suggestive of sensorimotor neuropathy. Scalp EEG (n = 9) showed slowing of background activity (BGA) of varying degrees with paroxysmal bursts of seizure discharges in majority. Cranial CT scan (n = 4) revealed varying degrees of diffuse atrophy. Diagnostic brain biopsy was carried out in 11 and brain was examined at autopsy in 1 case. Histological examination revealed characteristic PAS and Luxol Fast Blue (LFB) positive, autofluorescent (AF) intracellular ceroid material, both in neurons and astrocytes in the grey matter. Electron microscopy (n = 5) revealed curvilinear (n = 4), lamellar (n = 2) and electron dense (n = 2) inclusions in neurons, astrocytes and vascular endothelial cells. To conclude, this neurodegenerative disease had varied but characteristic clinical presentations and required histopathological confirmation of diagnosis.
Rhabdoid tumour is a rare childhood tumour with poor prognosis. We report a 13-month-old Malay girl suffering from this tumour that was located at the left fronto-temporo-parietal region of the brain. Computed tomography showed a large irregular enhancing mass that caused obstructive hydrocephalus. The tumour did not reduce in size after three operations and finally the patient succumbed to the disease four months after diagnosis.
Traditional epidemiologic studies of insomnia provide valid but fairly rudimentary information regarding the presence, frequency, duration and evolution of sleep problems. Standardized tools such as validated questionnaires (e.g., Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index and sleep logs) help assess the presence and severity of sleep problems, while other methods (e.g., SLEEP L system) address insomnia diagnoses. Other instruments (e.g., Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV [SCID], Short-Form 36 [SF-36], Epworth Sleepiness Scale [ESS]) provide insights into insomnia consequences and co-morbidities. Sleep laboratory studies using polysomnography (PSG) have also provided useful findings (e.g., relating to sleep apnea and excessive daytime sleepiness) in experimental and population-based patient samples containing subgroups enriched for certain variables under investigation. These methods have significantly increased our knowledge about insomnia. Critically, longitudinal studies are needed to further our understanding of the pathophysiology and morbidity of insomnia, defining roles for risk factors, hyperarousal and co-morbidities and the effects of treatment in long-term disease progression. This review summarizes the current available data on the evolution of insomnia and proposes a model that warrants further research attention and discussion.




Clinical practice and scientific research may soon lead to treatments designed to repair spinal cord injury. Repair is likely to be partial in the first trials, extending only one or two segments below the original injury. Furthermore, treatments that are becoming available are likely to be applied to the thoracic spinal cord to minimise loss of function resulting from damage to surviving connections. These provisos have prompted research into the improvement of clinical and physiological tests designed (1) to determine the level and density of a spinal cord injury, (2) to provide reliable monitoring of recovery over one or two spinal cord segments, and (3) to provide indices of function provided by thoracic spinal root innervation, presently largely ignored in assessment of spinal cord injury. This article reviews progress of the Clinical Initiative, sponsored by the International Spinal Research Trust, to advance the clinical and physiological tests of sensory, motor and autonomic function needed to achieve these aims.



The human cerebral cortex anatomy describes the brain organization at the scale of gyri and sulci. It is used as landmarks for neurosurgery as well as localization support for functional data analysis or inter-subject data comparison. Existing models of the cortex anatomy either rely on image labeling but fail to represent variability and structural properties or rely on a conceptual model but miss the inner 3D nature and relations of anatomical structures. This study was therefore conducted to propose a model of sulco-gyral anatomy for the healthy human brain. We hypothesized that both numeric knowledge (i.e., image-based) and symbolic knowledge (i.e., concept-based) have to be represented and coordinated. In addition, the representation of this knowledge should be application-independent in order to be usable in various contexts. Therefore, we devised a symbolic model describing specialization, composition and spatial organization of cortical anatomical structures. We also collected numeric knowledge such as 3D models of shape and shape variation about cortical anatomical structures. For each numeric piece of knowledge, a companion file describes the concept it refers to and the nature of the relationship. Demonstration software performs a mapping between the numeric and the symbolic aspects for browsing the knowledge base.
The dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell is implicated in schizophrenia and in psychostimulant-induced drug-seeking behavior, both of which are affected by activation of the functionally opposed high-affinity neurotensin receptor (NTS1). To determine the functionally relevant sites, we examined the dual electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of D2R and NTS1 in the NAc shell of rat brain. Immunolabeling for each receptor was seen in association with cytoplasmic organelles, or more rarely, on the plasma membrane of both axonal and somatodendritic profiles. Some of the axonal and many of the dendritic processes colocalized the two receptors. The dually labeled axon terminals often formed symmetric synapses or appositional contacts with unlabeled dendritic profiles. The morphology of these terminals suggests that they contain either inhibitory amino acids or dopamine. Other axonal profiles expressing exclusively NTS1 or D2R were without synaptic specializations or formed asymmetric, excitatory-type synapses mainly on unlabeled dendritic spines. In addition, however, several D2R-immunoreactive terminals were observed presynaptic to dendrites containing NTS1. The somatodendritic profiles immunolabeled for NTS1 and/or D2R had morphological features typical of inhibitory spiny projection neurons in the NAc. These results suggest that activation of NTS1 and D2R can dually modulate transmitter release from the same or separate phenotypically distinct axon terminals in the NAc shell. These presynaptic receptors as well as the postsynaptic NTS1 distribution in neurons that also contain or receive input from terminals containing D2R may mediate the opposing actions of neurotensin and dopamine in the NAc.


The effects of spatial or featural attention on the activity of neurons have been studied in many experiments that have used a variety of neurophysiological approaches. Other experiments have examined how expectations about reward are represented in neuronal activity in various brain regions. Although attention and reward are distinct concepts, I argue here that many neurophysiological experiments on attention and reward do not permit a clean dissociation between the two. This problem arises in part because reward contingencies are the only parameter manipulated in any of these experiments. I describe how attention and reward expectations have been confounded, giving rise to uncertainty about how signals related to attention and reward are distributed in the brain.
During the past several decades, lac permease has assumed almost tutelary proportions as a model for cotransporters. This archetypical membrane protein now exerts its influence by the most dramatic means possible: its structure is solved. This article describes the configuration and implied transport mechanism of the bacterial lactose transporter and compares its structure and function with those of other transporters and those of ion channels. This juxtaposition of transporters and channels is likely to be helpful because LacY is the first cotransporter with known structure and exclusive carrier properties, and it shares topology with neurotransmitter transporters with unknown structure and channel properties.
Chronic pain is sustained by central neuronal sensitization, with many similar characteristics irrespective of the type of injury incurred. Nevertheless, pain arising from nerve injury (neuropathic pain) is resistant to centrally acting analgesics, whereas inflammatory pain responds well. New research indicates that the role of spinal NMDA receptors in chronic pain depends on adaptor proteins of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family and raises the possibility that complexes of different composition might contribute differentially to different pain states.
Two main hypotheses describe the role of hemoglobin in the regulation of nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. It has been suggested that hemoglobin interacts with circulating NO, forming Fe-nitrosyl hemoglobin and then S-nitrosothiols, which deliver NO extracellularly by an allosterically regulated mechanism. Alternatively, the existence of diffusional barriers that protect NO from hemoglobin-mediated degradation has been proposed. The reliability of each model in vivo is supported by the detection of physiological hematic levels of S-nitrosohemoglobin. However, the measured concentrations of S-nitrosohemoglobin are largely divergent between the two models. Moreover, recent reports suggest that circulating levels of S-nitrosohemoglobin in human blood could be significantly lower than assessed previously. We suggest that solving the methodological controversies that make the field of NO research a 'minefield', even for skilled analysts, is fundamental to understanding the role of S-nitrosothiols in the vasculature.
Neurosciences have contributed to give support to the significance objects (mother, father, among others), affects, environment and different early experiences have in the unfolding and development of the child's mental structure and in this manner to throw light on intersubjective and intrapsychic relationships. This review focused on the impact of early mothering experiences and of the environment on molecular events linked to the processes of neurogenesis, synaptogenesis and the construction of circuits of processing and signalling, mainly in the hippocampus (structure connected with the processes of learning, memory and the control of response to stressors). Therefore, normal development,as well as mental pathology, is not the mere result from the action of present stressors (synchronic view), but its deepest roots lie in the matrix generated by the early experiences between mother and child and the environment inputs (diachronic view). Therefore, early experience, as well as secure attachment, can modulate the individual resilience in the face of future adversity.
The neural bases of shifting attention and directing gaze were investigated in macaque monkeys performing a singleton search that required a prosaccade, antisaccade, or no saccade cued by the shape of the singleton. In prosaccade trials, most neurons in frontal eye field selected the location of the singleton that was also the end point of the saccade. In antisaccade trials, most neurons selected the singleton followed by selection of the endpoint of the saccade. Other neurons selected only the endpoint of the saccade in antisaccade trials. When no saccade was produced, many of the first type of neuron still selected the singleton, and many but not all of both types of neurons later selected the stimulus opposite the singleton even though no saccade was produced. These patterns of activity are consistent with the hypotheses that covert shifts of attention can occur without saccade production and that FEF contributes to covert as well as overt orienting.
The biased-competition theory of attention [Annual Review of Neuroscience 18 (1995) 193] suggests that attention and stimulus contrast trade off, and implies that high-contrast stimuli should be easy to attend to and hard to ignore. To test this, observers searched displays for a target digit. Observers were well able to exclude high-contrast distractors when attempting to search only among low-contrast stimuli (Experiment 1). In Experiments 2 and 3, location determined which stimuli were relevant. When contrast of relevant and irrelevant stimuli was uncertain (due to contrast varying between trials, Experiment 2), increasing the contrast of distractors impaired performance. However, when contrast was certain (due to blocking of trials, Experiment 3) and targets were of low contrast, high contrast distractors produced less interference than low contrast distractors. The ability of subjects to attend selectively to low vs. high contrast items in Experiments 1 and 3 suggests that selectivity for stimulus contrast might be similar to other types of feature selectivity (e.g., color and location). Such findings are inconsistent with the biased competition theory regarding the interplay of contrast and attention. However, results from Experiment 2 suggest that, when target contrast varies, the default tendency is to attend to high-contrast items.
External noise presented in temporal contiguity with a target impairs perceptual performance, reflecting the temporal tuning of the perceptual template. Deriving the temporal characteristics of the perceptual template, however, requires an observer model that segregates the impact of non-linearities and intrinsic inefficiencies of the observer in order to account for the impact of external noise in various temporal configurations. In Experiment 1, we showed that the perceptual template model successfully accounts for temporal masking functions in foveal Gabor orientation identification masked by external noise with a wide range of temporal configurations, and estimates the temporal characteristics of the perceptual template. In Experiment 2, we extended the paradigm and the model to compare the temporal tuning characteristics of the perceptual template in central pre- and simultaneous cuing of endogenous spatial attention in a Gabor orientation identification task in visual periphery. We found that endogenous spatial attention excludes external noise by both sharpening the temporal window of the perceptual template and (mostly) reducing the impact of external noise uniformly across the entire temporal window.


There are many important health issues for women with epilepsy, in particular for women of childbearing age. Recent surveys have shown that only a minority of such patients received information on important issues concerning pregnancy. Pre-pregnancy counselling should include information on interactions of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and oral contraceptives, risk of teratogenicity, use of folic acid, the importance of monotherapy with the lowest effective dosage of an AED, and the safety of breast feeding as well as other special aspects of epilepsy and pregnancy. Planned pregnancy and counselling before conception is crucial. With a multidisciplinary approach the majority of pregnancies will have a favourable outcome. The article addresses these issues and describes practical considerations for the counselling of women with epilepsy who are planning pregnancy.
IK channels, which had been previously found in hemopoetically derived cells (including erythrocytes and lymphocytes) and epithelial cells, where they regulate proliferation, cell volume regulation and secretion, have only recently been discovered in neurons, where they had previously been claimed not to occur. Based on immunohistochemical detection of IK channel-like immunoreactivity, it has been reported that IK channel expression in enteric neurons is suppressed in Crohn's disease. In the present work we have investigated whether authentic IK channels are expressed by enteric neurons. Human and mouse tissue was investigated by immunohistochemistry, Western blot and RT-PCR. Immunohistochemical studies revealed IK channel-like immunoreactivity in large myenteric neurons, but not in other cell types in the external muscle layers. Many of these nerve cells had calbindin immunoreactivity. Western blots from the external muscle revealed an immunoreactive band at the molecular weight of the IK channel. Using RT-PCR, we detected a transcript corresponding to the IK channel gene in extracts from the ganglion containing layer. The sequence obtained from the RT-PCR product was identical to that previously published for the IK channel. We conclude that IK channels are expressed by human enteric neurons, including large smooth surfaced neurons that are possibly the human equivalent of the Dogiel type II neurons that express these channels in small mammals.
Anatomical and neurophysiological studies have established that Area X, a songbird nucleus essential for vocal learning, is a basal ganglia structure, with mammalian striatal properties. However, Area X also sends a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic projection to the medial portion of the dorsolateral thalamus (DLM), a projection characteristic of the pallidum. These findings suggested that Area X contains both striatal and pallidal neurons. To test this hypothesis further, we investigated the neurochemistry and connectivity of Area X and its projections by using neurotransmitter antibodies, in combination with tracing studies. Like the mammalian striatum, Area X contains small enkephalin- and substance P-immunopositive neurons. Choline acetyltransferase-positive cells of Area X do not retrogradely label from DLM and are probably cholinergic interneurons similar to those in mammals. Like pallidal cells, large GABAergic cells project from Area X to the thalamus, but they also contain enkephalin, a characteristic of striatal neurons projecting to indirect pathway pallidal neurons. Moreover, many Area X cells are labeled with the pallidal marker Nkx2.1, but these do not include any thalamus-projecting neurons, suggesting that the projection cells are not of pallidal embryonic origin. Thus, although Area X combines both striatal and pallidal features, it is not a simple recapitulation of the mammalian circuit or of the avian lateral striatopallidal pathway: some individual Area X neurons may function as pallidal-like projection neurons but have striatal characteristics as well. Such heterogeneity of basal ganglia circuitry, both within and across species, may be facilitated by the developmental history of basal ganglia, which involves extensive migration and cellular intermixing.
Continuous exposure of non-parturient rats to pups can induce maternal behavior similar in most aspects to that found in the postpartum rat. Surprisingly, young juvenile rats (20-24 days of age) only require 1-3 days of exposure to pups, while adults require 4-8 days before maternal behavior emerges. Dopamine (DA) and possibly serotonin (5-HT) may mediate the expression of adult maternal behavior. We hypothesize that postnatal changes in DA and 5-HT within the neural circuit that supports maternal behavior including the medial preoptic area (MPOA), medial and cortical amygdala (MCA), and nucleus accumbens (NAC), may underlie these differences in responsiveness across juveniles and adults. We measured DA, 5-HT, and their metabolites in postmortem samples of these regions in maternal and non-maternal juvenile and adult females. The only difference found across behavioral groups was that the MPOA of adults induced into maternal behavior by pup exposure had more DA than did that of isolated adult females or maternal juveniles. However, when adults versus juveniles were compared, the content of DA and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic (DOPAC) was higher in the adult than in the juvenile NAC and MCA; the content of 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in these structures did not vary across the age groups. In contrast, higher levels of 5-HT and 5-HIAA were found in the MPOA in juveniles compared to adults. We propose that these region-specific age differences in DA and 5HT may underlie differences in juvenile-adult responses to pups.
During the past decade, many molecular components of clathrin-mediated endocytosis have been identified and proposed to play various hypothetical roles in the process [Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 1 (2000) 161; Nature 422 (2003) 37]. One limitation to the evaluation of these hypotheses is the efficiency and resolution of immunolocalization protocols currently in use. In order to facilitate the evaluation of these hypotheses and to understand more fully the molecular mechanisms of clathrin-mediated endocytosis, we have developed a protocol allowing enhanced and reliable subcellular immunolocalization of proteins in synaptic endocytic zones in situ. Synapses established by giant reticulospinal axons in lamprey are used as a model system for these experiments. These axons are unbranched and reach up to 80-100 microm in diameter. Synaptic active zones and surrounding endocytic zones are established on the surface of the axonal cylinder. To provide access for antibodies to the sites of synaptic vesicle recycling, axons are lightly fixed and cut along their longitudinal axis. To preserve the ultrastructure of the synaptic endocytic zone, antibodies are applied without the addition of detergents. Opened axons are incubated with primary antibodies, which are detected with secondary antibodies conjugated to gold particles. Specimens are then post-fixed and processed for electron microscopy. This approach allows preservation of the ultrastructure of the endocytic sites during immunolabeling procedures, while simultaneously achieving reliable immunogold detection of proteins on endocytic intermediates. To explore the utility of this approach, we have investigated the localization of a GTPase, dynamin, on clathrin-coated intermediates in the endocytic zone of the lamprey giant synapse. Using the present immunogold protocol, we confirm the presence of dynamin on late stage coated pits [Nature 422 (2003) 37] and also demonstrate that dynamin is recruited to the coat of endocytic intermediates from the very early stages of the clathrin coat formation. Thus, our experiments show that the current pre-embedding immunogold method is a useful experimental tool to study the molecular mechanisms of synaptic vesicle recycling.
Heating of chromatographic columns, transfer lines, and other devices is often required in neuroscience research. For example, volatile compounds passing through a capillary column of a gas chromatograph (GC) can be split, with half exiting the instrument through a heated transfer line to an insect antenna or olfactory sensillum for electroantennographic detector (GC-EAD) recordings. The heated transfer line is used to prevent condensation of various chemicals in the capillary that would otherwise occur at room temperature. Construction of such a transfer line heater is described using (80/20%) nickel-chromium heating wire wrapped in a helical coil and powered by a 120/220 V ac rheostat. Algorithms were developed in a computer program to estimate the voltage at which a rheostat should be set to obtain the desired heater temperature for a specific coil. The coil attributes (radius, width, number of loops, or length of each loop) are input by the user, as well as AWG size of heating wire and desired heater temperature. The program calculates total length of wire in the helix, resistance of the wire, amperage used, and the voltage to set the rheostat. A discussion of semiochemical isolation methods using the GC-EAD and bioassays is presented.
Triple immunofluorescence method with two mouse monoclonal antibodies and another rabbit polyclonal antibody was established with catalyzed reporter deposition (CARD) amplification on thick floating sections from the rat cerebellum. One of the monoclonal antibodies (anti-calbindin), diluted maximally, probed with anti-mouse IgG-horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and amplified with Cy5-conjugated tyramide, immunolabeled cerebellar Purkinje cells and their arborization. Subsequently, a rabbit polyclonal IgG (anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (anti-GFAP)), probed with anti-rabbit IgG-HRP, amplified with biotin-tyramide and visualized with fluorescein-isothiocyanate (FITC)-streptavidin, immunolabeled Bergmann's glia. Another mouse monoclonal IgG (anti-SNAP25), probed with anti-mouse IgG-rhodamine without CARD amplification, selectively visualized synaptic sites, because the maximal dilution of the other monoclonal antibody (anti-calbindin) was below the detection threshold of this anti-mouse IgG-rhodamine. Separation of the two signals (calbindin and SNAP25), each detected through mouse monoclonal antibody, was then based on the difference of sensitivity either with or without CARD amplification. Triple immunofluorescence is possible when just one of the three primary antibodies is from different species. Intensification of two of the three signals provides further advantages to examine immunolocalization of multiple epitopes on histological sections.
The profile of tetrodotoxin sensitive (TTX-S) and resistant (TTX-R) Na(+) channels and their contribution to action potentials and firing patterns were studied in isolated small dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons after L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation (SNL). Total TTX-R Na(+) currents and Na(v) 1.8 mRNA were reduced in injured L5 DRG neurons 14 days after SNL. In contrast, TTX-R Na(+)currents and Na(v) 1.8 mRNA were upregulated in uninjured L4 DRG neurons after SNL. Voltage-dependent inactivation of TTX-R Na(+) channels in these neurons was shifted to hyperpolarized potentials by 4 mV. Two types of neurons were identified in injured L5 DRG neurons after SNL. Type I neurons (57%) had significantly lower threshold but exhibited normal resting membrane potential (RMP) and action potential amplitude. Type II neurons (43%) had significantly smaller action potential amplitude but retained similar RMP and threshold to those from sham rats. None of the injured neurons could generate repetitive firing. In the presence of TTX, only 26% of injured neurons could generate action potentials that had smaller amplitude, higher threshold, and higher rheobase compared with sham rats. In contrast, action potentials and firing patterns in uninjured L4 DRG neurons after SNL, in the presence or absence of TTX, were not affected. These results suggest that TTX-R Na(+) channels play important roles in regulating action potentials and firing patterns in small DRG neurons and that downregulation in injured neurons and upregulation in uninjured neurons confer differential roles in shaping electrogenesis, and perhaps pain transmission, in these neurons.
In mice, withdrawal from agents that depress central nervous system function, such as barbiturates and benzodiazepines, results in the production of a withdrawal syndrome, one feature of which is increased severity of handling induced convulsions (HICs). High and Low Pentobarbital Withdrawal mice (HPW and LPW) were selectively bred to display severe and mild pentobarbital withdrawal HICs, respectively. These mice provide a valuable means to assess genetic correlations between withdrawal from pentobarbital and other sedative agents. We tested HPW and LPW mice for severity of HICs elicited during withdrawal from ethanol, diazepam, and zolpidem, and measured consumption of and preference for pentobarbital solutions in HPW and LPW mice. HPW mice displayed greater HICs than LPW mice during ethanol and zolpidem withdrawal, but differed less robustly during diazepam withdrawal. LPW mice consumed more pentobarbital in a solution of a moderate concentration than did HPW mice, but did not consume more pentobarbital at a higher or lower concentration. These results indicate that some of the same genes that affect the severity of withdrawal from pentobarbital also influence ethanol and zolpidem withdrawal, but that diazepam withdrawal may be less influenced by these genes.
The aberrant proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by beta- and gamma-secretases is key to amyloid plaque formation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Identification of an aspartyl protease as the beta-secretase (beta-site APP cleaving enzyme, BACE) involved in APP processing provides a pharmaceutical target for potential AD treatment. In the present studies, we demonstrate that transient cerebral ischemia in female rats caused a 30% increase in beta-secretase activity. alpha-Secretase activity did not increase significantly. We examined protein levels of BACE1, and its analogue BACE2, in ischemic brain extracts. BACE1 protein levels increased 67%, while BACE2 protein level did not change after such a transient ischemia. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated that BACE1 protein was increased in the ischemic neocortex, when compared with its contralateral cortex. Further, colocalization assessment indicated that BACE1 strongly associated with staining for the apoptotic marker, TUNEL. These results may partially explain epidemiological study, which demonstrate a higher incidence of dementia after stroke. Further, our results support the hypothesis that apoptosis and aberrant APP processing are correlated events in AD brain, and suggest that inhibition of BACE may have a therapeutic effect in the prevention of dementia after stroke recovery.
The tumor suppressor protein p53 regulates gene transcription through binding to specific DNA-target sites. We here demonstrate that a subset of these sites is targeted by another DNA-binding factor. Binding specificity, reactivity with specific antibodies, and experiments with purified protein identified the factor as the multifunctional transcription regulator YY1. The YY1 core binding sequence ACAT is present in the center of p53-half-binding sites in the p21 and GADD45 genes regulating growth arrest and DNA repair, respectively, but is absent in those of the Bax gene critical for apoptosis. In transfection experiments YY1 inhibits p53-activated transcription from the p53-binding site that contains the ACAT sequence. YY1 and p53 are colocalized around the nucleoli and in discrete nuclear domains in PC12 cells undergoing apoptosis. YY1 might attenuate p53-dependent transcription from a subset of p53-target genes and this may be relevant for directing cells either to growth arrest or apoptosis upon p53 activation.
Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) are associated with many neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). The major components of NFTs are hyper-phosphorylated tau proteins. The alternatively spliced form of the presenilin-2 (PS2) gene (PS2V) has been observed in sporadic AD brains. However, it is not known whether there is a relationship between tau aggregation/hyper-phosphorylation and PS2V expression. In this manuscript, we make the first report of PS2V alterations in the conformation of the tau protein (unknown form of tau) in the human neuroblastoma cell line.
Endophilin 1 (Endo1) participates in synaptic vesicle biogenesis through interactions of its Src homology 3 domain with the polyphosphoinositide phosphatase Synaptojanin and the GTPase Dynamin. Endo1 has also been reported to affect endocytosis by converting membrane curvature via its lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase activity. Here we report that a closely related isoform of Endo1, Endo3, inhibits clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Mutational analyses showed that the variable region of Endo3 is important in regulating transferrin endocytosis. In the brain, Endo3 is co-localized with dopamine D2 receptor in olfactory nerve terminals and inhibits its clathrin-mediated endocytosis in COS-7 cells. Furthermore, overexpression of Endo3 in an olfactory epithelium-derived cell line suppressed dopamine D2 receptor-mediated endocytosis and therefore accelerated its dopamine-induced differentiation. These results indicate that Endo3 may act as a negative regulator of clathrin-mediated endocytosis in brain neurons.
Recent studies have shown that the neurodegenerative process in disorders with Lewy body formation, such as Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, is associated with alpha-synuclein accumulation and that beta-synuclein might protect the central nervous system from the neurotoxic effects of alpha-synuclein. However, the mechanisms are unclear. The main objective of the present study was to investigate the potential involvement of the serine threonine kinase Akt (also known as protein kinase B) signaling pathway in the mechanisms of beta-synuclein neuroprotection. For this purpose, Akt activity and cell survival were analyzed in synuclein-transfected B103 neuroblastoma cells and primary cortical neurons. Beta-synuclein transfection resulted in increased Akt activity and conferred protection from the neurotoxic effects of rotenone. Down-regulation of Akt expression resulted in an increased susceptibility to rotenone toxicity, whereas transfection with a lentiviral vector encoding for beta-synuclein was protective. The effects of beta-synuclein on the Akt pathway appear to be by direct interaction between these molecules and were independent of upstream signaling molecules. Taken together, these results indicate that the mechanisms of beta-synuclein neuroprotection might involve direct interactions between beta-synuclein and Akt and suggest that this signaling pathway could be a potential therapeutic target for neurological conditions associated with parkinsonism and alpha-synuclein aggregation.

Neural stem cells are reported to lie in a vascular niche, but there is no direct evidence for a functional relationship between the stem cells and blood vessel component cells. We show that endothelial cells but not vascular smooth muscle cells release soluble factors that stimulate the self-renewal of neural stem cells, inhibit their differentiation, and enhance their neuron production. Both embryonic and adult neural stem cells respond, allowing extensive production of both projection neuron and interneuron types in vitro. Endothelial coculture stimulates neuroepithelial cell contact, activating Notch and Hes 1 to promote self-renewal. These findings identify endothelial cells as a critical component of the neural stem cell niche.
Episodic memory is often imbued with multisensory richness, such that the recall of an event can be endowed with the sights, sounds, and smells of its prior occurrence. While hippocampus and related medial temporal structures are implicated in episodic memory retrieval, the participation of sensory-specific cortex in representing the qualities of an episode is less well established. We combined functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with a cross-modal paradigm, where objects were presented with odors during memory encoding. We then examined the effect of odor context on neural responses at retrieval when these same objects were presented alone. Primary olfactory (piriform) cortex, as well as anterior hippocampus, was activated during the successful retrieval of old (compared to new) objects. Our findings indicate that sensory features of the original engram are preserved in unimodal olfactory cortex. We suggest that reactivation of memory traces distributed across modality-specific brain areas underpins the sensory qualities of episodic memories.
Corticostriatal glutamate afferents and mesostriatal dopamine afferents commonly converge onto the same postsynaptic spines of medium projection neurons. The consequent synaptic triad provides an ideal configuration for dopamine modulation of glutamatergic transmission. In this issue of Neuron, Bamford et al. report that dopamine inhibits glutamate release in a selective manner by activating presynaptic D2 receptors.
We tested the effect of age at the time of spinal cord injury (SCI) on locomotor recovery, in open field tests, and mechanical hyperalgesia, using paw withdrawal frequency (PWF) in response to noxious mechanical stimuli, in male Sprague-Dawley rats after spinal hemisection at T13 in young (40 days), adult (60 days) and middle-age (1 year) groups. Behavioral outcomes were measured weekly for 4 weeks in both SCI and sham groups. Following SCI, the young and adult groups recovered significantly more locomotor function, at a more rapid rate, than did the middle-age group. The PWF of the young group was significantly increased, the adult group was significantly decreased, and the middle-age group showed no significant change in fore- and hindlimbs when compared to other age groups, pre-injury and sham controls. These results support age-dependent behavioral outcomes after SCI.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are often linked to various neurodegenerative disorders including ischemic stroke and Huntington's disease (HD). S-Nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) is an endogenous nitric oxide carrier recently identified as a potent antioxidant capable of neutralizing oxidative stress. In the present study, we explore the neuroprotective effects of GSNO against metabolic insults induced by 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), a mitochondrial complex II inhibitor commonly used as a pharmacological model for HD, in primary culture of fetal rat cortical and striatal neurons. Application of GSNO (1-5 microM) substantially reduced neuronal loss caused by 3-NP (1-5 mM) exposure based on MTT reduction, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, and Hoechst staining assays. The protective effect of GSNO appeared to be more potent than N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC), a glutathione precursor, at the same concentrations. These results suggest that manipulation of GSNO metabolism may exert protective effects against mitochondrial dysfunction often observed in neurodegenerative disorders.
Astroglia are the most prevalent cell type in the human central nervous system (CNS) and perform important roles in normal tissue homeostasis, during pathological events and following trauma. Astroglial-derived chemokines have important neurotrophic effects and are important to CNS immunocompetence and response to injury, in part, due to their direct role in leukocyte and microglial cell recruitment. However, while ethanol is known to induce CNS pathologies and to be peripherally immunosuppressive, ethanol effects on chemokine expression in human astroglia are essentially unknown. We have demonstrated that chemotaxis of human U937 leukocytic cells, across a 0.5 microm pore polycarbonate transmembrane insert, is induced in response to culture media collected from 10 microg/ml lipopolysaccharide (LPS) + 10 ng/ml interleukin (IL)-1beta-stimulated A172 human astroglia cells. The involvement of the chemokine CXCL10 (also known as interferon-gamma inducible protein or IP-10) in astroglial-induced chemotaxis of U937 cells has been indicated, as chemotaxis can be reduced by an anti-CXCL10 neutralizing antibody. Interestingly, chemotaxis of U937 cells, in response to astroglial-exposed media, is reduced when astroglia are chronically (9 days) exposed to 50 mM ethanol before stimulation with LPS + IL-1beta. Furthermore, we observed that LPS + IL-1beta-stimulated CXCL10 production is inhibited in human A172 astroglia exposed to chronic 50 mM ethanol. Thus, alterations in astroglial CXCL10 expression may disrupt CNS immunocompetence and play an important role in ethanol-induced CNS pathologies.
Two synthetic routes to a series of structurally novel kinase inhibitors containing a cis-1,3-disubstituted cyclobutane are described. The first route utilized addition of 3-aminocyclobutanol to 1,4-dinitroimidazole 5 as the crucial step in preparing 1, whereas the second route employed a novel 1,4-addition of 4-nitroimidazole 18 to in situ generated cyclobutenone 17 as the key reaction. This allowed for a stereoselective and shorter synthesis that eliminated the use of potentially explosive 1,4-dinitroimidazole 5. [structure: see text]
In the actively foraging rat, hippocampal pyramidal cells have strong spatial correlates. Each &quot;place cell&quot; fires rapidly only when the rat enters a particular delimited portion of its environment, called the &quot;place field&quot; of that cell. Hippocampal pyramidal cells also exhibit spatial selectivity during a physiological state that occurs during sleep, termed &quot;small irregular activity&quot; (SIA), because of the appearance of the hippocampal EEG. It is not known whether rats determine their current location in space during SIA using current visual information or whether they recall the location in which they fell asleep. To address this question, we recorded spikes from ensembles of CA1 pyramidal cells and hippocampal EEG while rats slept along the edge of a large circular recording arena with minimal local features in a room with prominent distal visual cues. To move the rats to a new location in the room while they were sleeping, we slowly rotated the recording arena on which they slept to a new orientation in the room. Hippocampal place cell activity in subsequent SIA episodes reflected the location in the room in which the rats fell asleep, rather than the location to which they were moved, although the alignment of the rats' spatial map was governed by the room cues in the subsequent active foraging session. Thus, the hippocampal population activity during SIA does not result from the processing of current visual information but instead probably reflects a memory for the location in which the rat fell asleep.
During the development of neuronal circuits, axonal growth cones can contact many inappropriate targets before they reach an appropriate postsynaptic partner. Although it is well known that the contact with synaptic partners upregulates the secretory machinery of the presynaptic neuron, little is known about the signaling mechanisms involved in preventing the formation of connections with inappropriate target cells. Here, we show that the contact with a nonphysiological postsynaptic target inhibits neurotransmitter release from axonal terminals of the Helix serotonergic neuron C1 by means of an active mechanism requiring ongoing protein synthesis and leading to the inhibition of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-extracellular signal-related kinase (Erk) pathways. The reversal of the inhibitory effect of the nonphysiological target by blockade of protein synthesis was prevented by cAMP-PKA or MAPK-Erk inhibitors, whereas disinhibition of neurotransmitter release promoted by cAMP-PKA activation was not affected by MAPK-Erk inhibitors. The data indicate that the inhibitory effect of the nonphysiological target on neurotransmitter release is an active process that requires protein synthesis and involves the downregulation of the MAPK-Erk and cAMP-PKA pathways, the same protein kinases that are activated after contact with a physiological target neuron. These mechanisms could play a relevant role in the prevention of synapse formation between inappropriate partners by modulating the neurotransmitter release capability of growing nerve terminals according to the nature of the targets contacted during their development.
Neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) change their firing rates with sound pressure level. Some neurons maintain monotonic increases in firing rate over a wide range of sound intensities, whereas other neurons are monotonic over limited intensity ranges. We examined the conditions necessary for monotonicity in this nucleus in vitro in rat brain slices and in vivo in the unanesthetized rabbit. Our in vitro recordings indicate that concurrent activation of GABA(A) synapses with excitatory inputs facilitates monotonic increases in firing rate with increases in stimulus strength. In the absence of synaptic inhibition, excitatory input to IC neurons causes large depolarizations that result in firing block and nonmonotonicity. In vivo, although GABA(A) synapses decrease the firing rate in all IC neurons, they can have opposing effects on rate-level functions. GABAergic inputs activated by all sound intensities maintain monotonicity by keeping the postsynaptic potential below the level at which depolarization block occurs. When these inputs are blocked, firing block can occur and rate-level functions become nonmonotonic. High-threshold GABAergic inputs, in contrast, cause nonmonotonic responses by decreasing the firing rate at high intensities. Our results suggest that a dynamic regulation of the postsynaptic membrane potential by synaptic inhibition is necessary to allow neurons to respond monotonically to a wide range of sound intensities.
Previous studies of the lurcher mutation in GluR1 channels concluded that its main effect is to create constitutively active channels (Kohda et al., 2000; Taverna et al., 2000). GluR1Lc channels also exhibit slowed kinetics and a shift in their apparent affinity for glutamate (Kohda et al., 2000; Taverna et al., 2000). Here, we have undertaken a kinetic analysis of GluR1Lc channels to quantify the effects of lurcher and to determine the relative contribution of these effects to the lurcher phenotype. Analysis of GluR1Lc leak current demonstrated that the 2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX)-sensitive portion of the leak current corresponded to a current generated by glutamate concentrations similar to the levels of contaminating glutamate measured in our normal external solutions. This result, and the small size of the leak current relative to the currents evoked by saturating glutamate, indicates that GluR1Lc channels exhibit little or no constitutive activity. Our results indicate that the primary effect of the lurcher mutation is to increase the affinity of GluR1 for glutamate and reduce the desensitization of GluR1 at nanomolar concentrations. We also found that the mutation makes both the rate and extent of GluR1Lc channel desensitization depend strongly on subunit occupancy. We conclude that the poor survival of GluR1Lc-transfected cells, and presumably cerebellar neurons in lurcher mice, results because channels carrying the lurcher mutation open and do not desensitize at ambient levels of glutamate.

Administration of morphine and cannabinoids stimulates alcohol intake in rats. The present study investigated whether the promoting effect of morphine and of the cannabinoid receptor agonist, WIN 55,212-2 [(R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenylmethanone], on alcohol intake was prevented by the gamma-aminobutyric (GABA)(B) receptor agonist, baclofen. Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats were given alcohol (10%, v/v) and water under the standard homecage two-bottle-free choice regimen with unlimited access for 24 h/day. Baclofen (0, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg; i.p.) was administered acutely 30 min before lights off. Morphine (0 and 1 mg/kg, s.c.) or WIN 55,212-2 (0 and 2 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered acutely 10 min after baclofen. Alcohol intake was recorded 60 min after lights off. As predicted, both morphine and WIN 55,212-2 produced a specific and marked increase in alcohol intake. Pretreatment with baclofen, which failed to alter alcohol intake when given alone, dose-dependently suppressed morphine- and WIN 55,212-2-induced promotion of alcohol drinking. These results suggest the involvement of the GABA(B) receptor in the neural circuitry mediating the stimulating effect of morphine and cannabinoids on alcohol consumption in sP rats.
18-Methoxycoronaridine, a novel iboga alkaloid congener, reduces drug self-administration in animal models of addiction. Previously, we proposed that these effects are mediated by the ability of 18-methoxycoronaridine to inhibit nicotinic alpha3beta4 acetylcholine receptors. In an attempt to identify more potent 18-methoxycoronaridine analogs, we have tested a series of 18-methoxycoronaridine congeners by whole-cell patch clamp recording of HEK 293 cells expressing recombinant nicotinic alpha3beta4 receptors or glutamate NR1/NR2B N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. The congeners exhibited a range of inhibitory potencies at alpha3beta4 receptors. Five congeners had IC(50) values similar to 18-methoxycoronaridine, and all of these were ineffective at NMDA receptors. The congeners also retained their ability to reduce morphine and methamphetamine self-administration. These data are consistent with the importance of nicotinic alpha3beta4 receptors as a therapeutic target to modulate drug seeking. These compounds may constitute a new class of synthetic agents that act via the nicotinic alpha3beta4 mechanism to combat addiction.

The hippocampus is required for encoding spatial information. Little is known however, about how different attributes of learning are related to different types of synaptic plasticity. Here, we investigated the association between long-term depression (LTD) and long-term potentiation, both cellular models for learning, and novelty exploration. We found that exploration of a new environment containing unfamiliar objects and/or familiar objects in new locations facilitated LTD, whereas exploration of the new environment itself, in the absence of objects, impaired LTD. Furthermore, we found this phenomenon to be modulated by 5-hydroxytryptamine 4 receptor activation. In contrast, long-term potentiation was facilitated by exploration of an empty novel environment, but simultaneous object exploration caused depotentiation. We also found that no further LTD could be induced. These findings support a decisive role for LTD in the acquisition of object-place configuration and consolidate its candidacy as a learning mechanism.
IkappaB kinase (IKK), discovered as the major activator of NF-kappaB, plays additional roles in signaling. By using mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs) lacking both the alpha and beta subunits of IKK, we find that these proteins are required for induction of a major subset of IFNgamma-stimulated genes and that this requirement is independent of NF-kappaB activation. Furthermore, there is no defect in IFNgamma-stimulated signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (Stat1) activation or function in the IKKalpha/beta-null MEFs. Therefore, although activated Stat1 dimers are necessary for the activation of these genes in response to IFNgamma, they are not sufficient. These results reveal an important additional pathway for IFNgamma-stimulated gene expression in which an NF-kappaB-independent function of IKK is required.
Although voltage-gated sodium channels are known to be deployed along experimentally demyelinated axons, the molecular identities of the sodium channels expressed along axons in human demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS) have not been determined. Here we demonstrate changes in the expression of sodium channels in demyelinated axons in MS, with Nav1.6 confined to nodes of Ranvier in controls but with diffuse distribution of Nav1.2 and Nav1.6 along extensive regions of demyelinated axons within acute MS plaques. Using triple-labeled fluorescent immunocytochemistry, we also show that Nav1.6, which is known to produce a persistent sodium current, and the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger, which can be driven by persistent sodium current to import damaging levels of calcium into axons, are colocalized with beta-amyloid precursor protein, a marker of axonal injury, in acute MS lesions. Our results demonstrate the molecular identities of the sodium channels expressed along demyelinated and degenerating axons in MS and suggest that coexpression of Nav1.6 and Na+/Ca2+ exchanger is associated with axonal degeneration in MS.
The subventricular zone (SVZ) is a source of neural progenitors throughout brain development. The identification and purification of these progenitors and the analysis of their lineage potential are fundamental issues for future brain repair therapies. We demonstrate that early postnatal NG2-expressing (NG2+) progenitor cells located in the SVZ self-renew in vitro and display phenotypic features of transit-amplifier type C-like multipotent cells. NG2+ cells in the SVZ are highly proliferative and express the epidermal growth factor receptor, the transcription factors Dlx, Mash1, and Olig2, and the Lewis X (LeX) antigen. We show that grafted early postnatal NG2+ cells generate hippocampal GABAergic interneurons that propagate action potentials and receive functional glutamatergic synaptic inputs. Our work identifies Dlx+/Mash1+/LeX+/NG2+/GFAP-negative cells of the SVZ as a new class of postnatal multipotent progenitor cells that may represent a specific cellular reservoir for renewal of postnatal and adult inhibitory interneurons in the hippocampus.
Expression of the cellular prion protein (PrP(c)) by host cells is required for prion replication and neuroinvasion in transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. As a consequence, identification of the cell types expressing PrP(c) is necessary to determine the target cells involved in the cerebral propagation of prion diseases. To identify the cells expressing PrP(c) in the mouse brain, the immunocytochemical localization of PrP(c) was investigated at the cellular and ultrastructural levels in several brain regions. In addition, we analyzed the expression pattern of a green fluorescent protein reporter gene under the control of regulatory sequences of the bovine prion protein gene in the brain of transgenic mice. By using a preembedding immunogold technique, neuronal PrP(c) was observed mainly bound to the cell surface and presynaptic sites. Dictyosomes and recycling organelles in most of the major neuron types also exhibited PrP(c) antigen. In the olfactory bulb, neocortex, putamen, hippocampus, thalamus, and cerebellum, the distribution pattern of both green fluorescent protein and PrP(c) immunoreactivity suggested that the transgenic regulatory sequences of the bovine PrP gene were sufficient to promote expression of the reporter gene in neurons that express immunodetectable endogenous PrP(c). Transgenic mice expressing PrP-GFP may thus provide attractive murine models for analyzing the transcriptional activity of the Prnp gene during prion infections as well as the anatomopathological kinetics of prion diseases.
S100A4 (Mts1) is a member of a family of calcium-binding proteins of the EF-hand type, which are widely expressed in the nervous system, where they appear to be involved in the regulation of neuron survival, plasticity, and response to injury or disease. S100A4 has previously been demonstrated in astrocytes of the white matter and rostral migratory stream of the adult rat. After injury, S100A4 is markedly up-regulated in affected central nervous white matter areas as well as in the periventricular area and rostral migratory stream. Here, we show that S100A4 is expressed in a subpopulation of dorsal root, trigeminal, geniculate, and nodose ganglion cells; in a subpopulation of postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons; in chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla; and in satellite and Schwann cells. In dorsal root ganglia, S100A4-positive cells appear to constitute a subpopulation of small ganglion neurons, a few of which coexpressed calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and Griffonia simplicifolia agglutinin (GSA) isolectin B4 (B4). S100A4 protein appears to be transported from dorsal root ganglia to the spinal cord, where it is deposited in the tract of Lissauer. After peripheral nerve or dorsal root injury, a few S100A4-positive cells coexpress CGRP, GSA, or galanin. Peripheral nerve or dorsal root injury induces a marked up-regulation of S100A4 expression in satellite cells in the ganglion and in Schwann cells at the injury site and in the distal stump. This pattern of distribution partially overlaps that of the previously studied S100B and S100A6 proteins, indicating a possible functional cooperation between these proteins. The presence of S100A4 in sensory neurons, including their processes in the central nervous system, suggests that S100A4 is involved in propagation of sensory impulses in specific fiber types.
The reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to clone a cDNA fragment of a putative G-protein-coupled receptor from rat brain total RNA. Nucleotide sequencing of this cDNA fragment showed it to be homologous to that of the mu-opioid receptor splice variant MOR(1C) from mice. We used the cDNA to make an RNA probe for a ribonuclease protection assay (RPA). The results from the RPA showed a protected fragment of the size expected for MOR(1C) mRNA, as well as other RNase-protected fragments that may indicate the existence of other MOR1 transcripts. We then used the RNA probe for in situ hybridization (ISH) experiments. We detected strong autoradiographic labeling over much of the rat telencephalon, diencephalon, mesencephalon, cerebellum, spinal cord, and dorsal root ganglia. These findings suggest that MOR(1C), and possibly other MOR1 splice variants, are important components of the system by which the actions of opioids are transduced.
The corticospinal projection is considered to influence fine motor function through nearly exclusively contralateral projections from the cortex in primates. However, unilateral lesions to this system in various species are frequently followed by significant functional improvement, raising the possibility that bilateral projections of this pathway may exist or emerge after injury. To examine the detailed anatomy and projections of the corticospinal motor neurons in rhesus monkeys (n = 4), we injected the high-resolution anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into 126 sites centered about the right lower extremity (LE) primary motor cortex. Projection and termination patterns were quantified at lumbar levels L1, L4, and L7 and mapped by using serial-section reconstructions. Notably, a mean of 10.1 +/- 0.6% (+/- SEM) of corticospinal tract (CST) axons descended in the lateral CST ipsilateral to the cortical BDA injection, and 87.9 +/- 1.0% of total CST axons projected in the contralateral lateral CST. The ipsilateral ventral CST contained only 1.0 +/- 0% of all projecting CST axons, whereas the contralateral ventral CST contained 0.3 +/- 0.2% of all axons. In addition, a minor dorsal column CST projection was identified. Measurement of BDA-labeled terminals in the spinal cord gray matter revealed that 11.2 +/- 2.2% of CST axons terminated ipsilateral to the side of cortical injection, and the remainder terminated contralaterally. As previously reported, most CST axons terminated in spinal cord laminae V-VIII, as well as the laterodorsal motoneuronal group of lamina IX (which innervates distal extremity muscles). Notably, many CST axons crossed the spinal cord midline (mean 19.9 +/- 4.9 axons per 40-microm-thick section). Detailed single-axon reconstructions revealed that most ipsilaterally projecting lateral CST axons terminated in ipsilateral gray matter. Notably, we found that the bouton-like swellings of many ipsilateral CST axons descending in the dorsolateral tract were located within Rexed's lamina IX, in close proximity to motoneuronal somata. Thus, bilateral projections of corticospinal axons originating from a single motor cortex could contribute to bilateral control of spinal motor neurons and to the highly evolved degree of fine motor control in primates. Furthermore, bilateral CST projections from a single motor cortex could represent a potential source of plasticity after injury, as well as a target of therapeutic effort in neural regeneration strategies.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN), a key component of the basal ganglia circuitry, functions as an internal clock that regulates the correct sequence of movements in a motor response. The importance of the STN in motor function is evidenced by its involvement in Parkinson disease (PD). This nucleus has also been associated with the attentional and emotional aspects of motor behavior through its connections with the limbic and prefrontal areas of the brain. As lesions of the STN have been shown to increase premature responding in a serial reaction time task in rats, indicative of its involvement in cognitive performance, the present study aimed to investigate whether bilateral deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the STN, in non-lesioned rats, affects cognitive functions and whether these are dependent on certain stimulation parameters. Rats were trained in a choice reaction time task and implanted bilaterally with electrodes. Stimulation parameters (amplitude, frequency and pulse width) were varied during the test procedure, after which rats were sacrificed and the brains processed for histochemical staining. Results show no change in reaction times or motor times during stimulation. However, a linear decrease in premature responses was observed with decreasing amplitudes and at high frequencies only. These results are the first to demonstrate that bilateral STN HFS has a positive effect on cognition in freely moving rats. This latter result is in contrast to findings following lesions of the STN, and suggests that current strength and frequency of stimulation are parameters that are integral to the mediation of stimulation effects. Furthermore, the overall effects of DBS on neuronal cells cannot be classified simply as being &quot;inhibitory&quot; and evidently mediates its effects by more complex mechanisms than lesions of the same brain area.
The protective effects of estrogens have been widely reported in a number of animal and cell culture models, but the molecular mechanisms of this potent neuroprotective activity are not well understood. Both in vitro and in vivo studies indicate that in the central nervous system and peripheral tissues, estrogen treatment reduces cytokine production and inflammatory responses. Nuclear factor-kappa B (NFkappaB) plays an essential role in the regulation of post-ischemic inflammation, which is detrimental to recovery from an ischemic stroke. We investigated the role of NFkappaB in neuronal survival in rats that received transient middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion, and observed that this transient cerebral ischemia induced substantial apoptosis and inflammatory responses, including IkappaB phosphorylation, NF-kappaB activation and iNOS over-expression. 17 beta-estradiol (E2) treatment produced strong protective effects by reducing infarct volume, neuronal apoptosis, and inflammatory responses. These findings provide evidence for a novel molecular and cellular interaction between the sex hormone and the immunoresponsive system. These studies also provide evidence that suppression of post-ischemic inflammation may play a critical role in estrogen-mediated neuroprotection.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) is proteolytically processed to release a C-terminal domain that signals to the nucleus to regulate transcription of responsive genes. The APP C terminus binds to a number of phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain proteins and one of these, Fe65, stimulates APP nuclear signaling. Fe65 is an adaptor protein that contains a number of protein-protein interaction domains. These include two PTB domains, the second of which binds APP, and a WW domain that binds proline-rich ligands. One ligand for the Fe65WW domain is the tyrosine kinase c-Abl. Here, we show that active c-Abl stimulates APP/Fe65-mediated gene transcription and that this effect is mediated by phosphorylation of Fe65 on tyrosine 547 within its second PTB domain. The homologous tyrosine within the motif Tyr-(Leu/Met)-Gly is conserved in a variety of PTB domains, and this suggests that PTB tyrosine phosphorylation occurs in other proteins. As such, PTB domain phosphorylation may represent a novel mechanism for regulating the function of this class of protein.
Protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) catalytic subunit isoforms interact with diverse proteins, typically containing a canonical (R/K)(V/I)XF motif. Despite sharing approximately 90% amino acid sequence identity, PP1beta and PP1gamma1 have distinct subcellular localizations that may be determined by selective interactions with PP1-binding proteins. Immunoprecipitation studies from brain and muscle extracts demonstrated that PP1gamma1 selectively interacts with spinophilin and neurabin, F-actin-targeting proteins, whereas PP1beta selectively interacted with G(M)/R(GL), the striated-muscle glycogen-targeting subunit. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins containing residues 146-493 of neurabin (GST-Nb-(146-493)) or residues 1-240 of G(M)/R(GL) (GST-G(M)-(1-240)) recapitulated these isoform selectivities in binding and phosphatase activity inhibition assays. Site-directed mutagenesis indicated that this isoform selectivity was not due to sequence differences between the canonical PP1-binding motifs (neurabin, (457)KIKF(460); G(M)/R(GL), (65)RVSF(68)). A chimeric GST fusion protein containing residues 1-64 of G(M)/R(GL) fused to residues 457-493 of neurabin (GST-G(M)/Nb) selectively bound to and inhibited PP1gamma1, whereas a GST-Nb/G(M) chimera containing Nb-(146-460) fused to G(M)-(69-240) selectively interacted with and weakly inhibited PP1beta, implicating domain(s) C-terminal to the (R/K)(V/I)XF motif as determinants of PP1 isoform selectivity. Deletion of Pro(464) and Ile(465) in neurabin (deltaPI) to equally space a conserved cluster of amino acids from the (R/K)(V/I)XF motif as in G(M)/R(GL) severely compromised the ability of neurabin to bind and inhibit both isoforms but did not affect PP1gamma1 selectivity. Further analysis of a series of C-terminal truncated GST-Nb-(146-493) proteins identified residues 473-479 of neurabin as containing a crucial PP1gamma1-selectivity determinant. In combination, these data identify a novel PP1gamma1-selective interaction domain in neurabin that may allow for selective regulation and/or subcellular targeting of PP1 isoforms.
A hepatitis C virus genotype 2a subgenomic replicon, JFH-1 replicon, was previously established using the consensus sequence of clone JFH-1 from a patient with fulminant hepatitis and, in a previous report, was indicated to replicate efficiently in Huh7. Here the replication of JFH-1 replicon was tested in HepG2, a human hepatocyte-derived cell line, and in IMY-N9, a cell line developed by fusing human hepatocytes and HepG2 cells. Following transfection with in vitro transcribed replicon RNA and selection by cultivation with G418, colonies formed in both cell lines although at efficiencies substantially lower than those of Huh7. The H2476L mutation identified in the Huh7 replicon in our previous study increased the colony formation efficiencies of the JFH-1 replicon in HepG2 and IMY-N9 cells. Higher amounts of replicon RNA were detected in IMY-N9 clones than in HepG2 clones by real time detection reverse transcription-PCR, and replicon RNA replication and viral protein expression were confirmed by Northern and Western blotting in isolated clones. Sequencing of replicon RNAs revealed that mutations found in hepatitis C virus-derived regions were not identical and that two of nine HepG2 clones and three of nine IMY-N9 clones had no or one synonymous mutation. This system with the JFH-1 replicon and three cell lines is useful not only for estimating the cellular factors affecting viral activity but also for clarifying the common gene response of the host.
Forskolin was tested for its co-activating ability to enhance the function of fibroblast growth factor (FGF) 8 on dopaminergic (DAergic) differentiation from human fetal mesencephalic neural progenitor cells (NPCs). When NPCs were treated with FGF8 alone, the DAergic phenotype was expressed lightly. The addition of 10 microM forskolin increased the number of DAergic neurons, cooperating with 50 ng/ml FGF8. These cells produced neurotransmitter DA, which was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated that differentiated cells expressed DAergic development-relative genes tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), nuclear receptor-related factor 1 (Nurr1) and D2 receptor (D2R), indicating that matured DAergic neurons could be obtained under these present conditions. The results suggest that forskolin plus FGF8 may contribute to more efficient production of DAergic neurons from human-derived NPCs for therapy of neurodegenerative diseases.
A rat model of Varicella-Zoster virus (VZV) provides a system in which to investigate the molecular determinants of viral latency in dorsal root ganglia (DRG). In this study, we determined whether the VZV glycoproteins gC and gI, corresponding to VZV open reading frames (ORFs) 14 and 67, respectively, were required for the establishment of latency in this model. A VZV gI deletion mutant (DeltagI) derived from a recombinant Oka (rOka) cosmid and a gC null mutant obtained from a clinical isolate were inoculated into the footpads of 6-week-old rats, and the presence of viral DNA and eight different VZV RNA transcripts corresponding to the three classes of genes was investigated by in situ RT-PCR amplification and in situ hybridization (ISH) in the DRG at 1 week, 1 month, and 18-24 months after infection. VZV DNA and restricted RNA expression was established with both deletion mutants as well as the parental rOka virus. Both VZV DNA and RNA were detected in neurons and non-neuronal cells. The pattern of viral RNA expression detected with both gC and gI mutants was restricted with transcripts for VZV genes 62 and 63 most frequently expressed 18-24 months after infection. Transcripts for VZV genes 18, 28, and 29 were also detected at these time points but at a slightly lower frequency. Transcripts for the late gene 40 were never detected. We conclude that VZV ORFs 14 and 67 are dispensable for the establishment of a latent infection in this model.
Drugs abused by humans are thought to activate areas in the ventral striatum of the brain that engage the organism in important adaptive behaviors, such as eating. In support of this, we report here that striatal regions of sugar-dependent rats show alterations in dopamine and opioid mRNA levels similar to morphine-dependent rats. Specifically, after a chronic schedule of intermittent bingeing on a sucrose solution, mRNA levels for the D2 dopamine receptor, and the preproenkephalin and preprotachykinin genes were decreased in dopamine-receptive regions of the forebrain, while D3 dopamine receptor mRNA was increased. While morphine affects gene expression across the entire dopamine-receptive striatum, significant differences were detected in the effects of sugar on the nucleus accumbens and adjacent caudate-putamen. The effects of sugar on mRNA levels were of greater magnitude in the nucleus accumbens than in the caudate-putamen. These areas also showed clear differences in the interactions among the genes, especially between D3R and the other genes. This was revealed by a novel multivariate analysis method that identified cooperative interactions among genes, specifically in the nucleus accumbens but not the caudate-putamen. Finally, a role for these cooperative interactions in a load-sharing response to perturbations caused by sugar was supported by the finding of a different pattern of correlations between the genes in the two striatal regions. These findings support a major role for the nucleus accumbens in mediating the effects of naturally rewarding substances and extend an animal model for studying the common substrates of drug addiction and eating disorders.
Loss of the astrocyte-specific intermediate filament protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) results in an increased susceptibility to ischemic insult, enhanced hippocampal LTP, and decreased cerebellar long-term depression (LTD). Because glutamate receptor activation plays a key role in cell death and cellular plasticity responses, we wanted to determine if alterations in glial glutamate transport could contribute to the GFAP null phenotype. To address functional changes in glutamate transport, we measured glutamate uptake in cortical, cerebellar, and hippocampal synaptosomal preparations from age-matched adult wild type and GFAP null mice and demonstrated a 25-30% reduction in the V(max) for d-aspartate uptake in the cortex and hippocampus of GFAP null animals. Western blot analysis of cortical synaptosomal fractions from wild type and GFAP null animals demonstrated that loss of GFAP results in decreases in both astrocytic (EAAT1) and neuronal (EAAT3) glutamate transporter subtypes. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated a region-specific modification of neuronal glutamate transporter, EAAT3 trafficking in the GFAP null phenotype. Analysis of primary cortical astrocyte cultures prepared from GFAP null and wild type mice demonstrated that loss of GFAP results in an inability to traffic the glial glutamate transporter, EAAT2, to the surface of the cell following protein kinase A (PKA) stimulation by dibutyryl cAMP. Taken together, these results suggest that the intermediate filament protein, GFAP plays a key role in modulating astrocytic and neuronal glutamate transporter trafficking and function.
Activation of beta-adrenergic receptor (betaAR) increases the synthesis of nerve growth factor (NGF) in the brain and in C6-2B glioma cells. However, in the brain, the betaAR-mediated increase in NGF expression appears to require the presence of glucocorticoids, suggesting that NGF promoter may be sensitive to cAMP and glucocorticoid-dependent transcription factors. We tested this hypothesis by exposing C6-2B glioma cells to dexamethasone (DEX) in combination with agents that increase cAMP levels and examining the DNA binding activity of two cAMP-dependent transcription factors that regulate NGF expression: cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein delta (C/EBPdelta). Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that the beta(2)AR agonist clenbuterol (CLE) or high levels of cAMP elicited a time-dependent increase in C/EBPdelta binding activity as well as phosphorylated CREB (P-CREB). When DEX, which per se showed little effect on these transcription factors, was combined with CLE, dibutyryl cAMP or isoproterenol, enhanced induction of P-CREB and C/EBP binding activity as well as NGF mRNA was observed. Moreover, the increase in NGF mRNA in the presence of DEX was prolonged compared to that obtained by CLE or other cAMP inducing agents alone. In fact, NGF mRNA levels remained significantly elevated at least for 24 h. These studies suggest that the synergistic effect of DEX on the induction of NGF mRNA may include the ability of this glucocorticoid to potentiate the betaAR-mediated induction of transcription factors.
Activation of group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) induces long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission that relies on dendritic protein synthesis. We investigated the signal transduction pathways required for mGluR-LTD to identify candidate mechanisms for mGluR regulation of synaptic protein synthesis. Our results demonstrate a role for extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK), a subclass of the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), in mGluR-LTD in area CA1 of the rat hippocampus. Inhibitors of the upstream kinase of ERK, MAP/ERK kinase significantly reduce mGluR-LTD induced by the group 1 agonist dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) and synaptic stimulation but do not affect NMDA receptor-dependent LTD. In contrast, inhibitors of p38 MAPK were ineffective against DHPG-induced LTD. Consistent with the role of ERK in mGluR-LTD, we observed that DHPG treatment of hippocampal slices (isolated CA1), at concentrations that induce LTD, results in a robust phosphorylation of ERK but not of p38 MAPK. These results point to ERK as an important regulator of mGluR-LTD and a potential mechanism for mGluR regulation of synaptic protein synthesis.
Peripheral nerve injury is known to upregulate the rapidly repriming Na(v)1.3 sodium channel within first-order spinal sensory neurons. In this study, we hypothesized that (1) after peripheral nerve injury, second-order dorsal horn neurons abnormally express Na(v)1.3, which (2) contributes to the responsiveness of these dorsal horn neurons and to pain-related behaviors. To test these hypotheses, adult rats underwent chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve. Ten days after CCI, allodynia and hyperalgesia were evident. In situ hybridization, quantitative reverse transcription-PCR, and immunocytochemical analysis revealed upregulation of Na(v)1.3 in dorsal horn nociceptive neurons but not in astrocytes or microglia, and unit recordings demonstrated hyperresponsiveness of dorsal horn sensory neurons. Intrathecal antisense oligodeoxynucleotides targeting Na(v)1.3 decreased the expression of Na(v)1.3 mRNA and protein, reduced the hyperresponsiveness of dorsal horn neurons, and attenuated pain-related behaviors after CCI, all of which returned after cessation of antisense delivery. These results demonstrate for the first time that sodium channel expression is altered within higher-order spinal sensory neurons after peripheral nerve injury and suggest a link between misexpression of the Na(v)1.3 sodium channel and central mechanisms that contribute to neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury.
The developing prefrontal cortex receives a dense serotonergic innervation, yet little is known about the actions of serotonin [5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] in this region during development. Here, we examined the developmental regulation of 5-HT receptors controlling the excitability of pyramidal neurons of this region. Using whole-cell recordings in in vitro brain slices, we identified a dramatic shift in the effects of 5-HT on membrane potential during the postnatal developmental period. In slices derived from young animals [postnatal day (P) 6 to P19], administration of 5-HT elicits a robust depolarization of layer V pyramidal neurons, which gradually shifts to a hyperpolarization commencing during the third postnatal week. This progression is the result of coordinated changes in the function of 5-HT7 and 5-HT2A receptors, which mediate different aspects of the depolarization, and of 5-HT1A receptors, which signal the late developing hyperpolarization. The loss of the 5-HT7 receptor-mediated depolarization and the appearance of the 5-HT1A receptor-mediated hyperpolarization appears to reflect changes in receptor expression. In contrast, the decline in the 5-HT2A receptor depolarization with increasing age was associated with changes in the effectiveness with which these receptors could elicit a membrane depolarization, rather than loss of the receptors per se. Together, these results outline coordinated changes in the serotonergic regulation of cortical excitability at a time of extensive synaptic development and thus suggest a key role for these receptor subtypes in the postnatal development of the prefrontal cortex.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor, tyrosine kinase receptor B (TrkB), play a critical role in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and have been implicated as mediators of hippocampal-dependent learning and memory. The present study is the first to demonstrate a role for BDNF and TrkB in amygdala-dependent learning. Here, the use of Pavlovian fear conditioning as a learning model allows us to examine the concise role of BDNF in the amygdala after a single learning session and within a well understood neural circuit. Using in situ hybridization, mRNA levels of six different trophic factors [BDNF, neurotrophin (NT) 4/5, NGF, NT3, aFGF, and bFGF) were measured at varying time points during the consolidation period after fear conditioning. We found temporally specific changes only in BDNF gene expression in the basolateral amygdala after paired stimuli that supported learning but not after exposure to neutral or aversive stimuli alone. Using Western blotting, we found that the Trk receptor undergoes increased phosphorylation during this consolidation period, suggesting an activation of the receptor subsequent to BDNF release. Furthermore, disruption of neurotrophin signaling with intra-amygdala infusion of the Trk receptor antagonist K252a disrupted acquisition of fear conditioning. To address the specific role of the TrkB receptor, we created a novel lentiviral vector expressing a dominant-negative TrkB isoform (TrkB.T1), which specifically blocked TrkB activation in vitro. In vivo, TrkB.T1 lentivirus blocked fear acquisition without disrupting baseline startle or expression of fear. These data suggest that BDNF signaling through TrkB receptors in the amygdala is required for the acquisition of conditioned fear.
Visuomotor adaptation to rightward-deviating optical-wedge prisms reduces the clinical manifestations of spatial neglect after right hemisphere damage. We investigated whether this beneficial effect of prism adaptation is due to attenuation of the ipsilesional attentional bias that is common in spatial neglect. Five right hemisphere patients performed visual temporal order judgements before and after visuomotor adaptation to 15 degrees rightward-deviating prisms. The magnitude of patients' ipsilesional attentional bias on the temporal order judgement task was significantly reduced following adaptation. By contrast, the temporal order judgements of normal participants did not change following adaptation to either leftward- or rightward-deviating prisms. The findings suggest that prism adaptation helps to rebalance the distribution of spatial attention following right hemisphere damage.
In this study we have used a molecular approach to manipulate CREB gene expression to study its role in the regulation of neuronal cell death. To achieve this, adenoviral (Ad) vectors encoding EGFP, CREB, and a powerful CREB dominant-negative, known as A-CREB were constructed. The over-expression of CREB but not A-CREB was found to protect primary hippocampal neurons from staurosporine-induced apoptosis, glutamate induced excitotoxicity and exposure to an in vitro ischaemic stress. Hence, manipulating CREB-regulated pathways may provide a means of delaying or preventing the neuronal cell death associated with ischaemic related injury, and in neurodegenerative diseases such as Huntington's and Alzheimer's disease.
We studied the early anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant effects of local application of BDNF after dorsal spinal cord transection in the adult rat. Both the distribution and accumulation of neutrophils and microglial cells in and around the lesion site (inflammatory response) and the accumulation of lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE; oxidative damage) around the lesion was examined using immunohistochemical techniques. We demonstrate that BDNF application affects the microglial response in and around the lesion and results in a reduced lipid peroxidation as shown by HNE-immunoreactive staining around the lesion 48 h post-injury. The early anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant effects of local BDNF-application into the lesioned spinal cord may contribute to the observed decreased loss of locomotor function of the hindlimbs 2 days after injury.
Benzodiazepines are sedative hypnotics that produce marked anterograde amnesia in humans. These pharmacological properties are thought to result from the potentiation of GABA-A receptor function and subsequent attenuation of long-term potentiation (LTP), however many reports have suggested this is not the case for triazolam. Using electrophysiological recordings in a cell line expressing recombinant GABA-A receptors, we confirm that triazolam is an efficacious positive allosteric modulator of GABA-A receptors. Triazolam also slowed the decay of spontaneous inhibitory synaptic currents, reduced the amplitude of fEPSPs elicited during a theta burst and reduced the magnitude of LTP in hippocampal CA1 neurones in vitro. These data show that triazolam modifies LTP induction consistent with an enhancement of GABA-A receptor function via activation of the allosteric benzodiazepine-site.
Previous reports showed the therapeutic effect of transplants of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) after incomplete traumatic spinal cord lesions. We studied the effect of this form of therapy in chronically paraplegic Wistar rats due to severe spinal cord injury (SCI). Rats were subjected to weight-drop impact causing paraplegia, and BMSC or phosphate buffered saline (PBS) was injected into spinal cord 3 months after injury. Functional outcome was measured using the Basso-Beattie-Bresnehan score until sacrifice of the animals, 4 weeks after transplantation. At this time, samples of spinal cord tissue were studied histologically. The results showed a clear and progressive functional recovery of the animals treated with BMSC transplantation, compared to controls. Grafted BMSC survived into spinal cord tissue, forming cell bridges within the traumatic centromedullary cavity. In this tissue, cells expressing neuronal and astroglial markers can be seen, together with a marked ependymal proliferation, showing nestin-positivity. These findings suggest the utility of BMSC transplantation in chronically established paraplegia.
