


Objective:To compare echogenicity detected using cranial ultrasound (cUS) and diffuse excessive high signal intensity (DEHSI) detected using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) by identical region-based scoring criteria in preterm infants. To explore the association between these white matter (WM) signal changes with early neurobehavior.Study Design:Forty-nine pre-selected premature infants with only echogenicity on a first routine cUS1 underwent MRI and a repeated cUS2 at term equivalent age. Echogenicity and DEHSI were graded in various brain areas and diffusivity values were calculated. Neurobehavior was assessed using the Rapid Neonatal Neurobehavioral Assessment Procedure.Result:WM signal changes were significantly higher on cUS1 than cUS2; and higher in MRI than cUS2 in posterior regions. Infants with DEHSI demonstrated reduced tissue integrity. Imaging findings were not correlated with early neurobehavior.Conclusion:Echogenicity and DEHSI likely represent the same phenomenon. Reduction of over-interpretation of WM signal changes may help define criteria for the judicious use of imaging in routine follow-up of premature infants.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is caused by transcriptional silencing in neurons of the FMR1 gene product, fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), a repressor of dendritic mRNA translation. The lack of FMRP leads to dysregulation of synaptically driven protein synthesis and impairments of intellect, cognition, and behavior, a disorder that currently has no effective therapeutics. Fragile X mice were treated with chronic bryostatin-1, a relatively selective protein kinase  activator with pharmacological profiles of rapid mGluR desensitization, synaptogenesis, and synaptic maturation/repairing. Differences in the major FXS phenotypes, synapses, and cognitive functions were evaluated and compared among the age-matched groups. Long-term treatment with bryostatin-1 rescues adult fragile X mice from the disorder phenotypes, including normalization of most FXS abnormalities in hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression and secretion, postsynaptic density-95 levels, glycogen synthase kinase-3 phosphorylation, transformation of immature dendritic spines to mature synapses, densities of the presynaptic and postsynaptic membranes, and spatial learning and memory. Our results show that synaptic and cognitive function of adult FXS mice can be normalized through pharmacologic treatment and that bryostatin-1-like agents may represent a novel class of drugs to treat fragile X mental retardation even after postpartum brain development has largely completed.
Electrophysiology and microdialysis studies have provided compelling evidence that moderate to high ethanol concentrations enhance dopamine (DA) neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) through the mesolimbic DA system. However, with fast-scan cyclic voltammetry, short-term exposure to moderate to high doses of ethanol decreases evoked DA release at terminals in the NAc. The aim of this study was to evaluate the involvement of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in modulating the effects of ethanol on DA release in the NAc of C57BL/6 mice ex vivo and in vivo. Local stimulation evoked robust, frequency-dependent DA release in the NAc slice preparation, with maximal release at 40 Hz in the shell and 20 Hz in the core. Nicotine decreased DA release in a concentration-dependent (0.01-10 M) manner in the shell and core, with an IC50 of 0.1 M ex vivo and 0.5 mg/kg in vivo. Nicotine and ethanol inhibition of DA release was blocked by the 6*-nAChR antagonist -conotoxins CtxMII and -CtxMII [H9A; L15A] ex vivo (100 nM) in the core but not the shell. Furthermore, the nonspecific nAChR antagonist mecamylamine (2 mg/kg) blocked the effects of ethanol in the core in vivo. These findings suggest that DA release is inhibited by ethanol via nAChRs in the NAc and that DA modulation by nAChRs differs in the core versus the shell, with 6*-nAChRs affecting DA release in the core but not in the shell.

Opioid receptors play an important role in modulation of hyperalgesia in inflamed tissues, but chronic morphine application induces such side effects as tolerance. There is near communications between cytokines and mu opioid receptor expression. This study was aimed to assess the role of serum IL-10 in morphine tolerance development during adjuvant-induced arthritis. Adjuvant arthritis (AA) was induced on day 0 by single injection of Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA) into the rats' hindpaw. Hyperalgesia, edema, and spinal mu opioid receptor (mOR) variations were assessed on 0, 7, 14, and 21days of the study. For assessment of the morphine tolerance development, morphine effective dose (4mg/kg) was administered from the 14th day after CFA injection and continued until the morphine post-dose paw withdrawal latency (PWL); it did not significantly differ from the baseline. For assessment of the effects of IL-10 on tolerance induction, a neutralizing dose (ND50) of anti-IL-10 was administered daily during different stages of the study. AA induction in the right hindpaw of rats resulted in unilateral inflammation and hyperalgesia within 21days of the study. Anti-IL-10 antibody administration in the AA rats induced marked elevation of hyperalgesia compared to the AA control group. Our data also indicated that morphine effective anti-hyperalgesic dose significantly decreased in the AA rats compared to the control group, which this symptom was aligned with spinal mu opioid receptor (mOR) expression increase during AA. Moreover, there was a significant difference in morphine tolerance induction between the AA and control rats, and our results also demonstrated that IL-10 played an important role in tolerance-induction process. It can be concluded that morphine tolerance slowly progressed when administered morphine effective dose was reduced during AA chronic inflammation. On the other hand, it seems that increased level of serum IL-10 may affect morphine tolerance development during inflammation.
A diet high in fructose (HFr) induces insulin resistance in animals. Free radicals are involved in the pathogenesis of HFr-induced insulin resistance. Carnosine (CAR) is a dipeptide with antioxidant properties. We investigated the effect of CAR alone or in combination with -tocopherol (CAR+TOC) on HFr-induced insulin-resistant rats. Rats fed with HFr containing 60% fructose received CAR (2 g/L in drinking water) with/without TOC (200 mg/kg, i.m. twice a week) for 8 weeks. Insulin resistance, serum lipids, inflammation markers, hepatic lipids, lipid peroxides, and glutathione (GSH) levels together with glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and superoxide dismutase 1 (CuZnSOD; SOD1) activities and their protein expressions were measured. Hepatic histopathological examinations were performed. HFr was observed to cause insulin resistance, inflammation and hypertriglyceridemia, and increased triglyceride and lipid peroxide levels in the liver. GSH-Px activity and expression decreased, but GSH levels and SOD1 activity and expression did not alter in HFr rats. Hepatic marker enzyme activities in serum increased and marked macro- and microvesicular steatosis were seen in the liver. CAR treatment did not alter insulin resistance and hypertriglyceridemia, but it decreased steatosis and lipid peroxidation without any change in the antioxidant system of the liver. However, CAR+TOC treatment decreased insulin resistance, inflammation, hepatic steatosis, and lipid peroxidation and increased GSH-Px activity and expression in the liver. Our results may indicate that CAR+TOC treatment is more effective to decrease HFr-induced insulin resistance, inflammation, hepatic steatosis, and dysfunction and pro-oxidant status in rats than CAR alone.
We examined the utility of DNA methylation profiles at the CpG island of SLC6A4 (DMS) as a diagnostic biomarker for major depression (MD). In addition, the relationship between DMS and the serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) allele, the severity of symptoms, number of early adversities, and therapeutic responses to antidepressants were examined. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood of Japanese healthy controls and patients with MD before and after treatment. DMS was analyzed using a MassARRAY Compact System. The severity of depression was evaluated using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression, and early adversity was evaluated using the Early Trauma Inventory. We were unable to distinguish between and healthy controls, or between unmedicated patients and medicated patients using DMS. The 5-HTTLPR allele had no significant effect on DMS. The methylation rates for several CpGs differed significantly after treatment. Notably, the methylation rate of CpG 3 in patients with better therapeutic responses was significantly higher than that in patients with poorer responses. Although further studies examining the function of specific CpG units of SLC6A4 are required, these results suggest that the pre-treatment methylation rate of SLC6A4 is associated with therapeutic responses to antidepressants in unmedicated patients with MD.
The objective was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of add-on artemether in first-episode, untreated people with schizophrenia, who were Toxoplasma gondii seropositive, and explore the change in T.gondii antibodies during treatment. In this eight-week, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial, 100 T.gondii seropositive participants with schizophrenia were randomized to either the artemether or placebo group. Participants in the artemether group received 80mg artemether once per day during the second week (days 8-14) and the fourth week (days 22-28). Participants in the placebo group received identical looking placebo capsules. Psychopathology, adverse side effects and cognitive function were measured using standardized instruments. The grouptime interaction effects for the scores of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) subscales and performances on all cognitive components were not significant, only the main effect of group was significant. Compared to the placebo group, artemether group participants showed significantly greater reduction in the PANSS negative symptom scale (F(1,46)=4.7, p=0.03) and the Clinical Global Impressions Scale (F(1,96)=6.2, p=0.01) scores, but there were no significant differences in the PANSS positive symptom and general psychopathology scales (p&gt;0.05). There were also no significant differences between the two groups in performance on any of the Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia (BACS) cognitive domains. The artemether-risperidone combination is safe and well tolerated, but artemether as an adjunct to risperidone does not appear to alleviate cognitive deficits of schizophrenia. Trial Registration Chinese Clinical Trial Register (ChiCTR) TRC-13003145.
Neuregulin 1 and its receptor ErbB4 are confirmed risk genes for schizophrenia, but the neuropathological alterations in NRG1-ErbB4 in schizophrenia are unclear. The present investigations therefore focused on determining lamina specific (ErbB4-pan) and quantitative (pan, JMa, JMb, CYT1 and CYT2) ErbB4 mRNA changes in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in schizophrenia. We also determined which neuronal profiles are ErbB4 mRNA+ in the human DLPFC and the relationship between ErbB4 and interneuron marker mRNAs. In situ hybridisation and quantitative PCR measurements were performed to determine changes in ErbB4 splice variant mRNA levels in the DLPFC in schizophrenia (n=37) compared to control (n=37) subjects. Cortical neurons expressing ErbB4-pan were labelled with silver grain clusters. Correlations were performed between ErbB4 and interneuron mRNA levels. ErbB4-pan mRNA was significantly increased (layers I, II and V) in the DLPFC in schizophrenia. Silver grain clusters for ErbB4-pan were detected predominantly over small-medium neurons with low-no expression in the larger, paler, more triangular neuronal profiles. ErbB4-JMa mRNA expression was increased in schizophrenia. Somatostatin, neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal peptide mRNAs negatively correlated with ErbB4-JMa mRNA in people with schizophrenia. Our findings demonstrate that ErbB4-pan laminar mRNA expression is elevated (layers I, II, V) in schizophrenia. At the cellular level, ErbB4-pan mRNA+ signal was detected predominantly in interneuron-like neurons. We provide evidence from this independent Australian postmortem cohort that ErbB4-JMa expression is elevated in schizophrenia and is linked to deficits in dendrite-targeting somatostatin, neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal peptide interneurons.

Brain oscillatory activity from the midline prefrontal region has been shown to reflect brain dysfunction in subjects with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). It is not known, however, whether electrodes from this area provide unique information about brain function in MDD. We examined a set of midline sites and two other prefrontal locations for detecting cerebral activity differences between subjects with MDD and healthy controls. Resting awake quantitative EEG (qEEG) data were recorded from 168 subjects: 47 never-depressed adults and 121 with a current major depressive episode. Individual midline electrodes (Fpz, Fz, Cz, Pz, and Oz) and prefrontal electrodes outside the hairline (Fp1, Fp2) were examined with absolute and relative power and cordance in the theta band. We found that MDD subjects exhibited higher values of cordance (p=0.0066) at Fpz than controls; no significant differences were found at other locations, and power measures showed trend-level differences. Depressed adults showed higher midline cordance than did never-depressed subjects at the most-anterior midline channel. Salient abnormalities in MDD may be detectable by focusing on the prefrontal midline region, and EEG metrics from focused electrode arrays may offer clinical practicality for clinical monitoring.

Electroconvulsive therapy is the most effective therapy for major depressive disorder (MDD). The remission rate is above 50% in previously pharmacoresistant patients but the mechanisms of action are not fully understood. Electroconvulsive stimulation (ECS) in rodents mimics antidepressant electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in humans and is widely used to investigate the underlying mechanisms of ECT. For the translational value of findings in animal models it is essential to establish models with the highest construct, face and predictive validity possible. The commonly used model for ECT in rodents does not meet the demand for high construct validity. For ECT, cortical surface electrodes are used to induce therapeutic seizures whereas ECS in rodents is exclusively performed by auricular or corneal electrodes. However, the stimulation site has a major impact on the type and spread of the induced seizure activity and its antidepressant effect. We propose a method in which ECS is performed by screw electrodes placed above the motor cortex of rats to closely simulate the clinical situation and thereby increase the construct validity of the model. Cortical ECS in rats induced reliably seizures comparable to human ECT. Cortical ECS was more effective than auricular ECS to reduce immobility in the forced swim test. Importantly, auricular stimulation had a negative influence on the general health condition of the rats with signs of fear during the stimulation sessions. These results suggest that auricular ECS in rats is not a suitable ECT model. Cortical ECS in rats promises to be a valid method to mimic ECT.
In two self-paced, sentence-by-sentence reading experiments, we examined the difference in the processing of Spanish discourses containing overt and null pronouns. In both experiments, antecedents appeared in a single phrase (John met Mary) or in a conjoined phrase (John and Mary met). In Experiment 1, we compared reading times of sentences containing singular overt and null pronouns referring to the first or to the second mentioned antecedent. Overt pronouns caused a processing delay relative to null pronouns when they referred to the first antecedent in single but not in conjoined phrases. In Experiment 2, we compared reading times of sentences containing overt and null pronouns referring to singular or plural entities. Plural null pronouns were read faster than their singular counterparts in conjoined conditions. Plural overt pronouns were read more slowly than their null counterparts both in single and conjoined conditions. We explain our findings in a framework based on the notion of balance between processing cost and discourse function in line with the Informational Load Hypothesis.



The main consequence of insufficient sleep is sleepiness. While measures of sleep latency, continuous encephalographical/electro-oculographical (EEG/EOG) recording and performance tests are useful indicators of sleepiness in the laboratory and clinic, they are not easily implemented in large, real-life field studies. Subjective ratings of sleepiness, which are easily applied and unobtrusive, are an alternative, but whether they measure sleepiness sensitively, reliably and validly remains uncertain. This review brings together research relevant to these issues. It is focused on the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale (KSS), which is a nine-point Likert-type scale. The diurnal pattern of sleepiness is U-shaped, with high KSS values in the morning and late evening, and with great stability across years. KSS values increase sensitively during acute total and repeated partial sleep deprivation and night work, including night driving. The effect sizes range between 1.5 and 3. The relation to driving performance or EEG/EOG indicators of sleepiness is highly significant, strongly curvilinear and consistent across individuals. High (&gt;6) KSS values are associated particularly with impaired driving performance and sleep intrusions in the EEG. KSS values are also increased in many clinical conditions such as sleep apnea, depression and burnout. The context has a strong influence on KSS ratings. Thus, physical activity, social interaction and light exposure will reduce KSS values by 1-2 units. In contrast, time-on-task in a monotonous context will increase KSS values by 1-2 units. In summary, subjective ratings of sleepiness as described here is as sensitive and valid an indicator of sleepiness as objective measures, and particularly suitable for field studies.
According to the homeostatic regulation of sleep, sleep pressure accumulates during wakefulness, further increases during sleep deprivation and dissipates during subsequent sleep. Sleep pressure is electrophysiologically reflected by electroencephalogram slow-wave activity during non-rapid eye movement sleep, and is thought to be stable across time. During childhood and adolescence the brain undergoes massive reorganization processes. Slow-wave activity during these developmental periods has been shown in humans to follow an inverted U-shaped trajectory, which recently was replicated in rats. The goal of this study was to investigate in rats the diurnal changes of slow-wave activity during the inverted U-shaped developmental trajectory of slow-wave activity. To do so, we performed longitudinal electrocorticogram recordings, and compared the level of slow-wave activity at the beginning with the slow-wave activity level at the end of 24-h baselines in two sets of Sprague-Dawley rats. In younger animals (n=17) we investigated specific postnatal days when overall slow-wave activity increases (postnatal day 26), peaks (postnatal day 28) and decreases (&gt;postnatal day 28). The same analysis was performed in older animals (postnatal day 48, n=6). Our results show a gain of slow-wave activity across 24h on postnatal day 26, followed by no net changes on postnatal day 28, which was then followed by a loss of slow-wave activity during subsequent days (&gt;postnatal day 28). Older animals did not show any net changes in slow-wave activity across 24h. These results cannot be explained by differences in vigilance states. Thus, slow-wave activity during this developmental period may not only reflect the trajectory of sleep pressure but may additionally reflect maturational processes.

Sakadjian, A, Panchuk, D, and Pearce, AJ. Kinematic and kinetic improvements associated with action observation facilitated learning of the power clean in Australian footballers. J Strength Cond Res 28(6): 1613-1625, 2014-This study investigated the effectiveness of action observation (AO) on facilitating learning of the power clean technique (kinematics) compared with traditional strength coaching methods and whether improvements in performance (kinetics) were associated with an improvement in lifting technique. Fifteen subjects (age, 20.9  2.3 years) with no experience in performing the power clean exercise attended 12 training and testing sessions over a 4-week period. Subjects were assigned to 2 matched groups, based on preintervention power clean performance and performed 3 sets of 5 repetitions of the power clean exercise at each training session. Subjects in the traditional coaching group (TC; n = 7) received the standard coaching feedback (verbal cues and physical practice), whereas subjects in the AO group (n = 8) received similar verbal coaching cues and physical practice but also observed a video of a skilled model before performing each set. Kinematic data were collected from video recordings of subjects who were fitted with joint center markings during testing, whereas kinetic data were collected from a weightlifting analyzer attached to the barbell. Subjects were tested before intervention, at the end of weeks 2 and 3, and at after intervention at the end of week 4. Faster improvements (3%) were observed in power clean technique with AO-facilitated learning in the first week and performance improvements (mean peak power of the subject's 15 repetitions) over time were significant (p &lt; 0.001). In addition, performance improvement was significantly associated (R = 0.215) with technique improvements. In conclusion, AO combined with verbal coaching and physical practice of the power clean exercise resulted in significantly faster technique improvements and improvement in performance compared with traditional coaching methods.



IMPORTANCE Few pharmacotherapies have demonstrated sufficient efficacy in the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a chronic and disabling condition. OBJECTIVE To test the efficacy and safety of a single intravenous subanesthetic dose of ketamine for the treatment of PTSD and associated depressive symptoms in patients with chronic PTSD. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Proof-of-concept, randomized, double-blind, crossover trial comparing ketamine with an active placebo control, midazolam, conducted at a single site (Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York). Forty-one patients with chronic PTSD related to a range of trauma exposures were recruited via advertisements. INTERVENTIONS Intravenous infusion of ketamine hydrochloride (0.5 mg/kg) and midazolam (0.045 mg/kg). MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES The primary outcome measure was change in PTSD symptom severity, measured using the Impact of Event Scale-Revised. Secondary outcome measures included the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale, the Clinical Global Impression-Severity and -Improvement scales, and adverse effect measures, including the Clinician-Administered Dissociative States Scale, the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, and the Young Mania Rating Scale. RESULTS Ketamine infusion was associated with significant and rapid reduction in PTSD symptom severity, compared with midazolam, when assessed 24 hours after infusion (mean difference in Impact of Event Scale-Revised score, 12.7 [95% CI, 2.5-22.8]; P=.02). Greater reduction of PTSD symptoms following treatment with ketamine was evident in both crossover and first-period analyses, and remained significant after adjusting for baseline and 24-hour depressive symptom severity. Ketamine was also associated with reduction in comorbid depressive symptoms and with improvement in overall clinical presentation. Ketamine was generally well tolerated without clinically significant persistent dissociative symptoms. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE This study provides the first evidence for rapid reduction in symptom severity following ketamine infusion in patients with chronic PTSD. If replicated, these findings may lead to novel approaches to the pharmacologic treatment of patients with this disabling condition. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00749203.

IMPORTANCE One approach to understanding the genetic complexity of schizophrenia is to study associated behavioral and biological phenotypes that may be more directly linked to genetic variation. OBJECTIVE To identify single-nucleotide polymorphisms associated with general cognitive ability (g) in people with schizophrenia and control individuals. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Genomewide association study, followed by analyses in unaffected siblings and independent schizophrenia samples, functional magnetic resonance imaging studies of brain physiology in vivo, and RNA sequencing in postmortem brain samples. The discovery cohort and unaffected siblings were participants in the National Institute of Mental Health Clinical Brain Disorders Branch schizophrenia genetics studies. Additional schizophrenia cohorts were from psychiatric treatment settings in the United States, Japan, and Germany. The discovery cohort comprised 339 with schizophrenia and 363 community control participants. Follow-up analyses studied 147 unaffected siblings of the schizophrenia cases and independent schizophrenia samples including a total of an additional 668 participants. Imaging analyses included 87 schizophrenia cases and 397 control individuals. Brain tissue samples were available for 64 cases and 61 control individuals. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES We studied genomewide association with g, by group, in the discovery cohort. We used selected genotypes to test specific associations in unaffected siblings and independent schizophrenia samples. Imaging analyses focused on activation in the prefrontal cortex during working memory. Brain tissue studies yielded messenger RNA expression levels for RefSeq transcripts. RESULTS The schizophrenia discovery cohort showed genomewide-significant association of g with polymorphisms in sodium channel gene SCN2A, accounting for 10.4% of g variance (rs10174400, P=9.2710-10). Control individuals showed a trend for g/genotype association with reversed allelic directionality. The genotype-by-group interaction was also genomewide significant (P=1.7510-9). Siblings showed a genotype association with g parallel to the schizophrenia group and the same interaction pattern. Parallel, but weaker, associations with cognition were found in independent schizophrenia samples. Imaging analyses showed a similar pattern of genotype associations by group and genotype-by-group interaction. Sequencing of RNA in brain revealed reduced expression in 2 of 3 SCN2A alternative transcripts in the patient group, with genotype-by-group interaction, that again paralleled the cognition effects. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE The findings implicate SCN2A and sodium channel biology in cognitive impairment in schizophrenia cases and unaffected relatives and may facilitate development of cognition-enhancing treatments.
Hydrogen sulfide has recently been found decreased in chronic kidney disease. Here we determined the effect and underlying mechanisms of hydrogen sulfide on a rat model of unilateral ureteral obstruction. Compared with normal rats, obstructive injury decreased the plasma hydrogen sulfide level. Cystathionine--synthase, a hydrogen sulfide-producing enzyme, was dramatically reduced in the ureteral obstructed kidney, but another enzyme cystathionine--lyase was increased. A hydrogen sulfide donor (sodium hydrogen sulfide) inhibited renal fibrosis by attenuating the production of collagen, extracellular matrix, and the expression of -smooth muscle actin. Meanwhile, the infiltration of macrophages and the expression of inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-1, tumor necrosis factor-, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 in the kidney were also decreased. In cultured kidney fibroblasts, a hydrogen sulfide donor inhibited the cell proliferation by reducing DNA synthesis and downregulating the expressions of proliferation-related proteins including proliferating cell nuclear antigen and c-Myc. Further, the hydrogen sulfide donor blocked the differentiation of quiescent renal fibroblasts to myofibroblasts by inhibiting the transforming growth factor-1-Smad and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathways. Thus, low doses of hydrogen sulfide or its releasing compounds may have therapeutic potentials in treating chronic kidney disease.
Sepsis is a potentially fatal whole-body inflammatory state caused by severe infection, in which a maladaptive, system-wide inflammatory response follows initial attempts to eliminate pathogens, leading to a dangerous and often fatal increase in the permeability of the blood-brain barrier. These changes in the blood-brain barrier might lead to a major symptom of sepsis, sepsis-associated encephalopathy, which manifests as confusion with a rapid decline in cognitive functions, especially memory, or coma. Once presumed to be entirely reversible, research suggests that sepsis-associated encephalopathy could lead to permanent neurocognitive dysfunction and functional impairments, even after the patient has recovered. Sepsis might act as a major inflammatory hit and potentially increase the brain's susceptibility to neurodegenerative disease, further deterioration of cognitive ability, and risk of developing dementia in later life. Key opportunities for neuroprotective interventions and after-care for people who have survived sepsis might be lost because the long-term neurocognitive and functional consequences of sepsis are not fully characterised.





Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) data often suffer from artifacts caused by motion. These artifacts are especially severe in DTI data from infants, and implementing tight quality controls is therefore imperative for DTI studies of infants. Currently, routine procedures for quality assurance of DTI data involve the slice-wise visual inspection of color-encoded, fractional anisotropy (CFA) images. Such procedures often yield inconsistent results across different data sets, across different operators who are examining those data sets, and sometimes even across time when the same operator inspects the same data set on two different occasions. We propose a more consistent, reliable, and effective method to evaluate the quality of CFA images automatically using their color cast, which is calculated on the distribution statistics of the 2D histogram in the color space as defined by the International Commission on Illumination (CIE) on lightness and a and b (LAB) for the color-opponent dimensions (also known as the CIELAB color space) of the images. Experimental results using DTI data acquired from neonates verified that this proposed method is rapid and accurate. The method thus provides a new tool for real-time quality assurance for DTI data.
Therapeutic effects of interferon- (IFN-) are known to be associated with CNS toxicity in humans, and in particular with depression symptoms. Animal models of IFN--induced depression (sickness behaviour) have been developed in rodents using various preparations, dosing schedules or routes of administrations. In this work, Manganese Enhanced MRI (MEMRI) has been applied to investigate an experimental model of sickness behaviour induced by administration of IFN- in rats. IFN- (3.10(5) U/kg), or vehicle, was daily administered i.p., for 7days in rats (n=20 IFN- treated and n=20 controls). After treatment, animals were assigned to behavioural (n=10 treated, n=10 control) or MRI (n=10 treated and n=10 control) studies. Animals assigned to the MRI study received two repeated i.p. injections of MnCl2, before image acquisition. Images were acquired at 4.7T using T1 mapping for determination of Mn concentration in brain. After co-registration of T1 maps to a digital brain atlas, differences between brains of treated and untreated animals were assessed pixel-to-pixel by statistical analysis. Behavioural tests showed alterations in freezing and struggling parameters, as expected in an experimental model of sickness behaviour. MRI showed a well defined brain region, mainly contained in the visual cortex, in which Mn uptake was significantly lower in treated than in control animals, indicating probably altered functionality. No significant difference was detected in other brain regions. In addition, a statistically significant decrease in the volume of the pituitary gland, paralleled by a slight increase in its Mn content, was detected in treated animals. MEMRI provides both morphological and functional information in the brain of small laboratory animals and can constitute a valuable tool in the investigation of experimental models of psychiatric diseases.
Patient and physiological motion can cause artifacts in DTI of the spinal cord which can impact image quality and diffusion indices. The purpose of this investigation was to determine a reliable motion correction method for pediatric spinal cord DTI and show effects of motion correction on DTI parameters in healthy subjects and patients with spinal cord injury. Ten healthy subjects and ten subjects with spinal cord injury were scanned using a 3T scanner. Images were acquired with an inner field-of-view DTI sequence covering cervical spine levels C1 to C7. Images were corrected for motion using two types of transformation (rigid and affine) and three cost functions. Corrected images and transformations were examined qualitatively and quantitatively using in-house developed code. Fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD) indices were calculated and tested for statistical significance pre- and post- motion correction. Images corrected using rigid methods showed improvements in image quality, while affine methods frequently showed residual distortions in corrected images. Blinded evaluation of pre and post correction images showed significant improvement in cord homogeneity and edge conspicuity in corrected images (p&lt;0.0001). The average FA changes were statistically significant (p&lt;0.0001) in the spinal cord injury group, while healthy subjects showed less FA change and were not significant. In both healthy subjects and subjects with spinal cord injury, quantitative and qualitative analysis showed the rigid scaled-least-squares registration technique to be the most reliable and effective in improving image quality.




The etiology of Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs) continues to be elusive. While ASDs have been shown to be heritable, several environmental co-factors, such as, e.g. pre- or perinatal adverse events, could play a role in the pathogenesis of the disorder as well. Prevalence of ASDs appears to have increased in the last three decades, but the causes of this surge are not fully understood. As perinatal adverse events have increased as well, they have been regarded as logical contributors to the risen prevalence of ASDs. Over the last three decades there has been also a considerable increase in the rates of induced labor and caesarean sections (CS). However, even if a causal association between CS and ASDs increase has been suggested, it has not yet been proven. Nevertheless, we hypothesize here that such an association is actual and that it might help to explain a part of the increase in ASD diagnoses. Our assumption is based on the wider epidemiological picture of ASDs and CS, as well as on the possible biological plausibility of this correlation, by postulating potential epigenetic and neurobiological mechanisms underpinning this relationship. Today, several observations point toward the existence of epigenetic dysregulation in ASDs and this raises the issue of the role of environmental factors in bringing about epigenetic modifications. Epigenetic dysregulations in some brain neuropeptide systems could play a role in the behavioral dysfunctions of ASDs. Particularly, some evidence suggests a dysregulation of the oxytocinergic system in autistic brains. Perinatal alterations of oxytocin (OT) can also have life-long lasting effects on the development of social behaviors. Within the perinatal period, various processes, like pitocin infusion or CS, can alter the OT balance in the newborn; OT dysregulation could then interact with genetic factors, leading ultimately to the development of ASDs. Large long-term prospective studies are needed to identify causal pathways for ASDs and examine whether and how (epi-)genetic susceptibility interacts with obstetric risk factors in the development of ASDs. A better understanding of such a potential interplay could become paradigmatic for a wide range of genetic-environmental interactions in ASDs.

Single primary and multiple primary melanomas (MPMs) of the head and neck region may be confused at first glance because of the common clinical and dermoscopic patterns. An inaccurate diagnosis may lead the clinician to a wrong diagnostic and therapeutic pathway because MPMs occurring in familial or sporadic settings are often involved in individual cancer susceptibility. We investigated the clinical, demographic, histological, and survival differences between MPMs and single melanoma occurring in the head and neck region. A retrospective analysis of medical and histologic records from 217 melanomas of the head and neck region was carried out. Malignant neoplasms affecting MPMs patients were also reported. Mutational analysis of specific genes was carried out when clinical data and family history were suggestive for a familial/hereditary setting. Two hundred and five out of 217 (94.5%) patients were affected by single primary melanoma and 12 (5.5%) by MPMs of the head and neck region. Individuals affected by MPMs were distinguished by a significantly higher mutation frequency and a higher prevalence of malignant neoplasms such as renal cancer. Genetic testing showed germline mutations affecting MITF E318K, CDKN2A genes. Our data highlight the importance of strict cancer surveillance in individuals with MPMs and the role of appropriate genetic counseling and testing in selected patients. Finally, personalized clinical and instrumental screening and follow-up strategies should also be based on mutational status. A heightened level of suspicion is required in the clinical management of mutation carriers.

Prenatal methamphetamine exposure (PME) is a significant problem in several parts of the world and poses important health risks for the developing fetus. Research on the short- and long-term outcomes of PME is scarce, however. Here, we summarize present knowledge on the cognitive and behavioral outcomes of PME, based on a review of the neuroimaging, neuropsychology, and neuroscience literature published in the past 15years. Several studies have reported that the behavioral and cognitive sequelae of PME include broad deficits in the domains of attention, memory, and visual-motor integration. Knowledge regarding brain-behavior relationships is poor, however, in large part because imaging studies are rare. Hence, the effects of PME on developing neurocircuitry and brain architecture remain speculative, and are largely deductive. Some studies have implicated the dopamine-rich fronto-striatal pathways; however, cognitive deficits (e.g., impaired visual-motor integration) that should be associated with damage to those pathways are not manifested consistently across studies. We conclude by discussing challenges endemic to research on prenatal drug exposure, and argue that they may account for some of the inconsistencies in the extant research on PME. Studies confirming predicted brain-behavior relationships in PME, and exploring possible mechanisms underlying those relationships, are needed if neuroscience is to address the urgency of this growing public health problem.
Advances in neuroscience research over the last few decades have increased our understanding of how individual neurons acquire their specific properties and assemble into complex circuits, and how these circuits are affected in disease. One of the important motives driving neuroscience research is the development of new scientific techniques and interdisciplinary cooperation. Compared to developed countries, many countries on the African continent are confronted with poor facilities, lack of funding or career development programs for neuroscientists, all of which deter young scientists from taking up neuroscience as a career choice. This article highlights some steps that are being taken to promote neuroscience education and research in Africa.
We show here that human embryonic stem (ES) and induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neuroprogenitors (NPs) develop primary cilia. Ciliogenesis depends on the sphingolipid ceramide and its interaction with atypical PKC (aPKC), both of which distribute to the primary cilium and the apicolateral cell membrane in NP rosettes. Neural differentiation of human ES cells to NPs is concurrent with a threefold elevation of ceramide-in particular, saturated, long-chain C16:0 ceramide (N-palmitoyl sphingosine) and nonsaturated, very long chain C24:1 ceramide (N-nervonoyl sphingosine). Decreasing ceramide levels by inhibiting ceramide synthase or neutral sphingomyelinase 2 leads to translocation of membrane-bound aPKC to the cytosol, concurrent with its activation and the phosphorylation of its substrate Aurora kinase A (AurA). Inhibition of aPKC, AurA, or a downstream target of AurA, HDAC6, restores ciliogenesis in ceramide-depleted cells. Of importance, addition of exogenous C24:1 ceramide reestablishes membrane association of aPKC, restores primary cilia, and accelerates neural process formation. Taken together, these results suggest that ceramide prevents activation of HDAC6 by cytosolic aPKC and AurA, which promotes acetylation of tubulin in primary cilia and, potentially, neural processes. This is the first report on the critical role of ceramide generated by nSMase2 in stem cell ciliogenesis and differentiation.
Neurons extend two types of neurites-axons and dendrites-that differ in structure and function. Although it is well understood that the cytoskeleton plays a pivotal role in neurite differentiation and extension, the mechanisms by which membrane components are supplied to growing axons or dendrites is largely unknown. We previously reported that the membrane supply to axons is regulated by lemur kinase 1 (LMTK1) through Rab11A-positive endosomes. Here we investigate the role of LMTK1 in dendrite formation. Down-regulation of LMTK1 increases dendrite growth and branching of cerebral cortical neurons in vitro and in vivo. LMTK1 knockout significantly enhances the prevalence, velocity, and run length of anterograde movement of Rab11A-positive endosomes to levels similar to those expressing constitutively active Rab11A-Q70L. Rab11A-positive endosome dynamics also increases in the cell body and growth cone of LMTK1-deficient neurons. Moreover, a nonphosphorylatable LMTK1 mutant (Ser34Ala, a Cdk5 phosphorylation site) dramatically promotes dendrite growth. Thus LMTK1 negatively controls dendritic formation by regulating Rab11A-positive endosomal trafficking in a Cdk5-dependent manner, indicating the Cdk5-LMTK1-Rab11A pathway as a regulatory mechanism of dendrite development as well as axon outgrowth.
Phospholipase A2 associated neurodegeneration (PLAN) is a major phenotype of autosomal recessive Neurodegeneration with Brain Iron Accumulation (NBIA). We describe the clinical phenotypes, neuroimaging features and PLA2G6 mutations in 5 children, of whom 4 presented with infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy (INAD). One other patient was diagnosed with the onset of PLAN in childhood, and our report highlights the diagnostic challenges associated with this atypical PLAN subtype. In this series, the neuroradiological relevance of classical PLAN features as well as apparent claval hypertrophy' is explored. Novel PLA2G6 mutations were identified in all patients. PLAN should be considered not only in patients presenting with a classic INAD phenotype but also in older patients presenting later in childhood with non-specific progressive neurological features including social communication difficulties, gait disturbance, dyspraxia, neuropsychiatric symptoms and extrapyramidal motor features.
Morquio A (Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA; MPS IVA) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by partial or total deficiency of the enzyme galactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase (GALNS; also known as N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase) encoded by the GALNS gene. Patients who inherit two mutated GALNS gene alleles have a decreased ability to degrade the glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) keratan sulfate and chondroitin 6-sulfate, thereby causing GAG accumulation within lysosomes and consequently pleiotropic disease. GALNS mutations occur throughout the gene and many mutations are identified only in single patients or families, causing difficulties both in mutation detection and interpretation. In this study, molecular analysis of 163 patients with Morquio A identified 99 unique mutations in the GALNS gene believed to negatively impact GALNS protein function, of which 39 are previously unpublished, together with 26 single-nucleotide polymorphisms. Recommendations for the molecular testing of patients, clear reporting of sequence findings, and interpretation of sequencing data are provided.
It has been demonstrated that connexin 43 (Cx43) and microRNAs have significant roles in glioma. Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) is suggested to be a regulator of connexins and microRNAs. However, it remains elusive whether cAMP and exchange protein directly activated by cAMP (Epac2), have a regulatory effect on Cx43 and microRNA-451 (miR-451) in astrocytoma cells. We treated 1321N1 astrocytoma cells with a selective 2 adrenergic agonist and a selective Epac activator with and without adenyl cyclase and protein kinase A inhibition. Cx43 and miR-451 expression were measured. Next, we evaluated the effect of miR-451 overexpression on Cx43 expression. Cell proliferation was measured using a 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. The results demonstrated that cAMP-Epac2 increased Cx43 and miR-451 expression. However, the alteration of miR-451 expression required a higher dose of drugs. Overexpression of miR-451 had no significant effect on Cx43 expression. The MTT assay showed that cAMP-Epac stimulation and miR-451 overexpression had a synergic inhibitory effect on cell proliferation. These ndings may expand our understanding of the molecular biology of glioma and provide new potential therapeutic targets.
Postconditioning has regenerated interest as a mechanical intervention against cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury, but its molecular mechanisms remain unknown. We previously reported that hypoxic postconditioning (HPC) ameliorated neuronal death induced by transient global cerebral ischemia (tGCI) in hippocampal CA1 subregion of adult rats. This study tested the hypothesis that p38-mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK)/mitogen- and stress-response kinase 1 (MSK1) signaling pathway plays a role in the HPC-induced neuroprotection. Male Wistar rats were subjected to 10min ischemia induced by applying the four-vessel occlusion method. HPC with 120min was applied at 24h after reperfusion. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot were used to detect the expression of phosphorylation of p38 MAPK and MSK1, as well as cleaved caspase-3. We found that HPC induced a significant increase of phosphorylated p38 MAPK and MSK1 in neurons of hippocampal CA1 region and a significant decrease in glial cells after tGCI as well. Furthermore, HPC attenuated caspase-3 cleavation triggered by tGCI in CA1 region. Moreover, p38 MAPK inhibition by SB203580 significantly decreased the phosphorylation of MSK1, increased cleaved caspase-3 expression, and abolished the neuroprotection of HPC. These findings suggested that p38 MAPK/MSK1 signaling axis contributed to HPC-mediated neuroprotection against tGCI, at least in part, by regulating the activation of caspase-3.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant disease caused by an expansion of CAG repeats in the gene encoding for huntingtin. Brain metabolic dysfunction and altered Akt signaling pathways have been associated with disease progression. Nevertheless, conflicting results persist regarding the role of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1)/Akt pathway in HD. While high plasma levels of IGF-1 correlated with cognitive decline in HD patients, other data showed protective effects of IGF-1 in HD striatal neurons and R6/2 mice. Thus, in the present study, we investigated motor phenotype, peripheral and central metabolic profile, and striatal and cortical signaling pathways in YAC128 mice subjected to intranasal administration of recombinant human IGF-1 (rhIGF-1) for 2weeks, in order to promote IGF-1 delivery to the brain. We show that IGF-1 supplementation enhances IGF-1 cortical levels and improves motor activity and both peripheral and central metabolic abnormalities in YAC128 mice. Moreover, decreased Akt activation in HD mice brain was ameliorated following IGF-1 administration. Upregulation of Akt following rhIGF-1 treatment occurred concomitantly with increased phosphorylation of mutant huntingtin on Ser421. These data suggest that intranasal administration of rhIGF-1 ameliorates HD-associated glucose metabolic brain abnormalities and mice phenotype.
Excess glutamatergic neurotransmission may contribute to excitotoxic loss of nigrostriatal neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we determined if increasing glutamate uptake could reduce the extent of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) loss in PD progression. The beta-lactam antibiotic, ceftriaxone, increases the expression of glutamate transporter 1 (GLT-1), a glutamate transporter that plays a major role in glutamate clearance in central nervous system and may attenuate adverse behavioral or neurobiological function in other neurodegenerative disease models. In association with &gt;80% TH loss, we observed a significant decrease in glutamate uptake in the established 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) PD model. Ceftriaxone (200mg/kg, i.p.) increased striatal glutamate uptake with &gt;5 consecutive days of injection in nonlesioned rats and lasted out to 14days postinjection, a time beyond that required for 6-OHDA to produce &gt;70% TH loss (9days). When ceftriaxone was given at the time of 6-OHDA, TH loss was 57% compared to 85% in temporally matched vehicle-injected controls and amphetamine-induced rotation was reduced about 2-fold. This attenuation of TH loss was associated with increased glutamate uptake, increased GLT-1 expression, and reduced Serine 19 TH phosphorylation, a calcium-dependent target specific for nigrostriatal neurons. These results reveal that glutamate uptake can be targeted in a PD model, decrease the rate of TH loss in a calcium-dependent manner, and attenuate locomotor behavior associated with 6-OHDA lesion. Given that detection of reliable PD markers will eventually be employed in susceptible populations, our results give credence to the possibility that increasing glutamate uptake may prolong the time period before locomotor impairment occurs.

Pharmacologic blockade of monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) or serotonin transporter (5-HTT) has antidepressant and anxiolytic efficacy in adulthood. Yet, genetically conferred MAOA or 5-HTT hypoactivity is associated with altered aggression and increased anxiety/depression. Here we test the hypothesis that increased monoamine signaling during development causes these paradoxical aggressive and affective phenotypes. We find that pharmacologic MAOA blockade during early postnatal development (P2-P21) but not during peri-adolescence (P22-41) increases anxiety- and depression-like behavior in adult (&gt;P90) mice, mimicking the effect of P2-21 5-HTT inhibition. Moreover, MAOA blockade during peri-adolescence, but not P2-21 or P182-201, increases adult aggressive behavior, and 5-HTT blockade from P22-P41 reduced adult aggression. Blockade of the dopamine transporter, but not the norepinephrine transporter, during P22-41 also increases adult aggressive behavior. Thus, P2-21 is a sensitive period during which 5-HT modulates adult anxiety/depression-like behavior, and P22-41 is a sensitive period during which DA and 5-HT bi-directionally modulate adult aggression. Permanently altered DAergic function as a consequence of increased P22-P41 monoamine signaling might underlie altered aggression. In support of this hypothesis, we find altered aggression correlating positively with locomotor response to amphetamine challenge in adulthood. Proving that altered DA function and aggression are causally linked, we demonstrate that optogenetic activation of VTA DAergic neurons increases aggression. It therefore appears that genetic and pharmacologic factors impacting dopamine and serotonin signaling during sensitive developmental periods can modulate adult monoaminergic function and thereby alter risk for aggressive and emotional dysfunction.
The limited success in understanding the pathophysiology of major depression may result from excessive focus on the dysfunctioning of neurons, as compared with other types of brain cells. Therefore, we examined the role of dynamic alterations in microglia activation status in the development of chronic unpredictable stress (CUS)-induced depressive-like condition in rodents. We report that following an initial period (2-3 days) of stress-induced microglial proliferation and activation, some microglia underwent apoptosis, leading to reductions in their numbers within the hippocampus, but not in other brain regions, following 5 weeks of CUS exposure. At that time, microglia displayed reduced expression of activation markers as well as dystrophic morphology. Blockade of the initial stress-induced microglial activation by minocycline or by transgenic interleukin-1 receptor antagonist overexpression rescued the subsequent microglial apoptosis and decline, as well as the CUS-induced depressive-like behavior and suppressed neurogenesis. Similarly, the antidepressant drug imipramine blocked the initial stress-induced microglial activation as well as the CUS-induced microglial decline and depressive-like behavior. Treatment of CUS-exposed mice with either endotoxin, macrophage colony-stimulating factor or granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, all of which stimulated hippocampal microglial proliferation, partially or completely reversed the depressive-like behavior and dramatically increased hippocampal neurogenesis, whereas treatment with imipramine or minocycline had minimal or no anti-depressive effects, respectively, in these mice. These findings provide direct causal evidence that disturbances in microglial functioning has an etiological role in chronic stress-induced depression, suggesting that microglia stimulators could serve as fast-acting anti-depressants in some forms of depressive and stress-related conditions.
Anorexia nervosa (AN) and related eating disorders are complex, multifactorial neuropsychiatric conditions with likely rare and common genetic and environmental determinants. To identify genetic variants associated with AN, we pursued a series of sequencing and genotyping studies focusing on the coding regions and upstream sequence of 152 candidate genes in a total of 1205 AN cases and 1948 controls. We identified individual variant associations in the Estrogen Receptor- (ESR2) gene, as well as a set of rare and common variants in the Epoxide Hydrolase 2 (EPHX2) gene, in an initial sequencing study of 261 early-onset severe AN cases and 73 controls (P=0.0004). The association of EPHX2 variants was further delineated in: (1) a pooling-based replication study involving an additional 500 AN patients and 500 controls (replication set P=0.00000016); (2) single-locus studies in a cohort of 386 previously genotyped broadly defined AN cases and 295 female population controls from the Bogalusa Heart Study (BHS) and a cohort of 58 individuals with self-reported eating disturbances and 851 controls (combined smallest single locus P&lt;0.01). As EPHX2 is known to influence cholesterol metabolism, and AN is often associated with elevated cholesterol levels, we also investigated the association of EPHX2 variants and longitudinal body mass index (BMI) and cholesterol in BHS female and male subjects (N=229) and found evidence for a modifying effect of a subset of variants on the relationship between cholesterol and BMI (P&lt;0.01). These findings suggest a novel association of gene variants within EPHX2 to susceptibility to AN and provide a foundation for future study of this important yet poorly understood condition.


Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, various psychoactive drugs, as well as endogenous steroids and cannabinoid-like compounds are metabolized by the polymorphic cytochrome P450 2C19 (CYP2C19). Absence of this enzyme has been recently shown to associate with lower levels of depressive symptoms in human subjects. To investigate endogenous functions of CYP2C19 and its potential role in brain function, we have used a transgenic mouse model carrying the human CYP2C19 gene. Here, CYP2C19 was expressed in the developing fetal, but not adult brain and was associated with altered fetal brain morphology, where mice homozygous for the CYP2C19 transgenic insert had severely underdeveloped hippocampus and complete callosal agenesis and high neonatal lethality. CYP2C19 expression was also found in human fetal brain. In adult hemizygous mice we observed besides decreased hippocampal volume, an altered neuronal composition in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Reduced hippocampal volumes have been reported in several psychiatric disorders, supporting the relevance of this model. Here we found that adult hemizygous CYP2C19 transgenic mice demonstrate behavior indicative of increased stress and anxiety based on four different tests. We hypothesize that expression of the CYP2C19 enzyme prenatally may affect brain development by metabolizing endogenous compounds influencing this development. Furthermore, CYP2C19 polymorphism may have a role in interindividual susceptibility for psychiatric disorders.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) represent a formidable challenge for psychiatry and neuroscience because of their high prevalence, lifelong nature, complexity and substantial heterogeneity. Facing these obstacles requires large-scale multidisciplinary efforts. Although the field of genetics has pioneered data sharing for these reasons, neuroimaging had not kept pace. In response, we introduce the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange (ABIDE)-a grassroots consortium aggregating and openly sharing 1112 existing resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (R-fMRI) data sets with corresponding structural MRI and phenotypic information from 539 individuals with ASDs and 573 age-matched typical controls (TCs; 7-64 years) (http://fcon_1000.projects.nitrc.org/indi/abide/). Here, we present this resource and demonstrate its suitability for advancing knowledge of ASD neurobiology based on analyses of 360 male subjects with ASDs and 403 male age-matched TCs. We focused on whole-brain intrinsic functional connectivity and also survey a range of voxel-wise measures of intrinsic functional brain architecture. Whole-brain analyses reconciled seemingly disparate themes of both hypo- and hyperconnectivity in the ASD literature; both were detected, although hypoconnectivity dominated, particularly for corticocortical and interhemispheric functional connectivity. Exploratory analyses using an array of regional metrics of intrinsic brain function converged on common loci of dysfunction in ASDs (mid- and posterior insula and posterior cingulate cortex), and highlighted less commonly explored regions such as the thalamus. The survey of the ABIDE R-fMRI data sets provides unprecedented demonstrations of both replication and novel discovery. By pooling multiple international data sets, ABIDE is expected to accelerate the pace of discovery setting the stage for the next generation of ASD studies.
Introduction: Patients with hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies (HNPP) manifest with episodes of focal paresis when exposed to mechanical stress, although the basis for vulnerability to conduction block remains relatively unexplained. Methods: Axonal excitability techniques were utilized to provide insights into pathophysiological mechanisms in 13 HNPP patients, stimulating median motor and sensory axons at the wrist. Results: In HNPP, distal latencies were prolonged, and motor and sensory amplitudes were reduced. Threshold was increased. Depolarizing and hyperpolarizing electrotonus was greater, and resting current-threshold slope was reduced. There were greater threshold changes in superexcitability, and refractoriness was decreased. Conclusions: Taken together, excitability testing in patients with HNPP established axonal hyperpolarization in both motor and sensory axons that may be attributable to changes in nerve architecture. In turn, the hyperpolarized resting membrane potential in HNPP may be a major predisposing factor for development of conduction block with mechanical stresses. Muscle Nerve 49: 858-865, 2014.

The precise relationship of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) to cells in the mouse embryo remains controversial. We present transcriptional and functional data to identify the embryonic counterpart of ESCs. Marker profiling shows that ESCs are distinct from early inner cell mass (ICM) and closely resemble pre-implantation epiblast. A characteristic feature of mouse ESCs is propagation without ERK signalling. Single-cell culture reveals that cell-autonomous capacity to thrive when the ERK pathway is inhibited arises late during blastocyst development and is lost after implantation. The frequency of deriving clonal ESC lines suggests that all E4.5 epiblast cells can become ESCs. We further show that ICM cells from early blastocysts can progress to ERK independence if provided with a specific laminin substrate. These findings suggest that formation of the epiblast coincides with competence for ERK-independent self-renewal in vitro and consequent propagation as ESC lines.


Many common human mesenchymal tumors, including gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) and leiomyosarcoma (LMS), feature myogenic differentiation. Here we report that intragenic deletion of the dystrophin-encoding and muscular dystrophy-associated DMD gene is a frequent mechanism by which myogenic tumors progress to high-grade, lethal sarcomas. Dystrophin is expressed in the non-neoplastic and benign counterparts of GIST, RMS and LMS tumors, and DMD deletions inactivate larger dystrophin isoforms, including 427-kDa dystrophin, while preserving the expression of an essential 71-kDa isoform. Dystrophin inhibits myogenic sarcoma cell migration, invasion, anchorage independence and invadopodia formation, and dystrophin inactivation was found in 96%, 100% and 62% of metastatic GIST, embryonal RMS and LMS samples, respectively. These findings validate dystrophin as a tumor suppressor and likely anti-metastatic factor, suggesting that therapies in development for muscular dystrophies may also have relevance in the treatment of cancer.
Hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels contribute to cationic Ih current in neurons and regulate the excitability of neuronal networks. Studies in rat models have shown that the Hcn1 gene has a key role in epilepsy, but clinical evidence implicating HCN1 mutations in human epilepsy is lacking. We carried out exome sequencing for parent-offspring trios with fever-sensitive, intractable epileptic encephalopathy, leading to the discovery of two de novo missense HCN1 mutations. Screening of follow-up cohorts comprising 157 cases in total identified 4 additional amino acid substitutions. Patch-clamp recordings of Ih currents in cells expressing wild-type or mutant human HCN1 channels showed that the mutations had striking but divergent effects on homomeric channels. Individuals with mutations had clinical features resembling those of Dravet syndrome with progression toward atypical absences, intellectual disability and autistic traits. These findings provide clear evidence that de novo HCN1 point mutations cause a recognizable early-onset epileptic encephalopathy in humans.
Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) self-renew in a state of nave pluripotency in which they are competent to generate all somatic cells. It has been hypothesized that, before irreversibly committing, ESCs pass through at least one metastable transition state. This transition would represent a gateway for differentiation and reprogramming of somatic cells. Here, we show that during the transition, the nuclei of ESCs are auxetic: they exhibit a cross-sectional expansion when stretched and a cross-sectional contraction when compressed, and their stiffness increases under compression. We also show that the auxetic phenotype of transition ESC nuclei is driven at least in part by global chromatin decondensation. Through the regulation of molecular turnover in the differentiating nucleus by external forces, auxeticity could be a key element in mechanotransduction. Our findings highlight the importance of nuclear structure in the regulation of differentiation and reprogramming.
As human lifespan increases, a greater fraction of the population is suffering from age-related cognitive impairments, making it important to elucidate a means to combat the effects of aging. Here we report that exposure of an aged animal to young blood can counteract and reverse pre-existing effects of brain aging at the molecular, structural, functional and cognitive level. Genome-wide microarray analysis of heterochronic parabionts-in which circulatory systems of young and aged animals are connected-identified synaptic plasticity-related transcriptional changes in the hippocampus of aged mice. Dendritic spine density of mature neurons increased and synaptic plasticity improved in the hippocampus of aged heterochronic parabionts. At the cognitive level, systemic administration of young blood plasma into aged mice improved age-related cognitive impairments in both contextual fear conditioning and spatial learning and memory. Structural and cognitive enhancements elicited by exposure to young blood are mediated, in part, by activation of the cyclic AMP response element binding protein (Creb) in the aged hippocampus. Our data indicate that exposure of aged mice to young blood late in life is capable of rejuvenating synaptic plasticity and improving cognitive function.

Advances in techniques for recording large-scale brain activity contribute to both the elucidation of neurophysiological principles and the development of brain-machine interfaces (BMIs). Here we describe a neurophysiological paradigm for performing tethered and wireless large-scale recordings based on movable volumetric three-dimensional (3D) multielectrode implants. This approach allowed us to isolate up to 1,800 neurons (units) per animal and simultaneously record the extracellular activity of close to 500 cortical neurons, distributed across multiple cortical areas, in freely behaving rhesus monkeys. The method is expandable, in principle, to thousands of simultaneously recorded channels. It also allows increased recording longevity (5 consecutive years) and recording of a broad range of behaviors, such as social interactions, and BMI paradigms in freely moving primates. We propose that wireless large-scale recordings could have a profound impact on basic primate neurophysiology research while providing a framework for the development and testing of clinically relevant neuroprostheses.



Family study results are consistent with genetic effects making substantial contributions to risk of psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, yet robust identification of specific genetic variants that explain variation in population risk had been disappointing until the advent of technologies that assay the entire genome in large samples. We highlight recent progress that has led to a better understanding of the number of risk variants in the population and the interaction of allele frequency and effect size. The emerging genetic architecture implies a large number of contributing loci (that is, a high genome-wide mutational target) and suggests that genetic risk of psychiatric disorders involves the combined effects of many common variants of small effect, as well as rare and de novo variants of large effect. The capture of a substantial proportion of genetic risk facilitates new study designs to investigate the combined effects of genes and the environment.
Advances in genome sequencing technologies have begun to revolutionize neurogenetics, allowing the full spectrum of genetic variation to be better understood in relation to disease. Exome sequencing of hundreds to thousands of samples from patients with autism spectrum disorder, intellectual disability, epilepsy and schizophrenia provides strong evidence of the importance of de novo and gene-disruptive events. There are now several hundred new candidate genes and targeted resequencing technologies that allow screening of dozens of genes in tens of thousands of individuals with high specificity and sensitivity. The decision of which genes to pursue depends on many factors, including recurrence, previous evidence of overlap with pathogenic copy number variants, the position of the mutation in the protein, the mutational burden among healthy individuals and membership of the candidate gene in disease-implicated protein networks. We discuss these emerging criteria for gene prioritization and the potential impact on the field of neuroscience.
Of all of the sensory areas, barrel cortex is among the best understood in terms of circuitry, yet least understood in terms of sensory function. We combined intracellular recording in rats with a multi-directional, multi-whisker stimulator system to estimate receptive fields by reverse correlation of stimuli to synaptic inputs. Spatiotemporal receptive fields were identified orders of magnitude faster than by conventional spike-based approaches, even for neurons with little spiking activity. Given a suitable stimulus representation, a linear model captured the stimulus-response relationship for all neurons with high accuracy. In contrast with conventional single-whisker stimuli, complex stimuli revealed markedly sharpened receptive fields, largely as a result of adaptation. This phenomenon allowed the surround to facilitate rather than to suppress responses to the principal whisker. Optimized stimuli enhanced firing in layers 4-6, but not in layers 2/3, which remained sparsely active. Surround facilitation through adaptation may be required for discriminating complex shapes and textures during natural sensing.
Accurate optical reporting of electrical activity in genetically defined neuronal populations is a long-standing goal in neuroscience. We developed Accelerated Sensor of Action Potentials 1 (ASAP1), a voltage sensor design in which a circularly permuted green fluorescent protein is inserted in an extracellular loop of a voltage-sensing domain, rendering fluorescence responsive to membrane potential. ASAP1 demonstrated on and off kinetics of 2 ms, reliably detected single action potentials and subthreshold potential changes, and tracked trains of action potential waveforms up to 200 Hz in single trials. With a favorable combination of brightness, dynamic range and speed, ASAP1 enables continuous monitoring of membrane potential in neurons at kilohertz frame rates using standard epifluorescence microscopy.
Neural codes are believed to have adapted to the statistical properties of the natural environment. However, the principles that govern the organization of ensemble activity in the visual cortex during natural visual input are unknown. We recorded populations of up to 500 neurons in the mouse primary visual cortex and characterized the structure of their activity, comparing responses to natural movies with those to control stimuli. We found that higher order correlations in natural scenes induced a sparser code, in which information is encoded by reliable activation of a smaller set of neurons and can be read out more easily. This computationally advantageous encoding for natural scenes was state-dependent and apparent only in anesthetized and active awake animals, but not during quiet wakefulness. Our results argue for a functional benefit of sparsification that could be a general principle governing the structure of the population activity throughout cortical microcircuits.
A dominant view of prefrontal cortex (PFC) function is that it stores task-relevant information in working memory. To examine this and determine how it applies when multiple pieces of information must be stored, we trained two subjects to perform a multi-item color change detection task and recorded activity of neurons in PFC. Few neurons encoded the color of the items. Instead, the predominant encoding was spatial: a static signal reflecting the item's position and a dynamic signal reflecting the subject's covert attention. These findings challenge the notion that PFC stores task-relevant information. Instead, we suggest that the contribution of PFC is in controlling the allocation of resources to support working memory. In support of this, we found that increased power in the alpha and theta bands of PFC local field potentials, which are thought to reflect long-range communication with other brain areas, was correlated with more precise color representations.
Brain-machine interfaces are not only promising for neurological applications, but also powerful for investigating neuronal ensemble dynamics during learning. We trained mice to operantly control an auditory cursor using spike-related calcium signals recorded with two-photon imaging in motor and somatosensory cortex. Mice rapidly learned to modulate activity in layer 2/3 neurons, evident both across and within sessions. Learning was accompanied by modifications of firing correlations in spatially localized networks at fine scales.
This protocol describes how in vivo-imaged dendrites and axons in adult mouse brains can subsequently be prepared and imaged with focused ion beam scanning electron microscopy (FIBSEM). The procedure starts after in vivo imaging with chemical fixation, followed by the identification of the fluorescent structures of interest. Their position is then highlighted in the fixed tissue by burning fiducial marks with the two-photon laser. Once the section has been stained and resin-embedded, a small block is trimmed close to these marks. Serially aligned EM images are acquired through this region, using FIBSEM, and the neurites of interest are then reconstructed semiautomatically by using the ilastik software (http://ilastik.org/). This reliable imaging and reconstruction technique avoids the use of specific labels to identify the structures of interest in the electron microscope, enabling optimal chemical fixation techniques to be applied and providing the best possible structural preservation for 3D analysis. The entire protocol takes 4 d.
Cellular diversity and architectural complexity create barriers to understanding the function of the mammalian CNS at a molecular level. To address this problem, we have recently developed a methodology that provides the ability to profile the entire translated mRNA complement of any genetically defined cell population. This methodology, which we termed translating ribosome affinity purification, or TRAP, combines cell type-specific transgene expression with affinity purification of translating ribosomes. TRAP can be used to study the cell type-specific mRNA profiles of any genetically defined cell type, and it has been used in organisms ranging from Drosophila melanogaster to mice and human cultured cells. Unlike other methodologies that rely on microdissection, cell panning or cell sorting, the TRAP methodology bypasses the need for tissue fixation or single-cell suspensions (and the potential artifacts that these treatments introduce) and reports on mRNAs in the entire cell body. This protocol provides a step-by-step guide to implement the TRAP methodology, which takes 2 d to complete once all materials are in hand.
This protocol describes a culture system in which inner-ear sensory tissue is produced from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells under chemically defined conditions. This model is amenable to basic and translational investigations into inner ear biology and regeneration. In this protocol, mouse ES cells are aggregated in 96-well plates in medium containing extracellular matrix proteins to promote epithelialization. During the first 14 d, a series of precisely timed protein and small-molecule treatments sequentially induce epithelia that represent the mouse embryonic non-neural ectoderm, preplacodal ectoderm and otic vesicle epithelia. Ultimately, these tissues develop into cysts with a pseudostratified epithelium containing inner ear hair cells and supporting cells after 16-20 d. Concurrently, sensory-like neurons generate synapse-like structures with the derived hair cells. We have designated the stem cell-derived epithelia harboring hair cells, supporting cells and sensory-like neurons as inner ear organoids. This method provides a reproducible and scalable means to generate inner ear sensory tissue in vitro.
Recent advances in genetically encoded fluorescent sensors enable the monitoring of cellular events from genetically defined groups of neurons in vivo. In this protocol, we describe how to use a time-correlated single-photon counting (TCSPC)-based fiber optics system to measure the intensity, emission spectra and lifetime of fluorescent biosensors expressed in deep brain structures in freely moving mice. When combined with Cre-dependent selective expression of genetically encoded Ca(2+) indicators (GECIs), this system can be used to measure the average neural activity from a specific population of cells in mice performing complex behavioral tasks. As an example, we used viral expression of GCaMPs in striatal projection neurons (SPNs) and recorded the fluorescence changes associated with calcium spikes from mice performing a lever-pressing operant task. The whole procedure, consisting of virus injection, behavior training and optical recording, takes 3-4 weeks to complete. With minor adaptations, this protocol can also be applied to recording cellular events from other cell types in deep brain regions, such as dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area. The simultaneously recorded fluorescence signals and behavior events can be used to explore the relationship between the neural activity of specific brain circuits and behavior.
In this article, we present the case for the existence of a subgroup of patients with osteoarthritis (OA) who experience pain with neuropathic features. Recognizing these patients as a distinct subgroup will allow clinicians to improve the management of their symptoms. We discuss the diagnostic criteria for pain to be classed as neuropathic, then systematically examine the applicability of these criteria to the symptoms, signs and pathology of OA. What are the implications for the preclinical development and clinical use of analgesics for OA? How should existing treatment options be reassessed? Differences in the aetiology of OA and the pharmacological sensitivity of patients with OA pain with neuropathic features, compared with other patients with OA, might explain the frequent negative findings of clinical trials of treatments for symptomatic OA. If the global prevalence of OA pain with neuropathic features is accurately represented by reports from small experimental groups of patients, then a substantial unmet need to tailor diagnosis and therapy for these individuals exists.
Pain is a sensory and emotional experience that is substantially modulated by psychological, social and contextual factors. Research now indicates that the influence of these factors is even more powerful than expected and involves the therapeutic response to analgesic drugs as well as the pain experience itself, which in some circumstances can even be a form of reward. Different experimental approaches and models, both in the laboratory and in the clinical setting, have been used to better characterize and understand the complex neurobiology of pain modulation. These approaches include placebo analgesia, nocebo hyperalgesia, hidden administration of analgesics, and the manipulation of the pain-reward relationship. Overall, these studies show that different neurochemical systems are activated in different positive and negative contexts. Moreover, pain can activate reward mechanisms when experienced within contexts that have special positive meaning. Because routine medical practice usually takes place in contexts that use different rituals, these neurobiological insights might have profound clinical implications.

The role of correlations between neuronal responses is crucial to understanding the neural code. A framework used to study this role comprises a breakdown of the mutual information between stimuli and responses into terms that aim to account for different coding modalities and the distinction between different notions of independence. Here we complete the list of types of independence and distinguish activity independence (related to total correlations), conditional independence (related to noise correlations), signal independence (related to signal correlations), coding independence (related to information transmission), and information independence (related to redundancy). For each type, we identify the probabilistic criterion that defines it, indicate the information-theoretic measure used as statistic to test for it, and provide a graphical criterion to recognize the causal configurations of stimuli and responses that lead to its existence. Using this causal analysis, we first provide sufficiency conditions relating these types. Second, we differentiate the use of the measures as statistics to test for the existence of independence from their use for quantification. We indicate that signal and noise correlation cannot be quantified separately. Third, we explicitly define alternative system configurations used to construct the measures, in which noise correlations or noise and signal correlations are eliminated. Accordingly, we examine which measures are meaningful only as a comparison across configurations and which ones provide a characterization of the actually observed responses without resorting to other configurations. Fourth, we compare the commonly used nonparametric approach to eliminate noise correlations with a functional (model-based) approach, showing that the former approach does not remove those effects of noise correlations captured by the tuning properties of the individual neurons, and implies nonlocal causal structure manipulations. These results improve the interpretation of the measures on the framework and help in understanding how to apply it to analyze the role of correlations.
Nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) by the multiplicative updates algorithm is a powerful machine learning method for decomposing a high-dimensional nonnegative matrix V into two nonnegative matrices, W and H, where [Formula: see text]. It has been successfully applied in the analysis and interpretation of large-scale data arising in neuroscience, computational biology, and natural language processing, among other areas. A distinctive feature of NMF is its nonnegativity constraints that allow only additive linear combinations of the data, thus enabling it to learn parts that have distinct physical representations in reality. In this letter, we describe an information-theoretic approach to NMF for signal-dependent noise based on the generalized inverse gaussian model. Specifically, we propose three novel algorithms in this setting, each based on multiplicative updates, and prove monotonicity of updates using the EM algorithm. In addition, we develop algorithm-specific measures to evaluate their goodness of fit on data. Our methods are demonstrated using experimental data from electromyography studies, as well as simulated data in the extraction of muscle synergies, and compared with existing algorithms for signal-dependent noise.


Progressive supranuclear palsy is a rare parkinsonian disorder with characteristic neurofibrillary pathology consisting of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. Common variation defining the microtubule associated protein tau gene (MAPT) H1 haplotype strongly contributes to disease risk. A recent genome-wide association study (GWAS) revealed 3 novel risk loci on chromosomes 1, 2, and 3 that primarily implicate STX6, EIF2AK3, and MOBP, respectively. Genetic associations, however, rarely lead to direct identification of the relevant functional allele. More often, they are in linkage disequilibrium with the causative polymorphism(s) that could be a coding change or affect gene expression regulatory motifs. To identify any such changes, we sequenced all coding exons of those genes directly implicated by the associations in progressive supranuclear palsy cases and analyzed regional gene expression data from control brains to identify expression quantitative trait loci within 1 Mb of the risk loci. Although we did not find any coding variants underlying the associations, GWAS-associated single-nucleotide polymorphisms at these loci are in complete linkage disequilibrium with haplotypes that completely overlap with the respective genes. Although implication of EIF2AK3 and MOBP could not be fully assessed, we show that the GWAS single-nucleotide polymorphism rs1411478 (STX6) is a strong expression quantitative trait locus with significantly lower expression of STX6 in white matter in carriers of the risk allele.
It is known that Alzheimer's disease (AD) presents at an early age in people with Down syndrome (DS). The trisomy 21 in DS provides an opportunity to study the effect of duplicated genes in AD. APP and BACE2 are 2 genes located in chromosome 21 and related to AD. We looked into our cohort of 67 DS cases with dementia for the effect of BACE2 variants in age of onset of dementia. Of the 83 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), 6 were associated with age of onset and another 8 SNPs were borderline associated. Our finding also replicated a previous study showing association of rs2252576 with AD.
TDP43 protein mislocalization is a hallmark of the neurodegenerative diseases amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia, and mutations in the gene encoding TDP43 cause both disorders, further highlighting its role in disease pathogenesis. TDP43 is a heterogenous ribonucleoprotein, therefore suggesting that alterations in RNA metabolism play a role in these disorders, although direct evidence in patients is lacking. Sporadic inclusion body myositis (sIBM) is the most common acquired myopathy occurring in adults aged older than 50 years and abnormal cytoplasmic accumulations of TDP43 have been consistently described in sIBM myofibers. Here, we exploit high quality RNA from frozen sIBM muscle biopsies for transcriptomic studies on TDP43-proteinopathy patient tissue. Surprisingly, we found widespread sIBM-specific changes in the RNA metabolism pathways themselves. Consistent with this finding, we describe novel RNA binding proteins to mislocalize in the cytoplasm of sIBM myofibers and splicing changes in MAPT, a gene previously shown to play a role in sIBM. Our data indicate widespread alterations of RNA metabolism are a novel aspect of disease pathogenesis in sIBM. These findings also document an association, in TDP43-proteinopathy patients, between heterogenous ribonucleoprotein pathology and RNA metabolism alterations and carry importance for neurodegenerative diseases, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia.
Aging adversely affects inflammatory processes in the brain, which has important implications in the context of disease progression. It has been proposed that microglia become dysfunctional with age and may lose their neuroprotective properties leading to chronic neurodegeneration. Here, we sought to characterize inflammatory changes in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease and to delineate differences between normal aging and those associated with disease pathology. A proinflammatory profile, characterized by the upregulation of markers of classical activation, was evident in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice, associated with increased interferon- (IFN) concentration and dysregulation of mechanisms designed to limit the proinflammatory response. The data indicate that microglia are not less active with age but alter their phenotype; indeed, changes observed in the deactivation state appear to relate to aging rather than disease pathology. We hypothesize that disruption of the blood-brain barrier, in tandem with an enhanced chemokine profile, permits the infiltration of immune cells serving to reinforce classical activation of microglia through their enhanced responsiveness to IFN.
TREM and TREM-like receptors are a structurally similar protein family encoded by genes clustered on chromosome 6p21.11. Recent studies have identified a rare coding variant (p.R47H) in TREM2 that confers a high risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition, common single nucleotide polymorphisms in this genomic region are associated with cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for AD and a common intergenic variant found near the TREML2 gene has been identified to be protective for AD. However, little is known about the functional variant underlying the latter association or its relationship with the p.R47H. Here, we report comprehensive analyses using whole-exome sequencing data, cerebrospinal fluid biomarker analyses, meta-analyses (16,254 cases and 20,052 controls) and cell-based functional studies to support the role of the TREML2 coding missense variant p.S144G (rs3747742) as a potential driver of the meta-analysis AD-associated genome-wide association studies signal. Additionally, we demonstrate that the protective role of TREML2 in AD is independent of the role of TREM2 gene as a risk factor for AD.
GV1001 is a 16-amino-acid vaccine peptide derived from the human telomerase reverse transcriptase sequence. We investigated the effects of GV1001 against -amyloid (A) oligomer-induced neurotoxicity in rat neural stem cells (NSCs). Primary culture NSCs were treated with several concentrations of GV1001 and/or A oligomer for 48 hours. GV1001 protected NSCs against the A oligomer in a concentration-dependent manner. A concentration dependently decreased viability, proliferation, and mobilization of NSCs and GV1001 treatment restored the cells to wild-type levels. A increased free radical levels in rat NSCs while combined treatment with GV1001 significantly reduced these levels. In addition, GV1001 treatment of A-injured NSCs increased the expression level of survival-related proteins, including mitochondria-associated survival proteins, and decreased the levels of death and inflammation-related proteins, including mitochondria-associated death proteins. Together, these results suggest that GV1001 possesses neuroprotective effects against A oligomer in NSCs and that these effects are mediated through mimicking the extra-telomeric functions of human telomerase reverse transcriptase, including the induction of cellular proliferation, anti-apoptotic effects, mitochondrial stabilization, and anti-aging and anti-oxidant effects.
Mutations in C9ORF72, SOD1, TARDBP, and FUS genes account for approximately two-third of familial cases and 5% of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) cases. We present the first case of an ALS patient carrying a de novo nonsense mutation in exon 14 of the FUS gene (c.1483c&gt;t; p.R495X) with an apparently familial ALS. This mutation causes a phenotype characterized by a young age at onset, a rapid course (&lt;24 months), and a bulbar onset with early respiratory involvement with a predominant lower motor neuron disease. De novo mutations could account for a sizable number of apparently sporadic ALS patients carrying mutations of ALS-related genes.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder involving the progressive degeneration of motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord. Mitochondrial dysfunction plays a key role in ALS disease progression and has been observed in several ALS cellular and animal models. Here, we show that fibroblasts isolated from ALS cases with a Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) I113T mutation recapitulate these mitochondrial defects. Using a novel technique, which measures mitochondrial respiration and glycolytic flux simultaneously in living cells, we have shown that SOD1 mutation causes a reduction in mitochondrial respiration and an increase in glycolytic flux. This causes a reduction in adenosine triphosphate produced by oxidative phosphorylation and an increase in adenosine triphosphate produced by glycolysis. Switching the energy source from glucose to galactose caused uncoupling of mitochondria with increased proton leak in SOD1(I113T) fibroblasts. Assessment of the contribution of fatty acid oxidation to total respiration, suggested that fatty acid oxidation is reduced in SOD1 ALS fibroblasts, an effect which can be mimicked by starving the control cells of glucose. These results highlight the importance of understanding the interplay between the major metabolic pathways, which has the potential to lead to strategies to correct the metabolic dysregulation observed in ALS cases.
Previous studies have suggested a link between sleep disordered breathing (SDB) and dementia risk. In the present study, we analyzed the relationship between SDB severity, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Alzheimer's disease-biomarkers, and the ApoE alleles. A total of 95 cognitively normal elderly participants were analyzed for SDB severity, CSF measures of phosphorylated-tau (p-tau), total-tau (t-tau), and amyloid beta 42 (A-42), as well as ApoE allele status. In ApoE3+ subjects, significant differences were found between sleep groups for p-tau (F[df2] = 4.3, p = 0.017), and t-tau (F[df2] = 3.3, p = 0.043). Additionally, among ApoE3+ subjects, the apnea and/or hypopnea with 4% O2-desaturation index was positively correlated with p-tau (r = 0.30, p = 0.023), t-tau (r = 0.31, p = 0.021), and A-42 (r = 0.31, p = 0.021). In ApoE2+ subjects, the apnea and/or hypopnea with 4% O2-desaturation index was correlated with lower levels of CSF A-42 (r = -0.71, p = 0.004), similarly to ApoE4+ subjects where there was also a trend toward lower CSF A-42 levels. Our observations suggest that there is an association between SDB and CSF Alzheimer's disease-biomarkers in cognitively normal elderly individuals. Existing therapies for SDB such as continuous positive airway pressure could delay the onset to mild cognitive impairment or dementia in normal elderly individuals.
The hexonucleotide repeat expansion 'GGGGCC' at the C9ORF72 gene has been strongly linked with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia. There is some evidence for clinical and genetic overlap between frontotemporal dementia and schizophrenia. Here, we genotyped the repeat at C9ORF72 in a large Irish psychosis case-control sample (n = 2477). We found no carriers of &gt;30 repeats. We found 7 samples with &gt;22 repeats, 2 schizophrenia cases and 5 controls, but overall we observed no difference in the distribution of the repeat between our case and control samples. By using genome-wide association data to phase haplotypes at this gene, we investigated if carriers of the repeat expansion arose from a single common founder. All samples that carry 17 or more repeats also carry the founder haplotype and overall there is a very strong correlation between repeat length and the founder haplotype (Spearman rho = 0.714, p &lt; 0.001). Our study provides further evidence to bolster the claim that carriers of the repeat expansion at C9ORF72 arose from a single common founder.
Elevated expression of human hyperphosphorylated tau is associated with neuronal loss and white matter (WM) pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related neurodegenerative disorders. Using in vivo diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DT-MRI) at 11.1 Tesla we measured age-related alterations in WM diffusion anisotropy indices in a mouse model of human tauopathy (rTg4510) and nontransgenic (nonTg) control mice at the age of 2.5, 4.5, and 8 months. Similar to previous DT-MRI studies in AD subjects, 8-month-old rTg4510 mice showed lower fractional anisotropy (FA) values in WM structures than nonTg. The low WM FA in rTg4510 mice was observed in the genu and splenium of the corpus callosum, anterior commissure, fimbria, and internal capsule and was associated with a higher radial diffusivity than nonTg. Interestingly, rTg4510 mice showed lower estimates for the mode of anisotropy than controls at 2.5 months suggesting that changes in this diffusivity metric are detectable at an early stage preceding severe tauopathy. Immunogold electron microscopy partly supports our diffusion tensor imaging findings. At the age of 4 months, rTg4510 mice show axonal tau inclusions and unmyelinated processes. At later ages (12 months and 14 months) we observed inclusions in myelin sheath, axons, and unmyelinated processes, and a &quot;disorganized&quot; pattern of myelinated fiber arrangement with enlarged inter-axonal spaces in rTg4510 but not in nonTg mice. Our data support a role for the progression of tau pathology in reduced WM integrity measured by DT-MRI. Further in vivo DT-MRI studies in the rTg4510 mouse should help better discern the detailed mechanisms of reduced FA and anisotropy mode, and the specific role of tau during neurodegeneration.
Overexpression of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) in the hippocampus results in age-dependent impaired cognition and altered synaptic plasticity suggesting a possible model for examining the role of oxidative stress in senescent neurophysiology. However, it is unclear if SOD1 overexpression involves an altered redox environment and a decrease in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) synaptic function reported for aging animals. Viral vectors were used to express SOD1 and green fluorescent protein (SOD1 + GFP), SOD1 and catalase (SOD1 + CAT), or GFP alone in the hippocampus of middle-aged (17 months) male Fischer 344 rats. We confirm that SOD1 + GFP and SOD1 + CAT reduced lipid peroxidation indicating superoxide metabolites were primarily responsible for lipid peroxidation. SOD1 + GFP impaired learning, decreased glutathione peroxidase activity, decreased glutathione levels, decreased NMDAR-mediated synaptic responses, and impaired long-term potentiation. Co-expression of SOD1 + CAT rescued the effects of SOD1 expression on learning, redox measures, and synaptic function suggesting the effects were mediated by excess hydrogen peroxide. Application of the reducing agent dithiolthreitol to hippocampal slices increased the NMDAR-mediated component of the synaptic response in SOD1 + GFP animals relative to animals that overexpress SOD1 + CAT indicating that the effect of antioxidant enzyme expression on NMDAR function was because of a shift in the redox environment. The results suggest that overexpression of neuronal SOD1 and CAT in middle age may provide a model for examining the role of oxidative stress in senescent physiology and the progression of age-related neurodegenerative diseases.
High levels of education, occupational complexity, and/or premorbid intelligence are associated with lower levels of cognitive impairment than would be expected from a given brain pathology. This has been observed across a range of conditions including Alzheimer's disease (Roe et al., 2010), stroke (Ojala-Oksala et al., 2012), traumatic brain injury (Kesler et al., 2003), and penetrating brain injury (Grafman, 1986). This cluster of factors, which seemingly protect the brain from expressing symptoms of damage, has been termed &quot;cognitive reserve&quot; (Stern, 2012). The current review considers one possible neural network, which may contribute to cognitive reserve. Based on the evidence that the neurotransmitter, noradrenaline mediates cognitive reserve's protective effects (Robertson, 2013) this review identifies the neurocognitive correlates of noradrenergic (NA) activity. These involve a set of inter-related cognitive processes (arousal, sustained attention, response to novelty, and awareness) with a strongly right hemisphere, fronto-parietal localization, along with working memory, which is also strongly modulated by NA. It is proposed that this set of processes is one plausible candidate for partially mediating the protective effects of cognitive reserve. In addition to its biological effects on brain structure and function, NA function may also facilitate networks for arousal, novelty, attention, awareness, and working memory, which collectively provide for a set of additional, cognitive, mechanisms that help the brain adapt to age-related changes and disease. It is hypothesized that to the extent that the lateral surface of the right prefrontal lobe and/or the right inferior parietal lobe maintain structural (white and gray matter) and functional integrity and connectivity, cognitive reserve should benefit and behavioral expression of pathologic damage should thus be mitigated.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized histopathologically by the abnormal deposition of the proteins amyloid-beta (A) and tau. A major issue for AD research is the lack of an animal model that accurately replicates the human disease, thus making it difficult to investigate potential risk factors for AD such as head injury. Furthermore, as age remains the strongest risk factor for most of the AD cases, transgenic models in which mutant human genes are expressed throughout the life span of the animal provide only limited insight into age-related factors in disease development. Guinea pigs (Cavia porcellus) are of interest in AD research because they have a similar A sequence to humans and thus may present a useful non-transgenic animal model of AD. Brains from guinea pigs aged 3-48 months were examined to determine the presence of age-associated AD-like pathology. In addition, fluid percussion-induced brain injury was performed to characterize mechanisms underlying the association between AD risk and head injury. No statistically significant changes were detected in the overall response to aging, although we did observe some region-specific changes. Diffuse deposits of A were found in the hippocampal region of the oldest animals and alterations in amyloid precursor protein processing and tau immunoreactivity were observed with age. Brain injury resulted in a strong and sustained increase in amyloid precursor protein and tau immunoreactivity without A deposition, over 7 days. Guinea pigs may therefore provide a useful model for investigating the influence of environmental and non-genetic risk factors on the pathogenesis of AD.
Post-ischemic inflammation plays an important role in the evolution of brain injury, recovery and repair after stroke. Housing rodents in an enriched environment provides multisensory stimulation to the brain and enhances functional recovery after experimental stroke, also depressing the release of cytokines and chemokines in the peri-infarct. In order to identify targets for late stroke treatment, we studied the dynamics of inflammation and the contribution of resident Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) expressing microglia cells. We took advantage of the biophotonic/bioluminescent imaging technique using the reporter mouse-expressing luciferase and GFP reporter genes under transcriptional control of the murine TLR2 promoter (TLR2-luc/GFP mice) for non-invasive in vivo analysis of TLR2 activation/response in photothrombotic stroke after differential housing. Real-time imaging at 1day after stroke, revealed up-regulation of TLR2 in response to photothrombotic stroke that subsequently declined over time of recovery (14days). The inflammatory response was persistently down-regulated within days of enriched housing, enhancing recovery of lost sensori-motor function in TLR2-luc mice without affecting infarct size. The number of YM1-expressing microglia in the peri-infarct and areas remote from the infarct was also markedly attenuated. Using a live imaging approach, we demonstrate that multisensory stimulation rapidly, persistently and generally attenuates brain inflammation after experimental stroke, reducing the TLR2 response and leading to improved neurological outcome. TLR2-expressing microglia cells may provide targets for new stroke therapeutics.
Although tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is known to promote neuronal remodeling in the CNS, no mechanism of how this plastic function takes place has been reported so far. We provide here in vitro and in vivo demonstrations that this serine protease neutralizes inhibitory chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) by promoting their degradation via the direct activation of endogenous type 4 disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs (ADAMTS-4). Accordingly, in a model of compression-induced spinal cord injury (SCI) in rats, we found that administration of either tPA or its downstream effector ADAMTS-4 restores the tPA-dependent activity lost after the SCI and thereby, reduces content of CSPGs in the spinal cord, a cascade of events leading to an improved axonal regeneration/sprouting and eventually long term functional recovery. This is the first study to reveal a tPA-ADAMTS-4 axis and its function in the CNS. It also raises the prospect of exploiting such cooperation as a therapeutic tool for enhancing recovery after acute CNS injuries.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder that is classically defined by a triad of movement and cognitive and psychiatric abnormalities with a well-established pathology that affects the dopaminergic systems of the brain. This has classically been described in terms of an early loss of dopamine D2 receptors (D2R), although interestingly the treatments most effectively used to treat patients with HD block these same receptors. We therefore sought to examine the dopaminergic system in HD not only in terms of striatal function but also at extrastriatal sites especially the hippocampus, given that transgenic (Tg) mice also exhibit deficits in hippocampal-dependent cognitive tests and a reduction in adult hippocampal neurogenesis. We showed that there was an early reduction of D2R in both the striatum and dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus in the R6/1 transgenic HD mouse ahead of any overt motor signs and before striatal neuronal loss. Despite downregulation of D2Rs in these sites, further reduction of the dopaminergic input to these sites by either medial forebrain bundle lesions or receptor blockade using sulpiride was able to improve both deficits in motor performance and adult hippocampal neurogenesis. In contrast, a reduction in dopaminergic innervation of the neurogenic niches resulted in impaired neurogenesis in healthy WT mice. This study therefore provides evidence that D2R blockade improves hippocampal and striatal deficits in HD mice although the underlying mechanism for this is unclear, and suggests that agents working within this network may have greater effects than previously thought.
Megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts (MLC) is a rare leukodystrophy caused by mutations in the gene encoding MLC1, a membrane protein mainly expressed in astrocytes in the central nervous system. Although MLC1 function is unknown, evidence is emerging that it may regulate ion fluxes. Using biochemical and proteomic approaches to identify MLC1 interactors and elucidate MLC1 function we found that MLC1 interacts with the vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), the proton pump that regulates endosomal acidity. Because we previously showed that in intracellular organelles MLC1 directly binds Na, K-ATPase, which controls endosomal pH, we studied MLC1 endosomal localization and trafficking and MLC1 effects on endosomal acidity and function using human astrocytoma cells overexpressing wild-type (WT) MLC1 or MLC1 carrying pathological mutations. We found that WT MLC1 is abundantly expressed in early (EEA1(+), Rab5(+)) and recycling (Rab11(+)) endosomes and uses the latter compartment to traffic to the plasma membrane during hyposmotic stress. We also showed that WT MLC1 limits early endosomal acidification and influences protein trafficking in astrocytoma cells by stimulating protein recycling, as revealed by FITC-dextran measurement of endosomal pH and transferrin protein recycling assay, respectively. WT MLC1 also favors recycling to the plasma-membrane of the TRPV4 cation channel which cooperates with MLC1 to activate calcium influx in astrocytes during hyposmotic stress. Although MLC disease-causing mutations differentially affect MLC1 localization and trafficking, all the mutated proteins fail to influence endosomal pH and protein recycling. This study demonstrates that MLC1 modulates endosomal pH and protein trafficking suggesting that alteration of these processes contributes to MLC pathogenesis.
GABA release provoked by ion dysregulations typical of some neuropathological conditions was analyzed in purified cerebellar synaptosomes pre-labeled with [(3)H]GABA and exposed in superfusion to KCl, 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) or veratridine. The overflows caused by relatively low concentrations of the releasers were almost totally external Ca(2+)-dependent. Higher concentrations of KCl or veratridine, but not 4-AP, involved also external Ca(2+)-independent mechanisms. The GABA overflows evoked by veratridine and, less so, the overflow evoked by high K(+), occurred in part by reversal of the GAT1 transporter. None of the depolarizing agents activated store-operated or transient receptor potential or L-type Ca(2+) channels. Only the overflow caused by 4-AP occurred in part by N- and P/Q-type voltage-sensitive calcium channel-dependent exocytosis. Significant portions of the external Ca(2+)-dependent overflows evoked by the three releasers involved reversal of plasmalemmal Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers. The overflows evoked by high K(+) or veratridine, but not by 4-AP were evoked by Ca(2+) originated through mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers. Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release mediated by inositoltrisphosphate receptors participated exclusively in the GABA release stimulated by high KCl which also occurred in a modest portion through anion channels. Important differences could be observed between the release mechanisms of GABA here described and those previously reported for glycine, in spite of the abundant vesicular co-localization of the two transmitters in cerebellar interneurons.
By binding to the benzodiazepine site, diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) is associated with negative allosteric modulation (NAM) of GABAA receptors (Costa and Guidotti in Life Sci 49:325-344, 1991). However, the demonstration of a true physiological role of DBI and its fragments has only recently been reported. Based on DBI gain- and loss-of-function experiments in vivo, DBI and its fragment ODN were found to promote neurogenesis in the subventricular zone in vivo. Acting as NAM on GABAA receptors of precursor cells, DBI counteracted the inhibitory effect of GABA and thereby enhanced the proliferation of these cells (Alfonso et al. in Cell Stem Cell 10:76-87, 2012). Conversely and most remarkably, in similar gain- and loss-of-function experiments in the thalamus, the DBI gene products acted as positive allosteric modulators (PAM) of GABAA receptors in prolonging the duration of IPSCs, an effect which was specific for GABA transmission within the reticular nucleus (nRT) (Christian et al. in Neuron 78:1063-1074, 2013). Since intra-nRT potentiation of GABA transmission by benzodiazepine drugs exerts powerful anti-oscillatory effects, DBI might be endogenously effective by modulating seizure susceptibility. It remains to be seen by which mechanism both NAM and PAM activity can arise from the Dbi gene. Nevertheless, the results open new perspectives on the regionally distinct endogenous modulation of GABA transmission via the benzodiazepine site.
Social isolation (SI) is a notable model of prolonged mild stress, characterized by multiple neurochemical and behavioral alterations, that appears particularly suitable for studying different aspects of the interplay between stress and ethanol (EtOH) consumption in order to characterize potential molecular mechanisms, including changes in the function of inhibitory GABAergic synapses, underlying such interaction. In C57BL/6J mice, SI is associated with an altered hippocampal concentration of the neuroactive steroids 3-hydroxy-5-pregnan-20-one (3-5-THP), an increased expression of the 4 and  subunit of -aminobutyric acid type A receptors (GABAARs) in the dentate gyrus (DG), and a parallel enhancement of the stimulatory action of 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c] pyridin-3-ol (THIP) on GABAergic tonic currents recorded in voltage-clamped DG granule cells (DGGCs). In addition, SI in C57BL/6J mice determines an increase in voluntary EtOH consumption and EtOH preference when compared to group-housed (GH) control animals. Furthermore, in hippocampal slices of SI mice we also observed a marked reduction of both cellular excitability and long term potentiation (LTP) in pyramidal neurons of the CA1 hippocampal sub-region, effects that were prevented by the long term treatment of SI mice with the neuroactive steroid precursor progesterone. In this article, we summarize some of our recent findings on the effects of SI in C57BL/6J mice on voluntary EtOH intake, regulation of GABAARs gene expression and function and hippocampal long term synaptic plasticity.



The alterations in resident gut microbiota seen in chronic gastrointestinal disorders have led to an increasing interest in the role of gut bacteria in maintaining intestinal barrier function. While acute alterations in colonic secretomotor function in response to pathogens have been well described, the effect of commensal bacteria on intestinal barrier function and colonic secretomotor function still remains poorly understood. Germ-free mice represent a model system to study effect of gut microbes on host gastrointestinal physiology. The study by Lomasney etal. represents an important step in this direction by demonstrating that the colonic secretomotor function is largely preserved in germ-free mice, hence making them a suitable model to study effect of gut microbiota on host function.
During the last five years ultra-high-field magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has enabled an unprecedented view of living human brain. Brain tissue contrast in most MRI sequences is known to reflect mainly the spatial distributions of myelin and iron. These distributions have been shown to overlap significantly in many brain regions, especially in the cortex. It is of increasing interest to distinguish and identify cortical areas by their appearance in MRI, which has been shown to be feasible in vivo. Parcellation can benefit greatly from quantification of the independent contributions of iron and myelin to MRI contrast. Recent studies using susceptibility mapping claim to allow such a separation of the effects of myelin and iron in MRI. We show, using post-mortem human brain tissue, that this goal can be achieved. After MRI scanning of the block with appropriate T1 mapping and T2* weighted sequences, we section the block and apply a novel technique, proton induced X-ray emission (PIXE), to spatially map iron, phosphorus and sulfur elemental concentrations, simultaneously with 1m spatial resolution. Because most brain phosphorus is located in myelin phospholipids, a calibration step utilizing element maps of sulfur enables semi-quantitative ex vivo mapping of myelin concentration. Combining results for iron and myelin concentration in a linear model, we have accurately modeled MRI tissue contrasts. Conversely, iron and myelin concentrations can now be estimated from appropriate MRI measurements in post-mortem brain samples.
The identification of phenotypic associations in high-dimensional brain connectivity data represents the next frontier in the neuroimaging connectomics era. Exploration of brain-phenotype relationships remains limited by statistical approaches that are computationally intensive, depend on a priori hypotheses, or require stringent correction for multiple comparisons. Here, we propose a computationally efficient, data-driven technique for connectome-wide association studies (CWAS) that provides a comprehensive voxel-wise survey of brain-behavior relationships across the connectome; the approach identifies voxels whose whole-brain connectivity patterns vary significantly with a phenotypic variable. Using resting state fMRI data, we demonstrate the utility of our analytic framework by identifying significant connectivity-phenotype relationships for full-scale IQ and assessing their overlap with existent neuroimaging findings, as synthesized by openly available automated meta-analysis (www.neurosynth.org). The results appeared to be robust to the removal of nuisance covariates (i.e., mean connectivity, global signal, and motion) and varying brain resolution (i.e., voxelwise results are highly similar to results using 800 parcellations). We show that CWAS findings can be used to guide subsequent seed-based correlation analyses. Finally, we demonstrate the applicability of the approach by examining CWAS for three additional datasets, each encompassing a distinct phenotypic variable: neurotypical development, Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder diagnostic status, and L-DOPA pharmacological manipulation. For each phenotype, our approach to CWAS identified distinct connectome-wide association profiles, not previously attainable in a single study utilizing traditional univariate approaches. As a computationally efficient, extensible, and scalable method, our CWAS framework can accelerate the discovery of brain-behavior relationships in the connectome.
Heavy demands are placed on the brain's attentional capacity when selecting a target item in a cluttered visual scene, or when reading. It is widely accepted that such attentional selection is mediated by top-down signals from higher cortical areas to early visual areas such as the primary visual cortex (V1). Further, it has also been reported that there is considerable variation in the surface area of V1. This variation may impact on either the number or specificity of attentional feedback signals and, thereby, the efficiency of attentional mechanisms. In this study, we investigated whether individual differences between humans performing attention-demanding tasks can be related to the functional area of V1. We found that those with a larger representation in V1 of the central 12 of the visual field as measured using BOLD signals from fMRI were able to perform a serial search task at a faster rate. In line with recent suggestions of the vital role of visuo-spatial attention in reading, the speed of reading showed a strong positive correlation with the speed of visual search, although it showed little correlation with the size of V1. The results support the idea that the functional size of the primary visual cortex is an important determinant of the efficiency of selective spatial attention for simple tasks, and that the attentional processing required for complex tasks like reading are to a large extent determined by other brain areas and inter-areal connections.
Naturalistic observation and experimental studies in humans and other primates show that observing an individual in need automatically triggers helping behavior. The aim of the present study is to clarify the neurofunctional basis of social influences on individual helping behavior. We investigate whether when participants witness an emergency, while performing an unrelated color-naming task in an fMRI scanner, the number of bystanders present at the emergency influences neural activity in regions related to action preparation. The results show a decrease in activity with the increase in group size in the left pre- and postcentral gyri and left medial frontal gyrus. In contrast, regions related to visual perception and attention show an increase in activity. These results demonstrate the neural mechanisms of social influence on automatic action preparation that is at the core of helping behavior when witnessing an emergency.
It has been proposed that the well-established relationship between working memory (WM) and fluid intelligence (gf) is mediated by executive mechanisms underlying interference control. The latter relies upon the integrity of a frontoparietal brain network, whose activity is modulated by general cognition. In regards to the chronology of this activation, only few EEG studies investigated the topic, although none of them examined the regional interaction or the effects of individual differences in gf. The current investigation sought at extending previous research by characterizing the EEG markers (temporal activation and regional coupling) of interference control and the effects of the individual variation in gf. To this end, we recorded the EEG activity of 33 participants while performing verbal and spatial versions of a 3-back WM task. In a separate session, participants were administered with a test of fluid intelligence. Interference-inducing trials were associated with an increased negativity in the frontal scalp region occurring in two separate time windows and probably reflecting two different stages of the underlying cognitive process. In addition, we found that scalp distribution of such activity differed among individuals, being the strongest activation of the left and right frontolateral sites related to high gf level. Finally, high- and low-gf participants showed different patterns in the modulation of regional connectivity (electrodes coherence in the range of 4.5-7.5Hz) according to changes in attention load among types of trials. Our findings suggest that high-gf participants may rely upon effective engagement and modulation of attention resources to face interference.
Perspectives of human brain functional connectivity continue to evolve. Static representations of functional interactions between brain regions are rapidly giving way to dynamic perspectives, which emphasize non-random temporal variations in intrinsic functional connectivity (iFC) patterns. Here, we bring this dynamic perspective to our understanding of iFC patterns for posteromedial cortex (PMC), a cortical hub known for its functional diversity. Previous work has consistently differentiated iFC patterns among PMC subregions, though assumed static iFC over time. Here, we assessed iFC as a function of time utilizing a sliding-window correlation approach, and applied hierarchical clustering to detect representative iFC states from the windowed iFC. Across subregions, five iFC states were detected over time. Although with differing frequencies, each subregion was associated with each of the states, suggesting that these iFC states are &quot;common&quot; to PMC subregions. Importantly, each subregion possessed a unique preferred state(s) and distinct transition patterns, explaining previously observed iFC differentiations. These results resonate with task-based fMRI studies suggesting that large-scale functional networks can be flexibly reconfigured in response to changing task-demands. Additionally, we used retest scans (~1week later) to demonstrate the reproducibility of the iFC states identified, and establish moderate to high test-retest reliability for various metrics used to quantify switching behaviors. We also demonstrate the ability of dynamic properties in the visual PMC subregion to index inter-individual differences in a measure of concept formation and mental flexibility. These findings suggest functional relevance of dynamic iFC and its potential utility in biomarker identification over time, as d-iFC methodologies are refined and mature.
A fundamental tenet of neuroscience is that cortical functional differentiation is related to the cross-areal differences in cyto-, receptor-, and myeloarchitectonics that are observed in ex-vivo preparations. An ongoing challenge is to create noninvasive magnetic resonance (MR) imaging techniques that offer sufficient resolution, tissue contrast, accuracy and precision to allow for characterization of cortical architecture over an entire living human brain. One exciting development is the advent of fast, high-resolution quantitative mapping of basic MR parameters that reflect cortical myeloarchitecture. Here, we outline some of the theoretical and technical advances underlying this technique, particularly in terms of measuring and correcting for transmit and receive radio frequency field inhomogeneities. We also discuss new directions in analytic techniques, including higher resolution reconstructions of the cortical surface. We then discuss two recent applications of this technique. The first compares individual and group myelin maps to functional retinotopic maps in the same individuals, demonstrating a close relationship between functionally and myeloarchitectonically defined areal boundaries (as well as revealing an interesting disparity in a highly studied visual area). The second combines tonotopic and myeloarchitectonic mapping to localize primary auditory areas in individual healthy adults, using a similar strategy as combined electrophysiological and post-mortem myeloarchitectonic studies in non-human primates.
The frontal pole has more expanded than any other part in the human brain as compared to our ancestors. It plays an important role for specifically human behavior and cognitive abilities, e.g. action selection (Kovach et al., 2012). Evidence about divergent functions of its medial and lateral part has been provided, both in the healthy brain and in psychiatric disorders. The anatomical correlates of such functional segregation, however, are still unknown due to a lack of stereotaxic, microstructural maps obtained in a representative sample of brains. Here we show that the human frontopolar cortex consists of two cytoarchitectonically and functionally distinct areas: lateral frontopolar area 1 (Fp1) and medial frontopolar area 2 (Fp2). Based on observer-independent mapping in serial, cell-body stained sections of 10 brains, three-dimensional, probabilistic maps of areas Fp1 and Fp2 were created. They show, for each position of the reference space, the probability with which each area was found in a particular voxel. Applying these maps as seed regions for a meta-analysis revealed that Fp1 and Fp2 differentially contribute to functional networks: Fp1 was involved in cognition, working memory and perception, whereas Fp2 was part of brain networks underlying affective processing and social cognition. The present study thus disclosed cortical correlates of a functional segregation of the human frontopolar cortex. The probabilistic maps provide a sound anatomical basis for interpreting neuroimaging data in the living human brain, and open new perspectives for analyzing structure-function relationships in the prefrontal cortex. The new data will also serve as a starting point for further comparative studies between human and non-human primate brains. This allows finding similarities and differences in the organizational principles of the frontal lobe during evolution as neurobiological basis for our behavior and cognitive abilities.
&quot;In vivo Brodmann mapping&quot; or non-invasive cortical parcellation using MRI, especially by measuring cortical myelination, has recently become a popular research topic, though myeloarchitectonic cortical parcellation in humans previously languished in favor of cytoarchitecture. We review recent in vivo myelin mapping studies and discuss some of the different methods for estimating myelin content. We discuss some ways in which myelin maps may improve surface registration and be useful for cross-modal and cross-species comparisons, including some preliminary cross-species results. Next, we consider neurobiological aspects of why some parts of cortex are more myelinated than others. Myelin content is inversely correlated with intracortical circuit complexity - in general, more myelin content means simpler and perhaps less dynamic intracortical circuits. Using existing PET data and functional network parcellations, we examine metabolic differences in the differently myelinated cortical functional networks. Lightly myelinated cognitive association networks tend to have higher aerobic glycolysis than heavily myelinated early sensory-motor ones, perhaps reflecting greater ongoing dynamic anabolic cortical processes. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that intracortical myelination may stabilize intracortical circuits and inhibit synaptic plasticity. Finally, we discuss the future of the in vivo myeloarchitectural field and cortical parcellation--&quot;in vivo Brodmann mapping&quot;--in general.
Ultra-high-field (UHF) MRI is ideally suited for structural and functional imaging of the brain. High-resolution structural MRI can be used to map the anatomical boundaries between functional domains of the brain by identifying changes related to the pattern of myelination within cortical gray matter, opening up the possibility to study the relationship between functional domains and underlying structure in vivo. In a recent study, we demonstrated the correspondence between functional (based on retinotopic mapping) and structural (based on changes in T2()-weighted images linked to myelination) parcellations of the primary visual cortex (V1) in vivo at 7T (Sanchez-Panchuelo et al., 2012b). Here, we take advantage of the improved BOLD CNR and high spatial resolution achievable at 7T to study regional structural variations across the functionally defined areas within the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) in individual subjects. Using a traveling wave fMRI paradigm to map the internal somatotopic representation of the index, middle, and ring fingers in S1, we were able to identify multiple map reversals at the tip and base, corresponding to the boundaries between Brodmann areas 3a, 3b, 1 and 2. Based on high resolution structural MRI data acquired in the same subjects, we inspected these functionally-parcellated Brodmann areas for differences in cortical thickness and MR contrast measures (magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) and signal intensity in phase sensitive inversion recovery (PSIR) images) that are sensitive to myelination. Consistent area-related differences in cortical thickness and MTR/PSIR measurements were found across subjects. However these measures did not have sufficient sensitivity to allow definition of areal boundaries.
Visual area MT is a model of choice in primate neurophysiological and human imaging research of visual perception, due to its considerable sensitivity to moving stimuli and the strong direction selectivity of its neurons. While the location of MT(V5) in the non-human primate is easily identifiable based on gross anatomy and appears consistent between animals, this is less the case in human subjects. Functional localisation of human MT+ with moving stimuli can identify a group of motion-sensitive regions, but defining MT proper has proved more challenging. In this review we consider approaches to studying the cyto- and myleoarchitecture of this cortical area that may, in the future, allow identification of human MT in vivo based on anatomy.

Cold pressure test (CPT) and mental stress test (MST) are distinct tests usually leading to blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) increase. Their patterns in multiple sclerosis (MS) are still unknown. This study assessed cardiovascular reactivity to MST and CPT in patients with MS and controls. MST was performed with Stroop test card. CPT was performed with cold stimulus. The BP and HR were digitally recorded at rest and test phases. The delta () and the variance of BP and HR were compared between patients and controls. Patients with MS had lower  of diastolic BP and HR induced by MST than controls. There were no differences between patients and controls with CPT. The reduced autonomic reactivity to MST but not with CPT suggests that specific central nervous system pathways involved in MST may be responsible for autonomic findings in MS.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common malignant glioma, which has high proliferative rate and an extremely invasive phenotype. Major limitations in the effective treatment of malignant gliomas are the proliferation and infiltration into the surrounding brain tissue. Although studies have shown that various stimuli promote glioma cell proliferation and invasion, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Glioma cells secrete significant amount of glutamate into surrounding tissue and intracellular signaling is thought to be initiated upon glutamate-induced modulation of the ion channels in GBM cells. The objective of the study was to investigate the effect of activation of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors of glutamate on gelatinase subfamily MMPs and on proliferation of glioma cells. U251MG and U87MG cell lines were maintained in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium. Proliferation assay was investigated by 3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide, a yellow tetrazole (MTT) assay. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and MMP-9 activity was investigated by gelatin zymography assay. We demonstrate that activated NMDA receptors (NMDAR) increased the activity of MMP-2 only in U251MG glioma cells at concentrations of 100 and 200M and increased the proliferation of both U87MG and U251MG glioma cells at concentrations of 50, 100, 150 and 200M. Inhibition of NMDAR using MK-801, a non-competitive antagonist of the NMDAR, significantly inhibited the effect of activation of NMDAR on MMP-2 activity and on proliferation. We conclude that NMDA receptor activation has role in activity of MMP-2 and proliferation of glioma cells.
Down's syndrome (DS) patients develop early Alzheimer's disease pathology with abundant cortical amyloid plaques, likely due to overproduction of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), which subsequently leads to amyloid  (A) aggregation. This is reflected in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of the 42-amino acid long A peptide (A1-42), which are increased in young DS patients and decreases with age. However, it is unclear whether DS also affects other aspects of A metabolism, including production of shorter C- and N-terminal truncated A peptides, and production of peptides from the amyloid precursor-like protein 1 (APLP1), which is related to APP, and cleaved by the same enzymatic processing machinery. APLP1-derived peptides may be surrogate markers for A1-42 production in the brain. Here, we used hybrid immunoaffinity-mass spectrometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays to monitor several A and APLP1 peptides in CSF from DS patients (n=12) and healthy controls (n=20). CSF levels of A1-42 and three endogenous peptides derived from APLP1 (APL125, APL127 and APL128) were decreased in DS compared with controls, while a specific A peptide, A1-28, was increased in a majority of the DS individuals. This study indicates that DS causes previously unknown specific alterations of APP and APLP1 metabolism.
Ventral midbrain (VM) dopaminergic (DA) neurons project to the dorsal striatum via the nigrostriatal pathway to regulate voluntary movements, and their loss leads to the motor dysfunction seen in Parkinson's disease (PD). Despite recent progress in the understanding of VM DA neurogenesis, the factors regulating nigrostriatal pathway development remain largely unknown. The bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family regulates neurite growth in the developing nervous system and may contribute to nigrostriatal pathway development. Two related members of this family, BMP2 and growth differentiation factor (GDF)5, have neurotrophic effects, including promotion of neurite growth, on cultured VM DA neurons. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating their effects on DA neurons are unknown. By characterising the temporal expression profiles of endogenous BMP receptors (BMPRs) in the developing and adult rat VM and striatum, this study identified BMP2 and GDF5 as potential regulators of nigrostriatal pathway development. Furthermore, through the use of noggin, dorsomorphin and BMPR/Smad plasmids, this study demonstrated that GDF5- and BMP2-induced neurite outgrowth from cultured VM DA neurons is dependent on BMP type I receptor activation of the Smad 1/5/8 signalling pathway.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1A (CMT1A) and hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies (HNPP) are both autosomal-dominant disorders linked to peripheral myelin anomalies. CMT1A is associated with a Peripheral Myelin Protein 22 (PMP22) duplication, whereas HNPP is due to a PMP22 deletion on chromosome 17. In spite of this crucial difference, we report three observations of patients with the 1.4 megabase CMT1A duplication and atypical presentation (electrophysiological, clinical or pathological): a 10 year-old girl with tomaculous lesions on nerve biopsy; a 26 year-old woman with recurrent paresthesiae and block conduction on the electrophysiological study; a 46 year-old woman with transient recurrent nerve palsies mimicking HNPP. These observations highlight the wide spectrum of CMT1A and the overlap between CMT1A and HNPP (both linked to the PMP22 gene), and finally illustrate the complexity of the genotype-phenotype correlations in Charcot-Marie-Tooth diseases.
The muscular dystrophies are a broad group of hereditary muscle diseases with variable severity. Population-based prevalence estimates have been reported but pooled estimates are not available. We performed a systematic review of worldwide population-based studies reporting muscular dystrophies prevalence and/or incidence using MEDLINE and EMBASE databases. The search strategy included key terms related to muscular dystrophies, incidence, prevalence and epidemiology. Two reviewers independently reviewed all abstracts, full text articles and abstracted data using standardized forms. Pooling of prevalence estimates was performed using random effect models. 1104 abstracts and 167 full text articles were reviewed. Thirty-one studies met all eligibility criteria and were included in the final analysis. The studies differed widely in their approaches to case ascertainment, resulting in significant methodological heterogeneity and varied data quality. The pooled prevalence of DMD and BMD was 4.78 (95% CI 1.94-11.81) and 1.53 (95% CI 0.26-8.94) per 100,000 males respectively. The incidence of DMD ranged from 10.71 to 27.78 per 100,000. This is the first meta-analysis of worldwide prevalence estimates for muscular dystrophies. There is a need for more epidemiological studies addressing global estimates on incidence and prevalence of muscular dystrophies, utilizing standardized diagnostic criteria as well as multiple sources of case ascertainment.




ObjectiveWith the identification of mutations in the conserved telomere maintenance component 1 (CTC1) gene as the cause of Coats plus (CP) disease, it has become evident that leukoencephalopathy with calcifications and cysts (LCC) is a distinct genetic entity. Patients and MethodsA total of 15 patients with LCC were identified from our database of patients with intracranial calcification. The clinical and radiological features are described. ResultsThe median age (range) at presentation was 10 months (range, 2 days-54 years). Of the 15 patients, 9 presented with epileptic seizures, 5 with motor abnormalities, and 1 with developmental delay. Motor abnormalities developed in 14 patients and cognitive problems in 13 patients. Dense calcification occurred in the basal ganglia, thalami, dentate nucleus, brain stem, deep gyri, deep white matter, and in a pericystic distribution. Diffuse leukoencephalopathy was present in all patients, and it was usually symmetrical involving periventricular, deep, and sometimes subcortical, regions. Cysts developed in the basal ganglia, thalamus, deep white matter, cerebellum, or brain stem. In unaffected areas, normal myelination was present. No patient demonstrated cerebral atrophy. ConclusionLCC shares the neuroradiological features of CP. However, LCC is a purely neurological disorder distinguished genetically by the absence of mutations in CTC1. The molecular cause(s) of LCC has (have) not yet been determined.
The orexins (hypocretins) are lateral hypothalamic (LH) neuropeptides that have been implicated in a variety of behaviors ranging from feeding to sleep and arousal. Evidence from animal models suggests a role for orexins in reward processing and drug addiction. In the present study, we investigated the direct effect of an orexin antagonist in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) on acquisition and expression of morphine conditioned place preference (CPP) induced by concurrent stimulation of the LH. Eighty-one adult male Wistar rats weighing 220-280g were unilaterally implanted by two separate cannulae into the LH and VTA. The CPP paradigm was done; conditioning score and locomotor activity were recorded by Ethovision software. The animals received SB334867 as a selective orexin-1 receptor antagonist (0.1, 1 and 10nmol/0.3l DMSO) in the VTA, just 5min prior to intra-LH administration of ineffective dose of carbachol as a cholinergic agonist (62.5nmol/0.5l saline) that stimulates orexin neurons in the LH and ineffective dose of morphine (1mg/kg, subcutaneously) concurrently during conditioning phase (acquisition experiments) or post-conditioning phase (expression experiments). Data showed that the blockade of orexin-1 receptors in the VTA could inhibit the acquisition (development) but not expression of LH stimulation-induced morphine CPP in the rats. Our findings suggest that the orexinergic projections from the LH to the VTA are involved in the development of the LH stimulation-induced potentiation of morphine rewarding properties and orexin-1 receptors in the VTA have a substantial role in this phenomenon.

The potent orexigenic peptide neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been considered as a possible endogenous ligand for a subpopulation of sigma receptors (SigR). However, their mutual interaction with reference to feeding behavior remains poorly understood. In the present study, we explored the possible interaction between sigma1 receptors (Sig1R) agonist, pentazocine, and NPY on food intake in satiated rats. While pentazocine dose-dependently reduced the food intake, NPY significantly increased it at 2, 4 and 6h post injection time points. In combination studies, pretreatment with NPY (0.1nmol/rat, intra-PVN) normalized the inhibitory effect of pentazocine (60g/rat, intra-PVN) on food intake. Similarly, pre-treatment with pentazocine (30g/rat, intra-PVN) significantly antagonized the orexigenic effect of NPY (0.5 and 1.0nmol/rat, intra-PVN). Moreover, pentazocine treatment decreased NPY immunoreactivity in arcuate (ARC), paraventricular (PVN), dorsomedial (DMH) and ventromedial (VMH) nuclei of hypothalamus. However, no change was observed in lateral hypothalamus (LH). Study implicates the reduced NPY immunoreactivity for the anorectic effect observed following pentazocine injections. Therefore, the concomitant activation of the NPYergic system along with the Sig1R agonist treatment may serve a useful purpose in the management of the unwanted side effects related to energy homeostasis.
An animal model closely related to human obesity is diet-induced obesity in Sprague-Dawley rats. These rats placed on a high-energy (HE) diet show wide distribution in body weight gain with a subset of animals developing diet-induced obesity (DIO) and the remaining animals showing a diet-resistant (DR) phenotype. Once obesity is established, DIO rats strongly defend their increased body weight against caloric restriction. There is evidence that neuropeptide relaxin-3 is involved in food intake regulation, but the levels of expression of relaxin-3 and its receptor have not been yet demonstrated in the DIO model. The present study investigated the brain expression of relaxin-3 and its cognate receptor RXFP3 in DIO and DR rats maintained on an HE diet since weaning. Expression of relaxin-3 and RXFP3 mRNAs was assessed by in situ hybridization in ad libitum, food-deprived (12h) and refed (1h) feeding states. The levels of expression of relaxin-3 in the medial portion of the nucleus incertus (NI) were higher in the DIO rats compared to the DR rats in the ad libitum-fed state. Food deprivation increased the levels of expression of relaxin-3 in the medial NI in DR but not DIO rats. The stronger expression of relaxin-3 in the ad libitum-fed state in the DIO rats was accompanied by low expression of the RXFP3 receptor in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN), supraoptic nucleus, central amygdala (CeA), NI, and nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). Refeeding increased expression of RXFP3 in the paraventricular thalamic nucleus, parvocellular PVN, CeA, NI, and NTS in the DIO rats. These results provide evidence that DIO rats show a constitutive increase in relaxin-3 expression in the medial NI and that refeeding after food deprivation may enhance the orexigenic effects of relaxin-3 in DIO rats by rapid upregulation of the expression of RXFP3 in the specific brain regions involved in food intake regulation.
Preclinical evidence indicates an important role of adenosine (A)(2A) receptors in drug addiction while their therapeutic relevance is still a matter of debate. We examined the influence of the A(2A) receptor agonist CGS 21680 and the antagonist KW 6002 on nicotine sensitization and conditioned locomotor activity in adult (8-week old) male Sprague-Dawley rats (WT). Moreover, behavioral responses to nicotine were studied in rats overexpressing A(2A) receptors under the control of the neuronal specific enolase (NSE) promotor. Changes in the levels of dopamine, glutamate and -aminobutyric acid in wild type (WT) and NSEA(2A) rats were determined with using LC-MS. KW 6002 significantly enhanced expression of nicotine sensitization and conditioned locomotion, while CGS 21680 reduced all these effects in WT rats. A reduction of the expression of nicotine-evoked conditioned locomotor activity was also observed in the NSEA(2A) animals. The transgenic rats displayed a reduced basal tissue level of glutamate in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus while dopamine basal levels in the nucleus accumbens were raised. Chronic nicotine treatment caused a significant reduction in the glutamate tissue level in the dorsal and ventral striatum, prefrontal cortex and cerebellum in wild type rats. In NSEA(2A) animals the same drug treatment instead produced a rise of glutamate levels in the hippocampus and dorsal striatum. Taken together, A(2A) receptor signaling in the rat brain can counteract locomotor sensitization and conditioned locomotion to nicotine which are related to nicotine reward-learning. It is suggested that treatment with A(2A) receptor agonists can help counteract the abuse actions of nicotine.
Trace Amine-Associated Receptor 1 (TAAR1) is a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) expressed in several mammalian brain areas and activated by &quot;trace amines&quot; (TAs). TAs role is unknown; however, discovery of their receptors provided an opportunity to investigate their functions. Invivo evidence has indicated an inhibitory influence of TAAR1 on dopamine (DA) neurotransmission, presumably via modulation of dopamine transporter (DAT) or interaction with the D2 DA receptor and/or activation of inwardly rectifying K(+) channels. To elucidate the mechanisms of TAAR1-dependent modulation, we used TAAR1 knockout mice (TAAR1-KO), a TAAR1 agonist (RO5166017) and a TAAR1 antagonist (EPPTB) in a set of neurochemical experiments. Analysis of the tissue content of TAAR1-KO revealed increased level of the DA metabolite homovanillic acid (HVA), and invivo microdialysis showed increased extracellular DA in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) of TAAR1-KO. In fast scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) experiments, the evoked DA release was higher in the TAAR1-KO NAcc. Furthermore, the agonist RO5166017 induced a decrease in the DA release in wild-type that could be prevented by the application of the TAAR1 antagonist EPPTB. No alterations in DA clearance, which are mediated by the DAT, were observed. To evaluate the interaction between TAAR1 and D2 autoreceptors, we tested the autoreceptor-mediated dynamics. Only in wild type mice, the TAAR1 agonist was able to potentiate quinpirole-induced inhibitory effect on DA release. Furthermore, the short-term plasticity of DA release following paired pulses was decreased in TAAR1-KO, indicating less autoinhibition of D2 autoreceptors. These observations suggest a close interaction between TAAR1 and the D2 autoreceptor regulation.
N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has been reported to reverse the psychotomimetic effects in the rodent phencyclidine model of psychosis and shown beneficial effects in treating patients with schizophrenia. The effect of NAC has been associated with facilitating the activity of cystine-glutamate antiporters on glial cells concomitant with the release of non-vesicular glutamate, which mainly stimulates the presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 2 receptors (mGluR2). Recent evidence demonstrated that functional interactions between serotonin 5-HT2A receptor (5-HT(2A)R) and mGluR2 are responsible to unique cellular responses when targeted by hallucinogenic drugs. The present study determined the effects of NAC on hallucinogenic 5-HT(2A)R agonist ()1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI)-elicited behavioral and molecular responses in mice and DOI-evoked field potentials in the mouse cortical slices. NAC significantly attenuated DOI-induced head twitch response and expression of c-Fos and Egr-2 in the infralimbic and motor cortex and suppressed the increase in the frequency of excitatory field potentials elicited by DOI in the medial prefrontal cortex. In addition, the cystine-glutamate antiporter inhibitor (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine (CPG) and the mGluR2 antagonist LY341495 reversed the suppressing effects of NAC on DOI-induced head twitch and molecular responses and increased frequency of excitatory field potentials, supporting that NAC attenuates the 5-HT(2A)R-mediated hallucinogenic effects via increased activity of cystine-glutamate antiporter followed by activation of mGluR2 receptors. These findings implicate NAC as a potential therapeutic agent for hallucinations and psychosis associated with hallucinogen use and schizophrenia.
Parkinson's disease (PD) involves an initial loss of striatal dopaminergic terminals evolving into a degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN), which can be modeled by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) administration. Since ATP is a danger signal acting through its P2X7 receptors (P2X7R), we now tested if a blood-brain barrier-permeable P2X7R antagonist, Brilliant Blue G (BBG), controlled the 6-OHDA-induced PD-like features in rats. BBG (45mg/kg) attenuated the 6-OHDA-induced: 1) increase of contralateral rotations in the apomorphine test, an effect mimicked by another P2X7R antagonist A438079 applied intra-cerebroventricularly; 2) short-term memory impairment in the passive avoidance and cued version of the Morris Water maze; 3) reduction of dopamine content in the striatum and SN; 4) microgliosis and astrogliosis in the striatum. To grasp the mechanism of action of BBG, we used invitro models exploring synaptotoxicity (striatal synaptosomes) and neurotoxicity (dopamine-differentiated neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells). P2X7R were present in striatal dopaminergic terminals, and BBG (100nM) prevented the 6-OHDA-induced synaptosomal dysfunction. P2X7R were also co-localized with tyrosine hydroxylase in SH-SY5Y cells, where BBG (100nM) attenuated the 6-OHDA-induced neurotoxicity. This suggests that P2X7R contribute to PD pathogenesis through a triple impact on synaptotoxicity, gliosis and neurotoxicity, highlighting the therapeutic potential of P2X7R antagonists in PD.
11-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11-HSD1) catalyzes intracellular regeneration of corticosterone and cortisol, thereby enhancing glucocorticoid action. Inhibition of 11-HSD1 reverses the deficits in cognition with aging, a state of elevated glucocorticoid levels. However, any impact of 11-HSD1 inhibition during high glucocorticoid states in younger animals is unknown. Here we examined whether a single injection of the selective 11-HSD1 inhibitor UE2316 modifies the effect of stress on hippocampal long-term potentiation and fear conditioning, a learning paradigm that is strongly modulated by glucocorticoids. We found that novelty stress suppresses hippocampal synaptic potentiation. This effect was completely prevented by administration of UE2316 one hour before stress exposure. A single injection of UE2316 also impaired contextual, but not tone-cue-fear conditioning. These observations suggest that local metabolism of glucocorticoids is relevant for the outcome of stress effects on hippocampal synaptic plasticity and contextual fear conditioning. Selective 11-HSD1 inhibitors may be an interesting new approach to the prevention of trauma-associated psychopathology.
Serotonin (5-HT) dysfunction has been involved in both movement and behavioral disorders. Serotonin pharmacology improves dyskinetic movements as well as depressive, anxious, aggressive and anorexic symptoms. Animal models have been useful to investigate more precisely to what extent 5-HT is involved and whether drugs targeting the 5-HT system can counteract the symptoms exhibited. We review existing rodent and non-human primate (NHP) animal models in which selective 5-HT or dual 5-HT-norepinephrine (NE) transporter inhibitors, as well as specific 5-HT receptors agonists and antagonists, monoamine oxidase A inhibitors (IMAO-A) and MDMA (Ecstasy) have been used. We review overlaps between the various drug classes involved. We confront behavioral paradigms and treatment regimen. Some but not all animal models and associated pharmacological treatments have been extensively studied in the litterature. In particular, the impact of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) has been extensively investigated using a variety of pharmacological or genetic rodent models of depression, anxiety, aggressiveness. But the validity of these rodent models is questioned. On the contrary, few studies did address the potential impact of targeting the 5-HT system on NHP models of behavioral disorders, despite the fact that those models may match more closely to human pathologies. Further investigations with carefull behavioral analysis will improve our understanding of neural bases underlying the pathophysiology of movement and behavioral disorders.
Organophosphorus nerve agents are powerful neurotoxins that irreversibly inhibit acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity. One of the consequences of AChE inhibition is the generation of seizures and status epilepticus (SE), which cause brain damage, resulting in long-term neurological and behavioral deficits. Increased anxiety is the most common behavioral abnormality after nerve agent exposure. This is not surprising considering that the amygdala, and the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) in particular, plays a central role in anxiety, and this structure suffers severe damage by nerve agent-induced seizures. In the present study, we exposed male rats to the nerve agent soman, at a dose that induce SE, and determined the time course of recovery of AChE activity, along with the progression of neuropathological and pathophysiological alterations in the BLA, during a 30-day period after exposure. Measurements were taken at 24h, 7 days, 14 days, and 30 days after exposure, and at 14 and 30 days, anxiety-like behavior was also evaluated. We found that more than 90% of AChE is inhibited at the onset of SE, and AChE inhibition remains at this level 24h later, in the BLA, as well as in the hippocampus, piriform cortex, and prelimbic cortex, which we analyzed for comparison. AChE activity recovered by day 7 in the BLA and day 14 in the other three regions. Significant neuronal loss and neurodegeneration were present in the BLA at 24h and throughout the 30-day period. There was no significant loss of GABAergic interneurons in the BLA at 24h post-exposure. However, by day 7, the number of GABAergic interneurons in the BLA was reduced, and at 14 and 30 days after soman, the ratio of GABAergic interneurons to the total number of neurons was lower compared to controls. Anxiety-like behavior in the open-field and the acoustic startle response tests was increased at 14 and 30 days post-exposure. Accompanying pathophysiological alterations in the BLA - studied in invitro brain slices - included a reduction in the amplitude of field potentials evoked by stimulation of the external capsule, along with prolongation of their time course and an increase in the paired-pulse ratio. Long-term potentiation was impaired at 24h, 7 days, and 14 days post-exposure. The loss of GABAergic interneurons in the BLA and the decreased interneuron to total number of neurons ratio may be the primary cause of the development of anxiety after nerve agent exposure.
Dimiracetam, a bicyclic 2-pyrrolidinone derivative originally developed as cognition enhancer, is a member of the nootropic family for which anecdotal efficacy in models of neuropathic pain has been reported. Its antineuropathic activity was evaluated in established models of neuropathic pain induced by nerve injury, chemotherapy or MIA-induced osteoarthritis. Acutely, dimiracetam was very effective in models of antiretroviral drug induced painful neuropathy, oxaliplatin-induced hyperalgesia and in the MIA-osteoarthritis. Chronic dimiracetam dosing in the MIA and ART- induced models completely reverted hyperalgesia back to the level of healthy controls. Once reached, the maximal effect was maintained despite dose diminution and increased inter-dose interval. The effect of the last dose outlasted dimiracetam half-life longer than 12 times. In synaptosomal preparations, dimiracetam counteracted the NMDA-induced release of glutamate with highest potency in the spinal cord, possibly via NMDA receptor isoforms containing pH-sensitive GluN1 and GluN2A subunits. Dimiracetam appears to be a promising and safe treatment for neuropathic pain conditions for which there are very limited therapeutic options.
Physical exercise has become a potentially beneficial therapy for reducing neurodegeneration symptoms in Alzheimer's disease. Previous studies have shown that cognitive deterioration, anxiety and the startle response observed in 7-month-old 3xTg-AD mice were ameliorated after 6 months of free access to a running wheel. Also, alterations in synaptic response to paired-pulse stimulation were improved. The present study further investigated some molecular mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of 6 months of voluntary exercise on synaptic plasticity in 7-month-old 3xTg-AD mice. Changes in binding parameters of [(3)H]-flunitrazepam to GABAA receptor and of [(3)H]-MK-801 to NMDA receptor in cerebral cortex of 3xTgAD mice were restored by voluntary exercise. In addition, reduced expression levels of NMDA receptor NR2B subunit were reestablished. The synaptic proteins synaptophysin and PSD-95 and the neuroprotective proteins GDNF and SIRT1 were downregulated in 3xTgAD mice and were recovered by exercise treatment. Overall, in this paper we highlight the fact that different interrelated mechanisms are involved in the beneficial effects of exercise on synaptic plasticity alterations in the 3xTg-AD mouse model.
Although the underlying pathophysiology of anxiety disorders is unknown it is clear that a combination of genetic and environmental factors in early life predispose to disease risk. Preclinical research increasingly suggests an important role for the GABAB receptor in modulating anxiety behaviour, with GABAB receptor deficient mice having increased anxiety behaviour. Previous studies have highlighted critical windows during development where adult anxiety behaviour is primed. However, little is known regarding the role played by the GABAB receptors in the developmental processes that underlie adult anxiety behaviour. To this end, we treated male BALB/c mouse pups with the either the selective GABAB receptor agonist, R-baclofen (2mg/kg, s.c), the GABAB receptor antagonist CGP 52432 (10mg/kg and 30mg/kg) or vehicle from postnatal days (P) 14-28. The anxiety behaviour of these mice was then assessed in adulthood (P62 onwards) in a battery of behavioural tests comprising; the stress induced hyperthermia (SIH) test, defensive marble burying (DMB), elevated-plus maze (EPM) and the forced swim test (FST). Postnatal R-baclofen treatment resulted in increased anxiety-like behaviour in the EPM as shown by approach-avoidance and ethological measures. Other behavioural measures were not significantly altered. Interestingly, blockade of GABAB receptors with CGP52432 in early life caused no alterations in emotional behaviour. These data suggest that during early life GABAB receptor signalling can play a functional role in programing anxiety behaviour in adulthood. The underlying neurodevelopmental processes underlying these effects remain to be discovered.
Angiotensin-(1-12) [Ang-(1-12)], a newer member of angiotensin peptides, is proposed to be converted enzymatically to angiotensin I (Ang I) and to angiotensin II (Ang II); the latter being the bioactive peptide. We studied the Ang-(1-12) and Ang II responses in COS-7 cells or CHO cells transfected with 5g AT1R by monitoring [Ca(2+)]i using the Fluo-4. Ang II (1pM-1M) and Ang-(1-12) (5pM-5M) increased [Ca(2+)]i with an EC50 of 0.19nM and 24nM in COS-7 cells; and 0.65nM and 28.7nM in CHO cells. The AT1R antagonist losartan (1nM-10M) suppressed [Ca(2+)]i induced by Ang-(1-12) and Ang II. In CHO cells transfected with 5g AT2R, Ang II (1 pM-1M) increased [Ca(2+)]i, with an EC50 of 9.68nM; whereas, Ang-(1-12) (5pM-5M) failed to elicit a significant change in [Ca(2+)]i. In CHO cells transfected with AT1R, Ang-(1-12) stimulated ERK phosphorylation with a potency 300-fold less than that of Ang II. To evaluate the activity of Ang-(1-12) on native AT1R, whole cell patch recordings were made from neurons in the rat hypothalamic slices. Ang II or Ang-(1-12) ejected by pressure from a micropipette elicited a membrane depolarization; the latter was blocked by losartan (10M), and not affected by the AT2R antagonist PD123319 (10M), nor by the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril (10M). Our result shows that Ang-(1-12) may produce its biological activity by acting directly on AT1R, albeit at a concentration higher than that of Ang II.
In the past 20years, many studies in the cognitive neurosciences have analyzed human ability to navigate in recently learned and familiar environments by investigating the cognitive processes involved in successful navigation. In this study, we reviewed the main experimental paradigms and made a cognitive-oriented meta-analysis of fMRI studies of human navigation to underline the importance of the experimental designs and cognitive tasks used to assess navigational skills. We performed a general activation likelihood estimation (ALE) meta-analysis of 66 fMRI experiments to identify the neural substrates underpinning general aspects of human navigation. Four individual ALE analyses were performed to identify the neural substrates of different experimental paradigms (i.e., familiar vs. recently learned environments) and different navigational strategies (allocentric vs. egocentric). Results of the general ALE analysis highlighted a wide network of areas with clusters in the occipital, parietal, frontal and temporal lobes, especially in the parahippocampal cortex. Familiar environments seem to be processed by an extended temporal-frontal network, whereas recently learned environments require activation in the parahippocampal cortex and the parietal and occipital lobes. Allocentric strategy is subtended by the same areas as egocentric strategy, but the latter elicits greater activation in the right precuneus, middle occipital lobe and angular gyrus. Our results suggest that different neural correlates are involved in recalling a well-learned or recently acquired environment and that different networks of areas subtend egocentric and allocentric strategies.
Dreaming is still poorly understood. Notably, its cerebral underpinning remains unclear. Neuropsychological studies have shown that lesions in the temporoparietal junction (TPJ) and/or the white matter of the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) lead to the global cessation of dream reports, suggesting that these regions of the default mode network have key roles in the dreaming process (forebrain 'dream-on' hypothesis). To test this hypothesis, we measured regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) using [(15)O]H2O positron emission tomography in healthy subjects with high and low dream recall frequencies (DRFs) during wakefulness (rest) and sleep (rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, N2, and N3). Compared with Low recallers (0.50.3 dream recall per week in average), High recallers (5.21.4) showed higher rCBF in the TPJ during REM sleep, N3, and wakefulness, and in the MPFC during REM sleep and wakefulness. We demonstrate that the resting states of High recallers and Low recallers differ during sleep and wakefulness. It coheres with previous ERP results and confirms that a high/low DRF is associated with a specific functional organization of the brain. These results support the forebrain 'dream-on' hypothesis and suggest that TPJ and MPFC are not only involved in dream recall during wakefulness but also have a role in dreaming during sleep (production and/or encoding). Increased activity in the TPJ and MPFC might promote the mental imagery and/or memory encoding of dreams. Notably, increased activity in TPJ might facilitate attention orienting toward external stimuli and promote intrasleep wakefulness, facilitating the encoding of the dreams in memory.
Evidence suggests that depression is a risk factor for dementia; however, the relationship between the two conditions is not fully understood. A novel gene (TOMM40) has been consistently associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), but has received no attention in depression. We conducted a three-level cross-sectional study to investigate the association of the TOMM40 rs2075650 SNP with depression. We recruited a community sample of 1220 participants (571 controls, 649 lifetime depression) to complete a psychiatric background questionnaire, the Brief Symptom Inventory, and Big Five Inventory at Level-1, 243 (102 controls, 97 remitted, 44 currently depressed) to complete a face-to-face clinical interview and neuropsychological testing at Level-2 and 58 (33 controls, 25 remitted) to complete an emotional face-processing task during fMRI at Level-3. Our results indicated that the TOMM40 rs2075650 G allele was a significant risk factor for lifetime depression (p=0.00006) and, in depressed subjects, was a significant predictor of low extraversion (p=0.009). Currently depressed risk allele carriers showed subtle executive dysfunction (p=0.004) and decreased positive memory bias (p=0.021) together with reduced activity in the posterior (p(FWE)=0.045) and anterior (p(FWE)=0.041) cingulate during sad face emotion processing. Our results suggest that TOMM40 rs2075650 may be a risk factor for the development of depression characterized by reduced extraversion, impaired executive function, and decreased positive emotional recall, and reduced top-down cortical control during sad emotion processing.
Acute treatment with subanesthetic ketamine, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist, is widely utilized as a translational model for schizophrenia. However, how acute NMDA receptor blockade impacts on brain functioning at a systems level, to elicit translationally relevant symptomatology and behavioral deficits, has not yet been determined. Here, for the first time, we apply established and recently validated topological measures from network science to brain imaging data gained from ketamine-treated mice to elucidate how acute NMDA receptor blockade impacts on the properties of functional brain networks. We show that the effects of acute ketamine treatment on the global properties of these networks are divergent from those widely reported in schizophrenia. Where acute NMDA receptor blockade promotes hyperconnectivity in functional brain networks, pronounced dysconnectivity is found in schizophrenia. We also show that acute ketamine treatment increases the connectivity and importance of prefrontal and thalamic brain regions in brain networks, a finding also divergent to alterations seen in schizophrenia. In addition, we characterize how ketamine impacts on bipartite functional interactions between neural subsystems. A key feature includes the enhancement of prefrontal cortex (PFC)-neuromodulatory subsystem connectivity in ketamine-treated animals, a finding consistent with the known effects of ketamine on PFC neurotransmitter levels. Overall, our data suggest that, at a systems level, acute ketamine-induced alterations in brain network connectivity do not parallel those seen in chronic schizophrenia. Hence, the mechanisms through which acute ketamine treatment induces translationally relevant symptomatology may differ from those in chronic schizophrenia. Future effort should therefore be dedicated to resolve the conflicting observations between this putative translational model and schizophrenia.
Animal studies support the role of the dopamine D3 receptor (DRD3) in alcohol reinforcement or liking. Sustained voluntary alcohol drinking in rats has been associated with an upregulation of striatal DRD3 gene expression and selective blockade of DRD3 reduces ethanol preference, consumption, and cue-induced reinstatement. In vivo measurement of DRD3 in the living human brain has not been possible until recently owing to a lack of suitable tools. In this study, DRD3 status was assessed for the first time in human alcohol addiction. Brain DRD3 availability was compared between 16 male abstinent alcohol-dependent patients and 13 healthy non-dependent age-matched males using the DRD3-preferring agonist positron emission tomography (PET) radioligand [(11)C]PHNO with and without blockade with a selective DRD3 antagonist (GSK598809 60mg p.o.). In striatal regions of interest, where the [(11)C]PHNO PET signal represents primarily DRD2 binding, no differences were seen in [(11)C]PHNO binding between the groups at baseline. However, baseline [(11)C]PHNO binding was higher in alcohol-dependent patients in hypothalamus (VT: 16.54 vs 13.72.9, p=0.040), a region in which the [(11)C]PHNO signal almost entirely reflects DRD3 availability. The reductions in regional receptor binding (VT) following a single oral dose of GSK598809 (60mg) were consistent with those observed in previous studies across all regions. There were no differences in regional changes in VT following DRD3 blockade between the two groups, indicating that the regional fractions of DRD3 are similar in the two groups, and the increased [(11)C]PHNO binding in the hypothalamus in alcohol-dependent patients is explained by elevated DRD3 in this group. Although we found no difference between alcohol-dependent patients and controls in striatal DRD3 levels, increased DRD3 binding in the hypothalamus of alcohol-dependent patients was observed. This may be relevant to the development of future therapeutic strategies to treat alcohol abuse.
The mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) is necessary for synaptic plasticity, as it is critically involved in the translation of synaptic transmission-related proteins, such as Ca(2+)/Calmodulin-dependent kinase II alpha (CAMKII) and AMPA receptor subunits (GluAs). Although recent studies have implicated mTORC1 signaling in drug-motivated behavior, the ineffectiveness of rapamycin, an mTORC1 inhibitor, in suppressing cocaine self-administration has raised questions regarding the specific role of mTORC1 in drug-related behaviors. Here, we examined mTORC1's role in three drug-related behaviors: cocaine taking, withdrawal, and reinstatement of cocaine seeking, by measuring indices of mTORC1 activity and assessing the effect of intra-cerebroventricular rapamycin on these behaviors in rats. We found that withdrawal from cocaine self-administration increased indices of mTORC1 activity in the nucleus accumbens (NAC). Intra-cerebroventricular rapamycin attenuated progressive ratio (PR) break points and reduced phospho-p70 ribosomal S6 kinase, GluA1 AMPAR, and CAMKII levels in the NAC shell (NACsh) and core (NACc). In a subsequent study, we treated rats with intra-NACsh infusions of rapamycin (2.5g/side/day for 5 days) during cocaine self-administration and then tracked the expression of addiction-relevant behaviors through to withdrawal and extinction. Rapamycin reduced drug seeking in signaled non-drug-available periods, PR responding, and cue-induced reinstatement, with these effects linked to reduced mTORC1 activity, total CAMKII, and GluA1 AMPAR levels in the NACsh. Together, these data highlight a role for mTORC1 in the neural processes that control the expression and maintenance of drug reward, including protracted relapse vulnerability. These effects appear to involve a role for mTORC1 in the regulation of GluA1 AMPARs and CAMKII in the NACsh.
Since the original formulation of the dopamine hypothesis, a number of other cellular-level abnormalities-eg, NMDA receptor hypofunction, GABA system dysfunction, neural connectivity disturbances-have been identified in schizophrenia, but the manner in which these potentially interact with hyperdopaminergia to lead to schizophrenic symptomatology remains uncertain. Previously, we created a neuroanatomically detailed, biophysically realistic computational model of hippocampus in the control (unaffected) and schizophrenic conditions, implemented on a 72-processor supercomputer platform. In the current study, we apply the effects of dopamine (DA), dose-dependently, to both models on the basis of an exhaustive review of the neurophysiologic literature on DA's ion channel and synaptic level effects. To index schizophrenic behavior, we use the specific inability of the model to attune to the 40Hz (gamma band) frequency, a finding that has been well replicated in the clinical electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetoencephalography literature. In trials using 20 'simulated patients', we find that DA applied to the control model produces modest increases in 40Hz activity, similar to experimental studies. However, in the schizophrenic model, increasing DA induces a decrement in 40Hz resonance. This modeling work is significant in that it suggests that DA's effects may vary based on the neural substrate on which it acts, and-via simulated EEG recordings-points to the neurophysiologic mechanisms by which this may occur. We also feel that it makes a methodological contribution, as it exhibits a process by which a large amount of neurobiological data can be integrated to run pharmacologically relevant in silico experiments, using a systems biology approach.
In addition to its central role in learning and memory, N-methyl D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-dependent signaling regulates central glutamatergic synapse maturation and has been implicated in schizophrenia. We have transiently induced NMDAR hypofunction in infant mice during postnatal days 7-11, followed by testing fear memory specificity and presynaptic plasticity in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in adult mice. We show that transient NMDAR hypofunction during early brain development, coinciding with the maturation of cortical plasticity results in a loss of an endocannabinoid (eCB)-mediated form of long-term depression (eCB-LTD) at adult central glutamatergic synapses, while another form of presynaptic long-term depression mediated by the metabotropic glutamate receptor 2/3 (mGluR2/3-LTD) remains intact. Mice with this selective impairment of presynaptic plasticity also showed deficits in fear memory specificity. The observed deficit in cortical presynaptic plasticity may represent a neural maladaptation contributing to network instability and abnormal cognitive functioning.
MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, 'ecstasy') is used recreationally, reportedly because it increases feelings of empathy, sociability, and interpersonal closeness. One line of evidence suggests that MDMA produces these effects by releasing oxytocin, a peptide involved in social bonding. In the current study, we investigated the acute effects of MDMA and oxytocin on social and emotional processing in healthy human volunteers. MDMA users (N=65) participated in a 4-session, within-between-subjects study in which they received oral MDMA (0.75, 1.5mg/kg), intranasal oxytocin (20 or 40IU), or placebo under double-blind conditions. The primary outcomes included measures of emotion recognition and sociability (desire to be with others). Cardiovascular and subjective effects were also assessed. As expected, MDMA dose-dependently increased heart rate and blood pressure and feelings of euphoria (eg, 'High' and 'Like Drug'). On measures of social function, MDMA impaired recognition of angry and fearful facial expressions, and the larger dose (1.5mg/kg) increased desire to be with others, compared with placebo. Oxytocin produced small but significant increases in feelings of sociability and enhanced recognition of sad facial expressions. Additionally, responses to oxytocin were related to responses to MDMA with subjects on two subjective measures of sociability. Thus, MDMA increased euphoria and feelings of sociability, perhaps by reducing sensitivity to subtle signs of negative emotions in others. The present findings provide only limited support for the idea that oxytocin produces the prosocial effects of MDMA.
Scarce evidence suggests that inflammatory and metabolic dysregulation predicts poor response to antidepressants, which could result in worse depression outcome. This study prospectively examined whether inflammatory and metabolic dysregulation predicted the 2-year course of depressive disorders among antidepressant users. Data were from the Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety, including 315 persons (18-65 years) with a current depressive disorder (major depressive disorder, dysthymia) at baseline according to the DSM-IV criteria and using antidepressants. Inflammatory (C-reactive protein, interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor-necrosis factor-) and metabolic (waist circumference, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, blood pressure, fasting glucose) factors were measured at baseline. Primary outcome for course of depression was indicated by whether or not a DSM-IV depressive disorder diagnosis was still/again present at 2-year follow-up, indicating chronicity of depression. Elevated IL-6, low HDL cholesterol, hypertriglyceridemia, and hyperglycemia were associated with chronicity of depression in antidepressant users. Persons showing 4 inflammatory or metabolic dysregulations had a 1.90 increased odds of depression chronicity (95% CI=1.12-3.23). Among persons who recently (ie, at most 3 months) started antidepressant medication (N=103), having 4 dysregulations was associated with a 6.85 increased odds of depression chronicity (95% CI=1.95-24.06). In conclusion, inflammatory and metabolic dysregulations were found to predict a more chronic course of depressive disorders among patients using antidepressants. This could suggest that inflammatory and metabolic dysregulation worsens depression course owing to reduced antidepressant treatment response and that alternative intervention treatments may be needed for depressed persons with inflammatory and metabolic dysregulation.
Accumulating evidence suggests that selective M4 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) activators may offer a novel strategy for the treatment of psychosis. However, previous efforts to develop selective M4 activators were unsuccessful because of the lack of M4 mAChR subtype specificity and off-target muscarinic adverse effects. We recently developed VU0152100, a highly selective M4 positive allosteric modulator (PAM) that exerts central effects after systemic administration. We now report that VU0152100 dose-dependently reverses amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion in rats and wild-type mice, but not in M4 KO mice. VU0152100 also blocks amphetamine-induced disruption of the acquisition of contextual fear conditioning and prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex. These effects were observed at doses that do not produce catalepsy or peripheral adverse effects associated with non-selective mAChR agonists. To further understand the effects of selective potentiation of M4 on region-specific brain activation, VU0152100 alone and in combination with amphetamine were evaluated using pharmacologic magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI). Key neural substrates of M4-mediated modulation of the amphetamine response included the nucleus accumbens (NAS), caudate-putamen (CP), hippocampus, and medial thalamus. Functional connectivity analysis of phMRI data, specifically assessing correlations in activation between regions, revealed several brain networks involved in the M4 modulation of amphetamine-induced brain activation, including the NAS and retrosplenial cortex with motor cortex, hippocampus, and medial thalamus. Using in vivo microdialysis, we found that VU0152100 reversed amphetamine-induced increases in extracellular dopamine levels in NAS and CP. The present data are consistent with an antipsychotic drug-like profile of activity for VU0152100. Taken together, these data support the development of selective M4 PAMs as a new approach to the treatment of psychosis and cognitive impairments associated with psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia.
Typical and atypical antipsychotics have been shown to alleviate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist-induced BOLD signals in healthy humans and animals to differing degrees; factors that might relate to their different molecular mechanisms and clinical profiles. Recent studies have also extended these investigations to the analysis of resting state functional connectivity measures of BOLD signals in different brain regions. Using constant potential amperometry, we examined the effects of the NMDA receptor antagonist S-(+)-ketamine on tissue oxygen levels in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and medial ventral striatum (mVS), and temporal coherence of low-frequency oxygen fluctuations between these regions in freely moving rats. Furthermore, we assessed the extent to which the atypical antipsychotic clozapine and the typical antipsychotic haloperidol could modulate the effects of S-(+)-ketamine on these measures. Acute S-(+)-ketamine (5-25mg/kg) produced dose-dependent increases in both tissue O2 levels and coherence. Although effects of clozapine and haloperidol alone were relatively minor, their effects on ketamine-induced signals were markedly more distinct. Clozapine dose-dependently attenuated the absolute S-(+)-ketamine (25mg/kg) O2 signal in both regions, and also attenuated ketamine-induced increases in regional coherence. Haloperidol had no effect on the absolute ketamine O2 signal yet potentiated increases in regional coherence. The dissociable effects of haloperidol and clozapine on ketamine-induced hyperoxygenation and mPFC-mVS coherence elucidate potentially important mechanistic differences between these classes of pharmacology. This study demonstrates for the first time that in vivo amperometry can measure both regional brain tissue O2 levels and inter-regional coherence, advancing BOLD-like measurements of functional connectivity into awake, unconstrained animals.
White matter (WM) abnormalities have long been suspected in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) but the available evidence has been inconsistent. We conducted the first multimodal meta-analysis of WM volume (WMV) and fractional anisotropy (FA) studies in OCD. All voxel-wise studies comparing WMV or FA between patients with OCD and healthy controls in the PubMed, ScienceDirect, Google Scholar, Web of Knowledge and Scopus databases were retrieved. Manual searches were also conducted and authors were contacted soliciting additional data. Thirty-four data sets were identified, of which 22 met inclusion criteria (five of them unpublished; comprising 537 adult and pediatric patients with OCD and 575 matched healthy controls). Whenever possible, raw statistical parametric maps were also obtained from the authors. Peak and raw WMV and FA data were combined using novel multimodal meta-analytic methods implemented in effect-size signed differential mapping. Patients with OCD showed widespread WM abnormalities, but findings were particularly robust in the anterior midline tracts (crossing between anterior parts of cingulum bundle and body of corpus callosum), which showed both increased WMV and decreased FA, possibly suggesting an increase of fiber crossing in these regions. This finding was also observed when the analysis was limited to adult participants, and especially pronounced in samples with a higher proportion of medicated patients. Therefore, patients with OCD may have widespread WM abnormalities, particularly evident in anterior midline tracts, although these changes might be, at least in part, attributable to the effects of therapeutic drugs.
Gene editing in model organisms has provided critical insights into brain development and diseases. Here, we report the generation of a cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis) carrying MECP2 mutations using transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs)-mediated gene targeting. After injecting TALENs mRNA into monkey zygotes achieved by in vitro fertilization and embryo transplantation into surrogate monkeys, we obtained one male newborn monkey with an MECP2 deletion caused by frameshifting mutation in various tissues. The monkey carrying the MECP2 mutation failed to survive after birth, due to either the toxicity of TALENs or the critical requirement of MECP2 for neural development. The level of MeCP2 protein was essentially depleted in the monkey's brain. This study demonstrates the feasibility of introducing genetic mutations in non-human primates by site-specific gene-editing methods.
Protein kinase D (PKD) is an evolutionarily-conserved family of protein kinases. It has structural, regulatory, and enzymatic properties quite different from the PKC family. Many stimuli induce PKD signaling, including G-protein-coupled receptor agonists and growth factors. PKD1 is the most studied member of the family. It functions during cell proliferation, differentiation, secretion, cardiac hypertrophy, immune regulation, angiogenesis, and cancer. Previously, we found that PKD1 is also critically involved in pain modulation. Since then, a series of studies performed in our lab and by other groups have shown that PKDs also participate in other processes in the nervous system including neuronal polarity establishment, neuroprotection, and learning. Here, we discuss the connections between PKD structure, enzyme function, and localization, and summarize the recent findings on the roles of PKD-mediated signaling in the nervous system.
Animation creates a vivid, virtual world and expands the scope of human imagination. In this study, we investigated the time-courses of brain responses related to the evaluation of the attractiveness of cartoon faces using the event-related potential (ERP) technique. The results demonstrated that N170 amplitude was higher for attractive than for unattractive cartoon faces in males, while the opposite was found in females. Facial attractiveness notably modulated the late positive component (LPC), which might reflect the task-related process of aesthetic appraisal of beauty. The mean LPC amplitude in males was significantly higher for attractive cartoon faces than for unattractive faces, while the LPC amplitude in females did not significantly differ between attractive and unattractive cartoon faces. Moreover, the paint mode (computer graphics, gouache, and stick figure) modulated the early encoding of facial structures and the late evaluative process. The early modulation effect by paint mode may be related to the spatial frequency of the pictures. The processing speed and intensity in females were both higher than those in males. In conclusion, our study, for the first time, reported ERP modulation based on the assessment of cartoon facial attractiveness, suggesting the facilitated selection of attractiveness information at the early stage, and that the attentional enhancement of attractive faces at the late stage only exists in males. This suggests that men's brains are hard-wired to be sensitive to facial beauty, even in cartoons.






In vivo assessment of heart function in mice is important for basic and translational research in cardiology. MRI is an accurate tool for the investigation of the anatomy and function in the preclinical setting; however, the long scan duration limits its usage. We aimed to reduce the acquisition time of cine MRI to 1min. We employed spatiotemporal compressed sensing and parallel imaging to accelerate retrospectively gated cine MRI. We compared the functional parameters derived from full and undersampled data in Cartesian and radial MRI by means of Bland-Altman plots. We found that the scan time for the whole heart could be reduced to 2min with Cartesian sampling and to 1min with radial sampling. Despite a reduction in the signal-to-noise ratio, the accuracy in the estimation of left and right ventricular volumes was preserved for all tested subjects. This method can be used to perform accurate functional MRI examinations in mice for high-throughput phenotyping or translational studies. Copyright  2014 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.



Abstract Purpose: Oxidative stress has been described as an underlying pathogenetic mechanism in retinal ganglion cell apoptosis, which is a hallmark of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Superoxide dismutases (SODs) are enzymes involved in the protection against oxidative stress by detoxification of superoxide. In this study, we investigated a number of disease-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the copper-zinc-containing SOD1 and SOD3, and in the manganese superoxide dismutase SOD2, in POAG patients. Methods: The study included 239 patients with POAG and 185 controls, all of Estonian origin, recruited at two ophthalmic clinics in Tartu, Estonia. Eleven SNPs, either functional, disease-associated or tag SNPs in SOD1, SOD2 and SOD3 were genotyped using TaqMan Allelic Discrimination. Haplotype analysis was performed on the SNPs in SOD2. Results: Using binary logistic regression in an additive model, the rs2842980 SNP in SOD2 was significantly associated with POAG diagnosis (p=0.03) at a univariate level. None of the studied SNPs showed an association with risk of POAG in a multivariate analysis, including age and current smoking as covariates. Analysis of SOD2 haplotypes did not show any association with risk of POAG. Conclusions: If oxidative stress is an important mechanism in POAG-related retinal ganglion cell death, genetic variations in SOD1, SOD2 and SOD3 are not major contributors in the pathogenesis.




While raised levels of monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) have been observed in patients with chronic muscle pain, direct evidence for its role as an algogen in skeletal muscle is still lacking. In the rat, MCP-1 induces a dose-dependent mechanical hyperalgesia lasting for up to 6weeks. Following recovery, rats exhibited a markedly prolonged hyperalgesia to an intramuscular injection of prostaglandin E2, hyperalgesic priming. Intrathecal pretreatment with isolectin B4 (IB4)-saporin, which selectively destroys IB4-positive (IB4+) nociceptors, markedly decreased MCP-1-induced hyperalgesia and prevented the subsequent development of priming. To evaluate the involvement of MCP-1 in stress-induced chronic pain we administered, intrathecally, antisense (AS) or mismatch oligodeoxynucleotides directed against CCR2 (the canonical receptor for MCP-1) mRNA, during the exposure to water-avoidance stress, a model of stress-induced persistent muscle pain. The AS treatment attenuated this hyperalgesia, whereas IB4-saporin abolished water-avoidance stress-induced muscle hyperalgesia and prevented stress-induced hyperalgesic priming. These results indicate that MCP-1 induces persistent muscle hyperalgesia and a state of latent chronic sensitization to other algogens, by action on its cognate receptor on IB4+ nociceptors. Because MCP-1 also contributes to stress-induced widespread chronic muscle pain, it should be considered as a player in chronic musculoskeletal pain syndromes.
The primary brain dysfunctions leading to the onset of a migraine attack remain largely unknown. Other important open questions concern the mechanisms of initiation, continuation, and termination of migraine pain, and the changes in brain function underlying migraine transformation. Brief trains of high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), when applied to the primary motor cortex at suprathreshold intensity (120% of resting motor threshold [RMT]), elicit in healthy subjects a progressive, glutamate-dependent facilitation of the motor evoked potentials (MEP). Conversely, in conditions of increased cortical excitability, the rTMS trains induce inhibitory MEP responses likely mediated by cortical homeostatic mechanisms. We enrolled 66 migraine-without-aura patients, 48 migraine-with-aura patients, 14 patients affected by chronic migraine (CM), and 20 healthy controls. We assessed motor cortical response to 5-Hz rTMS trains of 10 stimuli given at 120% RMT. Patients with episodic migraine were studied in different phases of the migraine cycle: interictal, preictal, ictal, and postictal states. Results showed a facilitatory MEP response during the trains in patients evaluated in the preictal phase, whereas inhibitory responses were observed during and after a migraine attack, as well as in CM patients. In the interictal phase, different responses were observed, depending on attack frequency: facilitation in patients with low and inhibition in those with high attack recurrence. Our findings suggest that changes in cortical excitability and fluctuations in the threshold for inhibitory metaplasticity underlie the migraine attack recurrence, and could be involved in the process of migraine transformation.



Pathogenic mutations in the EIF4G1 gene were recently reported as a cause of autosomal dominant parkinsonism. To assess the frequency of EIF4G1 mutations in the Japanese population we sequenced the entire gene coding region (31 exons) in 95 patients with an apparent autosomal dominant inherited form of Parkinson's disease. We detected three novel point mutations located in a poly-glutamic acid repeat within exon 10. These variants were screened through 224 Parkinson's disease cases and 374 normal controls from the Japanese population. We detected the poly-glutamic acid deletion in exon 10 in two additional patients with sporadic Parkinson's disease. Although the EIF4G1 variants identified in the present study were not observed in control subjects, co-segregation analyses and population-based screening data suggest they are not pathogenic. In conclusion, we did not identify novel or previously reported pathogenic mutations (including the p.A502V and p.R1205H mutants) within EIF4G1 in the Japanese population, thus future studies are warranted to elucidate the role of this gene in Parkinson's disease.


Excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) is common in Parkinson's Disease (PD). Actigraphy uses periods of immobility as surrogate markers of nighttime sleep but there are no examples of its use in assessing EDS of PD. A commercial wrist worn system for measuring bradykinesia and dyskinesia also detects 2min periods of immobility, which have a 85.2% concordance with the detection of sleep by ambulatory daytime polysomnography, (p&lt;0.0001 Chi Squared). High Epworth Sleepiness Scores (ESS) were associated with a proportion of time immobile (PTI) (p=0.01 Mann-Whitney U). The median PTI between 0900 and 1800h w in 30 age matched control subjects was 2%, representing 10min and PTI at or above the 75th percentile (5% or 27min) was taken as a high level. PD patients had higher PTI (median 4.8%) than controls (p&lt;0.0001, Mann-Whitney U). PD subjects with a high PTI had more bradykinesia, less dyskinesia and higher PDQ39 scores than those with low PTI. There was no relationship between PTI and dose or type of PD medications. However, in 53% of subjects, PTI increased in the 30-60minafter levodopa confirming that in some subjects levodopa results in increased sleepiness. In summary, immobility is a surrogate marker of daytime sleep in PD, confirmed by correlation with PSG and ESS. PD subjects measured this way are more likely to be sleepy and sleepy PD subjects are more likely to be bradykinetic and have a higher PDQ39. Levodopa leads to an increase in sleepiness in more than half of subjects post dosing.







Background:Attention problems are among the most prominent behavioral deficits reported in very preterm children (below 32wk of gestation) at school age. In this study, we aimed to elucidate the brain abnormalities underlying attention problems in very preterm children by investigating the role of abnormalities in white and gray brain matter during interference control, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)-guided probabilistic diffusion tensor tractography.Methods:Twenty-nine very preterm children (mean (SD) age: 8.6 (0.3) y), and 47 term controls (mean (SD) age: 8.7 (0.5) y), performed a fMRI version of the Eriksen Flanker task measuring interference control.Results:Very preterm children showed slower reaction times than term controls when interfering stimuli were presented, indicating poorer interference control. Very preterm children and term controls did not differ in mean activation of the cortical regions involved in interference control. However, impaired fractional anisotropy (FA) was found in very preterm children in specifically those fiber tracts that innervate the cortical regions involved in interference control. Lower FA was related to poorer interference control in very preterm children.Conclusion:White matter alterations have a crucial role in the interference control problems of very preterm children at school age.
Background: Perinatal cerebral hypoxia-ischemia (HI) can lead to severe neurodevelopmental disorders. Studies in humans and animal models mainly focused on cerebral outcomes, and little is known about the mechanisms that may affect the brainstem and the spinal cord. Dysfunctions of neuromodulatory systems, such as the serotonergic (5-HT) projections, critical for the development of neural networks, have been postulated to underlie behavioral and motor deficits, as well as metabolic changes.Methods:The aim of this study was to investigate brainstem and spinal cord functions by means of plethysmography and sensorimotor tests in a neonatal Rice-Vanucci model of HI in mice. We also evaluated bioaminergic contents in central regions dedicated to the motor control of autonomic functions.Results:Mice with cerebral infarct expressed motor disturbances and had a lower body weight and a decreased respiratory frequency than SHAM, suggesting defects of brainstem neural network involved in the motor control of feeding, suckling, swallowing, and respiration. Moreover, our study revealed changes of monoamine and amino acid contents in the brainstem and the spinal cord of HI mice.Conclusion:Our results suggest that monoaminergic neuromodulation plays an important role in the physiopathology of HI brain injury that may represent a good therapeutic target.
Methylphenidate (MPH) reduces hyperactive-impulsive symptoms common in children with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs), however, response and tolerability varies widely. We hypothesized monoaminergic gene variants may moderate MPH effects in ASD, as in typically developing children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Genotype data were available for 64 children with ASD and hyperactivity who were exposed to MPH during a 1-week safety/tolerability lead-in phase and 58 who went on to be randomized to placebo and three doses of MPH during a 4-week blinded, crossover study. Outcome measures included the Clinical Global Impression-Improvement (CGI-I) scale and the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC-hyperactivity index). A total of 14 subjects discontinued the study because of MPH side effects. Subjects were genotyped for variants in DRD1-DRD5, ADRA2A, SLC6A3, SLC6A4, MAOA and MAOB, and COMT. Forty-nine percent of the sample met positive responder criteria. In this modest but relatively homogeneous sample, significant differences by DRD1 (P=0.006), ADRA2A (P&lt;0.02), COMT (P&lt;0.04), DRD3 (P&lt;0.05), DRD4 (P&lt;0.05), SLC6A3 (P&lt;0.05) and SLC6A4 (P&lt;0.05) genotypes were found for responders versus non-responders. Variants in DRD2 (P&lt;0.001) and DRD3 (P&lt;0.04) were associated with tolerability in the 14 subjects who discontinued the trial. For this first MPH pharmacogenetic study in children with ASD, multiple monoaminergic gene variants may help explain individual differences in MPH's efficacy and tolerability.

Several brain nuclei interact to orchestrate the appetitive and consummatory aspects of male sexual behavior. Of these structures, the medial preoptic area (mPOA) of the hypothalamus is of particular interest, as it receives input from all sensory modalities, and damage to this region disrupts copulation in a wide variety of taxa. Furthermore, the mPOA is both responsive to gonadal hormones and involved in endocrine regulation. Neurochemical studies have demonstrated that both dopamine and glutamate levels rise in the mPOA in response to sexual activity, while antagonism of these neurotransmitters impairs male sexual response. Here we review how dopamine and glutamate act in the mPOA to modulate male sexual behavior.

The Flinder Sensitive Line (FSL) is a rat strain that displays distinct behavioral and neurochemical features of major depression. Chronic selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are able to reverse these symptoms in FSL rats. It is well known that several abnormalities in the serotonergic system have been found in FSL rats, including increased 5-HT brain tissue levels and reduced 5-HT synthesis. SSRIs are known to exert (part of) their effects by desensitization of the 5-HT1A receptor and FSL rats appear to have lower 5-HT1A receptor densities compared with Flinder Resistant Line (FRL) rats. We therefore studied the sensitivity of this receptor on the sexual behavior performance in both FRL and FSL rats. First, basal sexual performance was studied after saline treatment followed by treatment of two different doses of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT. Finally we measured the effect of a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist to check for specificity of the 5-HT1A receptor activation. Our results show that FSL rats have higher ejaculation frequencies compared with FRL rats which do not fit with a more depressive-like phenotype. Moreover FRL rats are more sensitive to effects of 8-OH-DPAT upon EL and IF than FSL rats. The blunted response of FSL rats to the effects of 8-OH-DPAT may be due to lower densities of 5-HT1A receptors.
This review focuses on the role of serotonin and especially 5-HT1A receptors in female rat sexual behavior. In addition, the differences and/or similarities with male rats are discussed. Overall, in both males and females 5-HT1A receptors do not appear to be involved in sexual behavior under normal circumstances, but become very important under conditions of elevated serotonin levels. 5-HT1A receptor agonists facilitate sexual behavior in male rats, but inhibit female sexual activity. At first sight, this seems quite conflicting, but could be due to our definitions of different elements of sexual behavior. Three different phases can be distinguished in rats' sexual cycle, the introductory (precopulatory), the copulatory and the executive (ejaculatory) phases. Different mechanisms and brain regions are involved in these phases. If the appropriate phases of males and females are properly compared, the role of 5-HT1A receptors in rats might be more similar than assumed thus far.

Most of the available antidepressant medications, including tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and dual noradrenergic/serotonergic reuptake inhibitors have been reported to be associated with sexual dysfunction in both sexes. This manuscript reviews evidence concerning the relative incidence of treatment emergent sexual dysfunction in men being treated with antidepressant drugs. Both double-blind controlled trials and large clinical series report a high incidence of sexual dysfunction, especially ejaculatory delay, with serotonergic drugs. The incidence of sexual dysfunction in men appears to be much lower with drugs whose primary mechanism of action involves adrenergic or dopaminergic systems.


Glutamatergic excitatory transmission is implicated in physiological and pathological conditions like learning, memory, neuronal plasticity and emotions, while glutamatergic abnormalities are reported in numerous neurological and psychiatric disorders, including neurodegenerative diseases, epilepsy, stroke, traumatic brain injury, depression, anxiety, schizophrenia and pain. Also, several lines of evidence have accumulated indicating a pivotal role for glutamatergic neurotransmission in mediating addictive behaviors. Among the proteins regulating glutamatergic transmission, the metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) are being developed as pharmacological targets for treating many neuropsychiatric disorders, including drug addiction. In this review we describe the molecular structure of mGluRs and their distribution, physiology and pharmacology in the central nervous system, as well as their use as targets in preclinical studies of drug addiction.





Mechanisms behind how the immune system signals to the brain in response to systemic inflammation are not fully understood. Transgenic mice expressing Cre recombinase specifically in the hematopoietic lineage in a Cre reporter background display recombination and marker gene expression in Purkinje neurons. Here we show that reportergene expression in neurons is caused by intercellular transfer of functional Cre recombinase messenger RNA from immune cells into neurons in the absence of cell fusion. In vitro purified secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs) from blood cells contain Cre mRNA, which induces recombination in neurons when injected into the brain. Although Cre-mediated recombination events in the brain occur very rarely in healthy animals, their number increases considerably in different injury models, particularly under inflammatory conditions, and extend beyond Purkinje neurons to other neuronal populations in cortex, hippocampus, and substantia nigra. Recombined Purkinje neurons differ in their miRNA profile from their nonrecombined counterparts, indicating physiological significance. These observations reveal the existence of a previously unrecognized mechanism to communicate RNA-based signals between the hematopoietic system and various organs, including the brain, in response to inflammation.
Episodic-like memory is thought to be supported by attractor dynamics in the hippocampus. A possible neural substrate for this memory mechanism is rate remapping, in which the spatial map of place cells encodes contextual information through firing rate variability. To test whether memories are stored as multimodal attractors in populations of place cells, recent experiments morphed one familiar context into another while observing the responses of CA3 cell ensembles. Average population activity in CA3 was reported to transition gradually rather than abruptly from one familiar context to the next, suggesting a lack of attractive forces associated with the two stored representations. On the other hand, individual CA3 cells showed a mix of gradual and abrupt transitions at different points along the morph sequence, and some displayed hysteresis which is a signature of attractor dynamics. To understand whether these seemingly conflicting results are commensurate with attractor network theory, we developed a neural network model of the CA3 with attractors for both position and discrete contexts. We found that for memories stored in overlapping neural ensembles within a single spatial map, position-dependent context attractors made transitions at different points along the morph sequence. Smooth transition curves arose from averaging across the population, while a heterogeneous set of responses was observed on the single unit level. In contrast, orthogonal memories led to abrupt and coherent transitions on both population and single unit levels as experimentally observed when remapping between two independent spatial maps. Strong recurrent feedback entailed a hysteretic effect on the network which diminished with the amount of overlap in the stored memories. These results suggest that context-dependent memory can be supported by overlapping local attractors within a spatial map of CA3 place cells. Similar mechanisms for context-dependent memory may also be found in other regions of the cerebral cortex.
In the present study, an integrated hierarchical approach was applied to: (1) identify pathways associated with susceptibility to schizophrenia; (2) detect genes that may be potentially affected in these pathways since they contain an associated polymorphism; and (3) annotate the functional consequences of such single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the affected genes or their regulatory regions. The Global Test was applied to detect schizophrenia-associated pathways using discovery and replication datasets comprising 5,040 and 5,082 individuals of European ancestry, respectively. Information concerning functional gene-sets was retrieved from the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, Gene Ontology, and the Molecular Signatures Database. Fourteen of the gene-sets or pathways identified in the discovery dataset were confirmed in the replication dataset. These include functional processes involved in transcriptional regulation and gene expression, synapse organization, cell adhesion, and apoptosis. For two genes, i.e. CTCF and CACNB2, evidence for association with schizophrenia was available (at the gene-level) in both the discovery study and published data from the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium schizophrenia study. Furthermore, these genes mapped to four of the 14 presently identified pathways. Several of the SNPs assigned to CTCF and CACNB2 have potential functional consequences, and a gene in close proximity to CACNB2, i.e. ARL5B, was identified as a potential gene of interest. Application of the present hierarchical approach thus allowed: (1) identification of novel biological gene-sets or pathways with potential involvement in the etiology of schizophrenia, as well as replication of these findings in an independent cohort; (2) detection of genes of interest for future follow-up studies; and (3) the highlighting of novel genes in previously reported candidate regions for schizophrenia.






Advancing age is associated with decrements in selective attention. It was recently hypothesized that age-related differences in selective attention depend on sensory modality. The goal of the present study was to investigate the role of sensory modality in age-related vulnerability to distraction, using a response interference task. To this end, 16 younger (mean age = 23.1years) and 24 older (mean age = 65.3years) adults performed four response interference tasks, involving all combinations of visual and auditory targets and distractors. The results showed that response interference effects differ across sensory modalities, but not across age groups. These results indicate that sensory modality plays an important role in vulnerability to distraction, but not in age-related distractibility by irrelevant spatial information.
The representation of elapsing time may require spatial attention. In certain circumstances, this spatial representation develops from left to right. This is suggested by a performance advantage in responding short with the left hand and long with the right hand (spatial-temporal association between response codes [STEARC]). The present study tests whether one possible determinant of the directionality of the STEARC effect is cultural. In particular, we investigated whether reading/writing habits can affect STEARC direction by administering a visual time judgment task to Italian participants, who were exposed to a left-to-right reading/writing system, and Israeli participants, who mainly used a right-to-left system. The Italian participants showed a left-to-right STEARC effect, while this effect was not present in the Israeli group. The study demonstrates that cultural habits can influence the way in which spatial attention supports the representation of time, similar to the pattern found in other nonspatial domains such as numbers.
Worse cognitive performance in older people has been associated with hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis dysregulation (in particular, higher cortisol levels). Analysis of hair cortisol concentrations (HCC) is a novel method to measure long-term cortisol exposure, and its relationship with cognition in healthy older people has not yet been studied. We investigated whether HCC (measured in hair scalp) and diurnal salivary cortisol levels (awakening, 30min after awakening, and evening, across two days) were related to cognitive performance (assessed with the Trail-making Test A and B, Digit Span Forward and Backward, word list-RAVLT and Stories subtest of the Rivermead) in 57 healthy older people (mean age=64.75 years, SD=4.17). Results showed that lower HCC were consistently related to worse working memory, learning, short-term verbal memory (RAVLT first trial and immediate recall) and long-term verbal memory. In contrast, higher mean levels and higher diurnal area under the curve of diurnal salivary cortisol were related to worse attention and short-term verbal memory (immediate story recall), respectively. Interestingly, a higher ratio of mean levels of diurnal salivary cortisol over HCC were related to worse performance on working memory and short-term verbal memory, suggesting that those individuals with lower long-term cortisol exposure might be more vulnerable to the negative effect of HPA-axis dysregulation on these cognitive processes. Our findings suggest that both low long-term cortisol exposure and a possible dysregulation of the diurnal rhythm of the HPA-axis may account, at least in part, for the inter-individual variability in cognitive performance in healthy older people.
A wealth of literature suggests that oxytocin is an important mediator of social cognition, but much of the research to date has relied on pharmaceutical administration methods that can raise oxytocin to artificially high levels. The present study builds upon previous work by examining whether basal oxytocin level predicts intra- and extra-personal (i.e., self- and other-focused) elements of emotional intelligence (EI), independent of shared variance with current mood. The sample included 71 healthy young adults (46 women). Assessment measures included the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test Version 2.0 (MSCEIT), the Trait Meta-Mood Scale, and the Profile of Mood States. Peripheral oxytocin levels were examined with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay from saliva after solid phase extraction. Oxytocin level was unrelated to TMMS scores but was positively associated with performance in the Experiential EI domain of the MSCEIT. However, total mood disturbance was positively related to MSCEIT scores. Hierarchical regression analysis indicated that oxytocin level added unique variance to the prediction of MSCEIT performance beyond that of current mood. These results confirm an association between endogenous levels of oxytocin in healthy adults and a subset of EI abilities, including extra-personal emotion recognition and the channeling of emotions to enhance social proficiency.





Aging is associated with changes in thermosensitivity and decreases in the functionality of the autonomic thermoregulation. The underlying mechanisms are, however, not fully understood. Elderly subjects may undergo functional changes in the integration process of the thermal sensory system, especially in their thermal adaptation capacities. To verify this hypothesis, we compared thermal evoked responses in younger and older subjects exposed to thermoneutral (27 C) and warm (30 C) environments. In the warm environment, the amplitudes of thermal evoked potentials (EPs) were significantly lower in older than in younger subjects, whereas in the thermoneutral environment, the EP amplitudes were similar in both groups. These findings suggest that thermal adaptation capacities are reduced in elderly individuals, due to a dysfunction of C-fibers with aging, particularly expressed by lowered adaptation capacities to temperature variations.



Purpose To assess whether a structural disconnection between the cerebellum and the cerebral hemispheres contributes to cerebellar and brainstem symptoms in multiple sclerosis (MS). Materials and Methods This study was approved by the local ethics committee, and written informed consent was obtained from each participant. Brain T2 lesion load, cerebellar white matter and gray matter volumes, and tract-specific measures of the middle and superior cerebellar peduncles were derived from 172 patients with MS and 46 control subjects. Predictors of clinical impairment, which was determined at ambulation and with cerebellar and brainstem functional system scores, were identified by using random forest analysis. Results Of the 172 patients, 112 (65%) had middle cerebellar peduncle T2 lesions and 74 (43%) had superior cerebellar peduncle T2 lesions. T2 lesions in the middle and superior cerebellar peduncles were more common in clinically impaired patients than in unimpaired patients (P = .05 to &lt;.0001). Most conventional magnetic resonance imaging metrics were more abnormal in impaired patients than in unimpaired patients (P = .03 to &lt;.0001). Except for axial diffusivity, diffusivity abnormalities of the middle and superior cerebellar peduncles were more severe in clinically impaired patients than in unimpaired patients (P = .04 to &lt;.0001). A minimal overlap was found between diffusivity abnormalities and T2 lesions. Compared with volumetric measures of T2 lesions or cerebellar atrophy, diffusivity measures of middle or superior cerebellar peduncle damage enabled better differentiation between clinically impaired and unimpaired patients (C statistics: 61%-70%). Conclusion The assessment of middle and superior cerebellar peduncle damage contributes to the explanation of cerebellar and/or brainstem symptoms and ambulatory impairment in MS.  RSNA, 2014 Online supplemental material is available for this article.
We have applied the mitochondria-specific superoxide fluorescent probe MitoSOX Red (MitoSOX) to detect mitochondria-specific reactive oxygen species (mROS) production in human sperm samples using flow cytometry. We show that human ejaculates are heterogeneous in terms of mROS production, with three subpopulations clearly detectable, comprising sperm that produce increasing amounts of mROS (MitoSOX-, MitoSOX+, and MitoSOX++). The sperm subpopulation producing the lowest amount of mROS represented the most functional subset of male gametes within the ejaculate, as it was correlated with the highest amount of live and non-apoptotic sperm and increased both in samples with better semen parameters and in samples processed by both density-gradient centrifugation and swim-up, both known to select for higher quality sperm. Importantly, the MitoSOX- subpopulation was clearly more prevalent in samples that gave rise to pregnancies following assisted reproduction. Our work, therefore, not only describe discreet human sperm heterogeneity at the mROS level but also suggests that mROS may represent a strategy to both evaluate sperm samples and isolate the most functional gametes for assisted reproduction.FREE PORTUGUESE ABSTRACT: A Portuguese translation of this abstract is freely available at http://www.reproduction-online.org/content/147/6/817/suppl/DC1.
Children with visual impairments are very heterogeneous in terms of the extent of visual and developmental etiology. The aim of the present study was to investigate a possible correlation between prevalence of clinical risk factors of visual processing impairments and characteristics of viewing behavior. We tested 149 children with visual information processing impairments (90 boys, 59 girls; mean age (SD)=7.3 (3.3)) and 127 children without visual impairments (63 boys and 64 girls, mean age (SD)=7.9 (2.8)). Visual processing impairments were classified based on the time it took to complete orienting responses to various visual stimuli (form, contrast, motion detection, motion coherence, color and a cartoon). Within the risk group, children were divided into a fast, medium or slow group based on the response times to a highly salient stimulus. The relationship between group specific response times and clinical risk factors was assessed. The fast responding children in the risk group were significantly slower than children in the control group. Within the risk group, the prevalence of cerebral visual impairment, brain damage and intellectual disabilities was significantly higher in slow responding children compared to faster responding children. The presence of nystagmus, perceptual dysfunctions, mean visual acuity and mean age did not significantly differ between the subgroups. Orienting responses are related to risk factors for visual processing impairments known to be prevalent in visual rehabilitation practice. The proposed method may contribute to assessing the effectiveness of visual information processing in children.


Parkinson disease (PD) is an age-related degenerative disease of the brain, characterized by motor, cognitive, and psychiatric symptoms. Neurologists and neuroscientists now understand that several symptoms of the disease, including hallucinations and impulse control behaviors, stem from the dopaminergic medications used to control the motor aspects of PD. Converging evidence from animals and humans suggests that individual differences in the genes that affect the dopamine system influence the response of PD patients to dopaminergic medication. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that patients taking dopamine replacement therapy who carry candidate alleles that increase dopamine signaling, exhibit greater amounts of motor impulsivity. We examined the relation between inhibitory ability (measured by the Stop Signal Task) and polymorphisms of COMT Val158Met and DRD2 C957T in patients with idiopathic PD. On the Stop Signal Task, carriers of COMT Val/Met and Met/Met genotypes were more impulsive than Val/Val carriers, but we did not find a link between DRD2 polymorphisms and inhibitory ability. These results support the hypothesis that the Met allele of COMT confers an increased risk for behavioral impulsivity in PD patients, whereas DRD2 polymorphisms appear to be less important in determining whether PD patients exhibit a dopamine overdose in the form of motor impulsivity.
The human capacity to maintain an overarching control over mental states and behavior relies on multiple, distributed and dynamically interacting brain networks, in which prefrontal cortex (PFC) plays a critical role. PFC exerts top-down executive control over subcortical and posterior cortical areas via extensive reciprocal connections. The orbital, lateral, and medial PFC subdivisions are associated with distinct executive functions, but their precise roles in large-scale neural networks remain to be determined. The main objective of our research program is to specify cognitive and neural mechanisms that govern executive control functions. We study effects of focal PFC lesions on behavioral and electrophysiological correlates of attention and action control utilizing experiments that relate to real-life requirements for executive control. We provide a selective review of studies on the impact of lesions to PFC subregions on novelty processing, anticipatory attention, and action preparation and motor inhibition. The studies provide evidence for the contribution of both lateral, dorsomedial and orbital PFC in novelty processing and dynamic contextual updating. We also report evidence for a role of lateral PFC in motor preparation and anticipatory attention. In contrast to the common view that orbitofrontal cortex plays a general role in inhibitory control, we report findings indicating an involvement in action outcome monitoring rather than in behavioral inhibition as such. We argue that improved understanding of how basic aspects of attentional control and inhibition is regulated in the brain, will shed light on the complex behavioral, cognitive and emotional problems experienced by patients with executive dysfunction.



The objective of the study is to examine the association of baseline total antioxidant status (TAS) and glutathione (GSH) levels with short- and long-term cognitive functioning in patients with early onset first-episode psychosis, comparing affective and non-affective psychoses. We analysed 105 patients with an early onset-first episode psychosis (age 9-17 years) and 97 healthy controls. Blood samples were taken at admission for measurement of TAS and GSH, and cognitive performance was assessed at baseline and at 2years of follow-up. Regression analysis was used to assess the relationship between TAS/GSH levels at baseline and cognitive performance at both time points, controlling for confounders. Baseline TAS and GSH levels were significantly lower in patients than healthy controls. In patients, baseline TAS was positively associated with the global cognition score at baseline (p=0.048) and two years later (p=0.005), while TAS was not associated with cognitive functioning in healthy controls. Further, baseline TAS in patients was specifically associated with the memory domain at baseline and with the memory and attention domains two years later. Stratifying by affective and non-affective psychoses, significant associations were only found between TAS and cognition in the non-affective psychosis group. Baseline GSH levels were not associated with cognitive functioning at either time point in either group. The antioxidant defence capacity in early onset first-episode psychotic patients is directly correlated with global cognition at baseline and at 2years of follow-up, especially in non-affective psychosis.

Impaired insight in schizophrenia patients has been linked with prefrontal deficits. In this open-label study, we examined for potential insight facilitation effects of add-on tDCS (with anodal stimulation of left DLPFC and cathodal stimulation over left temporo-parietal junction) in schizophrenia patients (N=21) with persistent auditory hallucinations despite adequate antipsychotic treatment. Following tDCS, there was a significant improvement in insight with concurrent significant reduction in auditory hallucination severity. Improvement in insight correlated significantly with improvement in severity of auditory hallucinations. These findings suggest improvement of insight with add-on tDCS in schizophrenia with persistent auditory hallucinations.

Impaired illness insight in schizophrenia is associated with non-adherence and worse outcomes. Schizophrenia patients also exhibit error-monitoring deficits, which have been proposed to cause poor insight. To test this hypothesis, we examined whether schizophrenia patients' deficits in neurophysiological error-monitoring indices, the error-related negativity (ERN) and error positivity (Pe) event-related potential (ERP) amplitudes, are associated with impaired insight. ERPs were recorded in 18 schizophrenia patients and 18 normal comparison participants during a Stroop task. Patients' subnormal ERN and Pe amplitudes did not correlate with insight, suggesting that impaired insight in schizophrenia stems from neurocognitive mechanisms other than deficient error monitoring.








Insomnia is a common health complaint world-wide. Insomnia is a risk factor in the development of other psychological and physiological disorders. Therefore understanding the mechanisms which predispose an individual to developing insomnia has great transdiagnostic value. However, whilst it is largely accepted that a vulnerable phenotype exists there is a lack of research which aims to systematically assess the make-up of this phenotype. This review outlines the research to-date, considering familial aggregation and the genetics and psychology of stress-reactivity. A model will be presented in which negative affect (neuroticism) and genetics (5HTTLPR) are argued to lead to disrupted sleep via an increase in stress-reactivity, and further that the interaction of these variables leads to an increase in learned negative associations, which further increase the likelihood of poor sleep and the development of insomnia.
Sleep is a complex physiological process and still remains one of the great mysteries of science. Over the past 10 y, genetic research has provided a new avenue to address the regulation and function of sleep. Gene loci that contribute quantitatively to sleep characteristics and variability have already been identified. However, up to now, a genetic basis has been established only for a few sleep disorders. Little is yet known about the genetic background of insomnia, one of the most common sleep disorders. According to the conceptualisation of the 3P model of insomnia, predisposing, precipitating and perpetuating factors contribute to the development and maintenance of insomnia. Growing evidence from studies of predisposing factors suggests a certain degree of heritability for insomnia and for a reactivity of sleep patterns to stressful events, explaining the emergence of insomnia in response to stressful life events. While a genetic susceptibility may modulate the impact of stress on the brain, this finding does not provide us with a complete understanding of the capacity of stress to produce long-lasting perturbations of brain and behaviour. Epigenetic gene-environment interactions have been identified just recently and may provide a more complex understanding of the genetic control of sleep and its disorders. It was recently hypothesised that stress-response-related brain plasticity might be epigenetically controlled and, moreover, several epigenetic mechanisms have been assumed to be involved in the regulation of sleep. Hence, it might be postulated that insomnia may be influenced by an epigenetic control process of both sleep mechanisms and stress-response-related gene-environment interactions having an impact on brain plasticity. This paper reviews the evidence for the genetic basis of insomnia and recent theories about epigenetic mechanisms involved in both sleep regulation and brain-stress response, leading to the hypothesis of an involvement of epigenetic mechanisms in the development and maintenance of insomnia.
Social anxiety disorder (SAD), which is characterized by the fear of being rejected and negatively evaluated, involves altered brain activation during the processing of negative emotions in a social context. Although associated temperament traits, such as shyness or behavioral inhibition, have been studied, there is still insufficient knowledge to support the dimensional approach, which assumes a continuum from subclinical to clinical levels of social anxiety symptoms. This study used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine the neural bases of individual differences in social anxiety. Our sample included participants with both healthy/subclinical as well as clinical levels of social anxiety. Forty-six participants with a wide range of social anxiety levels performed a gender decision task with emotional facial expressions during fMRI scanning. Activation in the left anterior insula and right lateral prefrontal cortex in response to angry faces was positively correlated with the level of social anxiety in a regression analysis. The results substantiate, with a dimensional approach, those obtained in previous studies that involved SAD patients or healthy and subclinical participants. It may help to refine further therapeutic strategies based on markers of social anxiety.
Emotional reactivity and the ability to modulate an emotional state, which are important factors for psychological well-being, are often dysregulated in psychiatric disorders. Neural correlates of emotional states have mostly been studied at the group level, thereby neglecting individual differences in the intensity of emotional experience. This study investigates the relationship between brain activity and interindividual variation in subjective affect ratings. A standardized mood induction (MI) procedure, using positive facial expression and autobiographical memories, was applied to 54 healthy participants (28 female), who rated their subjective affective state before and after the MI. We performed a regression analysis with brain activation during MI and changes in subjective affect ratings. An increase in positive affective ratings correlated with activity in the amygdala, hippocampus and the fusiform gyrus (FFG), whereas reduced positive affect correlated with activity of the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex. Activations in the amygdala, hippocampus and FFG are possibly linked to strategies adopted by the participants to achieve mood changes. Subgenual cingulate cortex activation has been previously shown to relate to rumination. This finding is in line with previous observations of the subgenual cingulate's role in emotion regulation and its clinical relevance to therapy and prognosis of mood disorders.
Major depression goes along with affective and social-cognitive deficits. Most research on affective deficits in depression has, however, only focused on unimodal emotion processing, whereas in daily life, emotional perception is often highly dependent on the evaluation of multimodal inputs. We thus investigated emotional audiovisual integration in patients with depression and healthy subjects. Subjects rated the expression of happy, neutral and fearful faces while concurrently being exposed to emotional or neutral sounds. Results demonstrated group differences in left inferior frontal gyrus and inferior parietal cortex when comparing incongruent to congruent happy facial conditions, mainly due to a failure of patients to deactivate these regions in response to congruent stimulus pairs. Moreover, healthy subjects decreased activation in right posterior superior temporal gyrus/sulcus and midcingulate cortex when an emotional stimulus was paired with a neutral rather than another emotional one. In contrast, patients did not show such deactivation when neutral stimuli were integrated. These results demonstrate aberrant neural response in audiovisual processing in depression, indicated by failure to deactivate regions involved in inhibition and salience processing when congruent and neutral audiovisual stimuli pairs are integrated, providing a possible mechanism of constant arousal and readiness to act in this patient group.
Although empathy is crucial for successful social interactions, excessive sharing of others' negative emotions may be maladaptive and constitute a source of burnout. To investigate functional neural plasticity underlying the augmentation of empathy and to test the counteracting potential of compassion, one group of participants was first trained in empathic resonance and subsequently in compassion. In response to videos depicting human suffering, empathy training, but not memory training (control group), increased negative affect and brain activations in anterior insula and anterior midcingulate cortex-brain regions previously associated with empathy for pain. In contrast, subsequent compassion training could reverse the increase in negative effect and, in contrast, augment self-reports of positive affect. In addition, compassion training increased activations in a non-overlapping brain network spanning ventral striatum, pregenual anterior cingulate cortex and medial orbitofrontal cortex. We conclude that training compassion may reflect a new coping strategy to overcome empathic distress and strengthen resilience.
Psychopathy is a personality disorder associated with callous and impulsive behavior and criminal recidivism. It has long been theorized that psychopaths have deficits in processing reward and punishment. Here, we use structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine the neural correlates of reward and loss sensitivity in a group of criminal psychopaths. Forty-one adult male prison inmates (n = 18 psychopaths and n = 23 non-psychopaths) completed a functional magnetic resonance imaging task involving the gain or loss of money. Across the entire sample of participants, monetary gains elicited robust activation within the ventral striatum (VS). Although psychopaths and non-psychopaths did not significantly differ with respect to overall levels of VS response to reward vs loss, we observed significantly different correlations between VS responses and psychopathy severity within each group. Volumetric analyses of striatal subregions revealed a similar pattern of correlations, specifically for the right accumbens area within VS. In a separate sample of inmates (n = 93 psychopaths and n = 117 non-psychopaths) who completed a self-report measure of appetitive motivation, we again found that the correlation with psychopathy severity differed between groups. These convergent results offer novel insight into the neural substrates of reward and loss processing in psychopathy.
Failure of the amygdala to habituate, or decrease response intensity, to repeatedly presented faces may be one mechanism by which individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) develop and maintain social symptoms. However, genetic influences on habituation in ASD have not been examined. We hypothesized that serotonin transporter-linked promoter region (5-HTTLPR) genotype affects change in amygdala response to repeated sad faces differently in individuals with ASD vs healthy controls. Forty-four youth with ASD and 65 controls aged 8-19 years were genotyped and underwent an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging scan where they identified the gender of emotional faces presented for 250 ms. The first half of the run was compared with the second half to assess habituation. 5-HTTLPR genotype influences amygdala habituation to sad faces differently for individuals with ASD vs controls. The genotype-by-diagnosis-by-run half interaction was driven by individuals with ASD and low expressing genotypes (S/S, S/LG and LG/LG), who trended toward sensitization (increase in amygdala activation) and whose habituation scores significantly differed from individuals with ASD and higher expressing genotypes (LA/LA, S/LA and LA/LG) as well as controls with low expressing genotypes. Our results show that amygdala response to social stimuli in ASD, which may contribute to social symptoms, is genetically influenced.

CD34 is a transmembrane phosphoglycoprotein, first identified on hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Clinically, it is associated with the selection and enrichment of hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplants. Due to these historical and clinical associations, CD34 expression is almost ubiquitously related to hematopoietic cells, and it is a common misconception that CD34-positive (CD34(+) ) cells in nonhematopoietic samples represent hematopoietic contamination. The prevailing school of thought states that multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) do not express CD34. However, strong evidence demonstrates CD34 is expressed not only by MSC but by a multitude of other nonhematopoietic cell types including muscle satellite cells, corneal keratocytes, interstitial cells, epithelial progenitors, and vascular endothelial progenitors. In many cases, the CD34(+) cells represent a small proportion of the total cell population and also indicate a distinct subset of cells with enhanced progenitor activity. Herein, we explore common traits between cells that express CD34, including associated markers, morphology and differentiation potential. We endeavor to highlight key similarities between CD34(+) cells, with a focus on progenitor activity. A common function of CD34 has yet to be elucidated, but by analyzing and understanding links between CD34(+) cells, we hope to be able to offer an insight into the overlapping properties of cells that express CD34. Stem Cells 2014;32:1380-1389.





Dopamine (DA) dysregulation within fronto-striatal circuitry may underlie impulsivity in alcohol and other substance use disorders. To date, no one has directly demonstrated DA release during a task requiring the control of impulsive behavior. The current study was conducted to determine whether a response inhibition task (stop signal task; SST) would elicit detectable extrastriatal DA release in healthy controls. We hypothesized that DA release would be detected in regions previously implicated in different aspects of inhibitory control. [(18) F]Fallypride (FAL) PET imaging was performed in nine healthy males (24.64.1 y.o.) to assess changes in cortical DA during a SST relative to a baseline &quot;Go&quot; task. On separate days, subjects received one FAL scan during the SST, and one FAL scan during a &quot;Go&quot; control; task-order was counter-balanced across subjects. Parametric BPND images were generated and analyzed with SPM8. Voxel-wise analysis indicated significant SST-induced DA release in several cortical regions involved in inhibitory control, including the insula, cingulate cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, precuneus, and supplementary motor area. There was a significant positive correlation between stop signal reaction time and DA release in the left orbitofrontal cortex, right middle frontal gyrus, and right precentral gyrus. These data support the feasibility of using FAL PET to study DA release during response inhibition, enabling investigation of relationships between DA function and impulsive behavior.
Downregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a member of neurotrophin family, has been implicated in psychiatric diseases including schizophrenia. However, detailed mechanisms of its reduction in patients with schizophrenia remain unclear. Here, using cultured cortical neurons, we monitored BDNF mRNA levels following acute application of phencyclidine [PCP; an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blocker], which is known to produce schizophrenia-like symptoms. We found that PCP rapidly caused a reduction in total amount of BDNF transcripts without effect on cell viability, while mRNA levels of nerve growth factor was intact. Actinomycin-D (ActD), an RNA synthesis inhibitor, decreased total BDNF mRNA levels similar to PCP, and coapplication of ActD with PCP did not show further reduction in BDNF mRNA compared with solo application of each drug. Among BDNF exons I, IV, and VI, the exon IV, which is positively regulated by neuronal activity, was highly sensitive to PCP. Furthermore, PCP inactivated cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB; a regulator of transcriptional activity of exon IV). The inactivation of CREB was also achieved by an inhibitor for Ca(2+) /calmodulin kinase II (CaMKII), although coapplication with PCP induced no further inhibition on the CREB activity. It is possible that PCP decreases BDNF transcription via blocking the NMDA receptor/CaMKII/CREB signaling.

Four isolates, designated, RG-1(T), RG-3(T), RG-6 and RG-8 with optimum growth temperatures around 60C were recovered from a hot stream near Ribeira Grande on the Island of So Miguel in the Azores. These strains were strictly aerobic, catalase and oxidase positive. The organisms could be divided into two groups; one comprising strains RG-1(T) and RG-6, the other formed by strains RG-3(T) and RG-8, with distinctive phenotypic and chemotaxonomic characteristics. Major fatty acids varied between the groups, but all contained iso-branched components such as iso-C16:0 10-methyl and iso-C17:0 10-methyl. Analysis of the 16S rRNA gene shows the strains to cluster with species of the genus Rubrobacter, specifically with Rubrobacter xylanophilus to which they have pairwise sequence similarity in the range of 98.4-98.6%. The DNA-DNA hybridization result show that strains RG-1(T) and RG-3(T) share 72% reassociation. Strains RG-1(T) and RG-3(T) displayed extreme tolerance to desiccation when compared to other species of the genus. Based on genotypic, physiological and biochemical characteristics we describe two new species: Rubrobacter calidifluminis sp. nov., represented by strain RG-1(T) (=CECT 8308(T) =JCM 19154(T)) and Rubrobacter naiadicus sp. nov. represented by strain RG-3(T) (=CECT 8310(T)=JCM 19155(T)). The description of the species Rubrobacter bracarensis[16] is emended to correct the fatty acid composition of these organisms. The discovery of new fatty acids in these species requires emendation of the description of the genus Rubrobacter.
Abstract Background: A telemedicine program was developed between the Children's National Medical Center (CNMC) in Washington, DC, and the Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Foundation in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). A needs assessment and a curriculum of on-site training conferences were devised preparatory to an ongoing telemedicine consultation program for children with neurodevelopmental disabilities in the underserved eastern region of the UAE. Materials and Methods: Weekly telemedicine consultations are provided by a multidisciplinary faculty. Patients are presented in the UAE with their therapists and families. Real-time (video over Internet protocol; average connection, 768 kilobits/s) telemedicine conferences are held weekly following previews of medical records. A full consultation report follows each telemedicine session. Results: Between February 29, 2012 and June 26, 2013, 48 weekly 1-h live interactive telemedicine consultations were conducted on 48 patients (28 males, 20 females; age range, 8 months-22 years; median age, 5.4 years). The primary diagnoses were cerebral palsy, neurogenetic disorders, autism, neuromuscular disorders, congenital anomalies, global developmental delay, systemic disease, and epilepsy. Common comorbidities were cognitive impairment, communication disorders, and behavioral disorders. Specific recommendations included imaging and DNA studies, antiseizure management, spasticity management including botulinum toxin protocols, and specific therapy modalities including taping techniques, customized body vests, and speech/language and behavioral therapy. Improved outcomes reported were in clinician satisfaction, achievement of therapy goals for patients, and requests for ongoing sessions. Conclusions: Weekly telemedicine sessions coupled with triannual training conferences were successfully implemented in a clinical program dedicated to patients with neurodevelopmental disabilities by the Center for Neuroscience at CNMC and the UAE government. International consultations in neurodevelopmental disabilities utilizing telemedicine services offer a reliable and productive method for joint clinical programs.

Neuronal signal transduction and communication in vivo is based on highly complex and dynamic networks among neurons expanding in a three-dimensional (3D) manner. Studies of cell-cell communication, synaptogenesis, and neural network plasticity constitute major research areas for understanding the involvement of neurons in neurodegenerative diseases, such as Huntington's, Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's disease, and in regenerative neural plasticity responses in situations, such as neurotrauma or stroke. Various cell culture systems constitute important experimental platforms to study neuronal functions in health and disease. A major downside of the existing cell culture systems is that the alienating planar cell environment leads to aberrant cell-cell contacts and network formation and increased reactivity of cell culture-contaminating glial cells. To mimic a suitable 3D environment for the growth and investigation of neuronal networks in vitro has posed an insurmountable challenge. Here, we report the development of a novel electrospun, polyurethane nanofiber-based 3D cell culture system for the in vitro support of neuronal networks, in which neurons can grow freely in all directions and form network structures more complex than any culture system has so far been able to support. In this 3D system, neurons extend processes from their cell bodies as a function of the nanofiber diameter. The nanofiber scaffold also minimizes the reactive state of contaminating glial cells.



Identifying those infants most at risk for poor neurodevelopmental outcomes is crucial to allow for targeted surveillance or preventative interventions to be instigated from birth. One intriguing possibility is to use the molecular characteristics of the placenta at birth as a 'molecular barometer' of the in utero experience to predict future infant neurodevelopmental outcomes. Here we highlight the recent advances in the field and discuss the possibilities for an integrated approach across the '-omics' categories.








Neurodevelopmental disorders affect a substantial minority of the general population. Their origins are still largely unknown, but a complex interplay of genetic and environmental factors causing disturbances of the central nervous system's maturation and a variety of higher cognitive skills is presumed. Only limited research of rather small sample size and narrow scope has been conducted in neurodevelopmental disorders using a twin-differences design. The Roots of Autism and ADHD Twin Study in Sweden (RATSS) is an ongoing project targeting monozygotic twins discordant for categorical or dimensional autistic and inattentive/hyperactive-impulsive phenotypes as well as other neurodevelopmental disorders, and typically developing twin controls. Included pairs are 9 years of age or older, and comprehensively assessed for psychopathology, medical history, neuropsychology, and dysmorphology, as well as structural, functional, and molecular brain imaging. Specimens are collected for induced pluripotent (iPS) and neuroepithelial stem cells, genetic, gut bacteria, protein-/monoamine, and electron microscopy analyses. RATSS's objective is to generate a launch pad for novel surveys to understand the complexity of genotype-environment-phenotype interactions in autism spectrum disorder and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). By October 2013, RATSS had collected data from 55 twin pairs, among them 10 monozygotic pairs discordant for autism spectrum disorder, seven for ADHD, and four for other neurodevelopmental disorders. This article describes the design, recruitment, data collection, measures, collected pairs' characteristics, as well as ongoing and planned analyses in RATSS. Potential gains of the study comprise the identification of environmentally mediated biomarkers, the emergence of candidates for drug development, translational modeling, and new leads for prevention of incapacitating outcomes.

Learning to read is extremely difficult for about 10% of children across cultures because they are affected by developmental dyslexia (DD). According to the dominant view, DD is considered an auditory-phonological processing deficit. However, accumulating evidence from developmental and clinical vision science, suggests that the basic cross-modal letter-to-speech sound integration deficit in DD might arise from a mild atypical development of the magnocellular-dorsal pathway which also contains the main fronto-parietal attentional network. Letters have to be precisely selected from irrelevant and cluttering letters by rapid orienting of visual attention before the correct letter-to-speech sound integration applies. Our aim is to review the literature supporting a possible role of perceptual learning (PL) in helping to solve the puzzle called DD. PL is defined as improvement of perceptual skills with practice. Based on the previous literature showing how PL is able to selectively change visual abilities, we here propose to use PL to improve the impaired visual functions characterizing DD and, in particular, the visual deficits that could be developmentally related to an early magnocellular-dorsal pathway and selective attention dysfunction. The crucial visual attention deficits that are causally linked to DD could be, indeed, strongly reduced by training the magnocellular-dorsal pathway with the PL, and learning to read for children with DD would not be anymore such a difficult task. This new remediation approach - not involving any phonological or orthographic training - could be also used to develop new prevention programs for pre-reading children at DD risk.
Motion direction learning is known to be specific to the trained direction. However, in this study we used our recently developed TPE (training-plus-exposure) method to demonstrate that motion direction learning can transfer to an opposite direction. Specifically, we first replicated the strict direction specificity of motion direction learning with a group of moving dots. However, when the participants were exposed to the opposite direction in an irrelevant dot number discrimination task, either simultaneously with motion direction training or at a later time, but not in a reversed order, motion direction learning transferred to the opposite direction significantly and sometimes completely. These results suggest that motion direction learning may be a high-level process in which the brain learns the potentially transferrable rules of reweighting the motion direction inputs. However, we speculate that high-level learning may not functionally connect to sensory neurons that are tuned to other directions but are not stimulated during training, which leads to direction specificity. It is the stimulus exposure in TPE training that connects high-level learning to the exposed opposite direction to enable learning transfer.
Sex differences in learning and memory suggest differences between men and women in mechanisms of neural plasticity. Such differences have been reported in a variety of explicit memory tasks, but implicit memory has not been studied in this context. We investigated differences between men and women in offline consolidation of perceptual learning (PL) of motion direction discrimination. Initially, discrimination thresholds were measured for two opposite directions of motion, followed by approximately 40minutes of training on one of the directions. During a post-training consolidation period, subjects either took a nap or remained awake. Thresholds were then reassessed for both directions of motion. We found that rapid eye movement (REM) sleep facilitates consolidation of PL but that the pattern of specificity in the REM condition differed between men and women. PL for men whose naps contained REM sleep was highly specific to the trained direction of motion, whereas REM sleep in women resulted in generalized learning to the untrained direction as well as to a novel direction that was not previously tested. Moreover, for subjects in the REM condition, men exhibited greater PL than women for the trained direction. Our findings provide the first evidence of sex differences in the magnitude and specificity of PL and in the role of REM sleep in implicit learning. Our results have important implications for optimization of educational and training strategies designed for males and females.








Most mental disorders involve disruptions of normal social behavior. Social neuroscience is an interdisciplinary field devoted to understanding the biological systems underlying social processes and behavior, and the influence of the social environment on biological processes, health and well-being. Research in this field has grown dramatically in recent years. Active areas of research include brain imaging studies in normal children and adults, animal models of social behavior, studies of stroke patients, imaging studies of psychiatric patients, and research on social determinants of peripheral neural, neuroendocrine and immunological processes. Although research in these areas is proceeding along largely independent trajectories, there is increasing evidence for connections across these trajectories. We focus here on the progress and potential of social neuroscience in psychiatry, including illustrative evidence for a rapid growth of neuroimaging and genetic studies of mental disorders. We also argue that neuroimaging and genetic research focused on specific component processes underlying social living is needed.

































The muscle wasting and loss of specific force associated with Critical Illness Myopathy (CIM) is, at least in part, due to a preferential loss of the molecular motor protein myosin. This acquired myopathy is common in critically ill immobilized and mechanically ventilated intensive care patients (ICU). There is a growing understanding of the mechanisms underlying CIM, but the role of nutritional factors triggering this serious complication of modern intensive care remains unknown. This study aims at establishing the effect of nutritional status in the pathogenesis of CIM. An experimental ICU model was used where animals are mechanically ventilated, pharmacologically paralysed post-synaptically and extensively monitored for up to 14 days. Due to the complexity of the experimental model, the number of animals included is small. After exposure to this ICU condition, animals develop a phenotype similar to patients with CIM. The results from this study show that the preferential myosin loss, decline in specific force and muscle fiber atrophy did not differ between low vs. eucaloric animals. In both experimental groups, passive mechanical loading had a sparing effect of muscle weight independent on nutritional status. Thus, this study confirms the strong impact of the mechanical silencing associated with the ICU condition in triggering CIM, overriding any potential effects of caloric intake in triggering CIM. In addition, the positive effects of passive mechanical loading on muscle fiber size and force generating capacity was not affected by the nutritional status in this study. However, due to the small sample size these pilot results need to be validated in a larger cohort.















Physical inactivity is a modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular (CV) and metabolic disorders. VO2max is the best method to assess cardio-respiratory fitness level but it is poorly adopted in clinical practice. Sudomotor dysfunction may develop early in metabolic diseases. This study aimed at comparing established CV risk evaluation techniques with SUDOSCAN; a quick and non-invasive method to assess sudomotor function. A questionnaire was filled-in; physical examination and VO2max estimation using a maximal test on a bicycle ergometer were performed on active Finish workers. Hand and foot electrochemical skin conductance (ESC) were measured to assess sudomotor function. Subjects with the lowest fitness level were involved in a 12 month training program with recording of their weekly physical activity and a final fitness level evaluation. Significant differences in BMI; waist and body fat were seen according to SUDOSCAN risk score classification. Correlation between the risk score and estimated VO2max was r = -0.57, p &lt; 0.0001 for women and -0.48, p &lt; 0.0001 for men. A significant increase in estimated VO2max, in hand and foot ESC and in risk score was observed after lifestyle intervention and was more important in subjects with the highest weekly activity. SUDOSCAN could be used to assess cardio-metabolic disease risk status in a working population and to follow individual lifestyle interventions.








fMRI signals during rest are strongly correlated with heart rate variations. These heart rate/fMRI associations may influence the results of brain activation studies, particularly if heart rate is affected by the task. To assess the contribution of task-related heart rate changes on fMRI brain activation related to executive processing, we co-registered the electrocardiogram with fMRI in 91 subjects during an interference task (color-word Stroop) and during a planning task (Tower of London; ToL). We found that both Stroop interference and ToL planning significantly increased heart rate in the scanner and confirmed significant main effects of heart rate regressors on the fMRI signals. Nevertheless, statistical contrasts that test for increased fMRI during Stroop interference and ToL planning were not significantly influenced by inclusion of heart rate regressors. We conclude therefore that fMRI changes associated with heart rate changes do not impact strongly on higher-order fMRI effects in these commonly used executive function tasks, but routinely adding a correction seems prudent.







WE HAVE SUGGESTED THAT THE REMOTE DISTRACTOR EFFECT RDE, THE ELEVATION OF AVERAGE SACCADIC REACTION TIME SRT INDUCED BY A TASK-IRRELEVANT DISTRACTOR, MAY BE EXPLAINED AS A STATISTICAL CONSEQUENCE OF A CHARACTERISTIC RESHAPING OF THE SRT DISTRIBUTION KNOWN AS SACCADIC INHIBITION SI; BUONOCORE &amp; MCINTOSH, 2008 IN A RECENT PAPER, WALKER AND BENSON 2013 ARGUE AGAINST THIS IDEA AND CLAIM THAT THE RDE AND SI ARE PARTLY DISSOCIABLE HERE, WE EXAMINE THIS CLAIM, TAKING THE OPPORTUNITY TO CLARIFY POTENTIAL AMBIGUITIES ABOUT HOW SI AFFECTS AVERAGE SRT, AND HOW THE PRESENCE OF SI CAN BE INFERRED FROM SRT DISTRIBUTIONS WE HIGHLIGHT WHAT WE CONSIDER TO BE THE MOST INTERESTING ASPECTS OF WALKER AND BENSON'S DATA, AND SUGGEST THAT A MORE FLEXIBLE AND NUANCED VIEW OF SI CAN ACCOUNT FOR THEM IN CONSIDERING THE RELATION BETWEEN SI AND THE RDE, WE CONCLUDE THAT THE RDE MAY NO LONGER BE A USEFUL CONCEPT FOR EYE MOVEMENT RESEARCHERS:
THE: CURRENT EXPERIMENTS EXAMINED THE EFFECT OF HEALTHY AGING ON THE INTEGRATION OF ORIENTATION AND POSITION INFORMATION IN SHAPE PERCEPTION: FOLLOWING DAY AND LOFFLER 2009, CONFLICTING CONTOURS WERE CREATED BY SAMPLING THE ORIENTATIONS OF ONE SHAPE EG, A ROUNDED PENTAGON WITH GABORS, AND POSITIONING THEM ON THE CIRCUMFERENCE OF A DIFFERENT SHAPE EG, A CIRCLE IN EXPERIMENT 1, SUBJECTS JUDGED WHETHER THE CONFLICTING CONTOUR LOOKED MORE CIRCULAR THAN A ROUNDED PENTAGON OF VARYING AMPLITUDE, WHICH ALLOWED US TO ESTIMATE THE PERCEIVED SHAPE OF THE CONFLICTING CONTOUR THE RELATIVE AMOUNT OF POSITION AND ORIENTATION INFORMATION WAS MANIPULATED BY VARYING THE NUMBER OF GABORS COMPRISING THE TARGET CONTOUR ORIENTATION INFORMATION DOMINATED THE PERCEPT FOR CONTOURS SAMPLED WITH 15-40 ELEMENTS, PRODUCING A STRONG SHAPE ILLUSION, BUT POSITION INFORMATION DETERMINED THE SHAPE WITH DENSER SAMPLING THE MAGNITUDE OF THIS ORIENTATION DOMINANCE EFFECT WAS EQUAL IN YOUNGER AND OLDER SUBJECTS ACROSS ALL SAMPLING LEVELS IN EXPERIMENT 2, SUBJECTS DISCRIMINATED FIVE CONTOURS THAT DIFFERED IN ORIENTATION AND/OR POSITION INFORMATION BOTH GROUPS SHOWED POOR DISCRIMINATION BETWEEN CONFLICTING CONTOURS AND THEIR PERCEPTUALLY EQUIVALENT RADIAL FREQUENCY PATTERNS, CONFIRMING THE MAIN FINDING OF EXPERIMENT 1 IN ADDITION, OLDER SUBJECTS SHOWED WORSE DISCRIMINATION BETWEEN TWO NONCIRCULAR RADIAL FREQUENCY PATTERNS THAN YOUNGER SUBJECTS IN SUM, INTEGRATION OF ORIENTATION AND POSITION INFORMATION IN SHAPE PERCEPTION IS PRESERVED WITH AGING; HOWEVER, OLDER ADULTS ARE LESS ABLE TO MAKE FINE SHAPE DISCRIMINATIONS BETWEEN NONCIRCULAR SAMPLED CONTOURS:




The role of CaMKII in learning-induced activation and trafficking of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) is well established. However, the link between the phosphorylation state of CaMKII and the agonist-triggered proteasomal degradation of AMPARs during memory consolidation remains unknown. Here we describe a novel CaMKII-dependent mechanism by which a learning-induced increase in AMPAR levels is stabilized for consolidation of associative long-term memory. Six hours after classical conditioning the levels of both autophosphorylated pT305-CaMKII and GluA1 type AMPAR subunits are significantly elevated in the ganglia containing the learning circuits of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. CaMKIINtide treatment significantly reduces the learning-induced elevation of both pT305-CaMKII and GluA1 levels and impairs associative long-term memory. Inhibition of proteasomal activity offsets the deleterious effects of CaMKIINtide on both GluA1 levels and long-term memory. These findings suggest that increased levels of pT305-CaMKII play a role in AMPAR-dependent memory consolidation by reducing proteasomal degradation of GluA1 receptor subunits.




Depression is a common symptom in Parkinson's disease (PD), but its pathophysiology remains unclear. Several lines of studies have revealed that the prelimbic (PrL) sub-region of the ventral medial prefrontal cortex and 5-HT1A receptors are involved in the regulation of depression. In this study, we examined whether complete unilateral lesions of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) using 6-hydroxydopamine in rats are able to induce depressive-like behaviors, the role of PrL 5-HT1A receptors in the regulation of these behaviors, and co-localization of 5-HT1A receptor and neuronal glutamate transporter EAAC1-immunoreactive (EAAC1-ir) neurons in the PrL. The MFB lesions induced depressive-like responses as measured by the sucrose preference and forced swim tests when compared to sham-operated rats. The intra-PrL injection of 5HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT (50, 100, and 500ng/rat) increased sucrose consumption, and decreased immobility time in both sham-operated and the lesioned rats, indicating the induction of antidepressant effects. Furthermore, the intra-PrL injection of 5HT1A receptor antagonist WAY-100635 (60, 120, and 240ng/rat) showed a decrease in sucrose consumption, and an increase in immobility time, indicating the induction of depressive-like responses. However, the effective doses in the lesioned rats were higher than those in sham-operated rats, which attribute to down-regulation of 5-HT1A receptor expression on EAAC1-ir neurons in the PrL of the lesioned rats. These findings suggest that unilateral lesions of the MFB in rats may induce depressive-like behaviors, and 5-HT1A receptors of the PrL play an important role in the regulation of these behaviors.

Nuclear distribution factor E homolog like 1 (NDEL1) plays an important role in mitosis, neuronal migration, and microtubule organization during brain development by binding to disrupted-in-schizophrenia-1 (DISC1) or lissencephaly (LIS1). Although some evidence has suggested that DISC1 expression is altered in epilepsy, few studies have reported the relationship between NDEL1 and the etiology of epilepsy. In present study, we first investigated the expression of NDEL1 and its binding protein DISC1 after pilocarpine-induced epilepsy in male C57BL/6 mice. Data revealed that the mRNA and protein expression of NDEL1 and DISC1 in the whole hippocampus increased during the spontaneous seizure period after status epilepticus (SE). Interestingly, however, the expression of NDEL1 was decreased in the cornu ammonis 3 (CA3) and dentate gyrus (DG) regions. Moreover, SE also increased the number of blood vessels that fed the CA3 and DG regions of the hippocampus and increased the incidence of abnormalities in capillary network formation where NDEL1 protein was expressed positively. Meanwhile, the expression of phosphorylated ERK (p-ERK) was also increased during the spontaneous seizure period, with a similar expression pattern as NDEL1 and DISC1. Based on these results, we hypothesize that NDEL1 might interact with DISC1 to activate ERK signaling and function as a potential protective factor during the spontaneous seizure period after pilocarpine-induced SE.
Ketamine, a dissociative anesthetic most commonly used in many pediatric procedures, has been reported in many animal studies to cause widespread neuroapoptosis in the neonatal brain after exposure in high doses and/or for a prolonged period. This neurodegenerative change occurs most severely in the forebrain including the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) that is an important brain structure for mediating a variety of cognitive functions. However, it is still unknown whether such apoptotic neurodegeneration early in life would subsequently impair the synaptic plasticity of the ACC later in life. In this study, we performed whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from the ACC brain slices of young adult rats to examine any alterations in long-term synaptic plasticity caused by neonatal ketamine exposure. Ketamine was administered at postnatal day 4-7 (subcutaneous injections, 20mg/kg given six times, once every 2h). At 3-4weeks of age, long-term potentiation (LTP) was induced and recorded by monitoring excitatory postsynaptic currents from ACC slices. We found that the induction of LTP in the ACC was significantly reduced when compared to the control group. The LTP impairment was accompanied by an increase in the -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor-mediated excitatory synaptic transmission and a decrease in GABA inhibitory synaptic transmission in neurons of the ACC. Thus, our present findings show that neonatal ketamine exposure causes a significant LTP impairment in the ACC. We suggest that the imbalanced synaptic transmission is likely to contribute to ketamine-induced LTP impairment in the ACC.
Shape perception can be achieved based on various cues such as luminance, color, texture, depth and motion. To investigate common neural mechanisms underlying shape perception cued by various visual attributes, we examined single-neuron activity in the monkey anterior superior temporal sulcus (STS) in response to shapes defined by luminance and motion cues during shape discrimination. We found cortical mapping with respect to selectivity for shapes as well as for direction of motion in the STS. About 90% of shape-selective neurons were located in the lower bank of STS (lSTS) assigned to the ventral pathway, while about 80% of direction-selective neurons existed in the upper bank of STS (uSTS) assigned to the dorsal pathway. The neurons showing selectivity for both shape and motion coexisted in lSTS as well as uSTS. This result indicates that integration or convergence of shape information and motion information can occur in both banks of STS. About 90% of STS neurons showing selectivity both for shapes defined by luminance cue and for shapes defined by motion cue were located in lSTS. They showed a highly similar shape preference between the different visual attributes, indicating cue-invariant shape selectivity. The cue-invariant shape-selectivity was modulated with target selection as well as with discrimination performance of monkeys. These results suggest that lSTS could be involved in cue-invariant shape discrimination, but not the uSTS.
Cortical microcircuitry plays a pivotal role in encoding sensory information reaching the cortex. However, the fundamental knowledge concerning the mechanisms that govern feature-encoding by these sub-networks is still sparse. Here, we show through multi-electrode recordings in V1 of conventionally prepared anesthetized cats, that an avalanche of synergistic neural activity occurs between functionally connected neurons in a cell-assembly in response to the presented stimulus. The results specifically show that once the reference neuron spikes in a connected neuron-pair, it facilitates the response of its companion (target) neuron for 50ms and, thereafter, the excitability of the target neuron declines. On the other hand, the functionally unconnected neurons do not facilitate each other's activity within the 50-ms time-window. The added excitation (facilitation) of connected neurons is almost four times the responsiveness of unconnected neurons. This suggests that connectedness confers the added excitability to neurons; consequently leading to feature-encoding within the emergent 50-ms-period. Furthermore, the facilitation significantly decreases as a function of orientation selectivity spread.
Tetrodotoxin-sensitive persistent sodium currents, INaP, that activate at subthreshold voltages, have been detected in numerous vertebrate and invertebrate neurons. These currents are believed to be critical for regulating neuronal excitability. However, the molecular mechanism underlying INaP is controversial. In this study, we identified an INaP with a broad range of voltage dependence, from -60mV to 20mV, in a Drosophila sodium channel variant expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Mutational analysis revealed that two variant-specific amino acid changes, I260T in the S4-S5 linker of domain I (ILS4-S5) and A1731V in the voltage sensor S4 of domain IV (IVS4), contribute to the INaP. I260T is critical for the portion of INaP at hyperpolarized potentials. The T260-mediated INaP is likely the result of window currents flowing in the voltage range where the activation and inactivation curves overlap. A1731V is responsible for impaired inactivation and contributes to the portion of INaP at depolarized potentials. Furthermore, A1731V causes enhanced activity of two site-3 toxins which induce persistent currents by inhibiting the outward movement of IVS4, suggesting that A1731V inhibits the outward movement of IVS4. These results provided molecular evidence for the involvement of distinct mechanisms in the generation of INaP: T260 contributes to INaP via enhancement of the window current, whereas V1731 impairs fast inactivation probably by inhibiting the outward movement of IVS4.
Inflammation, oxidative and nitrosative stress underlie depression being assessed in rodents by the systemic administration of lipopolysacharide (LPS). There is an increasing body of evidence of an involvement of nitric oxide (NO) pathway in depression, but this issue was not investigated in LPS-induced model. Thus, herein we evaluated the effects of NO-pathway-modulating drugs, named aminoguanidine, l-NAME, sildenafil and l-arginine, on the behavioral (forced swimming test [FST], sucrose preference [SPT] and prepulse inhibition [PPI] of the startle) and neurochemical (glutathione [GSH], lipid peroxidation, IL-1) alterations in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum as well as in BDNF levels in the hippocampus 24h after LPS (0.5mg/kg, i.p.) administration, a time-point related to depressive-like behavior. Twenty-four hours post LPS there was an increase in immobility time in the FST, decrease in sucrose preference and PPI levels accompanied by a decrease in GSH levels and an increase in lipid peroxidation, IL-1 and hippocampal BDNF levels suggestive of a depressive-like state. The pretreatment with the NOS inhibitors, l-NAME and aminoguanidine as well as sildenafil prevented the behavioral and neurochemical alterations induced by LPS, although sildenafil and l-NAME were not able to prevent the increase in hippocampal BDNF levels induced by LPS. The iNOS inhibitor, aminoguanidine, and imipramine prevented all behavioral and neurochemical alterations induced by LPS. l-arginine did not prevent the alterations in immobility time, sucrose preference and GSH induced by LPS. Taken together our results show that the NO-cGMP pathway is important in the modulation of the depressive-like alterations induced by LPS.
This study investigated the influence of vision and proprioception on the excitability of direct corticospinal (corticomotoneuronal) pathway to the soleus in young and elderly adults during upright standing. Ten young and 10 elderly adults stood upright on a rigid surface with eyes open or closed, and on foam mat with eyes open. The corticomotoneuronal excitability was investigated by assessing facilitation of the soleus H-reflex induced by subthreshold transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). The torque produced by the plantar flexor muscles during a maximal voluntary contraction was also measured. The maximal plantar flexion torque was significantly lower in elderly than in young adults (p&lt;0.05). The activity of leg muscles, recorded by electromyography (EMG) was greater in elderly than in young adults regardless of balance conditions (p&lt;0.05), and greater when standing on foam than in the other conditions (p&lt;0.05), regardless of age. The H-reflex facilitation was greater for elderly [182.9 (45)%] than young adults [130.5 (33.1)%; p&lt;0.05] but did not differ across sensory conditions (p&gt;0.05). However, the amplitude of the H reflex conditioned by TMS relative to the amplitude of the test H reflex ratio was positively associated with EMG activity of the plantar flexor muscles during upright standing (r(2)=0.47; p&lt;0.001). These results indicate that regardless of age the excitability of the corticomotoneuronal pathway is not modulated with changes in the sensory conditions during upright standing. Nonetheless, the corticomotoneural drive to control leg muscle during upright standing increases with the level of soleus muscle activity.
We used FM imaging to identify neurons that receive sensory feedback from the body wall in a circuit for octopamine (OA)-evoked rhythmic locomotion in the earthworm, Eisenia fetida. We visualized synapses in which postsynaptic neurons receive the sensory feedback, by using FM1-43 dye to label the synapses of both motor and sensory pathways that are associated with locomotion, then clearing the motor pathway synapse labeling, and finally identifying the target synapses by distinguishing physiologically functional synapses through destaining using a high-K(+) solution. A pair of synaptic regions associated with the sensory feedback was found to be located two or three cell body-widths away from the midline, between the anterior parts of the roots of the second lateral nerves (LNs) at the segmental ganglia (SGs). Using conventional intracellular recording and dye loading of the cell bodies surrounding these synaptic regions, we identified a pair of bilateral neurons with cell bodies larger than those of other cells in these regions, and named them &quot;Oscillatory firing neurons Projecting to Peripheral nerves&quot; (OPPs). These had a bipolar shape and projected neurites to the ipsilateral first and third LNs, fired rhythmically, and had a burst timing synchronized with the motor pattern bursts from the ipsilateral first LNs. Current injection into an OPP caused firing in the ipsilateral first LNs, supporting the hypothesis that OPPs functionally project to the peripheral nerves. OPPs also sent neurites to the adjacent anterior and posterior SGs, suggesting connections with the adjacent segments. We conclude that FM imaging can be used to identify neurons involved in specific functions, and that OPPs are the first neurons to be associated with OA-induced locomotion in the earthworm.
Manganese (Mn) is an essential trace element that is required for normal brain functioning. However, excessive intake of Mn has been known to lead to neuronal loss and clinical symptoms resembling idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD), whose precise molecular mechanism remains largely elusive. In the study, we established a Mn-exposed rat model and identified a mitochondrial protease, the mature form of high temperature requirement A2 (HtrA2/Omi), which was significantly upregulated in rat brain striatum after Mn exposure. Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses revealed that the expression of mature HtrA2 was remarkably increased following Mn exposure. In addition, immunofluorescence assay demonstrated that overexposure to Mn could lead to significant elevation in the number of HtrA2-positive neurons. Accordingly, the expression of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), a well-characterized target of HtrA2-mediated proteolysis, was progressively decreased following Mn exposure, and was correlated with increased level of active caspase-3. Further, we showed that Mn exposure decreased the viability and induced apparent apoptosis of NFG-differentiated PC12 cells. Importantly, the expression of HtrA2 was progressively increased, whereas the level of cellular XIAP was reduced during Mn-induced apoptosis. In addition, blockage of HtrA2 activity with UCF-101 restored Mn-induced reduction in XIAP expression. Finally, we observed that UCF-101 treatment ameliorated Mn-induced apoptosis in PC12 cells. Collectively, these findings suggested that upregulated HtrA2 played a role in Mn-induced neuronal death in brain striatum.
The pre-Btzinger complex (preBtC) of the ventrolateral medulla is the kernel for inspiratory rhythm generation. However, it is not fully understood how inspiratory neural activity is generated in the preBtC and propagates to other medullary regions. We analyzed the detailed anatomical connectivity to and from the preBtC and functional aspects of the inspiratory information propagation from the preBtC on the transverse plane of the medulla oblongata. Tract-tracing with immunohistochemistry in young adult rats demonstrated that neurokinin-1 receptor- and somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons in the preBtC, which could be involved in respiratory rhythmogenesis, are embedded in the plexus of axons originating in the contralateral preBtC. By voltage-imaging in rhythmically active slices of neonatal rats, we analyzed origination and propagation of inspiratory neural activity as depolarizing wave dynamics on the entire transverse plane as well as within the preBtC. Novel combination of pharmacological blockade of glutamatergic transmission and mathematical subtraction of the video images under blockade from the control images enabled to extract glutamatergic signal propagations. By ultra-high-speed voltage-imaging we first demonstrated the inter-preBtC conduction process of inspiratory action potentials. Intra-preBtC imaging with high spatiotemporal resolution during a single spontaneous inspiratory cycle unveiled deterministic nonlinearities, i.e., chaos, in the population recruitment. Collectively, we comprehensively elucidated the anatomical pathways to and from the preBtC and dynamics of inspiratory neural information propagation: (1) From the preBtC in one side to the contralateral preBtC, which would synchronize the bilateral rhythmogenic kernels, (2) from the preBtC directly to the bilateral hypoglossal premotor and motor areas as well as to the nuclei tractus solitarius, and (3) from the hypoglossal premotor areas toward the hypoglossal motor nuclei. The coincidence of identified anatomical and functional connectivity between the preBtC and other regions in adult and neonatal rats, respectively, indicates that this fundamental connectivity is already well developed at the time of birth.
Congenital toxoplasmosis and toxoplasmic encephalitis can be associated with severe neuropsychiatric symptoms. However, which host cell processes are regulated and how Toxoplasma gondii affects these changes remain unclear. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNA sequences critical to neurodevelopment and adult neuronal processes by coordinating the activity of multiple genes within biological networks. We examined the expression of over 1000 miRNAs in human neuroepithelioma cells in response to infection with Toxoplasma. MiR-132, a cyclic AMP-responsive element binding (CREB)-regulated miRNA, was the only miRNA that was substantially upregulated by all three prototype Toxoplasma strains. The increased expression of miR-132 was also documented in mice following infection with Toxoplasma. To identify cellular pathways regulated by miR-132, we performed target prediction followed by pathway enrichment analysis in the transcriptome of Toxoplasma-infected mice. This led us to identify 20 genes and dopamine receptor signaling was their strongest associated pathway. We then examined myriad aspects of the dopamine pathway in the striatum of Toxoplasma-infected mice 5days after infection. Here we report decreased expression of D1-like dopamine receptors (DRD1, DRD5), metabolizing enzyme (MAOA) and intracellular proteins associated with the transduction of dopamine-mediated signaling (DARPP-32 phosphorylation at Thr34 and Ser97). Increased concentrations of dopamine and its metabolites, serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were documented by HPLC analysis; however, the metabolism of dopamine was decreased and 5-HT metabolism was unchanged. Our data show that miR-132 is upregulated following infection with Toxoplasma and is associated with changes in dopamine receptor signaling. Our findings provide a possible mechanism for how the parasite contributes to the neuropathology of infection.
Interactions between the prelimbic cortex and the basolateral amygdala underlie fear memory processing, mostly through acquiring and consolidating the learning of a conditioned fear. More recently, studies highlighted the role of the dorsal periaqueductal gray (DPAG) in the modulation of learning fear responses. In addition, extensive data in the literature have signaled the importance of serotonin (5-HT) on fear and anxiety. In the present study, the role of 5-HT neurotransmission of the prelimbic cortex, basolateral amygdala or the DPAG on the unconditioned and conditioned fear responses in rats previously selected as low- (LA) or high-anxious (HA) were assessed through local infusions of 5-HT itself (10nmol/0.2l) or the selective 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT - 0.3g/0.2l). Behavioral analysis was conducted using the fear-potentiated startle (FPS) procedure. Dependent variables recorded were the latency and amplitude of the unconditioned startle response and FPS. Our findings suggest that, on the prelimbic cortex, 5-HT modulates the expression of conditioned fear response in HA rats and this modulation is dependent on 5-HT1A receptors. This is not true, however, for the basolateral amygdala or the DPAG. In these regions LA but not HA rats were susceptible to the anxiolytic-like effect of 5-HT1A receptor activation. It is thought that the expression of conditioned fear in HA subjects may be dependent on other 5-HT receptors, as the 5-HT1B subtype, and/or changes in other systems such as the GABA and glutamate neurotransmitters. These results increase our understanding of the rostrocaudal influence of 5-HT on the unconditioned and conditioned fear responses in LA and HA subjects and, to some extent, are in disagreement with the theoretical current that emphasizes the role of 5-HT on anxiety, mainly at the subcortical and midbrain levels.
Abnormalities of mental status represent a severe complication and an important cause of death in acute pancreatitis (AP), which is characterized by a pattern of neurological signs and symptoms. As some of the symptoms of AP are also affected by catecholamine neurotransmitters, they cannot be ruled out of the pathophysiology of AP; however, little research has been performed exploring this hypothesis. Our study aimed to elucidate whether AP affects the metabolism of catecholamine neurotransmitters in rats. A total of 300 male SD rats were randomly divided into five groups: control, 6H, 24H, 48H and 72H experimental groups. AP was induced in rats by an injection of a sodium taurocholate solution via a cannulated bile-pancreatic duct. In the striatum, hippocampus and cerebellum, catecholamine neurotransmitters were tested using high performance liquid chromatography equipped with a electrochemical detector, and the activities and protein concentration levels of monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were also evaluated using ELISA and Western blotting analyses. In the hippocampus, the dopamine (DA) concentrations increased in the 48-h and 72-h groups. The 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) concentration of the 72-h group also increased. The MAO-A and TH activity of the 6-h and 24-h groups decreased, respectively. The TH activities of the 48-h groups also decreased. The MAO-A and TH protein concentration of the 6-h and 24-h groups decreased. In the corpus striatum, the homovanillic acid concentration of the 72-h group and norepinephrine concentrations of the 24-h and 48-h groups increased, respectively. The MAO-A and TH activities of the 6-h and 24-h groups decreased. The MAO-A and TH protein concentrations of the 6-h and 24-h groups decreased. In the prefrontal cortex (left prefrontal lobe), the DA and DOPAC concentrations of the 48-h group increased. The MAO-A and TH activities of the 6-h, 24-h and 48-h groups decreased. The MAO-A and TH protein concentrations of the 6-h and 24-h groups also decreased. The other catecholamine concentration and enzyme activities fluctuated, but there was no statistically significant difference compared with the control group. Catecholamine neurotransmitter metabolic systems are widely affected in AP, and these fluctuations may play an important role in determining the symptomatology of AP.
Brain activities in response to acupuncture have been investigated in multiple studies; however, the neuromechanisms of low- and high-frequency transcutaneous electric acupoint stimulation (TEAS) analgesia are unclear. This work aimed to investigate how brain activity and the analgesic effect changed across 30-min low- versus high-frequency TEAS. Forty-six subjects received a 30-min 2, 100-Hz TEAS or mock TEAS (MTEAS) treatment on both behavior test and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scan days. On the behavior test day, the pain thresholds and pain-related negative emotional feeling ratings were tested five times - at 4.5min before treatment, at 10, 20, and 30min during treatment and 4.5min after the treatment. On the fMRI scan day, to match the time-points in the behavioral testing session, the cerebral blood flow (CBF) signals were collected and incorporated with five independent runs before, during and after the treatment, each lasting 4.5min. The analgesic effect was observed in both the TEAS groups; the analgesic affect was not found in the MTEAS group. The effect started at 20min during the treatment and was maintained until the after-treatment states. In both TEAS groups, the regional CBF revealed a trend of early activation with later inhibition; also, a positive correlation between analgesia and the regional CBF change was observed in the anterior insula in the early stage, whereas a negative relationship was found in the parahippocampal gyrus in the later stage. The TEAS analgesia was specifically associated with the default mode network and other cortical regions in the 2-Hz TEAS group, ventral striatum and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex in the 100-Hz TEAS group, respectively. These findings suggest that the mechanisms of low- and high-frequency TEAS analgesia are distinct and partially overlapped, and they verify the treatment time as a notable factor for acupuncture studies.
Cerebral activations during olfactory mental imagery are fairly well investigated in healthy participants but little attention has been given to olfactory imagery in patients with olfactory loss. To explore whether olfactory loss leads to deficits in olfactory imagery, neural responses using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and self-report measures were investigated in 16 participants with acquired olfactory loss and 19 control participants. Participants imagined both pleasant and unpleasant odors and their visual representations. Patients reported less vivid olfactory but not visual images than controls. Results from neuroimaging revealed that activation patterns differed between patients and controls. While the control group showed stronger activation in olfactory brain regions for unpleasant compared to pleasant odors, the patient group did not. Also, activation in critical areas for olfactory imagery was correlated with the duration of olfactory dysfunction, indicating that the longer the duration of dysfunction, the more the attentional resources were employed. This indicates that participants with olfactory loss have difficulties to perform olfactory imagery in the conventional way. Regular exposure to olfactory information may be necessary to maintain an olfactory imagery capacity.
5-Hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) is abundant in the brain, suggesting an important role in epigenetic control of neuronal functions. In this paper, we show that 5hmC and 5-methylcytosine (5mC) levels are coordinately distributed in gene promoters of the rhesus macaque prefrontal cortex. Although promoter hydroxymethylation and methylation are overall negatively correlated with expression, a subset of highly expressed genes involved in specific cerebral functions is associated with high levels of 5mC and 5hmC. These relationships were also observed in the mouse cortex. Furthermore, we found that early-life maternal deprivation is associated, in the adult monkey cortex, with DNA hydroxymethylation changes of promoters of genes related to neurological functions and psychological disorders. These results reveal that early social adversity triggers variations in brain DNA hydroxymethylation that could be detected in adulthood.

Borna disease virus (BDV) is a neurotropic, non-cytolytic RNA virus which replicates in the cell nucleus targeting mainly hippocampal neurons, but also astroglial and oligodendroglial cells in the brain. BDV is associated with a large spectrum of neuropsychiatric pathologies in animals. Its relationship to human neuropsychiatric illness still remains controversial. We could recently demonstrate that human BDV strain Hu-H1 promoted apoptosis and inhibited cell proliferation in a human oligodendroglial cell line (OL cells) whereas laboratory BDV strain V acted contrariwise. Here, differential protein expression between BDV Hu-H1-infected OL cells and non-infected OL cells was assessed through a proteomics approach, using two-dimensional electrophoresis followed by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight tandem mass spectrometry. A total of 63 differential host proteins were identified in BDV Hu-H1-infected OL cells compared to non-infected OL cells. We found that most changes referred to alterations related to the pentose phosphate pathway, glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism, the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, and glycolysis /gluconeogenesis. By manual querying, two differential proteins were found to be associated with mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signal transduction. Five key signaling proteins of this pathway (i.e., p-Raf, p-MEK, p-ERK1/2, p-RSK, and p-MSK) were selected for Western blotting validation. p-ERK1/2 and p-RSK were found to be significantly up-regulated, and p-MSK was found to be significantly down-regulated in BDV Hu-H1-infected OL cells compared to non-infected OL cell. Although BDV Hu-H1 constitutively activated the ERK-RSK pathway, host cell proliferation and nuclear translocation of activated pERK in BDV Hu-H1-infected OL cells were impaired. These findings indicate that BDV Hu-H1 infection of human oligodendroglial cells significantly perturbs host energy metabolism, activates the downstream ERK-RSK complex of the Raf/MEK/ERK signaling cascade, and disturbs host cell proliferation possibly through impaired nuclear translocation of pERK, a finding which warrants further research.
Bryostatin-1, a potent agonist of protein kinase C (PKC), has recently been found to enhance spatial learning and long-term memory in rats, mice, rabbits and the nudibranch Hermissenda, and to exert profound neuroprotective effects on Alzheimer's disease (AD) in transgenic mice. However, details of the mechanistic effects of bryostatin on learning and memory remain unclear. To address this issue, whole-cell recording, a dual-recording approach and extracellular recording techniques were performed on young (2-4months) Brown-Norway rats. We found that bath-applied bryostatin-1 significantly increased the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs). The firing rate of GABAergic interneurons significantly was also increased as recorded with a loosely-attached extracellular recording configuration. Simultaneous recordings from communicating cell pairs of interneuron and pyramidal neuron revealed unique activity-dependent properties of GABAergic synapses. Furthermore, the bryostatin-induced increase of the frequency and amplitude of IPSCs was blocked by methionine enkephalin which selectively suppressed the excitability of interneurons. Pretreatment with RO-32-0432, a relatively specific PKC antagonist, blocked the effect of bryostatin on sIPSCs. Finally, bryostatin increased paired-pulse ratio of GABAergic synapses that lasted for at least 20min while pretreatment with RO-32-0432 significantly reduced the ratio. In addition, 8-[2-(2-pentyl-cyclopropylmethl)-cyclopropyl]-octanoic acid (DCP-LA), a selective PKC activator, also increased the frequency and amplitude of sIPSCs. Taken together, these results suggest that bryostatin enhances GABAergic neurotransmission in pyramidal neurons by activating the PKC &amp; -dependent pathway and by a presynaptic mechanism with excitation of GABAergic interneurons. These effects of bryostatin on GABAergic transmissions and modifiability may contribute to the improvement of learning and memory previously observed to be induced by bryostatin.
Leucine-rich repeat in Flightless-1 interaction protein 1 (Lrrfip1) is an up-regulated protein after cerebral ischemia whose precise role in the brain both in healthy and ischemic conditions is unclear. Different Lrrfip1 isoforms with distinct roles have been reported in human and mouse species. The present study aimed to analyze the Lrrfip1 transcriptional variants expressed in rat cortex, to characterize their expression patterns and subcellular location after ischemia, and to define their putative role in the brain. Five transcripts were identified and three of them (Lrrfip1, CRA_g and CRA_a' (Fli-I leucine-rich repeat associated protein 1 - Flap-1)) were analyzed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). All the transcripts were up-regulated and showed differential expression patterns after in vivo and in vitro ischemia models. The main isoform, Lrrfip1, was found to be up-regulated from the acute to the late phases of ischemia in the cytoplasm of neurons and astrocytes of the peri-infarct area. This study demonstrates that Lrrfip1 activates -catenin, Akt, and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) proteins in astrocytes and positively regulates the expression of the excitatory amino acid transporter subtype 2 (GLT-1). Our findings point to Lrrfip1 as a key brain protein that regulates pro-survival pathways and proteins and encourages further studies to elucidate its role in cerebral ischemia as a potential target to prevent brain damage and promote functional recovery after stroke.
The distribution and functional presence of three voltage-dependent potassium channels, Kv2.1, Kv3.4, Kv4.3, respectively, were studied in the central nervous system of the snail Helix pomatia by immunohistochemical and electrophysiological methods. Cell clusters displaying immunoreactivity for the different channels were observed in all parts of the CNS, although their localization and number partly varied. Differences were also found in their intracellular, perikaryonal and axonal localization, as well as in their presence in non-neuronal tissues nearby the CNS, such as the perineurium and the aorta wall. At ultrastructural level Kv4.3 channel immunolabeling was observed in axon profiles containing large 80-100nm granular vesicles. Blotting analyses revealed specific signals for the Kv2.1, Kv3.4 and Kv4.3 channels, confirming the presence of the channels in the Helix CNS. Voltage-clamp recordings proved that outward currents obtained from neurons displaying Kv3.4 or Kv4.3 immunoreactivity contained transient components while Kv2.1 immunoreactive cells were characterized by delayed currents. The distribution of the K(+)-channels containing neurons suggests specific roles in intercellular signaling processes in the Helix CNS, most probably related to well-defined, partly local events. The cellular localization of the K(+)-channels studied supports their involvement in both pre- and postsynaptic events at perikaryonal and axonal levels.
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is often found to co-exist with non-core behavioral manifestations that include difficulties in disengagement of attention to sensory cues. Here we examined whether this behavioral abnormality can be induced in rats prenatally exposed to valproic acid (VPA), a well-established teratogen associated with ASD animal models. We tested rats using an auditory-cued sensorimotor task (ACST) based on the premise that ACST will be more sensitive to developmental changes in temporal association cortex (TeA) of the posterior attention system. We show that VPA rats learned the ACST markedly faster than control animals, but they exhibited a profound preoccupation with cues associated with the expectancy at the reward location such that disengagement was disrupted. Control rats on the other hand were able to disengage and utilize auditory cues for re-engagement. However, both control and VPA-treated rats performed similarly when tested on novel object recognition (NOR) and novel context mismatch (NOCM) behavioral tasks that are known to be sensitive to normal perirhinal and prefrontal network functioning respectively. Consistent with disrupted posterior rather than frontal networks, we also report that VPA can selectively act on deep-layer TeA cortical neurons by showing that VPA increased dendritic density in isolated deep-layer TeA but not frontal neurons. These results describe a useful approach to examine the role of cue-dependent control of attention systems in rodent models of autism and suggest that disengagement impairments may arise from an inability to modify behavior through the appropriate use of sensory cue associations.
Ca(2+) binding protein 1 (CaBP1) and caldendrin are alternatively spliced variants of a subfamily of CaBPs with high homology to calmodulin. Although CaBP1 and caldendrin regulate effectors including plasma membrane and intracellular Ca(2+) channels in heterologous expression systems, little is known about their functions in vivo. Therefore, we generated mice deficient in CaBP1/caldendrin expression (C-KO) and analyzed the expression and cellular localization of CaBP1 and caldendrin in the mouse brain. Immunoperoxidase labeling with antibodies recognizing both CaBP1 and caldendrin was absent in the brain of C-KO mice, but was intense in multiple brain regions of wild-type mice. By Western blot, the antibodies detected two proteins that were absent in the C-KO mouse and consistent in size with caldendrin variants originating from alternative translation initiation sites. By quantitative PCR, caldendrin transcript levels were far greater than those for CaBP1, particularly in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. In the frontal cortex but not in the hippocampus, caldendrin expression increased steadily from birth. By double-label immunofluorescence, CaBP1/caldendrin was localized in principal neurons and parvalbumin-positive interneurons. In the cerebellum, CaBP1/caldendrin antibodies labeled interneurons in the molecular layer and in basket cell terminals surrounding the soma and axon initial segment of Purkinje neurons, but immunolabeling was absent in Purkinje neurons. We conclude that CaBP1/caldendrin is localized both pre- and postsynaptically where it may regulate Ca(2+) signaling and excitability in select groups of excitatory and inhibitory neurons.
Early brain injury (EBI) after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is characterized by a reduction in excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2) expression and severe amino acid excitotoxicity. The aim of this study was to explore the neuroprotective effect of ceftriaxone (CEF), a potent compound that up-regulates EAAT2, against EBI and the potential mechanisms using in vitro experiments and a rat model of SAH. Intracisternal treatment with CEF significantly improved neurological outcomes and alleviated extracellular glutamate accumulation after SAH. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling assay (TUNEL) staining and Western blot analysis of cleaved caspase 3 showed that CEF decreased hippocampal neuronal apoptosis following SAH. Immunofluorescent staining and Western blotting revealed that CEF significantly reversed the down-regulation of EAAT2 expression following SAH. In Morris water maze (MWM) tests, CEF remarkably ameliorated the SAH-induced cognitive dysfunction in spatial learning memory and reference memory. CEF promoted the nuclear translocation of p65 as well as the activation of Akt in hippocampal astrocytes in vitro and in vivo. These findings suggest that CEF may exert significant protective effects against EBI following SAH by modulating the PI3K/Akt/NF-B signaling pathway.
Therapeutic options for hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) are scarce and inefficient. Recently, many studies have demonstrated that red photon plays an important role in anti-inflammatory processes as well as apoptosis, the main trait of HIBD. In this study, we investigated whether red photon can protect from HIBD in SD rats and oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) in PC12 cells. Apoptosis, mitochondrial transmembrane potential (MMP), and reactive oxygen species (ROS) rates were assessed in PC12 cells. We found that 6-h irradiation resulted in decreased MMP, ROS and apoptosis rates, although these changes were reversible with prolonged irradiation. Importantly, these effects were sustained for 2-8h upon quenching of the red photon. Similar trends were observed for protein and mRNA expression of bax and bcl-2, with short-term irradiation (6h) inhibiting apoptosis in PC12 Cells. However, long-term (&gt;6h) irradiation caused cell damage. In vivo experiments, bax mRNA and protein levels were reduced after 7days in HIBD model rats treated with red photon, in contrast to bcl-2. Furthermore, we found that bax and bcl-2 were mainly expressed in pyramidal cells of the hippocampus CA1 and CA3. Importantly, Morris Water Maze test results revealed an improvement in learning ability and spatial memory in rats after irradiation. Overall, our data showed that short-term irradiation with red photon in the acute phase inhibits the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway via regulation of bcl-2-related proteins and reduction of ROS levels, thereby decreasing apoptosis in nerve cells and improving the neurological prognosis of HIBD.
The present study examined the effects of social status on adult neurogenesis in an extreme cooperative breeder: the naked mole rat. These animals live in large colonies of up to 300 individuals, with a strict reproductive dominance hierarchy; one female and one to three males breed, and all other members are socially subordinate and reproductively suppressed. We examined the effects of social and gonadal cues on doublecortin (DCX; a marker for immature neurons) immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus (DG), piriform cortex (PCx) and basolateral amygdala (BLA) by comparing dominant breeding animals to non-breeding subordinates from intact colonies. We also examined DCX expression in subordinate animals that had been removed from their colony and paired with an opposite- or same-sex conspecific for 6months. Compared to subordinates, dominant breeders had significantly reduced DCX immunoreactivity in all brain areas, with BLA effects confined to females. By contrast, the effects of same- versus opposite-sex housing were region-specific. In the DG and PCx, more DCX immunoreactivity was observed for opposite- than same-sex-paired subordinates. Conversely, same-sex-paired females had more DCX immunoreactivity than opposite-sex-paired females in the BLA. Gonadectomy did not affect DCX expression in opposite-sex-paired animals, and no significant relationships between gonadal steroids and DCX immunoreactivity were detected, suggesting that group differences in neurogenesis are independent of gonadal hormones. The apparent lower neurogenic capacity displayed by breeders contrasts previous reports on neurogenesis and social rank, challenging the conventional view that subordination is stressful and impairs neurogenesis. Future work will clarify whether the present findings can be attributed to status-dependent differences in stress, behavioral plasticity, or life stage.
Apart from its role in regulating calcium there is growing evidence that vitamin D is a neuroactive steroid capable of regulating multiple pathways important for both brain development and mature brain function. Vitamin D induces its genomic effects through its nuclear receptor the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Although there is abundant evidence for this receptor's presence in the mammalian brain from studies employing immunohistochemistry, Western blot or quantitative RNA studies there remains some dispute regarding the validity of these studies. In this study we provide unambiguous confirmation for the VDR in adult rodent brain using proteomic techniques. However Western blot experiments show that compared to more classic target organs such as the gut and kidney, VDR expression is quantitatively lower in the brain. In addition we have examined VDR subcellular distribution in the gut, kidney and brain from both embryonic and adult tissues. We show that in all embryonic tissues VDR distribution is mostly nuclear, however by adulthood it appears that at least in the gut and kidney, VDR presence in the plasma membrane is more prominent perhaps reflecting some change in VDR function with the maturation of these tissues. Finally the subcellular distribution of VDR in the embryo did not appear to be altered by vitamin D deficiency indicating that perhaps there are other mechanisms at play in vivo to stabilize this receptor in the absence of its ligand.
We present a methodology to statistically discriminate among univariate and multivariate indices to improve accuracy in differentiating schizophrenia patients from healthy controls. Electroencephalogram data from 71 subjects (37 controls/34 patients) were analyzed. Data included P300 event-related response amplitudes and latencies as well as amplitudes and sensory gating indices derived from the P50, N100, and P200 auditory-evoked responses resulting in 20 indices analyzed. Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve analyses identified significant univariate indices; these underwent principal component analysis (PCA). Logistic regression of PCA components created a multivariate composite used in the final ROC. Eleven univariate ROCs were significant with area under the curve (AUC) &gt;0.50. PCA of these indices resulted in a three-factor solution accounting for 76.96% of the variance. The first factor was defined primarily by P200 and P300 amplitudes, the second by P50 ratio and difference scores, and the third by P300 latency. ROC analysis using the logistic regression composite resulted in an AUC of 0.793 (0.06), p&lt;0.001 (CI=0.685-0.901). A composite score of 0.456 had a sensitivity of 0.829 (correctly identifying schizophrenia patients) and a specificity of 0.703 (correctly identifying healthy controls). Results demonstrated the usefulness of combined statistical techniques in creating a multivariate composite that improves diagnostic accuracy.




INK4 locus at chromosome 9p21 has been reported to be associated with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and its subtypes along with the associated optic disc parameters across the populations of European, Japanese and African ancestries. The locus encodes three tumor suppressor genes namely CDKN2A, ARF, CDKN2B and a long non-coding RNA CDKN2B-AS1 (also known as ANRIL). Here, we report association study of 34 SNPs from INK4 locus with POAG in a population of Indo-European ancestry from the eastern part of India (350 patients and 354 controls). With 81% power to detect genetic association we observed only nominal association of rs1011970 (uncorrected p = 0.048) with POAG and rs10120688 (uncorrected p = 0.048) in patients without a high intra-ocular pressure (IOP&lt;21mm of Hg) compared to controls. This study, in contrast to the previous reports, suggests lack of significant genetic association of INK4 locus with POAG in East Indian population which needs to be replicated in larger studies in diverse world populations.
The azide-alkyne click polymerization (AACP) has emerged as a powerful tool for the synthesis of functional polytriazoles. While, for the Cu(I)-catalyzed AACP, the removal of the catalytic Cu(I) species from the resulting polytriazoles is difficult, and the research on the recyclability and reusability of the catalyst remains intact. Herein, we reported the first example of using recyclable and reusable supported Cu(I) catalyst of CuI@A-21 for the AACP. CuI@A-21 could not only efficiently catalyze the AACP but also be reused for at least 4 cycles. Moreover, pronounced reduction of copper residues in the products was achieved. Apart from being a green and cost-effective polymer synthesis strategy, this method will also broaden the application of AACP in material and biological sciences and provide guidelines for other polymerizations with metal catalysts.
Synaptic vesicle recycling has long served as a model for the general mechanisms of cellular trafficking. We used an integrative approach, combining quantitative immunoblotting and mass spectrometry to determine protein numbers; electron microscopy to measure organelle numbers, sizes, and positions; and super-resolution fluorescence microscopy to localize the proteins. Using these data, we generated a three-dimensional model of an &quot;average&quot; synapse, displaying 300,000 proteins in atomic detail. The copy numbers of proteins involved in the same step of synaptic vesicle recycling correlated closely. In contrast, copy numbers varied over more than three orders of magnitude between steps, from about 150 copies for the endosomal fusion proteins to more than 20,000 for the exocytotic ones.




Viral oncoprotein Tax plays key roles in transformation of human T-cell leukemia virus (HTLV-1)-infected T cells leading to adult T-cell leukemia (ATL), and is the key antigen recognized during HTLV-associated myelopathy (HAM). In HLA-A2+ asymptomatic carriers as well as ATL and HAM patients, Tax(11-19) epitope exhibits immunodominance. Here, we evaluate CD8 T-cell immune response against this epitope in the presence and absence of dendritic cells (DCs) given the recent encouraging observations made with Phase 1 DC-based vaccine trial for ATL. To facilitate these studies, we first generated an HLA-A2/DTR hybrid mouse strain carrying the HLA-A2.1 and CD11c-DTR genes. We then studied CD8 T-cell immune response against Tax(11-19) epitope delivered in the absence or presence of Freund's adjuvant and/or DCs. Overall results demonstrate that naturally presented Tax epitope could initiate an antigen-specific CD8T cell response in vivo but failed to do so upon DC depletion. Presence of adjuvant potentiated Tax(11-19)-specific response. Elevated serum IL-6 levels coincided with depletion of DCs whereas decreased TGF- was associated with adjuvant use. Thus, Tax(11-19) epitope is a potential candidate for the DC-based anti-HTLV-1 vaccine and the newly hybrid mouse strain could be used for investigating DC involvement in human class-I-restricted immune responses.








It has been demonstrated that -synuclein can aggregate and contribute to the pathogenesis of some neurodegenerative diseases and it is capable of hindering autophagy in neuronal cells. Here, we investigated the implication of -synuclein in the autophagy process in primary human T lymphocytes. We provide evidence that: (i) knocking down of the -synuclein gene resulted in increased autophagy, (ii) autophagy induction by energy deprivation was associated with a significant decrease of -synuclein levels, (iii) autophagy inhibition by 3-methyladenine or by ATG5 knocking down led to a significant increase of -synuclein levels, and (iv) autophagy impairment, constitutive in T lymphocytes from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, was associated with abnormal accumulation of -synuclein aggregates. These results suggest that -synuclein could be considered as an autophagy-related marker of peripheral blood lymphocytes, potentially suitable for use in the clinical practice.




















Recently discovered neuropeptide S (NPS) has anxiolytic and pain-inhibiting effects in rodents. We showed previously that NPS increases synaptic inhibition of amygdala output to inhibit pain behaviors. The amygdala plays a key role in emotional-affective aspects of pain. Of clinical significance is that NPS can be applied nasally to exert anxiolytic effects in rodents. This study tested the novel hypothesis that nasal application of NPS can inhibit pain-related behaviors in an arthritis model through NPS receptors (NPSR) in the amygdala. Behaviors and electrophysiological activity of amygdala neurons were measured in adult male Sprague Dawley rats. Nasal application of NPS, but not saline, inhibited audible and ultrasonic vocalizations and had anxiolytic-like effects in the elevated plus-maze test in arthritic rats (kaolin/carrageenan knee joint arthritis model) but had no effect in normal rats. Stereotaxic application of a selective non-peptide NPSR antagonist (SHA68) into the amygdala by microdialysis reversed the inhibitory effects of NPS. NPS had no effect on hindlimb withdrawal thresholds. We showed previously that intra-amygdala application of an NPSR antagonist alone had no effect. Nasal application of NPS or stereotaxic application of NPS into the amygdala by microdialysis inhibited background and evoked activity of amygdala neurons in arthritic, but not normal, anesthetized rats. The inhibitory effect was blocked by a selective NPSR antagonist ([D-Cys(tBu)5]NPS). In conclusion, nasal application of NPS can inhibit emotional-affective, but not sensory, pain-related behaviors through an action in the amygdala. The beneficial effects of non-invasive NPS application may suggest translational potential.

The mechanisms responsible for establishing correct target innervation during organ development are largely unknown. Sympathetic nerves follow blood vessels-typically arteries-to reach their endorgans, suggesting the existence of vascular guidance cues that direct axonal extension. The sinoatrial node and the ventricle of the heart receive sympathetic innervation from the stellate ganglia (STG). Here we show that STG axons follow veins, specifically the superior vena cavae and sinus venosus, to reach these targets. We find that election of these routes is determined by venous endothelium-derived endothelin-1, acting through its specific receptor Ednra expressed within a subpopulation of STG neurons. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Edn1-Ednra signalling is essential for functional regulation of the heart by sympathetic nerves. Our findings present venous Edn1 as a sympathetic guidance cue, and show how axon guidance mechanisms are coordinated with endorgan morphogenesis.
NAD is a key determinant of cellular energy metabolism. In contrast, its phosphorylated form, NADP, plays a central role in biosynthetic pathways and antioxidant defence. The reduced forms of both pyridine nucleotides are fluorescent in living cells but they cannot be distinguished, as they are spectrally identical. Here, using genetic and pharmacological approaches to perturb NAD(P)H metabolism, we find that fluorescence lifetime imaging (FLIM) differentiates quantitatively between the two cofactors. Systematic manipulations to change the balance between oxidative and glycolytic metabolism suggest that these states do not directly impact NAD(P)H fluorescence decay rates. The lifetime changes observed in cancers thus likely reflect shifts in the NADPH/NADH balance. Using a mathematical model, we use these experimental data to quantify the relative levels of NADH and NADPH in different cell types of a complex tissue, the mammalian cochlea. This reveals NADPH-enriched populations of cells, raising questions about their distinct metabolic roles.
The heart has a dynamic compensatory mechanism for haemodynamic stress. However, the molecular details of how mechanical forces are transduced in the heart are unclear. Here we show that the transient receptor potential, vanilloid family type 2 (TRPV2) cation channel is critical for the maintenance of cardiac structure and function. Within 4 days of eliminating TRPV2 from hearts of the adult mice, cardiac function declines severely, with disorganization of the intercalated discs that support mechanical coupling with neighbouring myocytes and myocardial conduction defects. After 9 days, cell shortening and Ca(2+) handling by single myocytes are impaired in TRPV2-deficient hearts. TRPV2-deficient neonatal cardiomyocytes form no intercalated discs and show no extracellular Ca(2+)-dependent intracellular Ca(2+) increase and insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) secretion in response to stretch stimulation. We further demonstrate that IGF-1 receptor/PI3K/Akt pathway signalling is significantly downregulated in TRPV2-deficient hearts, and that IGF-1 administration partially prevents chamber dilation and impairment in cardiac pump function in these hearts. Our results improve our understanding of the molecular processes underlying the maintenance of cardiac structure and function.

The availability of human genome sequence has transformed biomedical research over the past decade. However, an equivalent map for the human proteome with direct measurements of proteins and peptides does not exist yet. Here we present a draft map of the human proteome using high-resolution Fourier-transform mass spectrometry. In-depth proteomic profiling of 30 histologically normal human samples, including 17 adult tissues, 7 fetal tissues and 6 purified primary haematopoietic cells, resulted in identification of proteins encoded by 17,294 genes accounting for approximately 84% of the total annotated protein-coding genes in humans. A unique and comprehensive strategy for proteogenomic analysis enabled us to discover a number of novel protein-coding regions, which includes translated pseudogenes, non-coding RNAs and upstream open reading frames. This large human proteome catalogue (available as an interactive web-based resource at http://www.humanproteomemap.org) will complement available human genome and transcriptome data to accelerate biomedical research in health and disease.
Social behaviours, such as aggression or mating, proceed through a series of appetitive and consummatory phases that are associated with increasing levels of arousal. How such escalation is encoded in the brain, and linked to behavioural action selection, remains an unsolved problem in neuroscience. The ventrolateral subdivision of the murine ventromedial hypothalamus (VMHvl) contains neurons whose activity increases during male-male and male-female social encounters. Non-cell-type-specific optogenetic activation of this region elicited attack behaviour, but not mounting. We have identified a subset of VMHvl neurons marked by the oestrogen receptor 1 (Esr1), and investigated their role in male social behaviour. Optogenetic manipulations indicated that Esr1(+) (but not Esr1(-)) neurons are sufficient to initiate attack, and that their activity is continuously required during ongoing agonistic behaviour. Surprisingly, weaker optogenetic activation of these neurons promoted mounting behaviour, rather than attack, towards both males and females, as well as sniffing and close investigation. Increasing photostimulation intensity could promote a transition from close investigation and mounting to attack, within a single social encounter. Importantly, time-resolved optogenetic inhibition experiments revealed requirements for Esr1(+) neurons in both the appetitive (investigative) and the consummatory phases of social interactions. Combined optogenetic activation and calcium imaging experiments in vitro, as well as c-Fos analysis in vivo, indicated that increasing photostimulation intensity increases both the number of active neurons and the average level of activity per neuron. These data suggest that Esr1(+) neurons in VMHvl control the progression of a social encounter from its appetitive through its consummatory phases, in a scalable manner that reflects the number or type of active neurons in the population.
How we sense touch remains fundamentally unknown. The Merkel cell-neurite complex is a gentle touch receptor in the skin that mediates slowly adapting responses of A sensory fibres to encode fine details of objects. This mechanoreceptor complex was recognized to have an essential role in sensing gentle touch nearly 50 years ago. However, whether Merkel cells or afferent fibres themselves sense mechanical force is still debated, and the molecular mechanism of mechanotransduction is unknown. Synapse-like junctions are observed between Merkel cells and associated afferents, and yet it is unclear whether Merkel cells are inherently mechanosensitive or whether they can rapidly transmit such information to the neighbouring nerve. Here we show that Merkel cells produce touch-sensitive currents in vitro. Piezo2, a mechanically activated cation channel, is expressed in Merkel cells. We engineered mice deficient in Piezo2 in the skin, but not in sensory neurons, and show that Merkel-cell mechanosensitivity completely depends on Piezo2. In these mice, slowly adapting responses in vivo mediated by the Merkel cell-neurite complex show reduced static firing rates, and moreover, the mice display moderately decreased behavioural responses to gentle touch. Our results indicate that Piezo2 is the Merkel-cell mechanotransduction channel and provide the first line of evidence that Piezo channels have a physiological role in mechanosensation in mammals. Furthermore, our data present evidence for a two-receptor-site model, in which both Merkel cells and innervating afferents act together as mechanosensors. The two-receptor system could provide this mechanoreceptor complex with a tuning mechanism to achieve highly sophisticated responses to a given mechanical stimulus.
Touch submodalities, such as flutter and pressure, are mediated by somatosensory afferents whose terminal specializations extract tactile features and encode them as action potential trains with unique activity patterns. Whether non-neuronal cells tune touch receptors through active or passive mechanisms is debated. Terminal specializations are thought to function as passive mechanical filters analogous to the cochlea's basilar membrane, which deconstructs complex sounds into tones that are transduced by mechanosensory hair cells. The model that cutaneous specializations are merely passive has been recently challenged because epidermal cells express sensory ion channels and neurotransmitters; however, direct evidence that epidermal cells excite tactile afferents is lacking. Epidermal Merkel cells display features of sensory receptor cells and make 'synapse-like' contacts with slowly adapting type I (SAI) afferents. These complexes, which encode spatial features such as edges and texture, localize to skin regions with high tactile acuity, including whisker follicles, fingertips and touch domes. Here we show that Merkel cells actively participate in touch reception in mice. Merkel cells display fast, touch-evoked mechanotransduction currents. Optogenetic approaches in intact skin show that Merkel cells are both necessary and sufficient for sustained action-potential firing in tactile afferents. Recordings from touch-dome afferents lacking Merkel cells demonstrate that Merkel cells confer high-frequency responses to dynamic stimuli and enable sustained firing. These data are the first, to our knowledge, to directly demonstrate a functional, excitatory connection between epidermal cells and sensory neurons. Together, these findings indicate that Merkel cells actively tune mechanosensory responses to facilitate high spatio-temporal acuity. Moreover, our results indicate a division of labour in the Merkel cell-neurite complex: Merkel cells signal static stimuli, such as pressure, whereas sensory afferents transduce dynamic stimuli, such as moving gratings. Thus, the Merkel cell-neurite complex is an unique sensory structure composed of two different receptor cell types specialized for distinct elements of discriminative touch.














































Spatial information about the environment is encoded by the activity of place and grid cells in the hippocampal formation. As an animal traverses a cell's firing field, action potentials progressively shift to earlier phases of the theta oscillation (6-10 Hz). This &quot;phase precession&quot; is observed also in the prefrontal cortex and the ventral striatum, but mechanisms for its generation are unknown. However, once phase precession exists in one region, it might also propagate to downstream regions. Using a computational model, we analyze such inheritance of phase precession, for example, from the entorhinal cortex to CA1 and from CA3 to CA1. We find that distinctive subthreshold and suprathreshold features of the membrane potential of CA1 pyramidal cells (Harvey et al., 2009; Mizuseki et al., 2012; Royer et al., 2012) can be explained by inheritance and that excitatory input is essential. The model explains how inhibition modulates the slope and range of phase precession and provides two main testable predictions. First, theta-modulated inhibitory input to a CA1 pyramidal cell is not necessary for phase precession. Second, theta-modulated inhibitory input on its own generates membrane potential peaks that are in phase with peaks of the extracellular field. Furthermore, we suggest that the spatial distribution of field centers of a population of phase-precessing input cells determines, not only the place selectivity, but also the characteristics of phase precession of the targeted output cell. The inheritance model thus can explain why phase precession is observed throughout the hippocampal formation and other areas of the brain.
The balance response direction to electrically evoked vestibular perturbation is closely tied to head orientation. Such craniocentric response organization is expected of a simple error correction process. Here we ask whether this is maintained when the body is made more stable, but with the stability being greater in one direction than another. Since it is known that vestibularly evoked balance responses become smaller as body stability increases, the following two outcomes are possible: (1) response magnitude is attenuated, but with craniocentricity maintained; and (2) anisotropy of stability is considered such that components of the response are differentially attenuated, which would violate a craniocentric organizing principle. We tested these alternatives by measuring the direction of balance responses to electrical vestibular stimulation across a range of head orientations and stance widths in healthy humans. With feet together, the response was highly craniocentric. However, when stance width was increased so that the body was more stable in the frontal plane, response direction became biased toward the sagittal direction. This resulted in a nonlinear relationship between head orientation and response direction. While stance width changes the mechanical state of the body, the effect was also present when lateral light touch was used to produce anisotropy in stability, demonstrating that a significantly altered mechanical state was not crucial. We conclude that the balance system does not simply act according to the direction of vestibular input. Instead, it appears to assign greater relevance to components of vestibular input acting in the plane of lesser body stability than the plane of greater body stability, and acts accordingly.
Schizophrenia is associated with upregulation of dopamine (DA) release in the caudate nucleus. The caudate has dense connections with the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) via the frontostriatal loops, and both areas exhibit pathophysiological change in schizophrenia. Despite evidence that abnormalities in dopaminergic neurotransmission and prefrontal cortex function co-occur in schizophrenia, the influence of OFC DA on caudate DA and reinforcement processing is poorly understood. To test the hypothesis that OFC dopaminergic dysfunction disrupts caudate dopamine function, we selectively depleted dopamine from the OFC of marmoset monkeys and measured striatal extracellular dopamine levels (using microdialysis) and dopamine D2/D3 receptor binding (using positron emission tomography), while modeling reinforcement-related behavior in a discrimination learning paradigm. OFC dopamine depletion caused an increase in tonic dopamine levels in the caudate nucleus and a corresponding reduction in D2/D3 receptor binding. Computational modeling of behavior showed that the lesion increased response exploration, reducing the tendency to persist with a recently chosen response side. This effect is akin to increased response switching previously seen in schizophrenia and was correlated with striatal but not OFC D2/D3 receptor binding. These results demonstrate that OFC dopamine depletion is sufficient to induce striatal hyperdopaminergia and changes in reinforcement learning relevant to schizophrenia.
Metabotropic transmission typically occurs through the spillover activation of extrasynaptic receptors. This study examined the mechanisms underlying somatodendritic dopamine and noradrenaline transmission and found that the extent of spillover and pooling varied dramatically between these two transmitters. In the mouse ventral tegmental area, the time course of D2-receptor-mediated IPSCs (D2-IPSCs) was consistent between cells and was unaffected by altering stimulation intensity, probability of release, or the extent of diffusion. Blocking dopamine reuptake with cocaine extended the time course of D2-IPSCs and suggested that transporters strongly limited spillover. As a result, individual release sites contributed independently to the duration of D2-IPSCs. In contrast, increasing the release of noradrenaline in the rat locus ceruleus prolonged the duration of 2-receptor-mediated IPSCs even when reuptake was intact. Spillover and subsequent pooling of noradrenaline activated distal 2-receptors, which prolonged the duration of 2-IPSCs when multiple release sites were activated synchronously. By using the rapid application of agonists onto large macropatches, we determined the concentration profile of agonists underlying the two IPSCs. Incorporating the results into a model simulating extracellular diffusion predicted that the functional range of noradrenaline diffusion was nearly fivefold greater in the locus ceruleus than dopamine in the midbrain. This study demonstrates that catecholamine synapses differentially regulate the extent of spillover and pooling to control the timing of local inhibition and suggests diversity in the roles of uptake and diffusion in governing metabotropic transmission.
Oscillatory synchronization of neuronal activity has been proposed as a mechanism to modulate effective connectivity between interacting neuronal populations. In the visual system, oscillations in the gamma-frequency range (30-100 Hz) are thought to subserve corticocortical communication. To test whether a similar mechanism might influence subcortical-cortical communication, we recorded local field potential activity from retinotopically aligned regions in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and primary visual cortex (V1) of alert macaque monkeys viewing stimuli known to produce strong cortical gamma-band oscillations. As predicted, we found robust gamma-band power in V1. In contrast, visual stimulation did not evoke gamma-band activity in the LGN. Interestingly, an analysis of oscillatory phase synchronization of LGN and V1 activity identified synchronization in the alpha (8-14 Hz) and beta (15-30 Hz) frequency bands. Further analysis of directed connectivity revealed that alpha-band interactions mediated corticogeniculate feedback processing, whereas beta-band interactions mediated geniculocortical feedforward processing. These results demonstrate that although the LGN and V1 display functional interactions in the lower frequency bands, gamma-band activity in the alert monkey is largely an emergent property of cortex.
A major portion of spinal cord injury (SCI) cases affect midcervical levels, the location of the phrenic motor neuron (PhMN) pool that innervates the diaphragm. While initial trauma is uncontrollable, a valuable opportunity exists in the hours to days following SCI for preventing PhMN loss and consequent respiratory dysfunction that occurs during secondary degeneration. One of the primary causes of secondary injury is excitotoxic cell death due to dysregulation of extracellular glutamate homeostasis. GLT1, mainly expressed by astrocytes, is responsible for the vast majority of functional uptake of extracellular glutamate in the CNS, particularly in spinal cord. We found that, in bacterial artificial chromosome-GLT1-enhanced green fluorescent protein reporter mice following unilateral midcervical (C4) contusion SCI, numbers of GLT1-expressing astrocytes in ventral horn and total intraspinal GLT1 protein expression were reduced soon after injury and the decrease persisted for 6 weeks. We used intraspinal delivery of adeno-associated virus type 8 (AAV8)-Gfa2 vector to rat cervical spinal cord ventral horn for targeting focal astrocyte GLT1 overexpression in areas of PhMN loss. Intraspinal delivery of AAV8-Gfa2-GLT1 resulted in transduction primarily of GFAP(+) astrocytes that persisted for 6 weeks postinjury, as well as increased intraspinal GLT1 protein expression. Surprisingly, we found that astrocyte-targeted GLT1 overexpression increased lesion size, PhMN loss, phrenic nerve axonal degeneration, and diaphragm neuromuscular junction denervation, and resulted in reduced functional diaphragm innervation as assessed by phrenic nerve-diaphragm compound muscle action potential recordings. These results demonstrate that GLT1 overexpression via intraspinal AAV-Gfa2-GLT1 delivery exacerbates neuronal damage and increases respiratory impairment following cervical SCI.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is essential for synaptic plasticity underlying memory formation. Some functions of CaMKII are mediated by interactions with synaptic proteins, and activity-triggered translocation of CaMKII to synapses has been heavily studied. However, CaMKII actions away from the postsynaptic density (PSD) remain poorly understood, in part because of the difficulty in discerning where CaMKII binds in live cells. We used photoactivated localization microscopy (PALM) in rat hippocampal neurons to track single molecules of CaMKII, mapping its spatial and kinetic heterogeneity at high resolution. We found that CaMKII exhibits at least three kinetic subpopulations, even within individual spines. Latrunculin application or coexpression of CaMKII carrying its actin-binding domain strongly modulated CaMKII diffusion, indicating that a major subpopulation is regulated by the actin cytoskeleton. CaMKII in spines was typically more slowly mobile than in dendrites, consistent with presence of a higher density of binding partners or obstacles. Importantly, NMDA receptor stimulation that triggered CaMKII activation prompted the immobilization and presumed binding of CaMKII in spines not only at PSDs but also at other points up to several hundred nanometers away, suggesting that activated kinase does not target only the PSD. Consistent with this, single endogenous activated CaMKII molecules detected via STORM immunocytochemistry were concentrated in spines both at the PSD and at points quite distant from the synapse. Together, these results indicate that CaMKII mobility within spines is determined by association with multiple interacting proteins, even outside the PSD, suggesting diverse mechanisms by which CaMKII may regulate synaptic transmission.
Past work has suggested that neuronal oscillations coordinate the cellular assemblies that represent items in working memory (WM). In line with this hypothesis, we show that the spatial distribution of power in the alpha frequency band (8-12 Hz) can be used to decode the content and quality of the representations stored in visual WM. We acquired EEG data during an orientation WM task, and used a forward encoding model of orientation selectivity to reconstruct orientation-specific response profiles (termed channel tuning functions, or CTFs) that tracked the orientation of the memorandum during both encoding and delay periods of the trial. Critically, these EEG-based CTFs were robust predictors of both between- and within-subject differences in mnemonic precision, showing that EEG-based CTFs provide a sensitive measure of the quality of sensory population codes. Experiments 2 and 3 established that these EEG-based CTFs are contingent on the voluntary storage goals of the observer. When observers were given a postsample cue to store or drop the memorandum, the resulting CTF was sustained in the &quot;store&quot; condition and rapidly eliminated following the &quot;drop&quot; cue. When observers were instructed to store one of two simultaneously presented stimuli, only the stored item was represented in a sustained fashion throughout the delay period. These findings suggest that the oscillatory activity in the alpha frequency band plays a central role in the active storage of information in visual WM, and demonstrate a powerful approach for tracking the precision of on-line memories with high temporal resolution.
Humans can choose between fundamentally different options, such as watching a movie or going out for dinner. According to the utility concept, put forward by utilitarian philosophers and widely used in economics, this may be accomplished by mapping the value of different options onto a common scale, independent of specific option characteristics (Fehr and Rangel, 2011; Levy and Glimcher, 2012). If this is the case, value-related activity patterns in the brain should allow predictions of individual preferences across fundamentally different reward categories. We analyze fMRI data of the prefrontal cortex while subjects imagine the pleasure they would derive from items belonging to two distinct reward categories: engaging activities (like going out for drinks, daydreaming, or doing sports) and snack foods. Support vector machines trained on brain patterns related to one category reliably predict individual preferences of the other category and vice versa. Further, we predict preferences across participants. These findings demonstrate that prefrontal cortex value signals follow a common scale representation of value that is even comparable across individuals and could, in principle, be used to predict choice.
In primates, the functional connectivity of adult primary visual cortex is susceptible to be modified by sensory training during perceptual learning. It is widely held that this type of neural plasticity might involve mechanisms like long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). NMDAR-dependent forms of LTP and LTD are particularly attractive because in rodents they can be induced in a Hebbian manner by near coincidental presynaptic and postsynaptic firing, in a paradigm termed spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP). These fundamental properties of LTP and LTD, Hebbian induction and NMDAR dependence, have not been examined in primate cortex. Here we demonstrate these properties in the primary visual cortex of the rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), and also show that, like in rodents, STDP is gated by neuromodulators. These findings indicate that the cellular principles governing cortical plasticity are conserved across mammalian species, further validating the use of rodents as a model system.
Addiction is a chronic relapsing disorder in which relapse is often initiated by exposure to drug-related cues. The present study examined the effects of mGluR5 activation on extinction of ethanol-cue-maintained responding, relapse-like behavior, and neuronal plasticity. Rats were trained to self-administer ethanol and then exposed to extinction training during which they were administered either vehicle or the mGluR5 positive allosteric modulator 3-cyano-N-(1,3-diphenyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl) or CDPPB. CDPPB treatment reduced active lever responding during extinction, decreased the total number of extinction sessions required to meet criteria, and attenuated cue-induced reinstatement of ethanol seeking. CDPPB facilitation of extinction was blocked by the local infusion of the mGluR5 antagonist 3-((2-methyl-4-thiazolyl)ethynyl) pyridine into the infralimbic (IfL) cortex, but had no effect when infused into the prelimbic (PrL) cortex. Analysis of dendritic spines revealed alterations in structural plasticity, whereas electrophysiological recordings demonstrated differential alterations in glutamatergic neurotransmission in the PrL and IfL cortex. Extinction was associated with increased amplitude of evoked synaptic PrL and IfL NMDA currents but reduced amplitude of PrL AMPA currents. Treatment with CDPPB prevented the extinction-induced enhancement of NMDA currents in PrL without affecting NMDA currents in the IfL. Whereas CDPPB treatment did not alter the amplitude of PrL or IfL AMPA currents, it did promote the expression of IfL calcium-permeable GluR2-lacking receptors in both abstinence- and extinction-trained rats, but had no effect in ethanol-naive rats. These results confirm changes in the PrL and IfL cortex in glutamatergic neurotransmission during extinction learning and demonstrate that manipulation of mGluR5 facilitates extinction of ethanol cues in association with neuronal plasticity.
Throughout different sensory systems, individual neurons integrate incoming signals over their receptive fields. The characteristics of this signal integration are crucial determinants for the neurons' functions. For ganglion cells in the vertebrate retina, receptive fields are characterized by the well-known center-surround structure and, although several studies have addressed spatial integration in the receptive field center, little is known about how visual signals are integrated in the surround. Therefore, we set out here to characterize signal integration and to identify relevant nonlinearities in the receptive field surround of ganglion cells in the isolated salamander retina by recording spiking activity with extracellular electrodes under visual stimulation of the center and surround. To quantify nonlinearities of spatial integration independently of subsequent nonlinearities of spike generation, we applied the technique of iso-response measurements as follows: using closed-loop experiments, we searched for different stimulus patterns in the surround that all reduced the center-evoked spiking activity by the same amount. The identified iso-response stimuli revealed strongly nonlinear spatial integration in the receptive field surrounds of all recorded cells. Furthermore, cell types that had been shown previously to have different nonlinearities in receptive field centers showed similar surround nonlinearities but differed systematically in the adaptive characteristics of the surround. Finally, we found that there is an optimal spatial scale of surround suppression; suppression was most effective when surround stimulation was organized into subregions of several hundred micrometers in diameter, indicating that the surround is composed of subunits that have strong center-surround organization themselves.
The ability to resist current temptations in favor of long-term benefits is a critical human capacity. Despite the extensive studies on the neural mechanisms of intertemporal choices, how the subjective value of immediate and delayed rewards is represented and compared in the brain remains to be elucidated. The present fMRI study addressed this question by simultaneously and independently manipulating the magnitude of immediate and delayed rewards in an intertemporal decision task, combined with univariate analysis and multiple voxel pattern analysis. We found that activities in the posterior portion of the dorsal medial prefrontal cortex (DmPFC) were modulated by the value of immediate options, whereas activities in the adjacent anterior DmPFC were modulated by the subjective value of delayed options. Brain signal change in the ventral mPFC was positively correlated with the &quot;relative value&quot; (the absolute difference of subjective value between two intertemporal alternatives). In contrast, the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex activity was negatively correlated with the relative value. These results suggest that immediate and delayed rewards are separately represented in the dorsal mPFC and compared in the ventral mPFC to guide decisions. The functional dissociation of posterior and anterior DmPFC in representing immediate and delayed reward is consistent with the general structural and functional architecture of the prefrontal cortex and may provide a neural basis for human's unique capacity to delayed gratification.
The influence of central neuronal oscillators on human physiological tremor is controversial. To address this, transcranial alternating current stimulation (TACS) was delivered at peak tremor frequency to 12 healthy volunteers in a 2  2 crossover study. Two sites were stimulated [contralateral primary motor cortex (M1), vs ipsilateral cerebellum] while participants performed two types of tasks designed to probe the different manifestations of physiological tremor of the hand-kinetic and postural tremor. Tremor was measured by accelerometry. Cortical coherence with the accelerometry signal was also calculated in the absence of stimulation. The phase synchronization index, a measure of the phase entrainment of tremor, was calculated between stimulation and tremor waveforms. The amplitude modulation of tremor was similarly assessed. There was significant phase entrainment that was dependent both on tremor type and site of stimulation: M1 stimulation gave rise to phase entrainment of postural, but not kinetic, tremor, whereas cerebellar stimulation increased entrainment in both cases. There was no effect on tremor amplitude. Tremor accelerometry was shown to be coherent with the cortical EEG recorded during postural, but not kinetic, tremor. TACS modulates physiological tremor, and its effects are dependent both on tremor type and stimulation site. Accordingly, central oscillators play a significant role in two of the major manifestations of tremor in health.
The cortical reinstatement hypothesis of memory retrieval posits that content-specific cortical activity at encoding is reinstated at retrieval. Evidence for cortical reinstatement was found in higher-order sensory regions, reflecting reactivation of complex object-based information. However, it remains unclear whether the same detailed sensory, feature-based information perceived during encoding is subsequently reinstated in early sensory cortex and what the role of the hippocampus is in this process. In this study, we used a combination of visual psychophysics, functional neuroimaging, multivoxel pattern analysis, and a well controlled cued recall paradigm to address this issue. We found that the visual information human participants were retrieving could be predicted by the activation patterns in early visual cortex. Importantly, this reinstatement resembled the neural pattern elicited when participants viewed the visual stimuli passively, indicating shared representations between stimulus-driven activity and memory. Furthermore, hippocampal activity covaried with the strength of stimulus-specific cortical reinstatement on a trial-by-trial level during cued recall. These findings provide evidence for reinstatement of unique associative memories in early visual cortex and suggest that the hippocampus modulates the mnemonic strength of this reinstatement.
Familiarity, or memory strength, is a central construct in models of cognition. In previous categorization and long-term memory research, correlations have been found between psychological measures of memory strength and activation in the medial temporal lobes (MTLs), which suggests a common neural locus for memory strength. However, activation alone is insufficient for determining whether the same mechanisms underlie neural function across domains. Guided by mathematical models of categorization and long-term memory, we develop a theory and a method to test whether memory strength arises from the global similarity among neural representations. In human subjects, we find significant correlations between global similarity among activation patterns in the MTLs and both subsequent memory confidence in a recognition memory task and model-based measures of memory strength in a category learning task. Our work bridges formal cognitive theories and neuroscientific models by illustrating that the same global similarity computations underlie processing in multiple cognitive domains. Moreover, by establishing a link between neural similarity and psychological memory strength, our findings suggest that there may be an isomorphism between psychological and neural representational spaces that can be exploited to test cognitive theories at both the neural and behavioral levels.
In human alcoholics, abstinence is often self-imposed, despite alcohol availability, because of the negative consequences of excessive use. During abstinence, relapse is often triggered by exposure to contexts associated with alcohol use. We recently developed a rat model that captures some features of this human condition: exposure to the alcohol self-administration environment (context A), after punishment-imposed suppression of alcohol self-administration in a different environment (context B), provoked renewal of alcohol seeking in alcohol-preferring P rats. The mechanisms underlying context-induced renewal of alcohol seeking after punishment-imposed abstinence are unknown. Here, we studied the role of the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and its forebrain projections in this effect. We first determined the effect of context-induced renewal of alcohol seeking on Fos (a neuronal activity marker) expression in LH. We next determined the effect of LH reversible inactivation by GABAA + GABAB receptor agonists (muscimol + baclofen) on this effect. Finally, we determined neuronal activation in brain areas projecting to LH during context-induced renewal tests by measuring double labeling of the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B (CTb; injected in LH) with Fos. Context-induced renewal of alcohol seeking after punishment-imposed abstinence was associated with increased Fos expression in LH. Additionally, renewal was blocked by muscimol + baclofen injections into LH. Finally, double-labeling analysis of CTb + Fos showed that context-induced renewal of alcohol seeking after punishment-imposed abstinence was associated with selective activation of accumbens shell neurons projecting to LH. The results demonstrate an important role of LH in renewal of alcohol seeking after punishment-imposed abstinence and suggest a role of accumbens shell projections to LH in this form of relapse.
Environmental contexts previously associated with drug use provoke relapse to drug use in humans and reinstatement of drug seeking in animal models of drug relapse. We examined whether context-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking is mediated by activation of context-selected nucleus accumbens neurons. We trained rats to self-administer cocaine in Context A and extinguished their lever-pressing in a distinct Context B. On test day, reexposure to the cocaine-associated Context A reinstated cocaine seeking and increased expression of the neural activity marker Fos in 3.3% of accumbens shell and 1.6% of accumbens core neurons. To assess a causal role for these activated neurons, we used the Daun02 inactivation procedure to selectively inactivate these neurons. We trained c-fos-lacZ transgenic rats to self-administer cocaine in Context A and extinguished their lever-pressing in Context B. On induction day, we exposed rats to either Context A or a novel Context C for 30 min and injected Daun02 or vehicle into accumbens shell or core 60 min later. On test day, 3 d after induction day, the ability of Context A to reinstate cocaine seeking and increase neuronal activity in accumbens shell was attenuated when Daun02 was previously injected after exposure to Context A. Daun02 injections after exposure to the novel Context C had no effect on context-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking despite much greater numbers of Fos-expressing neurons induced by Context C. Daun02 injections in accumbens core had no effect. Our data suggest that context-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking is mediated by activation of context-selected accumbens shell but not core neuronal ensembles.
The radial migration of newborn neurons is critical for the lamination of the cerebral cortex. Proper neuronal migration requires precise and rapid reorganization of the actin and microtubule cytoskeleton. However, the underlying signaling mechanisms controlling cytoskeletal reorganization are not well understood. Here, we show that Mst3, a serine/threonine kinase highly expressed in the developing mouse brain, is essential for radial neuronal migration and final neuronal positioning in the developing mouse neocortex. Mst3 silencing by in utero electroporation perturbed the multipolar-to-bipolar transition of migrating neurons and significantly retards radial migration. Although the kinase activity of Mst3 is essential for its functions in neuronal morphogenesis and migration, it is regulated via its phosphorylation at Ser79 by a serine/threonine kinase, cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). Our results show that Mst3 regulates neuronal migration through modulating the activity of RhoA, a Rho-GTPase critical for actin cytoskeletal reorganization. Mst3 phosphorylates RhoA at Ser26, thereby negatively regulating the GTPase activity of RhoA. Importantly, RhoA knockdown successfully rescues neuronal migration defect in Mst3-knockdown cortices. Our findings collectively suggest that Cdk5-Mst3 signaling regulates neuronal migration via RhoA-dependent actin dynamics.










The ability of megakaryoblastic leukemia 1 (MKL1) to function as a serum response factor (SRF) coactivator is regulated through its association with G-actin. In the cytoplasm, MKL1 binds to G-actin through RPXXXEL (RPEL) motifs. However, dissociation of MKL1 from G-actin triggers its translocation into the nucleus where it stimulates SRF-mediated gene expression. Previous characterization of rat MKL1 gene products has identified several isoforms: full-length MKL1, basic, SAP, and coiled-coil domain (BSAC), MKL1-elongated derivative of yield (MELODY), and MKL1met. In this study, we have investigated whether these MKL1 isoforms, which contain different numbers of RPEL motifs, differ in their subcellular localization, transcriptional activity, and effect on dendritic number and axonal length. Immunofluorescent staining of cultured cortical neurons expressing individual FLAG-tagged MKL1 isoforms indicated that all MKL1 isoforms are present in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. However, MKL1met, which contains two RPEL motifs, shows enhanced nuclear staining compared with the other three isoforms, full-length MKL1, basic, SAP, and coiled-coil domain, and MKL1-elongated derivative of yield, which contain three RPEL motifs. Consistent with its preferential nuclear localization, overexpression of MKL1met, but not other isoforms, increases SRF-mediated transcriptional responses and reduces the number of dendrites. In contrast to the inhibitory effect of MKL1met on dendritic number, axonal length is not affected by overexpression of any of the MKL1 isoforms. These findings suggest that the subcellular localization of MKL1 isoforms, which is mediated by the number of actin-binding RPEL motifs, regulates their effect on SRF-mediated gene expression and dendritic morphology.




Social interactions during adolescence are important especially for neuronal development and behavior. We recently showed that positive emotions induced by repeated tickling could modulate fear-related behaviors and sympatho-adrenal stress responses. In the present study, we examined whether tickling during early to late adolescence stage could reverse stress vulnerability induced by socially isolated rearing. Ninety-five male Fischer rats were reared under different conditions from postnatal day (PND) 21 to 53: group-housed (three rats/cage), isolated-nontickled (one rat/cage) and isolated-tickled (received tickling stimulation for 5min a day). Auditory fear conditioning was then performed on the rats at PND 54. Isolated-tickled rats exhibited significantly lower freezing compared with group-housed rats in the first retention test performed 48h after conditioning and compared with isolated-nontickled rats in the second retention test performed 96h after conditioning. Moreover, group-housed and isolated-tickled rats tended to show a significant decrease in freezing responses in the second retention test; however, isolated-nontickled rats did not. In the Morris water maze task that was trained in adulthood (PND 88), but not in adolescence (PND 56), isolated-nontickled rats showed slower decrease of escape latency compared to group-housed rats; however, tickling treatment significantly improved this deficit. These results suggest that tickling stimulation can alleviate the detrimental effects of isolated rearing during adolescence on fear responses and spatial learning.


Unilateral brain damage can lead to a striking deficit in awareness of stimuli on one side of space called Spatial Neglect. Patient studies show that neglect of the left is markedly more persistent than of the right and that its severity increases under states of low alertness. There have been suggestions that this alertness-spatial awareness link may be detectable in the general population. Here, healthy human volunteers performed an auditory spatial localisation task whilst transitioning in and out of sleep. We show, using independent electroencephalographic measures, that normal drowsiness is linked with a remarkable unidirectional tendency to mislocate left-sided stimuli to the right. The effect may form a useful healthy model of neglect and help in understanding why leftward inattention is disproportionately persistent after brain injury. The results also cast light on marked changes in conscious experience before full sleep onset.


Near-infrared (NIR) light-triggered release from polymeric capsules could make a major impact on biological research by enabling remote and spatiotemporal control over the release of encapsulated cargo. The few existing mechanisms for NIR-triggered release have not been widely applied because they require custom synthesis of designer polymers, high-powered lasers to drive inefficient two-photon processes, and/or coencapsulation of bulky inorganic particles. In search of a simpler mechanism, we found that exposure to laser light resonant with the vibrational absorption of water (980 nm) in the NIR region can induce release of payloads encapsulated in particles made from inherently non-photo-responsive polymers. We hypothesize that confined water pockets present in hydrated polymer particles absorb electromagnetic energy and transfer it to the polymer matrix, inducing a thermal phase change. In this study, we show that this simple and highly universal strategy enables instantaneous and controlled release of payloads in aqueous environments as well as in living cells using both pulsed and continuous wavelength lasers without significant heating of the surrounding aqueous solution.




This study is aimed to conduct a systematic literature review regarding the associations between psychiatric symptoms, functional impairments, and quality of life in patients with CMT (Charcot-Marie-Tooth). The PUBMED, PsycInfo, SCIELO, and LILACS electronic databases were used, and the following search terms were employed: CMT, HMSN (hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy), mental disorder, quality of life, psychiatry, psychiatric, and psychological without the use of time-limit filters. According to the adopted inclusion criteria, 20 studies were included and appraised. These studies indicated that patients with CMT exhibited an increased trend toward depressive symptoms compared with the general population. In addition, CMT patients were exposed to a higher risk of reduced quality of life and significant sleep impairment. Considering the comorbidity of CMT with other psychiatric disorders, the heterogeneity of the instruments used to evaluate the psychiatric symptoms compromised the ability to compare the studies examined. Our results indicate a need for a systematic evaluation of these conditions to minimize the impairments and decreased quality of life caused by CMT.


Background:Sorafenib (Sb) is a multiple kinase inhibitor targeting both tumour cell proliferation and angiogenesis that may further act as a potent radiosensitizer by arresting cells in the most radiosensitive cell cycle phase. This phase I open-label, noncontrolled dose escalation study was performed to determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Sb in combination with radiation therapy (RT) and temozolomide (TMZ) in 17 patients with newly diagnosed high-grade glioma.Methods:Patients were treated with RT (60Gy in 2Gy fractions) combined with TMZ 75mgm(-2) daily, and Sb administered at three dose levels (200mg daily, 200mg BID, and 400mg BID) starting on day 8 of RT. Thirty days after the end of RT, patients received monthly TMZ (150-200mgm(-2) D1-5/28) and Sb (400mg BID). Pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses were performed on day 8 (TMZ) and on day 21 (TMZ&amp;Sb) (Clinicaltrials ID: NCT00884416).Results:The MTD of Sb was established at 200mg BID. Dose-limiting toxicities included thrombocytopenia (two patients), diarrhoea (one patient) and hypercholesterolaemia (one patient). Sb administration did not affect the mean area under the curve(0-24) and mean Cmax of TMZ and its metabolite 5-amino-imidazole-4-carboxamide (AIC). Tmax of both TMZ and AIC was delayed from 0.75 (TMZ alone) to 1.5h (combined TMZ/Sb). The median progression-free survival was 7.9 months (95% confidence interval (CI): 5.4-14.55), and the median overall survival was 17.8 months (95% CI: 14.7-25.6).Conclusions:Although Sb can be combined with RT and TMZ, significant side effects and moderate outcome results do not support further clinical development in malignant gliomas. The robust PK data of the TMZ/Sb combination could be useful in other cancer settings.





Several studies show the role of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) in drug-seeking, relapse and the brains emotional systems. Several lines of evidence indicate a functional interaction between opioid and endogenous cannabinoid systems. In the present study, we investigated the role of intra-BLA cannabinoid CB1 receptors in the potentiation, acquisition and expression of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP). One-hundred and forty-two adult male Wistar rats weighing 230-280g were bilaterally implanted by two separate cannulae into the BLA. The CPP paradigm was done, and conditioning score and locomotor activity were recorded by Ethovision software. Results showed that intra-BLA administration of different doses of WIN55,212-2 (1, 2 and 4mmol/0.3l DMSO) as a cannabinoid receptor agonist during the conditioning phase induced place preference in animals that received the ineffective (2mg/kg) dose of morphine compared to respective control group in saline-treated animals. On the other hand, intra-BLA injection of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 (45 and 90mol/0.3l DMSO) during the 3-day conditioning phase reduced morphine-induced CPP. Furthermore, microinjection of both AM251 (15, 45 and 90mol) and WIN55,212-2 (1-4mmol), into the BLA had no effect on the expression of morphine (5mg/kg)-induced CPP. Our findings suggest that cannabinoid CB1 receptors in the BLA are involved in the development of reward-related behaviors and they can potentiate the rewarding effects of morphine. It seems that the glutamatergic projection from the BLA to the nucleus accumbens and reward-related learning in the hippocampus may be involved in the acquisition and expression of opioid reward-related behaviors in rats.
Interactions between neural progenitor cells (NPC) and endothelial cells (EC) from adult vascular beds have been well explored previously. However, the factors and signaling mechanisms that regulate neurogenesis and angiogenesis are most prevalent during embryonic development. This study aimed to determine whether embryonic brain endothelial cells from the periventricular region (PVEC) present an advantage over adult brain EC in supporting NPC growth and differentiation. PVEC were isolated from E15 mouse brains, processed, and sorted with immunomagnetic beads using antibodies against CD31/PECAM. On immunofluorescence (IF) staining, nearly all cells were positive for EC markers CD31 and CD144/VE-Cadherin. In proliferation studies, NPC proliferation was highest in transwell co-culture with PVEC, approximately 2.3 fold increase compared to baseline versus 1.4 fold increase when co-cultured with adult brain endothelial cells (ABEC). These results correlated with the PVEC mediated delay in NPC differentiation, evidenced by high expression of progenitor marker Nestin evaluated by IF staining. Upon further characterization of PVEC in an angiogenesis assay measuring cord length, PVEC exhibited a high capacity to form cords in basal conditions compared to ABEC. This was enhanced in the presence of NPC, with both cell types displaying a preferential structural alignment resembling neurovascular networks. PVEC also expressed high Vegfa levels at baseline in comparison to NPC and ABEC. Vegfa levels increased when co-cultured with NPC. We demonstrate that PVEC and NPC co-cultures act synergistically to promote the formation of a neurovascular unit through dynamic and reciprocal communication. Our results suggest that PVEC/NPC could provide promising neuro-regenerative therapies for patients suffering brain injuries.














Splicing is an important and highly regulated step in gene expression. The ability to modulate it can offer a therapeutic option for many genetic disorders. Antisense-mediated splicing-correction approaches have recently been successfully exploited for some genetic diseases, and are currently demonstrating safety and efficacy in different clinical trials. Their application for the treatment of retinal dystrophies could potentially solve a vast panel of cases, as illustrated by the abundance of mutations that could be targeted and the versatility of the technique. In this review, we will give an insight of the different therapeutic strategies, focusing on the current status of their application for retinal dystrophies.


































The neuregulin-1 (NRG1) gene is one of the best-validated risk genes for schizophrenia, and psychotic and bipolar disorders. The rs6994992 variant in the NRG1 promoter (SNP8NRG243177) is associated with altered frontal and temporal brain macrostructures and/or altered white matter density and integrity in schizophrenic adults, as well as healthy adults and neonates. However, the ages when these changes begin and whether neuroimaging phenotypes are associated with cognitive performance are not fully understood. Therefore, we investigated the association of the rs6994992 variant on developmental trajectories of brain macro- and microstructures, and their relationship with cognitive performance. A total of 972 healthy children aged 3-20 years had the genotype available for the NRG1-rs6994992 variant, and were evaluated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and neuropsychological tests. Age-by-NRG1-rs6994992 interactions and genotype effects were assessed using a general additive model regression methodology, covaried for scanner type, socioeconomic status, sex and genetic ancestry factors. Compared with the C-carriers, children with the TT-risk-alleles had subtle microscopic and macroscopic changes in brain development that emerge or reverse during adolescence, a period when many psychiatric disorders are manifested. TT-children at late adolescence showed a lower age-dependent forniceal volume and lower fractional anisotropy; however, both measures were associated with better episodic memory performance. To our knowledge, we provide the first multimodal imaging evidence that genetic variation in NRG1 is associated with age-related changes on brain development during typical childhood and adolescence, and delineated the altered patterns of development in multiple brain regions in children with the T-risk allele(s).


We report a case of mild encephalopathy with a reversible splenial lesion (MERS) which occurred after chronic subdural haematoma (CSDH) surgery. The patient was admitted to our hospital for drowsiness and marked asthenia. The cerebral CT scan revealed a CSDH and surgery allowed to improve the symptoms, but after several days we observed a sudden worsening. The patient developed left-sided myoclonic seizures followed by left hemiplegia and worsening drowsiness. Electrolytes imbalance and inflammatory causes were excluded. The CT scan showed a right cerebral swelling and the subsequent MRI revealed a single lesion in the splenium of the corpus callosum, hyperintense on diffusion-weighted images. After osmotic therapy the patient improved and on day 10 of admission the MRI showed a complete resolution of the lesion. This is the first report that described an association between CSDH and MERS. Possible aetiopathogenetic mechanisms are discussed.

Fundamental components of signaling pathways are switch modes in key proteins that control start, duration, and ending of diverse signal transduction events. A large group of switch proteins are Ca(2+) sensors, which undergo conformational changes in response to oscillating intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations. Here we use dynamic light scattering and a recently developed approach based on surface plasmon resonance to compare the protein dynamics of a diverse set of prototypical Ca(2+) -binding proteins including calmodulin, troponin C, recoverin, and guanylate cyclase-activating protein. Surface plasmon resonance biosensor technology allows monitoring conformational changes under molecular crowding conditions, yielding for each Ca(2+) -sensor protein a fingerprint profile that reflects different hydrodynamic properties under changing Ca(2+) conditions and is extremely sensitive to even fine alterations induced by point mutations. We see, for example, a correlation between surface plasmon resonance, dynamic light scattering, and size-exclusion chromatography data. Thus, changes in protein conformation correlate not only with the hydrodynamic size, but also with a rearrangement of the protein hydration shell and a change of the dielectric constant of water or of the protein-water interface. Our study provides insight into how rather small signaling proteins that have very similar three-dimensional folding patterns differ in their Ca(2+) -occupied functional state under crowding conditions.



























Histone deacetylases (HDACs) enzymes, which affect the acetylation status of histones and other important cellular proteins, have been recognized as potentially useful therapeutic targets for a broad range of human disorders. Emerging studies have demonstrated that different types of HDAC inhibitors show beneficial effects in various experimental models of neurological disorders. HDAC enzymes comprise a large family of proteins, with18 HDAC enzymes currently identified in humans. Hence, an important question for HDAC inhibitor therapeutics is which HDAC enzyme(s) is/are important for the amelioration of disease phenotypes, as it has become clear that individual HDAC enzymes play different biological roles in the brain. This review will discuss evidence supporting the involvement of HDAC1 and HDAC3 in polyglutamine disorders, including Huntington's disease, and the use of HDAC1- and HDAC3-selective HDAC inhibitors as therapeutic intervention for these disorders. Further, while HDAC inhibitors are known alter chromatin structure resulting in changes in gene transcription, understanding the exact mechanisms responsible for the preclinical efficacy of these compounds remains a challenge. The potential chromatin-related and non-chromatin-related mechanisms of action of selective HDAC inhibitors will also be discussed.



Cyanotoxins (CTX) are widely produced by several cyanobacteria (CB), increasingly spreading in most water bodies and terrestrial habitats, and represent a risk for human health. CB are prokaryotes, and although mostly autotrophic, several examples of heterotrophy in symbiotic relationship with different organisms have been described. In addition to the known routes of exposure, it has been hypothesized that CB might 'colonize' human intestine with relevant implications for human health. Colonization is a complex process and requires specific features of the possible invaders. Still, a short-term persistence as living and toxin-producing organisms within the intestinal lumen of the host could represent an 'internal' source of exposure to CTX. In this work we ran microcosm experiments (4-18days), looking at Microcystis aeruginosa PCC7806 resistance and cyanotoxin-producing capabilities in darkness, 37C, pH 2, and subsequent recovery in a rich medium, in darkness, 37C, in the presence of enteric bacteria, mimicking few important features of the gastrointestinal environment. We measured cyanobacterial populations and growth, microcystin (MC) production and the presence of mcyB gene. M. aeruginosa could grow in the dark at 37C up to 17days, and survive at pH 2 at a rate between 30% and 70%, depending on the age and toxicity of the starting culture. Cell lysis resulted in a substantial amounts of MC released, not degraded at gastric pH. Following the acidic passage, still in the dark at 37C, M. aeruginosa restarted to grow within 24h for the next 3-4days, independently on the presence of intestinal bacteria, maintaining the MC cell quota and mcyB gene. Our results show new features of CB: a significant resistance of M. aeruginosa in conditions far from its optimal one, that is an environment mimicking some of the important characteristics of human gastrointestinal tract, suggesting the possibility of an internal source of exposure to CTX, with implications for the risk assessment.





































Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) is an ion channel present on sensory neurons which is activated by heat, protons, capsaicin and a variety of endogenous lipids termed endovanilloids. As such, TRPV1 serves as a multimodal sensor of noxious stimuli which could trigger counteractive measures to avoid pain and injury. Activation of TRPV1 has been linked to chronic inflammatory pain conditions and peripheral neuropathy, as observed in diabetes. Expression of TRPV1 is also observed in non-neuronal sites such as the epithelium of bladder and lungs and in hair cells of the cochlea. At these sites, activation of TRPV1 has been implicated in the pathophysiology of diseases such as cystitis, asthma and hearing loss. Therefore, drugs which could modulate TRPV1 channel activity could be useful for the treatment of conditions ranging from chronic pain to hearing loss. This review describes the roles of TRPV1 in the normal physiology and pathophysiology of selected organs of the body and highlights how drugs targeting this channel could be important clinically.






















Neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and frontotemporal dementias (FTD), are considered distinct entities, however, there is increasing evidence of an overlap from the clinical, pathological and genetic points of view. All neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by neuronal loss and death in specific areas of the brain, for example, hippocampus and cortex for AD, midbrain for PD, frontal and temporal lobes for FTD. Loss of neurons is a relatively late event in the progression of neurodegenerative diseases that is typically preceded by other events such as metabolic changes, synaptic dysfunction and loss, neurite retraction, and the appearance of other abnormalities, such as axonal transport defects. The brain's ability to compensate for these dysfunctions occurs over a long period of time and results in late clinical manifestation of symptoms, when successful pharmacological intervention is no longer feasible. Currently, diagnosis of AD, PD and different forms of dementia is based primarily on analysis of the patient's cognitive function. It is therefore important to find non-invasive diagnostic methods useful to detect neurodegenerative diseases during early, preferably asymptomatic stages, when a pharmacological intervention is still possible. Altered expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) in many disease states, including neurodegeneration, and increasing relevance of miRNAs in biofluids in different pathologies has prompted the study of their possible application as neurodegenerative diseases biomarkers in order to identify new therapeutic targets. Here, we review what is known about the role of miRNAs in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration and the possibilities and challenges of using these small RNA molecules as a signature for neurodegenerative conditions.
Action potential (AP) generation is the key to information-processing in the brain. Although APs are normally initiated in the axonal initial segment, developmental adaptation or prolonged network activity may alter the initiation site geometry thus affecting cell excitability. Here we find that hippocampal dentate granule cells adapt their spiking threshold to the kinetics of the ongoing dendrosomatic excitatory input by expanding the AP-initiation area away from the soma while also decelerating local axonal spikes. Dual-patch soma-axon recordings combined with axonal Na(+) and Ca(2+) imaging and biophysical modelling show that the underlying mechanism involves distance-dependent inactivation of axonal Na(+) channels due to somatic depolarization propagating into the axon. Thus, the ensuing changes in the AP-initiation zone and local AP propagation could provide activity-dependent control of cell excitability and spiking on a relatively rapid timescale.


























The nervous system adapts to experience by inducing a transcriptional program that controls important aspects of synaptic plasticity. Although the molecular mechanisms of experience-dependent plasticity are well characterized in excitatory neurons, the mechanisms that regulate this process in inhibitory neurons are only poorly understood. Here, we describe a transcriptional program that is induced by neuronal activity in inhibitory neurons. We find that, while neuronal activity induces expression of early-response transcription factors such as Npas4 in both excitatory and inhibitory neurons, Npas4 activates distinct programs of late-response genes in inhibitory and excitatory neurons. These late-response genes differentially regulate synaptic input to these two types of neurons, promoting inhibition onto excitatory neurons while inducing excitation onto inhibitory neurons. These findings suggest that the functional outcomes of activity-induced transcriptional responses are adapted in a cell-type-specific manner to achieve a circuit-wide homeostatic response.
Autism and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are, respectively, neurodevelopmental and degenerative diseases with an increasing epidemiological burden. The AD-associated amyloid- precursor protein- has been shown to be elevated in severe autism, leading to the 'anabolic hypothesis' of its etiology. Here we performed a focused microarray analysis of genes belonging to NOTCH and WNT signaling cascades, as well as genes related to AD and apoptosis pathways in cerebellar samples from autistic individuals, to provide further evidence for pathological relevance of these cascades for autism. By using the limma package from R and false discovery rate, we demonstrated that 31% (116 out of 374) of the genes belonging to these pathways displayed significant changes in expression (corrected P-values &lt;0.05), with mitochondria-related genes being the most downregulated. We also found upregulation of GRIN1, the channel-forming subunit of NMDA glutamate receptors, and MAP3K1, known activator of the JNK and ERK pathways with anti-apoptotic effect. Expression of PSEN2 (presinilin 2) and APBB1 (or F65) were significantly lower when compared with control samples. Based on these results, we propose a model of NMDA glutamate receptor-mediated ERK activation of -secretase activity and mitochondrial adaptation to apoptosis that may explain the early brain overgrowth and disruption of synaptic plasticity and connectome in autism. Finally, systems pharmacology analyses of the model that integrates all these genes together (NOWADA) highlighted magnesium (Mg(2+)) and rapamycin as most efficient drugs to target this network model in silico. Their potential therapeutic application, in the context of autism, is therefore discussed.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of inherited diseases that cause blindness due to the progressive death of rod and cone photoreceptors in the retina. There are currently no effective treatments for RP. Inherited mutations in rhodopsin, the light-sensing protein of rod photoreceptor cells, are the most common cause of autosomal-dominant RP. The majority of mutations in rhodopsin, including the common P23H substitution, lead to protein misfolding, which is a feature in many neurodegenerative disorders. Previous studies have shown that upregulating molecular chaperone expression can delay disease progression in models of neurodegeneration. Here, we have explored the potential of the heat-shock protein co-inducer arimoclomol to ameliorate rhodopsin RP. In a cell model of P23H rod opsin RP, arimoclomol reduced P23H rod opsin aggregation and improved viability of mutant rhodopsin-expressing cells. In P23H rhodopsin transgenic rat models, pharmacological potentiation of the stress response with arimoclomol improved electroretinogram responses and prolonged photoreceptor survival, as assessed by measuring outer nuclear layer thickness in the retina. Furthermore, treated animal retinae showed improved photoreceptor outer segment structure and reduced rhodopsin aggregation compared with vehicle-treated controls. The heat-shock response (HSR) was activated in P23H retinae, and this was enhanced with arimoclomol treatment. Furthermore, the unfolded protein response (UPR), which is induced in P23H transgenic rats, was also enhanced in the retinae of arimoclomol-treated animals, suggesting that arimoclomol can potentiate the UPR as well as the HSR. These data suggest that pharmacological enhancement of cellular stress responses may be a potential treatment for rhodopsin RP and that arimoclomol could benefit diseases where ER stress is a factor.
Aging is the primary risk factor for cognitive decline, an emerging health threat to aging societies worldwide. Whether anti-aging factors such as klotho can counteract cognitive decline is unknown. We show that a lifespan-extending variant of the human KLOTHO gene, KL-VS, is associated with enhanced cognition in heterozygous carriers. Because this allele increased klotho levels in serum, we analyzed transgenic mice with systemic overexpression of klotho. They performed better than controls in multiple tests of learning and memory. Elevating klotho in mice also enhanced long-term potentiation, a form of synaptic plasticity, and enriched synaptic GluN2B,an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunit with key functions in learning and memory. Blockadeof GluN2B abolished klotho-mediated effects. Surprisingly, klotho effects were evident also in young mice and did not correlate with age in humans, suggesting independence from the aging process. Augmenting klotho or its effects may enhance cognition and counteract cognitive deficits at different life stages.
A deletion on human chromosome 16p11.2 is associated with autism spectrum disorders. We deleted the syntenic region on mouse chromosome 7F3. MRI and high-throughput single-cell transcriptomics revealed anatomical and cellular abnormalities, particularly in cortex and striatum of juvenile mutant mice (16p11(+/-)). We found elevated numbers of striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) expressing the dopamine D2 receptor (Drd2(+)) andfewer dopamine-sensitive (Drd1(+)) neurons in deeplayers of cortex. Electrophysiological recordings of Drd2(+) MSN revealed synaptic defects, suggesting abnormal basal ganglia circuitry function in 16p11(+/-) mice. This is further supported by behavioral experiments showing hyperactivity, circling, and deficits in movement control. Strikingly, 16p11(+/-) mice showed a complete lack of habituationreminiscent of what is observed in some autistic individuals. Our findings unveil a fundamental role of genes affected by the 16p11.2 deletion in establishing the basal ganglia circuitry and provide insights in the pathophysiology of autism.






Fluorinated, arylsulfone-based inhibitors of Matrix Metalloproteinases (MMP) have been used, in the [(18)F]-radiolabelled version, as radiotracers targeted to MMP-2/9 for Positron Emission Tomography (PET). Although they showed acceptable tumour uptake, specificity was rather low. To get further insights into the reason of low specificity, the binding interaction of these compounds with Human Serum Albumin (HSA) has been investigated. (19)F NMR spectroscopy showed that all compounds considered partition between multiple HSA binding sites, being characterized by either slow-exchange kinetics (with Ka in the order of 10(5)M(-1)) and fast-exchange kinetics (with Ka in the order of 10(4)M(-1)). For 2-(2-(4'-(2-fluoroethoxy)biphenyl-4-ylsulfonyl)phenyl)acetic acid (1a) and 2-(2-(4'-(2-fluoroacetamido)biphenyl-4-ylsulfonyl)phenyl)acetic acid (1c), these slow and fast-exchanging binding sites could be mapped to Sudlow's site I and II, respectively. It is shown that high affinity albumin binding constitutes a theoretical limitation for the specificity achievable by MMP-inhibitors as MMP-targeted PET tracers in cancer imaging, because albumin accumulating aspecifically in tumours lowers the binding potential of radiotracers.






We report the discovery of a series of imidazo[1,2-a]pyrazine derivatives as novel inhibitors of phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A). In a high-throughput screening campaign we identified the imidazopyrazine derivative 1, a PDE10A inhibitor with limited selectivity versus the other phosphodiesterases (PDEs). Subsequent investigation of 1 and replacement of the trimethoxyphenyl group by a (methoxyethyl)pyrazole moiety maintained PDE10A inhibition but enhanced selectivity against the other PDEs. Systematic examination and analysis of structure-activity and structure-property relationships resulted in the discovery of 2, an in vitro potent and selective inhibitor of PDE10A with high striatal occupancy of PDE10A, promising in vivo efficacy in different rodent behavioral models of schizophrenia, and a good pharmacokinetic profile in rats.




Tumors rely on the unfolded protein response (UPR) and angiogenesis to survive the metabolic stress of hypoxia. Karali etal. (2014) revealed that VEGF signaling engages UPR sensors in an unconventional manner that is independent of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, mediated by mTOR signaling to promote endothelial cell survival and angiogenesis.

The Beclin 1-Vps34 complex, the core component of the class III phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K-III), binds Atg14L or UVRAG to control different steps of autophagy. However, the mechanism underlying the control of PI3K-III activity remains elusive. Here we report the identification of NRBF2 as a component in the specific PI3K-III complex and a modulator of PI3K-III activity. Through its microtubule interaction and trafficking (MIT) domain, NRBF2 binds Atg14L directly and enhances Atg14L-linked Vps34 kinase activity and autophagy induction. NRBF2-deficient cells exhibit enhanced vulnerability to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress that is reversed by re-introducing exogenous NRBF2. NRBF2-deficient mice develop focal liver necrosis and ductular reaction, accompanied by impaired Atg14L-linked Vps34 activity and autophagy, although the mice show no increased mortality. Our data reveal a key role for NRBF2 in the assembly of the specific Atg14L-Beclin 1-Vps34-Vps15 complex for autophagy induction. Thus, NRBF2 modulates autophagy via regulation of PI3K-III and prevents ER stress-mediated cytotoxicity and liver injury.
Nucleus accumbens neurons serve to integrate information from cortical and limbic regions to direct behaviour. Addictive drugs are proposed to hijack this system, enabling drug-associated cues to trigger relapse to drug seeking. However, the connections affected and proof of causality remain to be established. Here we use a mouse model of delayed cue-associated cocaine seeking with ex vivo electrophysiology in optogenetically delineated circuits. We find that seeking correlates with rectifying AMPA (-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid) receptor transmission and a reduced AMPA/NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) ratio at medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) to nucleus accumbens shell D1-receptor medium-sized spiny neurons (D1R-MSNs). In contrast, the AMPA/NMDA ratio increases at ventral hippocampus to D1R-MSNs. Optogenetic reversal of cocaine-evoked plasticity at both inputs abolishes seeking, whereas selective reversal at mPFC or ventral hippocampus synapses impairs response discrimination or reduces response vigour during seeking, respectively. Taken together, we describe how information integration in the nucleus accumbens is commandeered by cocaine at discrete synapses to allow relapse. Our approach holds promise for identifying synaptic causalities in other behavioural disorders.
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is an omega-3 fatty acid that is essential for normal brain growth and cognitive function. Consistent with its importance in the brain, DHA is highly enriched in brain phospholipids. Despite being an abundant fatty acid in brain phospholipids, DHA cannot be de novo synthesized in brain and must be imported across the blood-brain barrier, but mechanisms for DHA uptake in brain have remained enigmatic. Here we identify a member of the major facilitator superfamily--Mfsd2a (previously an orphan transporter)--as the major transporter for DHA uptake into brain. Mfsd2a is found to be expressed exclusively in endothelium of the blood-brain barrier of micro-vessels. Lipidomic analysis indicates that Mfsd2a-deficient (Mfsd2a-knockout) mice show markedly reduced levels of DHA in brain accompanied by neuronal cell loss in hippocampus and cerebellum, as well as cognitive deficits and severe anxiety, and microcephaly. Unexpectedly, cell-based studies indicate that Mfsd2a transports DHA in the form of lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), but not unesterified fatty acid, in a sodium-dependent manner. Notably, Mfsd2a transports common plasma LPCs carrying long-chain fatty acids such LPC oleate and LPC palmitate, but not LPCs with less than a 14-carbon acyl chain. Moreover, we determine that the phosphor-zwitterionic headgroup of LPC is critical for transport. Importantly, Mfsd2a-knockout mice have markedly reduced uptake of labelled LPC DHA, and other LPCs, from plasma into brain, demonstrating that Mfsd2a is required for brain uptake of DHA. Our findings reveal an unexpected essential physiological role of plasma-derived LPCs in brain growth and function.






















Background: Although multiple studies and meta-analyses have consistently suggested that regular physical activity (PhA) is associated with a decreased stroke risk and recurrence, there is limited data on the possible preconditioning effect of prestroke PhA on stroke severity and prognosis. We aimed to study the association of prestroke PhA with different outcome variables in patients with acute ischemic stroke due to an anterior large vessel occlusion. Methods: The Prestroke Physical Activity and Functional Recovery in Patients with Ischemic Stroke and Arterial Occlusion trial is an observational and longitudinal study that included consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke admitted to a single tertiary stroke center. Main inclusion criteria were: anterior circulation ischemic stroke within 12 h from symptom onset; presence of a confirmed anterior large vessel occlusion, and functional independence previous to stroke. Prestroke PhA was evaluated with the International Physical Activity Questionnaire and categorized into mild, moderate and high levels by means of metabolic equivalent (MET) minutes per week thresholds. The primary outcome measure was good functional outcome at 3 months (modified Rankin scale 2). Secondary outcomes were severity of stroke at admission, complete early recanalization, early dramatic neurological improvement and final infarct volume. Results: During the study period, 159 patients fulfilled the above criteria. The mean age was 68 years, 62% were men and the baseline NIHSS score was 17. Patients with high levels of prestroke PhA were younger, had more frequently distal occlusions and had lower levels of blood glucose and fibrinogen at admission. After multivariate analysis, a high level of prestroke PhA was associated with a good functional outcome at 3 months. Regarding secondary outcome variables and after adjustment for relevant factors, a high level of prestroke PhA was independently associated with milder stroke severity at admission, early dramatic improvement, early arterial recanalization after intravenous thrombolysis and lower final infarct volume. The beneficial association of prestroke PhA with stroke outcomes was already present with a cutoff point of 1,000 MET min/week, a level of PhA easily achieved by walking 1 h/day during 5 days or by doing a vigorous aerobic activity 1 h/day twice a week. Conclusions: Prestroke PhA is independently associated with favorable stroke outcomes after a large vessel occlusion. Future research on the underlying mechanisms is needed to understand this neuroprotective effect of PhA.  2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.



















Spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) of the eighth nerve serve as the bridge between hair cells and the cochlear nucleus. Hair cells use Cav1.3 as the primary channel for Ca(2+) inflow to mediate transmitter release. In contrast, SGNs are equipped with multiple Ca(2+) channels to mediate Ca(2+)-dependent functions. We examined directly the role of Cav1.3 channels in SGNs using Cav1.3-deficient mice (Cav1.3(-/-)). We revealed a surprising finding that SGNs functionally express the cardiac-specific Cav1.2, as well as neuronal Cav1.3 channels. We show that evoked action potentials recorded from SGNs show a significant decrease in the frequency of firing in Cav1.3(-/-) mice compared with wild-type (Cav1.3(+/+)) littermates. Although Cav1.3 is the designated L-type channel in neurons, whole-cell currents recorded in isolated SGNs from Cav1.3(-/-) mice showed a surprising remnant current with sensitivity toward the dihydropyridine (DHP) agonist and antagonist, and a depolarization shift in the voltage-dependent activation compared with that in the Cav1.3(+/+) mice. Indeed, direct measurement of the elementary properties of Ca(2+) channels, in Cav1.3(+/+) neurons, confirmed the existence of two DHP-sensitive single-channel currents, with distinct open probabilities and conductances. We demonstrate that the DHP-sensitive current in Cav1.3(-/-) mice is derived from Cav1.2 channel activity, providing for the first time, to our knowledge, functional data for the expression of Cav1.2 currents in neurons. Finally, using shRNA gene knockdown methodology, and histological analyses of SGNs from Cav1.2(+/-) and Cav1.3(+/-) mice, we were able to establish the differential roles of Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 in SGNs.
The failure of the CNS neurons to regenerate axons after injury or stroke is a major clinical problem. Transcriptional regulators like Set- are well positioned to regulate intrinsic axon regeneration capacity, which declines developmentally in maturing CNS neurons. Set- also functions at cellular membranes and its subcellular localization is disrupted in Alzheimer's disease, but many of its biological mechanisms have not been explored in neurons. We found that Set- was upregulated postnatally in CNS neurons, and was primarily localized to the nucleus but was also detected in the cytoplasm and adjacent to the plasma membrane. Remarkably, nuclear Set- suppressed, whereas Set- localized to cytoplasmic membranes promoted neurite growth in rodent retinal ganglion cells and hippocampal neurons. Mimicking serine 9 phosphorylation, as found in Alzheimer's disease brains, delayed nuclear import and furthermore blocked the ability of nuclear Set- to suppress neurite growth. We also present data on gene regulation and protein binding partner recruitment by Set- in primary neurons, raising the hypothesis that nuclear Set- may preferentially regulate gene expression whereas Set- at cytoplasmic membranes may regulate unique cofactors, including PP2A, which we show also regulates axon growth in vitro. Finally, increasing recruitment of Set- to cellular membranes promoted adult rat optic nerve axon regeneration after injury in vivo. Thus, Set- differentially regulates axon growth and regeneration depending on subcellular localization and phosphorylation.
The motor cortex and the corticospinal system contribute to the control of a precision grip between the thumb and index finger. The involvement of subcortical pathways during human precision grip remains unclear. Using noninvasive cortical and cervicomedullary stimulation, we examined motor evoked potentials (MEPs) and the activity in intracortical and subcortical pathways targeting an intrinsic hand muscle when grasping a small (6 mm) cylinder between the thumb and index finger and during index finger abduction in uninjured humans and in patients with subcortical damage due to incomplete cervical spinal cord injury (SCI). We demonstrate that cortical and cervicomedullary MEP size was reduced during precision grip compared with index finger abduction in uninjured humans, but was unchanged in SCI patients. Regardless of whether cortical and cervicomedullary stimulation was used, suppression of the MEP was only evident 1-3 ms after its onset. Long-term (5 years) use of the GABAb receptor agonist baclofen by SCI patients reduced MEP size during precision grip to similar levels as uninjured humans. Index finger sensory function correlated with MEP size during precision grip in SCI patients. Intracortical inhibition decreased during precision grip and spinal motoneuron excitability remained unchanged in all groups. Our results demonstrate that the control of precision grip in humans involves premotoneuronal subcortical mechanisms, likely disynaptic or polysynaptic spinal pathways that are lacking after SCI and restored by long-term use of baclofen. We propose that spinal GABAb-ergic interneuronal circuits, which are sensitive to baclofen, are part of the subcortical premotoneuronal network shaping corticospinal output during human precision grip.
Transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) is used in clinical applications and basic neuroscience research. Although its behavioral effects are evident from prior reports, current understanding of the mechanisms that underlie these effects is limited. We used motion perception, a percept with relatively well known properties and underlying neural mechanisms to investigate tACS mechanisms. Healthy human volunteers showed a surprising improvement in motion sensitivity when visual stimuli were paired with 10 Hz tACS. In addition, tACS reduced the motion-after effect, and this reduction was correlated with the improvement in motion sensitivity. Electrical stimulation had no consistent effect when applied before presenting a visual stimulus or during recovery from motion adaptation. Together, these findings suggest that perceptual effects of tACS result from an attenuation of adaptation. Important consequences for the practical use of tACS follow from our work. First, because this mechanism interferes only with adaptation, this suggests that tACS can be targeted at subsets of neurons (by adapting them), even when the applied currents spread widely throughout the brain. Second, by interfering with adaptation, this mechanism provides a means by which electrical stimulation can generate behavioral effects that outlast the stimulation.
Making the right decision from conflicting information takes time. Recent computational, electrophysiological, and clinical studies have implicated two brain areas as being crucial in assuring sufficient time is taken for decision-making under conditions of conflict: the medial prefrontal cortex and the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Both structures exhibit an elevation of activity at low frequencies (&lt;10 Hz) during conflict that correlates with the amount of time taken to respond. This suggests that the two sites could become functionally coupled during conflict. To establish the nature of this interaction we recorded from deep-brain stimulation electrodes implanted bilaterally in the STN of 13 Parkinson's disease patients while they performed a sensory integration task involving randomly moving dots. By gradually increasing the number of dots moving coherently in one direction, we were able to determine changes in the STN associated with response execution. Furthermore, by occasionally having 10% of the dots move in the opposite direction as the majority, we were able to identify an independent increase in STN theta-delta activity triggered by conflict. Crucially, simultaneous midline frontal electroencephalographic recordings revealed an increase in the theta-delta band coherence between the two structures that was specific to high-conflict trials. Activity over the midline frontal cortex was Granger causal to that in STN. These results establish the cortico-subcortical circuit enabling successful choices to be made under conditions of conflict and provide support for the hypothesis that the brain uses frequency-specific channels of communication to convey behaviorally relevant information.
Inductions of long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) are modulated if they are preceded by a priming protocol, in a manner consistent with metaplasticity. Depotentiation refers to reversal of LTP by a subsequent protocol that has no effect by itself. Paired associative stimulation (PAS) at interstimulus interval of 25 ms (PAS25) and 10 ms (PAS10) produces spike timing-dependent LTP-like and LTD-like effects in human primary motor cortex. Continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) with 600 pulses produces an LTD-like effect, whereas cTBS with 150 pulses (cTBS150) has no effect by itself. We investigated whether cortical plasticity induced by PAS can be modulated by heterosynaptic inputs of cTBS150. PAS25 and PAS10 primed and followed by cTBS150 were compared withPAS25 and PAS10 alone. Motor evoked potential (MEP) amplitude, recruitment curve, and intracortical circuits including short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI), long-interval intracortical inhibition (LICI), intracortical facilitation, and short-latency afferent inhibition were measured before and after the interventions. After PAS25 alone, MEP amplitude increased while intracortical circuits did not change. A priming cTBS150 enhanced the effects of PAS25 with further increase in MEP amplitude and led to reduction in SICI and LICI. PAS25 followed by cTBS150 led to reduced MEP amplitude and increased LICI and SICI. Both priming and following cTBS150 reversed the LTD-like effect produced by PAS10 with little change in intracortical circuits. We conclude that cortical plasticity induced by PAS and cTBS interacts in a heterosynaptic and bidirectional manner. The order of the interventions determines whether the underlying mechanisms are related to metaplasticity or depotentiation.
Apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4), the most prevalent genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), is less lipidated than its corresponding AD-benign form, apoE3, and it has been suggested that the pathological effects of apoE4 are mediated by lipid-related mechanisms. ATP-binding cassette transporters A1 and G1 (ABCA1 and ABCG1, respectively) are the most important apoE-lipidating proteins. The expression of these proteins, as well as that of apoE, is controlled by the transcription regulation retinoid X receptor (RXR)-liver X receptor (LXR) system. In the present study, we investigated the effects of the RXR agonist bexarotene on mRNA and protein levels of apoE, ABCA1, and ABCG1 in young, naive apoE3- and apoE4-targeted replacement mice and assessed the extent to which this reverses the apoE4-driven pathological phenotype. This investigation reveled that bexarotene increases the mRNA and protein levels of ABCA1 and ABCG1 in hippocampal neurons, but has no effect on the corresponding levels of apoE. These findings were associated with reversal of the lipidation deficiency of apoE4 and of the cognitive impairments of apoE4 mice in several tests. Furthermore, bexarotene reversed the apoE4-driven accumulation of A42 and hyperphosphorylated tau in hippocampal neurons, as well as the apoE4-induced reduction in the levels of the presynaptic marker vesicular glutamatergic transporter 1 (VGluT1). In conclusion, the results show that treatment of apoE4 mice with the RXR agonist bexarotene reverses the apoE4-induced cognitive and neuronal impairments in vivo and suggest that this is due to reversal of the lipidation deficiency of apoE4. This puts forward the possibility that RXR activation and increased levels of ABCA1 and ABCG1 could be useful in the treatment of human apoE4 carriers.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) is the strongest known genetic risk factor for late onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). It influences amyloid- (A) clearance and aggregation, which likely contributes in large part to its role in AD pathogenesis. We recently found that HJ6.3, a monoclonal antibody against apoE, significantly reduced A plaque load when given to APPswe/PS1E9 (APP/PS1) mice starting before the onset of plaque deposition. To determine whether the anti-apoE antibody HJ6.3 affects A plaques, neuronal network function, and behavior in APP/PS1 mice after plaque onset, we administered HJ6.3 (10 mg/kg/week) or PBS intraperitoneally to 7-month-old APP/PS1 mice for 21 weeks. HJ6.3 mildly improved spatial learning performance in the water maze, restored resting-state functional connectivity, and modestly reduced brain A plaque load. There was no effect of HJ6.3 on total plasma cholesterol or cerebral amyloid angiopathy. To investigate the underlying mechanisms of anti-apoE immunotherapy, HJ6.3 was applied to the brain cortical surface and amyloid deposition was followed over 2 weeks using in vivo imaging. Acute exposure to HJ6.3 affected the course of amyloid deposition in that it prevented the formation of new amyloid deposits, limited their growth, and was associated with occasional clearance of plaques, a process likely associated with direct binding to amyloid aggregates. Topical application of HJ6.3 for only 14 d also decreased the density of amyloid plaques assessed postmortem. Collectively, these studies suggest that anti-apoE antibodies have therapeutic potential when given before or after the onset of A pathology.
Cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (Cdk5) was reported to downscale neurotransmission by sequestering synaptic vesicles (SVs) in the release-reluctant resting pool, but the molecular targets mediating this activity remain unknown. Synapsin I (SynI), a major SV phosphoprotein involved in the regulation of SV trafficking and neurotransmitter release, is one of the presynaptic substrates of Cdk5, which phosphorylates it in its C-terminal region at Ser(549) (site 6) and Ser(551) (site 7). Here we demonstrate that Cdk5 phosphorylation of SynI fine tunes the recruitment of SVs to the active recycling pool and contributes to the Cdk5-mediated homeostatic responses. Phosphorylation of SynI by Cdk5 is physiologically regulated and enhances its binding to F-actin. The effects of Cdk5 inhibition on the size and depletion kinetics of the recycling pool, as well as on SV distribution within the nerve terminal, are virtually abolished in mouse SynI knock-out (KO) neurons or in KO neurons expressing the dephosphomimetic SynI mutants at sites 6,7 or site 7 only. The observation that the single site-7 mutant phenocopies the effects of the deletion of SynI identifies this site as the central switch in mediating the synaptic effects of Cdk5 and demonstrates that SynI is necessary and sufficient for achieving the effects of the kinase on SV trafficking. The phosphorylation state of SynI by Cdk5 at site 7 is regulated during chronic modification of neuronal activity and is an essential downstream effector for the Cdk5-mediated homeostatic scaling.
It has recently been proposed that post-translational modification of not only the M3-M4 linker but also the M1-M2 linker of pentameric ligand-gated ion channels modulates function in vivo. To estimate the involvement of the M1-M2 linker in gating and desensitization, we engineered a series of mutations to this linker of the human adult-muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR), the 34 AChR and the homomeric 1 glycine receptor (GlyR). All tested M1-M2 linker mutations had little effect on the kinetics of deactivation or desensitization compared with the effects of mutations to the M2 -helix or the extracellular M2-M3 linker. However, when the effects of mutations were assessed with 50 Hz trains of 1 ms pulses of saturating neurotransmitter, some mutations led to much more, and others to much less, peak-current depression than observed for the wild-type channels, suggesting that these mutations could affect the fidelity of fast synaptic transmission. Nevertheless, no mutation to this linker could mimic the irreversible loss of responsiveness reported to result from the oxidation of the M1-M2 linker cysteines of the 3 AChR subunit. We also replaced the M3-M4 linker of the 1 GlyR with much shorter peptides and found that none of these extensive changes affects channel deactivation strongly or reduces the marked variability in desensitization kinetics that characterizes the wild-type channel. However, we found that these large mutations to the M3-M4 linker can have pronounced effects on desensitization kinetics, supporting the notion that its post-translational modification could indeed modulate 1 GlyR behavior.
Sensory neurons integrate information about the world, adapting their sampling to its changes. However, little is understood mechanistically how this primary encoding process, which ultimately limits perception, depends upon stimulus statistics. Here, we analyze this open question systematically by using intracellular recordings from fly (Drosophila melanogaster and Coenosia attenuata) photoreceptors and corresponding stochastic simulations from biophysically realistic photoreceptor models. Recordings show that photoreceptors can sample more information from naturalistic light intensity time series (NS) than from Gaussian white-noise (GWN), shuffled-NS or Gaussian-1/f stimuli; integrating larger responses with higher signal-to-noise ratio and encoding efficiency to large bursty contrast changes. Simulations reveal how a photoreceptor's information capture depends critically upon the stochastic refractoriness of its 30,000 sampling units (microvilli). In daylight, refractoriness sacrifices sensitivity to enhance intensity changes in neural image representations, with more and faster microvilli improving encoding. But for GWN and other stimuli, which lack longer dark contrasts of real-world intensity changes that reduce microvilli refractoriness, these performance gains are submaximal and energetically costly. These results provide mechanistic reasons why information sampling is more efficient for natural/naturalistic stimulation and novel insight into the operation, design, and evolution of signaling and code in sensory neurons.
Mechanisms of cerebellar motor learning are still poorly understood. The standard Marr-Albus-Ito theory posits that learning involves plasticity at the parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapses under control of the climbing fiber input, which provides an error signal as in classical supervised learning paradigms. However, a growing body of evidence challenges this theory, in that additional sites of plasticity appear to contribute to motor adaptation. Here, we consider phase-reversal training of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR), a simple form of motor learning for which a large body of experimental data is available in wild-type and mutant mice, in which the excitability of granule cells or inhibition of Purkinje cells was affected in a cell-specific fashion. We present novel electrophysiological recordings of Purkinje cell activity measured in naive wild-type mice subjected to this VOR adaptation task. We then introduce a minimal model that consists of learning at the parallel fibers to Purkinje cells with the help of the climbing fibers. Although the minimal model reproduces the behavior of the wild-type animals and is analytically tractable, it fails at reproducing the behavior of mutant mice and the electrophysiology data. Therefore, we build a detailed model involving plasticity at the parallel fibers to Purkinje cells' synapse guided by climbing fibers, feedforward inhibition of Purkinje cells, and plasticity at the mossy fiber to vestibular nuclei neuron synapse. The detailed model reproduces both the behavioral and electrophysiological data of both the wild-type and mutant mice and allows for experimentally testable predictions.
Resurgent sodium currents contribute to the regeneration of action potentials and enhanced neuronal excitability. Tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTX-S) resurgent currents have been described in many different neuron populations, including cerebellar and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. In most cases, sodium channel Nav1.6 is the major contributor to these TTX-S resurgent currents. Here we report a novel TTX-resistant (TTX-R) resurgent current recorded from rat DRG neurons. The TTX-R resurgent currents are similar to classic TTX-S resurgent currents in many respects, but not all. As with TTX-S resurgent currents, they are activated by membrane repolarization, inhibited by lidocaine, and enhanced by a peptide-mimetic of the 4 sodium channel subunit intracellular domain. However, the TTX-R resurgent currents exhibit much slower kinetics, occur at more depolarized voltages, and are sensitive to the Nav1.8 blocker A803467. Moreover, coimmunoprecipitation experiments from rat DRG lysates indicate the endogenous sodium channel 4 subunits associate with Nav1.8 in DRG neurons. These results suggest that slow TTX-R resurgent currents in DRG neurons are mediated by Nav1.8 and are generated by the same mechanism underlying TTX-S resurgent currents. We also show that both TTX-S and TTX-R resurgent currents in DRG neurons are enhanced by inflammatory mediators. Furthermore, the 4 peptide increased excitability of small DRG neurons in the presence of TTX. We propose that these slow TTX-R resurgent currents contribute to the membrane excitability of nociceptive DRG neurons under normal conditions and that enhancement of both types of resurgent currents by inflammatory mediators could contribute to sensory neuronal hyperexcitability associated with inflammatory pain.
GABA-A receptors (GABA-ARs) are typically expressed at synaptic or nonsynaptic sites mediating phasic and tonic inhibition, respectively. These two forms of inhibition conjointly control various network oscillations. To disentangle their roles in thalamocortical rhythms, we focally deleted synaptic, 2 subunit-containing GABA-ARs in the thalamus using viral intervention in mice. After successful removal of 2 subunit clusters, spontaneous and evoked GABAergic synaptic currents disappeared in thalamocortical cells when the presynaptic, reticular thalamic (nRT) neurons fired in tonic mode. However, when nRT cells fired in burst mode, slow phasic GABA-AR-mediated events persisted, indicating a dynamic, burst-specific recruitment of nonsynaptic GABA-ARs. In vivo, removal of synaptic GABA-ARs reduced the firing of individual thalamocortical cells but did not abolish slow oscillations or sleep spindles. We conclude that nonsynaptic GABA-ARs are recruited in a phasic manner specifically during burst firing of nRT cells and provide sufficient GABA-AR activation to control major thalamocortical oscillations.
Specific missense mutations in the CACNA1A gene, which encodes a subunit of voltage-gated CaV2.1 channels, are associated with familial hemiplegic migraine type 1 (FHM1), a rare monogenic subtype of common migraine with aura. We used transgenic knock-in (KI) mice harboring the human pathogenic FHM1 mutation S218L to study presynaptic Ca(2+) currents, EPSCs, and in vivo activity at the calyx of Held synapse. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of presynaptic terminals from S218L KI mice showed a strong shift of the calcium current I-V curve to more negative potentials, leading to an increase in basal [Ca(2+)]i, increased levels of spontaneous transmitter release, faster recovery from synaptic depression, and enhanced synaptic strength despite smaller action-potential-elicited Ca(2+) currents. The gain-of-function of transmitter release of the S218L mutant was reproduced in vivo, including evidence for an increased release probability, demonstrating its relevance for glutamatergic transmission. This synaptic phenotype may explain the misbalance between excitation and inhibition in neuronal circuits resulting in a persistent hyperexcitability state and other migraine-relevant mechanisms such as an increased susceptibility to cortical spreading depression.









Sharp-wave ripples are transient oscillatory events in the hippocampus that are associated with the reactivation of neuronal ensembles within specific circuits during memory formation. Fast-spiking, parvalbumin-expressing interneurons (FS-PV INs) are thought to provide fast integration in these oscillatory circuits by suppressing regenerative activity in their dendrites. Here, using fast 3D two-photon imaging and a caged glutamate, we challenge this classical view by demonstrating that FS-PV IN dendrites can generate propagating Ca(2+) spikes during sharp-wave ripples. The spikes originate from dendritic hot spots and are mediated dominantly by L-type Ca(2+) channels. Notably, Ca(2+) spikes were associated with intrinsically generated membrane potential oscillations. These oscillations required the activation of voltage-gated Na(+) channels, had the same frequency as the field potential oscillations associated with sharp-wave ripples, and controlled the phase of action potentials. Furthermore, our results demonstrate that the smallest functional unit that can generate ripple-frequency oscillations is a segment of a dendrite.
The capacity to predict the sensory consequences of movements is critical for sensory, motor, and cognitive function. Though it is hypothesized that internal signals related to motor commands, known as corollary discharge, serve to generate such predictions, this process remains poorly understood at the neural circuit level. Here we demonstrate that neurons in theelectrosensory lobe (ELL) of weakly electric mormyrid fish generate negative images of the sensory consequences of the fish's own movements based onascending spinal corollary discharge signals. These results generalize previous findings describing mechanisms for generating negative images of the effects of the fish's specialized electric organ discharge (EOD) and suggest that a cerebellum-like circuit endowed with associative synaptic plasticity acting on corollary discharge can solve the complex and ubiquitous problem of predicting sensory consequences of movements.
Numerous pain-producing (pronociceptive) receptors signal via phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) hydrolysis. However, it is currently unknown which lipid kinases generate PIP2 in nociceptive dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons and if these kinases regulate pronociceptive receptor signaling. Here, we found that phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5 kinase type 1C (PIP5K1C) is expressed at higher levels than any other PIP5K and, based on experiments with Pip5k1c(+/-) mice, generates at least half of all PIP2 in DRG neurons. Additionally, Pip5k1c haploinsufficiency reduces pronociceptive receptor signaling and TRPV1 sensitization in DRG neurons as well as thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity in mouse models of chronic pain. We identified a small molecule inhibitor of PIP5K1C (UNC3230) in a high-throughput screen. UNC3230 lowered PIP2 levels in DRG neurons and attenuated hypersensitivity when administered intrathecally or into the hindpaw. Our studies reveal that PIP5K1C regulates PIP2-dependent nociceptive signaling and suggest that PIP5K1C is a therapeutic target for chronic pain.

Loss-of-function (LOF) (i.e., nonsense, splice site, and frameshift) variants that lead to disruption of gene function are likely to contribute to the etiology of neuropsychiatric disorders. Here, we perform a systematic investigation of the role of both de novo and inherited LOF variants in schizophrenia using exome sequencing data from 231 case and 34 control trios. We identify two de novo LOF variants in the SETD1A gene, which encodes a subunit of histone methyltransferase, a finding unlikely to have occurred by chance, and provide evidence for a more general role of chromatin regulators in schizophrenia risk. Transmission pattern analyses reveal that LOF variants are more likely to be transmitted to affected individuals than controls. This is especially true for private LOF variants in genes intolerant to functional genetic variation. These findings highlight the contribution of LOF mutations to the genetic architecture of schizophrenia and provide important insights into disease pathogenesis.

Brandon etal. (2014) show that the formation of place cell representations in new environments is preserved under septal inactivation, and is thus likely independent of the hippocampal theta rhythm and, by implication, the firing of entorhinal grid cells and the process of path integration.
Brain function is mediated by neural circuit connectivity, and elucidating the role of connections is aided by techniques to block their output. We developed cell-type-selective, reversible synaptic inhibition tools for mammalian neural circuits by leveraging G protein signaling pathways to suppress synaptic vesicle release. Here, we find that the pharmacologically selective designer Gi-protein-coupled receptor hM4D is a presynaptic silencer in the presence of its cognate ligand clozapine-N-oxide (CNO). Activation of hM4D signaling sharply reduced synaptic release probability and synaptic current amplitude. To demonstrate the utility of this tool for neural circuit perturbations, we developed an axon-selective hM4D-neurexin variant and used spatially targeted intracranial CNO injections to localize circuit connections from the hypothalamus to the midbrain responsible for feeding behavior. This synaptic silencing approach is broadly applicable for cell-type-specific and axon projection-selective functional analysis of diverse neural circuits.

TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43), an essential pathological protein in both amyotrophic later sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), is expressed abnormally in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, whether and how TDP-43 contributes the pathogenesis of AD remains unknown. We have shown here a colocalization between TDP-43 and the intracellular domain of APP (AICD) in the nucleus. Coimmunoprecipitation analysis showed an interaction between TDP-43 and AICD. Overexpression of TDP-43 in COS7 cells enhanced the transactivation of AICD in an APP-Gal4 luciferase reporter system. Real-time PCR analysis showed that cotransfection of TDP-43 and AICD in HEK293 cells increased P53 mRNA levels compared to either TDP-43-transfected or AICD-transfected cells. Moreover, cotransfection of TDP-43 and AICD in either N2a or COS7 cells showed increased numbers of apoptotic cells compared to either TDP-43-transfected or AICD-transfected cells, indicating that TDP-43 enhances AICD-mediated apoptosis in N2a or COS7 cells. Thus, TDP-43 may play a role in AD pathology through interaction with AICD.
The rhesus macaque exhibits age-related brain changes similar to humans, making an excellent model of normal aging. Calorie restriction is a dietary intervention that reduces age-related comorbidities in short-lived animals, and its effects are still under study in rhesus macaques. Here, using deterministic fiber tracking method, we examined the effects of age and calorie restriction on a diffusion tensor imaging measure of white matter integrity, fractional anisotropy (FA), within white matter tracks traversing the anterior (genu) and posterior (splenium) corpus callosum in rhesus monkeys. Our results show: (1) a significant inverse relationship between age and mean FA of tracks traversing the genu and splenium; (2) higher mean FA of the splenium tracks as compared to that of genu tracks across groups; and (3) no significant diet effect on mean track FA through either location. These results are congruent with the age-related decline in white matter integrity reported in humans and monkeys, and the anterior-to-posterior gradient in white matter vulnerability to normal aging in humans. Further studies are warranted to critically evaluate the effect of calorie restriction on brain aging in this unique cohort of elderly primates.
Drugs of abuse generate strong drug-context associations, which can evoke powerful drug cravings that are linked to reinstatement in animal models and to relapse in humans. Work in learning and memory has demonstrated that contextual memories become more distributed over time, shifting from dependence on the hippocampus for retrieval to dependence on cortical structures. Implications for such changes in the structure of memory retrieval to addiction are unknown. Thus, to determine if the passage of time alters the substrates of conditioned place preference (CPP) memory retrieval, we investigated the effects of inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus (DH) with the GABA-A receptor agonist muscimol on expression of recent or remote CPP. We compared these effects with the same manipulation on expression of contextual fear conditioning. DH inactivation produced similar deficits in expression of both recent and remote CPP, but blocked expression of recent but not remote contextual fear memory. We describe the implications of these findings for mechanisms underlying long-term storage of contextual information.









Insomnia is the most frequent type of sleeping disorder and - following pain - the second most common symptom reported in the general practitioner's office. The prevalence of insomnia increases with age. Untreated, insomnia is regarded as risk factor for other comorbid somatic and mental disorders. Therefore, it is important to make a thorough diagnostic and differential diagnostic assessment. Particularly interventions aiming at improving sleep hygiene and therapy using sleep restriction can help alleviate insomnia. Pharmacologically, herbal drugs and antidepressants with sleep inducing effects can be used, for short-term treatment also benzodiazepine/gaba-ergic agonists.



Emotion recognition through computational modeling and analysis of physiological signals has been widely investigated in the last decade. Most of the proposed emotion recognition systems require relatively long-time series of multivariate records and do not provide accurate real-time characterizations using short-time series. To overcome these limitations, we propose a novel personalized probabilistic framework able to characterize the emotional state of a subject through the analysis of heartbeat dynamics exclusively. The study includes thirty subjects presented with a set of standardized images gathered from the international affective picture system, alternating levels of arousal and valence. Due to the intrinsic nonlinearity and nonstationarity of the RR interval series, a specific point-process model was devised for instantaneous identification considering autoregressive nonlinearities up to the third-order according to the Wiener-Volterra representation, thus tracking very fast stimulus-response changes. Features from the instantaneous spectrum and bispectrum, as well as the dominant Lyapunov exponent, were extracted and considered as input features to a support vector machine for classification. Results, estimating emotions each 10 seconds, achieve an overall accuracy in recognizing four emotional states based on the circumplex model of affect of 79.29%, with 79.15% on the valence axis, and 83.55% on the arousal axis.






Insulin is released from the pancreas in pulses with a period of  5min. These oscillatory insulin levels are essential for proper liver utilization and perturbed pulsatility is observed in type 2 diabetes. What coordinates the many islets of Langerhans throughout the pancreas to produce unified oscillations of insulin secretion? One hypothesis is that coordination is achieved through an insulin-dependent negative feedback action of the liver onto the glucose level. This hypothesis was tested in an invitro setting using a microfluidic system where the population response from a group of islets was input to a model of hepatic glucose uptake, which provided a negative feedback to the glucose level. This modified glucose level was then delivered back to the islet chamber where the population response was again monitored and used to update the glucose concentration delivered to the islets. We found that, with appropriate parameters for the model, oscillations in islet activity were synchronized. This approach demonstrates that rhythmic activity of a population of physically uncoupled islets can be coordinated by a downstream system that senses islet activity and supplies negative feedback. In the intact animal, the liver can play this role of the coordinator of islet activity.



Manipulations of either discrete emotions (e.g. happiness) or affective dimensions (e.g. positivity) have a long tradition in emotion research, but interactive effects have never been studied, based on the assumption that the two underlying theories are incompatible. Recent theorizing suggests, however, that the human brain relies on two affective processing systems, one working on the basis of discrete emotion categories, and the other working along affective dimensions. Presenting participants with an orthogonal manipulation of happiness and positivity in a lexical decision task, the present study meant to test the appropriateness of this assumption in emotion word recognition. Behavioral and electroencephalographic data revealed independent effects for both variables, with happiness affecting the early visual N1 component, while positivity affected an N400-like component and the late positive complex. These results are interpreted as evidence for a sequential processing of affective information, with discrete emotions being the basis for later dimensional appraisal processes.
Microglia are the resident immune cells of the brain, which become rapidly activated and migrate to the site of insult in brain infection and disease. Activated microglia generate large amounts of the highly reactive messenger molecule nitric oxide (NO). NO is able to raise cyclic GMP levels via binding to soluble guanylyl cyclase. We investigated potential mechanistic links between inflammation, NO signaling, and microglial migration. To monitor cell migration, we used a scratch wound assay and compared results obtained in the BV-2 microglial line to primary microglia. Incubation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) as stimulator of acute inflammatory processes enhanced migration of both microglial cell types. LPS activated NO production in BV-2 cells and application of an NO donor increased BV-2 cell migration while an NO scavenger reduced motility. Pharmacological inhibition of soluble guanylyl cyclase and the resulting decrease in motility can be rescued by a membrane permeant analog of cGMP. Despite differences in the threshold towards stimulation with the chemical agents, both BV-2 cells and primary microglia react in a similar way. The important role of NO/cGMP as positive regulator of microglial migration, the downstream targets of the signaling cascade, and resulting cytoskeletal changes can be conveniently investigated in a microglial cell line.
Despite efforts to reduce mortality caused by stroke and perinatal asphyxia, these are still the 2nd largest cause of death worldwide in the age groups they affect. Furthermore, survivors of cerebral hypoxia-ischemia often suffer neurological morbidities. A better understanding of pathophysiological mechanisms in focal and global brain ischemia will contribute to the development of tailored therapeutic strategies. Similarly, insight into molecular pathways involved in preconditioning-induced brain protection will provide possibilities for future treatment. Microarray technology is a great tool for investigating large scale gene expression, and has been used in many experimental studies of cerebral ischemia and preconditioning to unravel molecular (patho-) physiology. However, the amount of data across microarray studies can be daunting and hard to interpret which is why we aim to provide a clear overview of available data in experimental rodent models. Findings for both injurious ischemia and preconditioning are reviewed under separate subtopics such as cellular stress, inflammation, cytoskeleton and cell signaling. Finally, we investigated the transcriptome signature of brain protection across preconditioning studies in search of transcripts that were expressed similarly across studies. Strikingly, when comparing genes discovered by single-gene analysis we observed only 15 genes present in two studies or more. We subjected these 15 transcripts to DAVID Annotation Clustering analysis to derive their shared biological meaning. Interestingly, the MAPK signaling pathway and more specifically the ERK1/2 pathway geared toward cell survival/proliferation was significantly enriched. To conclude, we advocate incorporating pathway analysis into all microarray data analysis in order to improve the detection of similarities between independently derived datasets.


























Microfluidic embodiments of the Campenot chamber have attracted great interest from the neuroscience community. These interconnected co-culture platforms can be used to investigate a variety of questions, spanning developmental and functional neurobiology to infection and disease propagation. However, conventional systems require significant cellular inputs (many thousands per compartment), inadequate for studying low abundance cells, such as primary dopaminergic substantia nigra, spiral ganglia, and Drosophilia melanogaster neurons, and impractical for high throughput experimentation. The dense cultures are also highly locally entangled, with few outgrowths (&lt;10%) interconnecting the two cultures. In this paper straightforward microfluidic and patterning protocols are described which address these challenges: (i) a microfluidic single neuron arraying method, and (ii) a water masking method for plasma patterning biomaterial coatings to register neurons and promote outgrowth between compartments. Minimalistic neuronal co-cultures were prepared with high-level (&gt;85%) intercompartment connectivity and can be used for high throughput neurobiology experiments with single cell precision.


Precise frequency discrimination is a hallmark of auditory function in birds and mammals and is required for distinguishing similar sounding words, like 'bat,' 'cat' and 'hat.' In the cochlea, tuning and spectral separation result from longitudinal differences in basilar membrane stiffness and numerous individual gradations in sensory hair cell phenotypes, but it is unknown what patterns the phenotypes. Here we used RNA-seq to compare transcriptomes from proximal, middle and distal regions of the embryonic chicken cochlea, and found opposing longitudinal gradients of expression for retinoic acid (RA)-synthesizing and degrading enzymes. In vitro experiments showed that RA is necessary and sufficient to induce the development of distal-like hair cell phenotypes and promotes expression of the actin-crosslinking proteins, Espin and Fscn2. These and other findings highlight a role for RA signalling in patterning the development of a longitudinal gradient of frequency-tuned hair cell phenotypes in the cochlea.
The auditory systems of animals that perceive sounds in air are organized to separate sound stimuli into their component frequencies. Individual tones then stimulate mechanosensory hair cells located at different positions on an elongated frequency (tonotopic) axis. During development, immature hair cells located along the axis must determine their tonotopic position in order to generate frequency-specific characteristics. Expression profiling along the developing tonotopic axis of the chick basilar papilla (BP) identified a gradient of Bmp7. Disruption of that gradient in vitro or in ovo induces changes in hair cell morphologies consistent with a loss of tonotopic organization and the formation of an organ with uniform frequency characteristics. Further, the effects of Bmp7 in determination of positional identity are shown to be mediated through activation of the Mapk, Tak1. These results indicate that graded, Bmp7-dependent, activation of Tak1 signalling controls the determination of frequency-specific hair cell characteristics along the tonotopic axis.
Although eusociality evolved independently within several orders of insects, research into the molecular underpinnings of the transition towards social complexity has been confined primarily to Hymenoptera (for example, ants and bees). Here we sequence the genome and stage-specific transcriptomes of the dampwood termite Zootermopsis nevadensis (Blattodea) and compare them with similar data for eusocial Hymenoptera, to better identify commonalities and differences in achieving this significant transition. We show an expansion of genes related to male fertility, with upregulated gene expression in male reproductive individuals reflecting the profound differences in mating biology relative to the Hymenoptera. For several chemoreceptor families, we show divergent numbers of genes, which may correspond to the more claustral lifestyle of these termites. We also show similarities in the number and expression of genes related to caste determination mechanisms. Finally, patterns of DNA methylation and alternative splicing support a hypothesized epigenetic regulation of caste differentiation.
Punctuated episodes of spreading depolarizations erupt in the brain, encumbering tissue structure and function, and raising fascinating unanswered questions concerning their initiation and propagation. Linked to migraine aura and headache, cortical spreading depression contributes to the morbidity in the world's migraine with aura population. Even more ominously, erupting spreading depolarizations accelerate tissue damage during brain injury. The once-held view that spreading depolarizations may not exist in the human brain has changed, largely because of the discovery of migraine genes that confer cortical spreading depression susceptibility, the application of sophisticated imaging tools and efforts to interrogate their impact in the acutely injured human brain.
We might be forced to listen to a high-frequency tone at our audiologist's office or we might enjoy falling asleep with a white-noise machine, but the sounds that really matter to us are the voices of our companions or music from our favourite radio station. The auditory system has evolved to process behaviourally relevant natural sounds. Research has shown not only that our brain is optimized for natural hearing tasks but also that using natural sounds to probe the auditory system is the best way to understand the neural computations that enable us to comprehend speech or appreciate music.




















Background:There is increasing interest in the earlier detection of, and intervention in, patients at highest risk of developing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).Aims:The objective of this research was to develop and validate a risk prediction model for general practitioner (GP)-recorded diagnosis of COPD.Methods:We used data from 239 Scottish GP practices; two-thirds were randomly allocated to a derivation cohort and the other third to a validation cohort. We included patients aged 35-74 years at the cohort entry date, and excluded patients with a recorded diagnosis of COPD prior to the entry date and with missing data on smoking status.Results:There were 480,903 patients in the derivation cohort and 247,755 in the validation cohort. The incidence of COPD in the total cohort was 5.53/1,000 patient-years of follow-up (95% confidence interval (CI), 5.46-5.60). In the derivation cohort, the COPD risk for ever- versus never-smokers was substantially higher in women (hazard ratio (HR)=9.61, 95% CI, 8.92-10.34) than in men (HR=6.72, 95% CI, 6.19-7.30). Other risk factors for both sexes were level of deprivation and a previously recorded asthma diagnosis. In the validation cohort, the model discriminated well between patients who did and those who did not develop COPD: area under the receiver operating characteristics curve=0.845 (95% CI, 0.840-0.850) for females and 0.832 (95% CI, 0.827-0.837) for males.Conclusions:We have developed and validated the first risk prediction model for COPD, which has the major advantage of being populated entirely by routinely collected data and consequently may be used for clinical practice.

Combining diffusion magnetic resonance imaging and network analysis in the adult human brain has identified a set of highly connected cortical hubs that form a &quot;rich club&quot;-a high-cost, high-capacity backbone thought to enable efficient network communication. Rich-club architecture appears to be a persistent feature of the mature mammalian brain, but it is not known when this structure emerges during human development. In this longitudinal study we chart the emergence of structural organization in mid to late gestation. We demonstrate that a rich club of interconnected cortical hubs is already present by 30 wk gestation. Subsequently, until the time of normal birth, the principal development is a proliferation of connections between core hubs and the rest of the brain. We also consider the impact of environmental factors on early network development, and compare term-born neonates to preterm infants at term-equivalent age. Though rich-club organization remains intact following premature birth, we reveal significant disruptions in both in cortical-subcortical connectivity and short-distance corticocortical connections. Rich club organization is present well before the normal time of birth and may provide the fundamental structural architecture for the subsequent emergence of complex neurological functions. Premature exposure to the extrauterine environment is associated with altered network architecture and reduced network capacity, which may in part account for the high prevalence of cognitive problems in preterm infants.
Neuropsychiatric conditions like schizophrenia display a complex neurobiology, which has long been associated with distributed brain dysfunction. However, no investigation has tested whether schizophrenia shows alterations in global brain signal (GS), a signal derived from functional MRI and often discarded as a meaningless baseline in many studies. To evaluate GS alterations associated with schizophrenia, we studied two large chronic patient samples (n = 90, n = 71), comparing them to healthy subjects (n = 220) and patients diagnosed with bipolar disorder (n = 73). We identified and replicated increased cortical power and variance in schizophrenia, an effect predictive of symptoms yet obscured by GS removal. Voxel-wise signal variance was also increased in schizophrenia, independent of GS effects. Both findings were absent in bipolar patients, confirming diagnostic specificity. Biologically informed computational modeling of shared and nonshared signal propagation through the brain suggests that these findings may be explained by altered net strength of overall brain connectivity in schizophrenia.
Cognition presents evolutionary research with one of its greatest challenges. Cognitive evolution has been explained at the proximate level by shifts in absolute and relative brain volume and at the ultimate level by differences in social and dietary complexity. However, no study has integrated the experimental and phylogenetic approach at the scale required to rigorously test these explanations. Instead, previous research has largely relied on various measures of brain size as proxies for cognitive abilities. We experimentally evaluated these major evolutionary explanations by quantitatively comparing the cognitive performance of 567 individuals representing 36 species on two problem-solving tasks measuring self-control. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that absolute brain volume best predicted performance across species and accounted for considerably more variance than brain volume controlling for body mass. This result corroborates recent advances in evolutionary neurobiology and illustrates the cognitive consequences of cortical reorganization through increases in brain volume. Within primates, dietary breadth but not social group size was a strong predictor of species differences in self-control. Our results implicate robust evolutionary relationships between dietary breadth, absolute brain volume, and self-control. These findings provide a significant first step toward quantifying the primate cognitive phenome and explaining the process of cognitive evolution.















In his book on behavioural endocrinology, Randy Nelson describes 'stress' as a 'notoriously ethereal concept'. Yet, despite this lack of clarity, studies of the consequences of stress across different time scales, life history stages, taxa and levels of biological enquiry form a large part of modern biology and biomedicine. Organisms need to recognise and respond to environmental challenges. Being able to do so appropriately, and with minimal costs, is an important physiological attribute, with great adaptive value. The costs and benefits of different mechanisms that enable organisms to cope with unpredictable environmental changes can be manifest to different degrees at different life stages. Accordingly, the level of stress experienced in the environment can act as a strong selective pressure that drives the evolution of life histories.
Recent research shows that our innate capacity to adapt our movements to compensate for changes to our body or the environment is far more susceptible to modulation by experience than previously thought.
Despite evidence of asymmetries in insect sensory perception and motor control, there is no direct evidence for functional left-right asymmetry in their limb control - handedness - equivalent to that of vertebrates such as humans (reviewed in [1,2]). Here, we show that locusts are biased in the forelimb they use to reach across a gap in the substrate upon which they are walking. The strength of this bias differed among individuals, as did the forelimb, some locusts favouring their right forelimb more often, others their left. In contrast, the locusts' forelimb movements immediately prior to reaching, or whilst walking, were unbiased. This pattern was repeated when the gap was replaced with a glass platform; forelimb use was unbiased when stepping onto the glass surface but biased when stepping onto the other side. Thus, locusts show handedness during targeted forelimb placement, but not whilst walking, the switch initiated by visual inputs. This handedness is context-dependent and is expressed by individuals rather than at the population level.



































