


Intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) is a common neurological emergency in patients with cancer, typically occurring late in the disease course, although it occasionally heralds the cancer diagnosis. ICH in these patients often occurs from unique mechanisms, especially intratumoral hemorrhage or coagulopathy, whereas hypertensive hemorrhage is rare. Lung, melanoma, breast, and glioblastoma multiforme are the most commonly associated solid tumors, partly because of their ubiquity and frequent brain involvement, whereas leukemia is the most commonly associated hematological cancer. Patients typically present with focal neurological deficits, headache, and encephalopathy, and their initial diagnostic evaluation and management should follow standard guidelines, although steroids and/or surgical resection should be strongly considered in those with intratumoral hemorrhage. Short-term outcomes are comparable to ICH in the community, whereas long-term outcomes are generally poor, corresponding to the prognosis of the underlying cancer. This review focuses on the recent advances and special considerations in cancer-related intracranial hemorrhage.
There is a wide variety of genetic and sporadic causes for neurodegenerative disorders with apparent brain iron accumulation on magnetic resonance imaging. Rare recessive causes include PLA2G6 mutations (infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy), and mutations of ATP13A2 (Kufor Rakeb syndrome) and FA2H. A variety of sporadic neurological disorders can present brain iron accumulation on imaging, including multiple sclerosis and neurological manifestations of HIV infection. The relevant clinical and imaging features will be discussed.
Neuroferritinopathy is an autosomal dominant extra - pyramidal movement disorder caused by mutations in the ferritin light chain gene (FTL). The most frequent presentation is with chorea (50%), followed by dystonia (42.5 %) and parkinsonism (7.5%). Seven different mutations are known; 6 insertions in exon 4 and a missense mutation in exon 3 with the 460insA mutation in exon 4 being the most common. Brain magnetic resonance imaging demonstrates iron deposition in the basal ganglia and cavitation. Neuropathological studies have shown neuronal loss in the cerebral cortex, cerebellum and basal ganglia. Ferritin inclusion bodies were demonstrated within neurons and glia. Studies of patient derived fibroblasts and HeLa cells expressing mutant ferritin demonstrate increased iron levels and oxidative stress. These abnormalities have been recapitulated in mouse models of neuroferritinopathy. There is no disease modifying treatement for neuroferritinopathy but benzodiazepines and botulinum toxin may palliate dystonia and tetrabenazine may relieve chorea and facial tics. There is no role for iron chelation.
Acute bacterial meningitis is associated with high morbidity and mortality despite the availability of effective antibiotics. The inflammatory response induced by bacterial products in the subarachnoid space is responsible for neuronal injury. The use of adjuvant therapy in acute bacterial meningitis draws its rationale from the notion of arresting the inflammatory cascade at an early stage of the disease to improve clinical outcome. Corticosteroids have been studied extensively in these patients and seems effective in selective groups of patients, particularly those with pneumococcal meningitis. Glycerol appears harmful in adults with acute bacterial meningitis. Experimental models suggest promising role of newer anti-inflammatory drugs such as antioxidants, inhibitors of Tumor Necrosis Factor-, poly-ADP-ribose inhibitors, caspase inhibitors, brain-derived neurotrophic factor etc.; however clinical trials are still lacking for these novel potential targets in acute bacterial meningitis. This review focuses on corticosteroids with comments on the role of other potential adjuvant therapy in adults with acute bacterial meningitis.
Postural deformities in parkinsonian syndromes are well recognized, but poorly understood and largely refractory to available therapies. In recent times a number of hypotheses have been proposed to explain the underlying etiology of anterocollis and camptocormia, but currently there is no consensus. As these conditions are more precisely characterized we begin to uncover that this is a heterogeneous and evolving phenomenon. These conditions bring to light the inadequacies of our current tools to study biomechanics of posture, neuromuscular disorders, and dystonic muscular contractions. The development of objective, accurate tools to directly study and measure the severity of these postural disorders will allow for further understanding of the pathophysiology, the development of novel therapeutics, and adequate clinical trial design.
Sodium and fluid management in the brain injured patient directly impacts cerebral edema and cerebral perfusion pressure. Sodium is a major determinant of neuronal size and therefore hyponatremia is aggressively avoided, as hypoosmolar states result in cerebral edema. Negative fluid balance is often avoided because resultant drop in cerebral perfusion pressure can contribute to cerebral ischemia, further inducing secondary neuronal injury. Patients with brain injury are at risk for disorders of sodium and fluid balance (eg, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis, cerebral salt wasting, and diabetes insipidus). Knowledge of normal homeostatic and brain regulatory volume mechanisms is necessary to avoid inducing further neuronal or systemic injury while trying to correct sodium and fluid disorders in brain injured patients. Osmotherapy is a common part of managing cerebral edema in neurocritical care units, but more studies are needed to establish practice guidelines.
Akin to the rapid growth in hospitalist medicine seen in the prior decade, there has been a recent explosion in the need for neurohospitalists. Factors driving this demand include nationally mandated quality and safety measures, the increasing complexity and age of the hospitalized patient, and diminished training in diagnosis and management of neurological illnesses for internal medicine residents. The role of the neurohospitalist is varied and may include not only providing neurological care to hospitalized patients but also serving as a leader in an institution's push to meet quality and safety measures. Close collaboration with intensivists, vascular neurologists, and outpatient neurologists is both a challenge and essential for successful delivery of care both during hospitalization and after discharge. Future challenges facing neurohospitalists include defining its relationship to other fields, instituting a pathway for certification, and conducting research to guide the development of evidence-based practice and quality measures.
The simplicity and genetic tractability of the nervous system of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans make it an attractive system in which to seek biological mechanisms of decision making. Although work in this area remains at an early stage, four basic types paradigms of behavioral choice, a simple form of decision making, have now been demonstrated in C. elegans. A recent series of pioneering studies, combining genetics and molecular biology with new techniques such as microfluidics and calcium imaging in freely moving animals, has begun to elucidate the neuronal mechanisms underlying behavioral choice. The new research has focussed on choice behaviors in the context of habitat and resource localization, for which the neuronal circuit has been identified. Three main circuit motifs for behavioral choice have been identified. One motif is based mainly on changes in the strength of synaptic connections whereas the other two motifs are based on changes in the basal activity of an interneuron and the sensory neuron to which it is electrically coupled. Peptide signaling seems to play a prominent role in all three motifs, and it may be a general rule that concentrations of various peptides encode the internal states that influence behavioral decisions in C. elegans.
The insular cortex is the primary cortical site devoted to taste processing. A large body of evidence is available for how insular neurons respond to gustatory stimulation in both anesthetized and behaving animals. Most of the reports describe broadly tuned neurons that are involved in processing the chemosensory, physiological and psychological aspects of gustatory experience. However little is known about how these neural responses map onto insular circuits. Particularly mysterious is the functional role of the three subdivisions of the insular cortex: the granular, the dysgranular and the agranular insular cortices. In this article we review data on the organization of the local and long-distance circuits in the three subdivisions. The functional significance of these results is discussed in light of the latest electrophysiological data. A view of the insular cortex as a functionally integrated system devoted to processing gustatory, multimodal, cognitive and affective information is proposed.
Many neural circuits process information in multiple distinct modes. For example, the hippocampus is involved in memory encoding, retrieval, and consolidation processes. These different mnemonic computations require processing of differing balances of current sensory input and previously stored associations. Here we explore patterns of activity in hippocampal output area CA1 associated with different information processing states. We discuss the evidence linking these patterns to specific inputs to CA1 and describe behavioral factors that are related to the balance of synaptic drive. We suggest that understanding the factors that influence information flow in the hippocampal circuit could provide important new insights into how neural circuits are reconfigured on the fly to perform different functions at different times.
The postural system maintains a specific body orientation and equilibrium during standing and during locomotion in the presence of many destabilizing factors (external and internal). Numerous studies in humans have revealed essential features of the functional organization of this system. Recent studies on different animal models have significantly supplemented human studies. They have greatly expanded our knowledge of how the control system operates, how the postural functions are distributed within different parts of CNS, and how these parts interact with each other to produce postural corrections and adjustments. This review outlines recent advances in the studies of postural control in quadrupeds, with special attention given the neuronal postural mechanisms.
This review summarizes the latest developments in our understanding of amygdala networks that support classical fear conditioning, the experimental paradigm most commonly used to study learned fear in the laboratory. These recent advances have considerable translational significance as congruent findings from studies of fear learning in animals and humans indicate that anxiety disorders result from abnormalities in the mechanisms that normally regulate conditioned fear. Because of the introduction of new techniques and the continued use of traditional approaches, it is becoming clear that conditioned fear involves much more complex networks than initially believed, including coordinated interactions between multiple excitatory and inhibitory circuits within the amygdala.
Neuropeptides provide functional flexibility to microcircuits, their inputs and effectors by modulating presynaptic and postsynaptic properties and intrinsic currents. Recent studies have relied less on applied neuropeptide and more on their neural release. In rhythmically active microcircuits (central pattern generators, CPGs), recent studies show that neuropeptide modulation can enable particular activity patterns by organizing specific circuit motifs. Neuropeptides can also modify microcircuit output indirectly, by modulating circuit inputs. Recently elucidated consequences of neuropeptide modulation include changes in motor patterns and behavior, stabilization of rhythmic motor patterns and changes in CPG sensitivity to sensory input. One aspect of neuropeptide modulation that remains enigmatic is the presence of multiple peptide family members in the same nervous system and even the same neurons.





Hyperprolactinemia is a condition characterised by an increase of prolactin blood levels (more than 100-200 ng/ml). It is the most common endocrine disorder of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. The clinical characteristics of the headache-hyperprolactinemia-hypophyseal-adenoma association are discussed, the various diagnostic and treatment possibilities are explored and the etiology of the headache is considered in the light of several pathogenetic possibilities. We present two cases. (1) A 35-year-old woman suffering from chronic tension-type headache interspersed with occasional episodes of migraine without aura (as defined by the International Headache Society criteria). She had also suffered menstrual cycle alterations since the age of 16. At the age of 30 she developed amenorrhea with hyperprolactinemia. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans revealed a median-left intrasellar mass. Treatment with cabergoline resulted in complete resolution of both types of headache and the menstrual cycle and prolactin levels returned to normal. The therapy also reduced the volume of the tumour. (2) The second case relates to a 47-year-old man who had been suffering from tension-type headaches for almost 3 months. The patient had never previously suffered from headaches. CT and MRI scans showed a large sellar and suprasellar lesion with raised serum prolactin levels. Treatment with cabergoline had significantly reduced the prolactin levels and had also improved the patient's headaches. High-resolution CT, with and without contrast, or MRI is necessary to visualise microprolactinomas (and other sellar lesions) and confirm the diagnosis.
Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a complex illness and highly challenging to treat. One promising approach to significantly advance our understanding of the underlying pathophysiology of AN involves developing a cognitive neuroscience model of illness. Cognitive neuroscience uses probes such as neuropsychological tasks and neuroimaging techniques to identify the neural underpinnings of behavior. With this approach, advances have been made in identifying higher-order cognitive processes that likely mediate symptom expression in AN. Identification of related neuropathology is beginning. Such findings led to the development of complex neurobehavioral models that aim to explain the etiology and persistence of AN. Future research will use these advanced tools to test and refine hypotheses about the underlying mechanisms of AN.
Onset of bulimia nervosa (BN) typically occurs in adolescence and is frequently accompanied by medical and psychiatric sequelae that may have detrimental effects on adolescent development. Potentially serious medical consequences and high comorbid rates of mood disorders and suicidality underscore the need for early recognition and effective treatments. Research among adolescents with BN has lagged behind that of adults, although evidence is accumulating to support the efficacy of family-based interventions and cognitive behavioral treatments that are adapted for use with adolescent populations. The aim of the current article is to provide an overview of recent research on epidemiology, risk factors, diagnostic issues, and treatment interventions focusing on adolescent BN, and to highlight areas for future research.
Several studies have shown that neuronal cell death due to apoptosis is the major reason for cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we report the anti-apoptotic effects of three Salvia species from Iran-S. choloroleuca, S. mirzayanii and S. santolinifolia-against H(2)O(2)-induced cytotoxicity in neuron-like PC12 cells. We showed that these antioxidant species could interfere with the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis by attenuating Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, decreasing outer mitochondrial membrane break and decreasing cytochrome c release to cytoplasm. Interestingly, we found that these species were able to replenish reduced glutathione level which affects cellular redox status and cytochrome c activity. Moreover, the decreased level of caspase-3, the executioner caspase, resulted in decrease of PARP-1 cleavage. Anti-apoptotic effects of these species along with their antioxidant effects, may represent a promising approach for treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
The fibula, a zeugopod bone in the hindlimb, exhibits various morphologies in tetrapod species. The fibula in some species has a similar length with the other zeugopod element, the tibia, while other species have obvious differences in the sizes of the two elements. In the avian hindlimb, for example, the fibula is extremely short, thin, and truncated. Basic morphology of the fibula is established during development, and cartilage primordium of the bone emerges in a certain region defined by a distinct combination of expression of Hox genes (Hox code). In order to elucidate how the different morphologies are produced from a region that is defined as the fixed Hox code, we examined spatial and temporal patterns of Hoxd11/Hoxd12 expression in the developing limb bud, which defines the region from which the fibula emerges, in comparison with the sites of precartilaginous mesenchymal condensations representing regions for cartilage formation among chick, mouse, and gecko embryos. We found that in the chick hindlimb, expression of Hoxd11/Hoxd12 decreased and disappeared from the presumptive zeugopod region before cartilage formation. This heterochronically early decline of expression of Hox genes is strongly correlated with the peculiar trait of the fibula in the avian hindlimb, since in the other species examined, expression of those genes continued after the onset of cartilage formation. This is morphological phenotype-related because the early disappearance was not seen in the chick forelimb. Our results suggest that temporal change of the Hox code governs diversification in morphology of homologous structures among related species.
The generation of distinct neural subtypes depends on the activities of cell-extrinsic and -intrinsic factors during the development of the vertebrate CNS. Previous studies have provided a molecular basis for how neural progenitors are patterned and generate distinct descendants that are spatially and temporally regulated by inductive signals secreted by polarized sources. However, it still remains unknown how the generation of neural descendants by progenitors located at polarized sources of inductive signals is controlled. Sonic hedgehog (Shh), which is expressed at the ventral midline in the forebrain, has been shown to play a critical role for the patterning and specification of distinct neural subtypes in the forebrain. Here, we analyzed the identities and distributions of Shh-descendants generated at discrete time points in the forebrain by using a ShhcreER(T2) mouse driver line in which a tamoxifen-inducible Cre cassette was inserted into the Shh locus together with a Z/EG mouse reporter line. Our results showed that Shh-expressing neural progenitors generated neuronal and glial descendants distributed throughout the telencephalon and diencephalon in a temporally distinct manner. Furthermore, our results showed that Shh-progenitors are located at two spatially distinct sub-domains that can be characterized by their temporally distinct patterns of Shh expression. These results suggest that temporally- and spatially controlled mechanisms that specify neural subtypes operate in the Shh-expressing progenitor domain, and raise the possibility that the distinct temporal gradient of Shh activity might be responsible for the generation of distinct neural subtypes in the telencephalon.
Using behavioral and blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) response indices through functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the current study investigated whether youths with disruptive behavior disorders (conduct disorder and oppositional defiant disorder) plus psychopathic traits (DBD + PT) show aberrant sensitivity to eye gaze information generally and/or whether they show particular insensitivity to eye gaze information in the context of fearful expressions. The participants were 36 children and adolescents (ages 10-17 years); 17 had DBD + PT and 19 were healthy comparison subjects. Participants performed a spatial attention paradigm where spatial attention was cued by eye gaze in faces displaying fearful, angry, or neutral affect. Eye gaze sensitivity was indexed both behaviorally and as BOLD response. There were no group differences in behavioral response: both groups showed significantly faster responses if the target was in the congruent spatial direction indicated by eye gaze. Neither group showed a Congruence  Emotion interaction; neither group showed an advantage from the displayer's emotional expression behaviorally. However, the BOLD response revealed a significant Group  Congruence  Emotion interaction. The comparison youth showed increased activity within the dorsal endogenous orienting network (superior parietal lobule and inferior parietal sulcus) for fearful congruent relative to incongruent trials relative to the youth with DBD + PT. The results are discussed with reference to current models of DBD + PT and possible treatment innovations.
This article represents an effort to extend our understanding of paranoia or suspicion and its development by integrating findings across clinical, developmental, and neuroscience literatures. We first define &quot;paranoia&quot; or paranoid thought and examine its prevalence across typically and atypically developing individuals and theoretical perspectives regarding its development and maintenance. We then briefly summarize current ideas regarding the neural correlates of adaptive, appropriately trusting interpersonal perception, social cognition, and behavior across development. Our focus shifts subsequently to examining in normative and atypical developmental contexts the neural correlates of several component cognitive processes thought to contribute to paranoid thinking: (a) attention bias for threat, (b) jumping to conclusions biases, and (c) hostile intent attribution biases. Where possible, we also present data regarding independent links between these cognitive processes and aggressive behavior. By examining data regarding the behavioral and neural correlates of varied cognitive processes that are likely components of a paranoid thinking style, we hope to advance both theoretical and empirical research in this domain.
Fins and limbs, which are considered to be homologous paired vertebrate appendages, have obvious morphological differences that arise during development. One major difference in their development is that the AER (apical ectodermal ridge), which organizes fin/limb development, transitions into a different, elongated organizing structure in the fin bud, the AF (apical fold). Although the role of AER in limb development has been clarified in many studies, little is known about the role of AF in fin development. Here, we investigated AF-driven morphogenesis in the pectoral fin of zebrafish. After the AER-AF transition at 36 hours post-fertilization, the AF was identifiable distal to the circumferential blood vessel of the fin bud. Moreover, the AF was divisible into two regions: the proximal AF (pAF) and the distal AF (dAF). Removing the AF caused the AER and a new AF to re-form. Interestingly, repeatedly removing the AF led to excessive elongation of the fin mesenchyme, suggesting that prolonged exposure to AER signals results in elongation of mesenchyme region for endoskeleton. Removal of the dAF affected outgrowth of the pAF region, suggesting that dAF signals act on the pAF. We also found that the elongation of the AF was caused by morphological changes in ectodermal cells. Our results suggest that the timing of the AER-AF transition mediates the differences between fins and limbs, and that the acquisition of a mechanism to maintain the AER was a crucial evolutionary step in the development of tetrapod limbs.
Lesions in the epithelially expressed human gene FRAS1 cause Fraser syndrome, a complex disease with variable symptoms, including facial deformities and conductive hearing loss. The developmental basis of facial defects in Fraser syndrome has not been elucidated. Here we show that zebrafish fras1 mutants exhibit defects in facial epithelia and facial skeleton. Specifically, fras1 mutants fail to generate a late-forming portion of pharyngeal pouch 1 (termed late-p1) and skeletal elements adjacent to late-p1 are disrupted. Transplantation studies indicate that fras1 acts in endoderm to ensure normal morphology of both skeleton and endoderm, consistent with well-established epithelial expression of fras1. Late-p1 formation is concurrent with facial skeletal morphogenesis, and some skeletal defects in fras1 mutants arise during late-p1 morphogenesis, indicating a temporal connection between late-p1 and skeletal morphogenesis. Furthermore, fras1 mutants often show prominent second arch skeletal fusions through space occupied by late-p1 in wild type. Whereas every fras1 mutant shows defects in late-p1 formation, skeletal defects are less penetrant and often vary in severity, even between the left and right sides of the same individual. We interpret the fluctuating asymmetry in fras1 mutant skeleton and the changes in fras1 mutant skeletal defects through time as indicators that skeletal formation is destabilized. We propose a model wherein fras1 prompts late-p1 formation and thereby stabilizes skeletal formation during zebrafish facial development. Similar mechanisms of stochastic developmental instability might also account for the high phenotypic variation observed in human FRAS1 patients.
Neural progenitor cells within the developing thalamus are spatially organized into distinct populations. Their correct specification is critical for generating appropriate neuronal subtypes in specific locations during development. Secreted signaling molecules, such as sonic hedgehog (Shh) and Wnts, are required for the initial formation of the thalamic primordium. Once thalamic identity is established and neurogenesis is initiated, Shh regulates the positional identity of thalamic progenitor cells. Although Wnt/-catenin signaling also has differential activity within the thalamus during this stage of development, its significance has not been directly addressed. In this study, we used conditional gene manipulations in mice and explored the roles of -catenin signaling in the regional identity of thalamic progenitor cells. We found -catenin is required during thalamic neurogenesis to maintain thalamic fate while suppressing prethalamic fate, demonstrating that regulation of regional fate continues to require extrinsic signals. These roles of -catenin appeared to be mediated at least partly by regulating two basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors, Neurog1 and Neurog2. -Catenin and Shh signaling function in parallel to specify two progenitor domains within the thalamus, where individual transcription factors expressed in each progenitor domain were regulated differently by the two signaling pathways. We conclude that -catenin has multiple functions during thalamic neurogenesis and that both Shh and -catenin pathways are important for specifying distinct types of thalamic progenitor cells, ensuring that the appropriate neuronal subtypes are generated in the correct locations.

Spatial-temporal partial least squares (ST-PLS) is a multivariate statistical analysis that has improved the analysis of modern imaging techniques. Multifocal electroretinograms (mfERGs) contain a large amount of data, and averaging and grouping have been used to reduce the amount of data to levels that can be handled using traditional statistical methods. In contrast, using all acquired data points, ST-PLS enables statistically rigorous testing of changes in waveform shape and in the distributed signal related to retinal function. We hypothesise that ST-PLS will improve analysis of the mfERG. Two mfERG protocols, a 103 hexagon clinical protocol and a slow-flash mfERG (sf-mfERG) protocol, were recorded from an adolescent population with type 1 diabetes and an age similar control population. The standard mfERGs were analysed using a template-fitting algorithm and the sf-mfERG using a signal-to-noise measure. The results of these traditional analysis techniques are compared with those of the ST-PLS analysis. Traditional analysis of the mfERG recordings revealed changes between groups for implicit time but not amplitude; however, the spatial location of these changes could not be identified. In contrast, ST-PLS detected significant changes between groups and displayed the spatial location of these changes on the retinal map and the temporal location within the mfERG waveforms. ST-PLS confirmed that changes to diabetic retinal function occur before the onset of clinical pathology. In addition, it revealed two distinct patterns of change depending on whether the multifocal paradigm was optimised to target outer retinal function (photoreceptors) or middle/inner retinal function (collector cells).




Dendritic spines arise as small protrusions from the dendritic shaft of various types of neuron and receive inputs from excitatory axons. Ever since dendritic spines were first described in the nineteenth century, questions about their function have spawned many hypotheses. In this review, we introduce understanding of the structural and biochemical properties of dendritic spines with emphasis on components studied with imaging methods. We then explore advances in in vivo imaging methods that are allowing spine activity to be studied in living tissue, from super-resolution techniques to calcium imaging. Finally, we review studies on spine structure and function in vivo. These new results shed light on the development, integration properties and plasticity of spines.

Insulin deficiency affects the adult metabolic response to undernutrition, but its effects on the fetal response to maternal undernutrition remain unknown. This study examined the effects of maternal fasting for 48 h in late gestation on the metabolism of fetal sheep made insulin deficient by pancreatectomy (PX). The endocrine and metabolic responses to maternal fasting differed between intact, sham-operated and PX fetuses, despite a similar degree of hypoglycemia. Compared with intact fetuses, there was no increase in the plasma concentrations of cortisol or norepinephrine in PX fetuses during maternal fasting. In contrast, there was a significant fasting-induced rise in plasma epinephrine concentrations in PX but not intact fetuses. Umbilical glucose uptake decreased to a similar extent in both groups of fasted animals but was associated with a significant fall in glucose carbon oxidation only in intact fetuses. Pancreatectomized but not intact fetuses lowered their oxygen consumption rate by 15-20% during maternal fasting in association with increased uteroplacental oxygen consumption. Distribution of uterine oxygen uptake between the uteroplacental and fetal tissues therefore differed with fasting only in PX fetuses. Both groups of fetuses produced glucose endogenously after maternal fasting for 48 h, which prevented any significant fall in the rate of fetal glucose utilization. In intact but not PX fetuses, fasting-induced glucogenesis was accompanied by a lower hepatic glycogen content. Chronic insulin deficiency in fetal sheep therefore leads to changes in the counterregulatory endocrine response to hypoglycemia and an altered metabolic strategy in dealing with nutrient restriction in utero.
The hypothalamus plays a critical role in the regulation of energy balance. Neuroanatomical and mouse genetic data have defined a core circuitry in the hypothalamus that mediates many of the effects of leptin on feeding and energy balance regulation. The present study used 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (a marker of dividing cells) and a neuronal marker to systematically examine neurogenesis in the mouse embryonic hypothalamus, particularly the birth of neurons that relay leptin signaling. The vast majority of neurons in hypothalamic nuclei known to control energy balance is generated between embryonic days (E) 12 and E16, with a sharp peak of neurogenesis occurring on E12. Neurons in the dorsomedial and paraventricular nuclei and the lateral hypothalamic area are born between E12 and E14. The arcuate and ventromedial nuclei exhibit a relatively longer neurogenic period. Many neurons in these nuclei are born on E12, but some neurons are generated as late as E16. We also examined the birth of leptin-activated cells by coupling the 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine staining with cFos immunohistochemistry. Remarkably, the majority of leptin-activated cells in the adult hypothalamus were also born during a discrete developmental window on E12. These results provide new insight into the development of hypothalamic neurons that control feeding and identify important developmental periods when alterations in the intrauterine environment may affect hypothalamic neurogenesis and produce long-term consequences on hypothalamic cell numbers.

There have been many attempts at defining the electroencephalography (EEG) characteristics of nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) without a universally accepted definition. This lack of consensus arises because the EEG expression of NCSE does not exist in isolation, but reflects status epilepticus under the variety of pathologic conditions that occur with age, cerebral development, encephalopathy, and epilepsy syndrome. Current NCSE definitions include &quot;boundary conditions,&quot; in which electroencephalographic seizure activity occurs without apparent clinical seizures. Furthermore, what appears to one interpreter as status epilepticus, is not to another reader, reflecting the &quot;art&quot; of EEG interpretation. Seizures and epilepsy syndromes have undergone an evolution that has moved beyond a classification of focal or generalized conditions into a syndromic approach. It seems appropriate to make similar changes in the EEG analysis of the syndromes of NCSE. In effect, the literature on epilepsy classification has progressed to incorporate the different NCSE types with clinical descriptions, but the specific EEG evidence for these types is found largely in individual reports, and often by description only. NCSE classification of EEG patterns should derive from the aggregate of published EEG patterns in the respective clinical subtype, supported by an analysis of these EEG studies. The analysis that follows presents clinical descriptions and EEG patterns of NCSE in the neonatal period, infancy, childhood, adulthood, and late adulthood from a syndromic perspective based on age, encephalopathy, cerebral development, etiology, and syndrome. Proceeding from the proposed classification of status epilepticus syndromes in &quot;Status epilepticus: its clinical features and treatment in children and adults&quot; (published in 1994 by Cambridge University Press, New York), we have performed a systematic search for reports presenting EEG patterns of NCSE using the online medical search engine PubMed for 22 different search strategies. EEG patterns were reviewed by two board-certified epileptologists who reached consensus regarding presence of NCSE. From a total of 4,328 search results, 123 cases with corresponding EEG patterns could be allocated to underlying epilepsy syndromes. Typical characteristic, prominent electrographic patterns, and sequential arrangements are elucidated for the different NCSE syndromes. This compendium of patterns by NCSE syndrome classification with illustration of EEGs, and delineation of electroencephalographic features helps define the characteristics and semiologic borderlines among the types of NCSE.
Herman Doose first described the generalized childhood epilepsy syndrome of myoclonic astatic epilepsy (MAE) in 1970, attributing a genetic cause from this first description. However, although the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) defined criteria for MAE in 1989, the diagnostic boundaries of the syndrome continue to be debated. Moreover, 40 years since Doose's first description of MAE, although a genetic predisposition is acknowledged and many studies have demonstrated familial aggregation of seizures within MAE families, the actual genetic determinants of MAE still remain unknown. Although initially thought to be within the same spectrum as severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy, the exclusion of SCN1A mutations in non-generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+) MAE cases has confirmed the genetic distinction of MAE. In this critical review, we shall trace the historical evolution of concepts around MAE and its distinction from Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, review the described phenotypic features of MAE from updated studies that will allow its distinction from other overlap epilepsy syndromes, review the evidence of genetic influences and clues for genetic heterogeneity, and discuss strategies that may be helpful in elucidating the etiology of MAE in light of current genetic techniques.

Studies in animal models and patients with epilepsy have suggested that basal ganglia circuits may control epileptic seizures and that striatal dopaminergic transmission may play a role in seizure modulation and interruption. Chromosome 20 [r(20)] syndrome is a well-defined chromosomal disorder characterized by epilepsy, mild-to-moderate mental retardation, and lack of recognizable dysmorphic features. Epilepsy is often the most important clinical manifestation of the syndrome, with prolonged episodes of nonconvulsive status epilepticus suggesting dysfunction in the seizure control system. We present the ictal blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) changes in brief seizures recorded by means of electroencephalography-functional magnetic resonance imaging (EEG-fMRI) coregistration in a patient with [r(20)] syndrome. We observed ictal BOLD increments in a cortical-subcortical network involving substantia nigrastriatum and frontal cortex. At present, this is the first functional neuroimaging evidence of the involvement of the nigrostriatal system during ictal EEG discharges in [r(20)] syndrome supporting a role of the basal ganglia circuits in human epileptic seizures.

We investigated individual short- and long-term verbal memory changes after temporal lobe resection for epilepsy. Fifty-one patients (23 operated on the speech-dominant temporal lobe, DTL and 28 on the non-dominant temporal lobe, NDTL) were tested on learning/immediate recall and delayed recall of word-list and word-pairs preoperatively, 2 years postoperatively and 10years postoperatively. Changes were defined using reliable change indices of 23 healthy controls assessed at corresponding intervals. Fewer patients had reliable declines at 10 years than at 2 years (DTL: 13-35% vs 35-44%; NDTL: 0-4% vs 7-21%). Four DTL patients (17%) had reliable declines in 2 tests at 10-year follow-up. More NDTL patients had improvement at 10 years than at 2 years (18-30% vs 4-22%). The only risk factor for decline both short and long term was DTL resection. In conclusion, most patients had stable verbal memory postoperatively. A few DTL patients had a lasting decline at long-term follow-up, but more patients showed partial recovery, especially in the NDTL group.
The role of the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNPr) and superior colliculus (SC) network in rat strains susceptible to audiogenic seizures still remain underexplored in epileptology. In a previous study from our laboratory, the GABAergic drugs bicuculline (BIC) and muscimol (MUS) were microinjected into the deep layers of either the anterior SC (aSC) or the posterior SC (pSC) in animals of the Wistar audiogenic rat (WAR) strain submitted to acoustic stimulation, in which simultaneous electroencephalographic (EEG) recording of the aSC, pSC, SNPr and striatum was performed. Only MUS microinjected into the pSC blocked audiogenic seizures. In the present study, we expanded upon these previous results using the retrograde tracer Fluorogold (FG) microinjected into the aSC and pSC in conjunction with quantitative EEG analysis (wavelet transform), in the search for mechanisms associated with the susceptibility of this inbred strain to acoustic stimulation. Our hypothesis was that the WAR strain would have different connectivity between specific subareas of the superior colliculus and the SNPr when compared with resistant Wistar animals and that these connections would lead to altered behavior of this network during audiogenic seizures. Wavelet analysis showed that the only treatment with an anticonvulsant effect was MUS microinjected into the pSC region, and this treatment induced a sustained oscillation in the theta band only in the SNPr and in the pSC. These data suggest that in WAR animals, there are at least two subcortical loops and that the one involved in audiogenic seizure susceptibility appears to be the pSC-SNPr circuit. We also found that WARs presented an increase in the number of FG+ projections from the posterior SNPr to both the aSC and pSC (primarily to the pSC), with both acting as proconvulsant nuclei when compared with Wistar rats. We concluded that these two different subcortical loops within the basal ganglia are probably a consequence of the WAR genetic background.
One hundred and forty-four people with convulsive seizures (CS) and 144 healthy controls were evaluated for cognitive function, using a battery of neuropsychological tests. People with CS performed significantly worse than the controls on the Mini-Mental State Examination, Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, auditory verbal learning test, digit span test, verbal fluency test, and digit cancellation test. The percentage of patients who had abnormal scores on the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale was higher than that of controls (54.9% vs. 7.6%, p&lt;0.001). Cognitive functional impairment was detected in 65.3% of the patients and 29.2% of the controls (p&lt;0.001). People with CS presented with depressive mood and a wide range of cognitive deficits, particularly deficits in episodic declarative memory, attentional capacity, semantic memory, and mental speed. Years in education were positively associated with the cognitive performance of people with CS (OR=0.655, 95% CI: 0.486-0.882, p=0.005).

Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is an important treatment for catatonia. We aimed to study the response rate of catatonia treated with ECT and its clinical correlates in a large sample of inpatients. The ECT parameters of all patients (n = 63) admitted with catatonia between the months of January and December 2007 were examined. The number of ECTs administered, seizure threshold, failure to achieve adequate seizures and clinical signs pertaining to catatonia were analyzed. Response was considered as complete resolution of catatonic symptoms with Bush Francis Catatonia Rating Scale (BFCRS) score becoming zero. ECT was mostly started after failed lorazepam treatment except in 6 patients where ECT was the first choice. Patients who responded in 4 ECT sessions were considered fast responders (mean session number for response is 4 sessions) and response with 5 or more ECTs was considered slow response. Fast responders had significantly lower duration of catatonia (19.67  21.66 days, P = 0.02) and higher BFCRS score at presentation (17.25  6.21, P = 0.03). Presence of waxy flexibility and gegenhalten (22.60% vs. 0%, P = 0.01) predicted faster response, whereas presence of echophenomena (3.2% vs. 24.0%) predicted slow response. The response rate to catatonia appears to be associated with the severity and duration of catatonia, and the presence of certain catatonic signs.
The aim of this study was to study long-term outcome of physical health and self-injurious behaviour (SIB) in anorexia nervosa (AN). Fifty-one adolescent-onset AN cases, originally recruited after community screening, and 51 matched controls (COMP) were interviewed regarding somatic problems and SIB and physically examined 18 years after AN onset, at mean age 32 years. Six individuals had an eating disorder (ED). No one had died. The AN group weighed less than the COMP group. The frequency of somatic problems did not differ between groups. Dental enamel lesions and shorter than expected stature occurred only in the AN group. Dysdiadochokinesis was overrepresented in the AN group and age of AN onset was lower among those with the neurological deficit. Severe SIB occurred only in the AN group, predominantly during adolescence. To conclude, somatic problems were common in both groups. Most individuals in the AN group had recovered from their ED, but weight revealed a persistent restricted eating behaviour.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether ultra endurance exercise changes the mRNA levels of the autophagy-related and autophagy-regulatory genes. Eight men (441years, range: 38-50years) took part in a 200-km running race. The average running time was 28h 03min2h 01min (range: 22h 15min-35h 04min). A muscle sample was taken from the vastus lateralis 2weeks prior to the race and 3h after arrival. Gene expression was assessed by RT-qPCR. Transcript levels of autophagy-related genes were increased by 49% for ATG4b (P=0.025), 57% for ATG12 (P=0.013), 286% for Gabarapl1 (P=0.008) and 103% for LC3b (P=0.011). The lysosomal enzyme cathepsin L mRNA was upregulated by 123% (P=0.003). Similarly, transcript levels of the autophagy-regulatory genes BNIP3 and BNIP3l were both increased by 113% (P=0.031 and P=0.007, respectively). Since upregulation of these genes has been related with an increased autophagic flux in various models, our results strongly suggest that autophagy is activated in response to ultra endurance exercise.


Chronic stress induces presynaptic and postsynaptic modifications in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus that are consistent with enhanced excitatory hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis drive. The brain regions mediating these molecular modifications are not known. We hypothesized that chronic variable stress (CVS) tonically activates stress-excitatory regions that interact with the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, culminating in stress facilitation. In order to identify chronically activated brain regions, FosB, a documented marker of tonic neuronal activation, was assessed in known stress regulatory limbic and brainstem sites. Four experimental groups were included: CVS, repeated restraint (RR) (control for HPA habituation), animals weight-matched (WM) to CVS animals (control for changes in circulating metabolic factors due to reduced weight gain), and non-handled controls. CVS, (but not RR or WM) induced adrenal hypertrophy, indicating that sustained HPA axis drive only occurred in the CVS group. CVS (but not RR or WM) selectively increased the number of FosB/FosB nuclei in the nucleus of the solitary tract, posterior hypothalamic nucleus, and both the infralimbic and prelimbic divisions of the medial prefrontal cortex, indicating an involvement of these regions in chronic drive of the HPA axis. Increases in FosB/FosB-immunoreactive cells were observed following both RR and CVS in the other regions (e.g. the dorsomedial hypothalamus), suggesting activation by both habituating and non-habituating stress conditions. The data suggest that unpredictable stress uniquely activates interconnected cortical, hypothalamic, and brainstem nuclei, potentially revealing the existence of a recruited circuitry mediating chronic drive of brain stress effector systems.
Early experience considerably modulates the organization and function of all sensory systems. In the mammalian olfactory system, deprivation of the sensory inputs via neonatal, unilateral naris closure has been shown to induce structural, molecular and functional changes from the olfactory epithelium to the olfactory bulb and cortex. However, it remains unknown how early experience shapes the functional properties of individual olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs), the primary odor detectors in the nose. To address this question, we examined the odorant response properties of mouse OSNs in both the closed and open nostril after 4 weeks of unilateral naris closure, with age-matched untreated animals as control. Using a patch-clamp technique on genetically tagged OSNs with defined odorant receptors (ORs), we found that sensory deprivation increased the sensitivity of MOR23 neurons in the closed side, whereas overexposure caused the opposite effect in the open side. We next analyzed the response properties, including rise time, decay time, and adaptation, induced by repeated stimulation in MOR23 and M71 neurons. Even though these two types of neuron showed distinct properties with regard to dynamic range and response kinetics, sensory deprivation significantly slowed down the decay phase of odorant-induced transduction events in both types. Using western blotting and antibody staining, we confirmed the upregulation of several signaling proteins in the closed side as compared with the open side. This study suggests that early experience modulates the functional properties of OSNs, probably by modifying the signal transduction cascade.
The intra-pallidal application of -aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporter subtype 1 (GAT-1) or GABA transporter subtype 3 (GAT-3) transporter blockers [1-(4,4-diphenyl-3-butenyl)-3-piperidinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride (SKF 89976A) or 1-[2-[tris(4-methoxyphenyl)methoxy]ethyl]-(S)-3-piperidinecarboxylic acid (SNAP 5114)] reduces the activity of pallidal neurons in monkey. This effect could be mediated through the activation of presynaptic GABA(B) heteroreceptors in glutamatergic terminals by GABA spillover following GABA transporter (GAT) blockade. To test this hypothesis, we applied the whole-cell recording technique to study the effects of SKF 89976A and SNAP 5114 on evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (eEPSCs) in the presence of gabazine, a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, in rat globus pallidus slice preparations. Under the condition of postsynaptic GABA(B) receptor blockade by the intra-cellular application of N-(2,6-dimethylphenylcarbamoylmethyl)-triethylammonium bromide (OX314), bath application of SKF 89976A (10 M) or SNAP 5114 (10 M) decreased the amplitude of eEPSCs, without a significant effect on its holding current and whole cell input resistance. The inhibitory effect of GAT blockade on eEPSCs was blocked by (2S)-3-[[(1S)-1-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]amino-2-hydroxypropyl](phenylmethyl)phosphinic acid, a GABA(B) receptor antagonist. The paired-pulse ratio of eEPSCs was increased, whereas the frequency, but not the amplitude, of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents was reduced in the presence of either GAT blocker, demonstrating a presynaptic effect. These results suggest that synaptically released GABA can inhibit glutamatergic transmission through the activation of presynaptic GABA(B) heteroreceptors following GAT-1 or GAT-3 blockade. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that presynaptic GABA(B) heteroreceptors in putative glutamatergic subthalamic afferents to the globus pallidus are sensitive to increases in extracellular GABA induced by GAT inactivation, thereby suggesting that GAT blockade represents a potential mechanism by which overactive subthalamopallidal activity may be reduced in parkinsonism.
Human patients with visual field defects following damage to their primary visual cortex (V1) will often misperceive the midpoint of a horizontal line. They tend to shift the midpoint away from the real position towards their blind field. In patients with unilateral neglect, where midpoint shifts can also be observed, these perceptual errors do not lead to errors in an obstacle-avoidance task, which also requires the ability to find the midpoint between two obstacles. This dissociation in neglect patients was taken as evidence that obstacle-avoidance performance is guided by visual information from the dorsal visual stream. Recently it was shown that a patient with hemianopia could avoid an obstacle presented in his blind field. This suggests that obstacle-avoidance behaviour can be guided by subconscious vision alone involving a direct route from extrageniculate structures in the brain to dorsal stream areas. To investigate whether obstacle avoidance relies only on this subconscious route or also uses information from pathways involved in conscious vision, we examined the effect of the hemianopic shift on obstacle-avoidance behaviour. This shift is found in tasks where a conscious visual judgement is required and presumably arises in pathways underlying conscious vision (V1 and ventral stream areas). We compared the performance of six patients with left hemianopia with the performance of six patients with right hemianopia. We found a clear bias in both groups, which also affected obstacle-avoidance performance. It is thus concluded that obstacle avoidance does not bypass the system for conscious vision completely.
To clarify the mechanism of tenderness after bone injury, we investigated changes in the withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimuli, nerve distribution and nerve growth factor (NGF)-expression in a rat model of bone injury without immobilization for bone injury healing. Rats were divided into three groups as follows: (1) rats incised in the skin and periosteum, followed by drilling a hole in the tibia [bone lesion group (BLG)]; (2) those incised in the skin and periosteum without bone drilling [periosteum lesion group (PLG)]; and (3) those incised in the skin [skin lesion group (SLG)]. Mechanical hyperalgesia continued for 28 days at a lesion in the BLG, 21 days in PLG and 5 days in SLG after treatments, respectively. Endochondral ossification was observed on days 5-28 in BLG and on days 5-21 in PLG. Nerve growth appeared in deep connective tissue (DCT) at day 28 in BLG. Nerve fibres increased in both cutaneous tissue and DCT at day 7 in PLG, but they were not found at day 28. Mechanical hyperalgesia accompanied with endochondral ossification and nerve fibres increasing at the lesion in both BLG and PLG. NGF was expressed in bone-regenerating cells during the bone injury healing. Anti-NGF and trk inhibitor K252a inhibited hyperalgesia in the different time course. This study shows that localized tenderness coincides with the bone healing and involves NGF expression and nerve sprouting after bone injury. The findings present underlying mechanisms and provide pathophysiological relevance of local tenderness to determination of bone fracture and its healing.
The ADORA2A gene encodes the adenosine A(2A) receptor that is highly expressed in the striatum where it plays a role in modulating glutamatergic and dopaminergic transmission. Glutamatergic signaling has been suggested to play a pivotal role in cognitive functions related to the pre-attentive processing of external stimuli. Yet, the precise molecular mechanism of these processes is poorly understood. Therefore, we aimed to investigate whether ADORA2A gene variation has modulating effects on visual pre-attentive sensory memory processing. Studying two polymorphisms, rs5751876 and rs2298383, in 199 healthy control subjects who performed a partial-report paradigm, we find that ADORA2A variation is associated with differences in the efficiency of pre-attentive sensory memory sub-processes. We show that especially the initial visual availability of stimulus information is rendered more efficiently in the homozygous rare genotype groups. Processes related to the transfer of information into working memory and the duration of visual sensory (iconic) memory are compromised in the homozygous rare genotype groups. Our results show a differential genotype-dependent modulation of pre-attentive sensory memory sub-processes. Hence, we assume that this modulation may be due to differential effects of increased adenosine A(2A) receptor signaling on glutamatergic transmission and striatal medium spiny neuron (MSN) interaction.
The inhalation of 35% carbon dioxide (CO) results in an acute stress response in healthy individuals and may accordingly provide a good paradigm to examine potential vulnerability factors for stress reactivity and stress-related psychopathology. It has been proposed that CO reactivity is moderated by genetic (5-HTTLPR) and personality (neuroticism) factors, yet no experimental study has investigated their effects on CO reactivity simultaneously. The current study examined the singular and interactive effects of the 5-HTTLPR genotype and neuroticism in predicting the affective and physiological response to a 35% CO challenge in a healthy sample of male and female students. From a large group of 771 students, 48 carriers of the low/low expressing allele (S/S, S/Lg, Lg/Lg) and 48 carriers of the high/high expressing allele (La/La) with the lowest and the highest neuroticism scores (77 females, 19 males; mean age  SD: 20.6  2 years) were selected and underwent a 35% CO inhalation. Visual analogue scales for anxiety and discomfort and the Panic Symptom List were used to assess affective symptomatology, while salivary samples and heart rate were assessed to establish the physiological response. A typical pattern of responses to CO was observed, characterised by increases in anxiogenic symptoms and physical panic symptomatology and a reduction in heart rate; however, no effect on salivary cortisol concentration was observed. Additionally, the CO reactivity did not differ between groups divided by the 5-HTTLPR genotype or neuroticism. Findings of the current study do not support a role for singular or interactive effects of the 5-HTTLPR genotype and trait neuroticism on affective and physiological reactivity to a 35% CO inhalation procedure.



Study design: Comparative effectiveness review. Objective: To determine the comparative effectiveness and safety of percutaneous minimally invasive versus open spine surgery for fractures of the thoracolumbar junction. Methods: A systematic review of the English-language literature was undertaken for articles published between 1970 and March 15, 2012. Reference lists of key articles were also systematically checked. We attempted to identify all articles that reported on the effectiveness and/or safety comparing minimally invasive surgery (MIS) with open surgery for thoracolumbar fractures in the adult population. Articles containing hematological or neoplastic fractures primarily were excluded. Other exclusions included reviews, editorials, case series, non-English-language written studies, and animal studies. We rated the overall body of evidence using a modified Grades of Recommendation Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) system for diagnostic and therapeutic studies. Results:  Two studies (Level of Evidence III) met our inclusion criteria.  Radiographic outcomes were similar between treatment groups.  Postoperative incisional pain was less in patients undergoing percutaneous MIS.  Patient function as assessed by the Hannover Spine Score, the SF-36 and the MacNab criteria were slightly higher in the percutaneous minimally invasive group, but not statistically significant.  Percutaneous MIS resulted in less blood loss and shorter length of hospital stay than open surgery.  No complications were reported using percutaneous MIS. Conclusion: Limited data suggest that percutaneous techniques are associated with less postoperative pain, less blood loss, a shorter hospital stay, and a slightly better functional outcome. However, concerns remain on the effectiveness of percutaneous techniques in correcting spinal deformity and achieving bony fusion. Further studies are needed to verify these preliminary findings.
Preshaping the digits and orienting the hand when reaching to grasp a distal target is proposed to be optimal when guided by vision. A reach-to-grasp movement to an object in one's own mouth is a natural and commonly used movement, but there has been no previous description of how it is performed. The movement requires accuracy but likely depends upon haptic rather than visual guidance, leading to the question of whether the kinematics of this movement are similar to those with vision or whether the movement depends upon an alternate strategy. The present study used frame-by-frame video analysis and linear kinematics to analyze hand movements as participants reached for ethologically relevant food targets placed either at a distal location or in the mouth. When reaching for small and medium-sized food items (blueberries and donut balls) that had maximal lip-to-target contact, hand preshaping was equivalent to that used for visually guided reaching. When reaching for a large food item (orange slice) that extended beyond the edges of the mouth, hand preshaping was suboptimal compared to vision. Nevertheless, hapsis from the reaching hand was used to reshape and reorient the hand after first contact with the large target. The equally precise guidance of hand preshaping under oral hapsis is discussed in relation to the idea that hand preshaping, and its requisite neural circuitry, may have originated under somatosensory control, with secondary access by vision.
We analyzed the cutaneous encoding of two-dimensional movements by investigating the coding of movement velocity for differently oriented straight-line movements and the coding of complex trajectories describing cursive letters. The cutaneous feedback was then compared with that of the underlying muscle afferents previously recorded during the same &quot;writing-like&quot; movements. The unitary activity of 43 type II cutaneous afferents was recorded in the common peroneal nerve in healthy subjects during imposed ankle movements. These movements consisted first of ramp-and-hold movements imposed at two different and close velocities in seven directions and secondly of &quot;writing-like&quot; movements. In both cases, the responses were analyzed using the neuronal population vector model. The results show that movement velocity encoding depended on the direction of the ongoing movement. Discriminating between two velocities therefore involved processing the activity of afferent populations located in the various skin areas surrounding the moving joint, as shown by the statistically significant difference observed in the amplitude of the sum vectors. Secondly, &quot;writing-like&quot; movements induced cutaneous neuronal patterns of activity, which were reproducible and specific to each trajectory. Lastly, the &quot;cutaneous neuronal trajectories,&quot; built by adding the sum vectors tip-to-tail, nearly matched both the movement trajectories and the &quot;muscle neuronal trajectories,&quot; built from previously recorded muscle afferents. It was concluded that type II cutaneous and the underlying muscle afferents show similar encoding properties of two-dimensional movement parameters. This similarity is discussed in relation to a central gating process that would for instance increase the gain of cutaneous inputs when muscle information is altered by the fusimotor drive.
The remote distractor effect (RDE) is a robust phenomenon whereby target-directed saccades are delayed by the appearance of a distractor. This effect persists even when the target location is perfectly predictable. The RDE has been studied extensively in the oculomotor domain but it is unknown whether it generalises to other spatially oriented responses. In three experiments, we tested whether the RDE generalises to manual aiming. Experiment 1 required participants to move their hand or eyes to predictable targets presented alone or accompanied by a distractor in the opposite hemifield. The RDE was observed for the eyes but not for the hand. Experiment 2 replicated this dissociation in a more naturalistic task in which eye movements were not constrained during manual aiming. Experiment 3 confirmed the lack of manual RDE across a wider range of distractor delays (0, 50, 100, and 150ms). Our data imply that the RDE is specific to the oculomotor system, at least for non-foveal distractors. We suggest that the oculomotor RDE reflects competitive interactions between target and distractor representations in the superior colliculus, which are not necessarily shared by manual aiming.
The cannabinoid receptor agonist, WIN 55,212-2, increases extracellular norepinephrine levels in the rat frontal cortex under basal conditions, likely via desensitization of inhibitory 2-adrenergic receptors located on norepinephrine terminals. Here, the effect of WIN 55,212-2 on stress-induced norepinephrine release was assessed in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats using in vivo microdialysis. Systemic administration of WIN 55,212-2 30 min prior to stressor exposure prevented stress-induced cortical norepinephrine release induced by a single exposure to swim when compared to vehicle. To further probe cortical cannabinoid-adrenergic interactions, postsynaptic 2-adrenergic receptor (AR)-mediated responses were assessed in mPFC pyramidal neurons using electrophysiological analysis in an in vitro cortical slice preparation. We confirm prior studies showing that clonidine increases cortical pyramidal cell excitability and that this was unaffected by exposure to acute stress. WIN 55,212-2, via bath application, blocked postsynaptic 2-AR mediated responses in cortical neurons irrespective of exposure to stress. Interestingly, stress exposure prevented the desensitization of 2-AR mediated responses produced by a history of cannabinoid exposure. Together, these data indicate the stress-dependent nature of cannabinoid interactions via both pre- and postsynaptic ARs. In summary, microdialysis data indicate that cannabinoids restrain stress-induced cortical NE efflux. Electrophysiology data indicate that cannabinoids also restrain cortical cell excitability under basal conditions; however, stress interferes with these CB1-2 AR interactions, potentially contributing to over-activation of pyramidal neurons in mPFC. Overall, cannabinoids are protective of the NE system and cortical excitability but stress can derail this protective effect, potentially contributing to stress-related psychopathology. These data add to the growing evidence of complex, stress-dependent modulation of monoaminergic systems by cannabinoids and support the potential use of cannabinoids in the treatment of stress-induced noradrenergic dysfunction.
Oscillatory activities in the brain within the beta (15-30 Hz) and gamma (70-90 Hz) ranges have been implicated in the generation of voluntary movement. However, their roles remain unclear. Here, we record local field potential activity from the region of the subthalamic nucleus during movement of the contralateral limb in 11 patients with Parkinson's disease. Patients were on their normal dopaminergic medication and were cued to perform arm-reaching movements after a delay period at three different speeds: 'slow', 'normal', and 'fast'. Beta activity desynchronized earlier in response to the cue indicating an upcoming fast reach than to the cues for slow or normal speed movement. There was no difference in the degree of beta desynchronization between reaching speeds and beta desynchronization was established prior to movement onset in all cases. In contrast, synchronization in the gamma range developed during the reaching movement, and was especially pronounced during fast reaching. Thus the timing of suppression in the beta band depended on task demands, whereas the degree of increase in gamma oscillations depended on movement speed. These findings point to functionally segregated roles for different oscillatory frequencies in motor preparation and performance.
Despite growing evidence indicating the effects of cytokines, including interleukin-1beta (IL-1) and tumour necrosis factor- (TNF), and the enzyme cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in Alzheimer's diseases, little is known about the signalling mechanisms that mediate its activation in response to beta-amyloid protein (A). The aim of this study was first to investigate whether A1-42 peptide induced the up-regulation of COX-2. We then examined the expression of COX-2 and cytokines, such as IL-1 and TNF, in reactive astrocytes. Finally, we analyzed the role of nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-B) as a signalling pathway in early stages of A-toxicity. In Wistar rats anaesthetised with equitesine, a single microinjection of A1-42 oligomers was made in the left retrosplenial cortex. Control animals were injected with A42-1 peptide into the corresponding region of the cerebral cortex. By COX-2 immunoblotting, we detected two immunopositive protein bands, at 70 and 50 kDa molecular mass. In the A1-42-injected animals the 50 kDa fragment showed a significant increase at 3 and 14 days, as compared with that seen in control animals. The 70 kDa fragment showed a maximal increase at 14 days. In the A1-42-injected animals immunoblot staining of NF-B detected an active protein band at 50 kDa molecular mass, showing a maximal increase at the 72 h time point. Confocal analysis revealed that COX-2 protein co-localized with A-IR material at the injection site and in endothelial blood vessels, increasing at 72 h. In the A oligomer-treated animals, COX-2, IL-1, and TNF proteins were expressed in reactive astrocytes surrounding the injection site and blood vessels at early stages of A toxicity. Double-labelling immunofluorescence studies also revealed that GFAP and COX-2 proteins co-localized with NF-B-positive material at early time-points. In conclusion, our results suggest that in reactive astrocytes and in COX-2 positive cells NF-B may mediate pro-, and/or inflammatory gene expression and that, develop strategies that target the GFAP/NF-B and COX-2/NF-B pathways might contribute to reducing A-induced toxicity.
Evidence indicates that norepinephrine (NE) has antiinflammatory activities and plays a neuroprotective role where inflammatory events contribute to Alzheimer's disease pathology. Here, we evaluated the effects of NE on amyloid beta 1-42 (A1-42)-induced cytotoxicity and proinflammatory cytokine/chemokine secretion, and determined the mechanisms through which NE exerts its actions in human THP-1 macrophages. NE clearly reduced the A1-42-mediated production of the proinflammatory chemokine, monocytic chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1/CCL2). In contrast to its ability to reduce MCP-1 secretion, NE enhanced the amounts of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-1 secreted from A1-42 treated cells. NE significantly reduced the A1-42-induced cytotoxicity in situations where it contributed to the increased IL-1 and decreased MCP-1 during A1-42 stimulation. The ability of NE to differentially modulate the A1-42-induced immune responses was mediated by -adrenoceptors, as the aforementioned effects were replicated by the -adrenoceptor agonist, isoproterenol, and blocked by the -adrenoceptor antagonist, dl-propranolol. Of note, the NE effects on A1-42-induced responses were mimicked by dbcAMP and forskolin, but significantly blocked by H89, an inhibitor of PKA. Moreover, NE abolished A1-42-mediated decline of CREB phosphorylation. Overall, NE suppresses A1-42-mediated cytotoxicity and MCP-1 secretion, but enhances A-mediated IL-1 secretion through action at -adrenoceptors, accompanied by activation of cAMP/PKA pathway and CREB in human microglia-like THP-1 cells.
Silent strokes occur more frequently than classic strokes; however, symptoms may go unreported in spite of lasting tissue damage. A silent stroke may indicate elevated susceptibility to recurrent stroke, which may eventually result in apparent and lasting impairments. Here we investigated if multiple silent strokes to the motor system challenge the compensatory capacity of the brain to cumulatively result in permanent functional deficits. Adult male rats with focal ischemia received single focal ischemic mini-lesions in the sensorimotor cortex (SMC) or the dorsolateral striatum (DLS), or multiple lesions affecting both SMC and DLS. The time course and outcome of motor compensation and recovery were determined by quantitative and qualitative assessment of skilled reaching and skilled walking. Rats with SMC or DLS lesion alone did not show behavioral deficits in either task. However, the combination of focal ischemic lesions in SMC and DLS perturbed skilled reaching accuracy and disrupted forelimb placement in the ladder rung walking task. These observations suggest that multiple focal infarcts, each resembling a silent stroke, gradually compromise the plastic capacity of the motor system to cause permanent motor deficits. Moreover, these findings support the notion that cortical and subcortical motor systems cooperate when adopting beneficial compensatory movement strategies.

Stress and glucocorticoids exacerbate pain via undefined mechanisms. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a constitutively expressed protein that is secreted to maintain immune function when glucocorticoids are elevated by trauma or stress. Here we show that MIF is essential for the development of neuropathic and inflammatory pain, and for stress-induced enhancement of neuropathic pain. Mif null mutant mice fail to develop pain-like behaviors in response to inflammatory stimuli or nerve injury. Pharmacological inhibition of MIF attenuates pain-like behaviors caused by nerve injury and prevents sensitization of these behaviors by stress. Conversely, injection of recombinant MIF into nave mice produces dose-dependent mechanical sensitivity that is exacerbated by stress. MIF elicits pro-inflammatory signaling in microglia and activates sensory neurons, mechanisms that underlie pain. These data implicate MIF as a key regulator of pain and provide a mechanism whereby stressors exacerbate pain. MIF inhibitors warrant clinical investigation for the treatment of chronic pain.
HIV/gp120 transgenic mice manifest neuropathological features similar to HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) in humans, including astrogliosis, microglia activation, and decreased neuronal synapses. Here, proteomic screening of synaptosomes from HIV/gp120 transgenic mice was conducted to determine potential neuronal markers and drug targets associated with HAND. Synaptosomes from 13 month-old wild-type (wt) and HIV/gp120 transgenic mouse cortex were subjected to tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling and subsequent analysis using an LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometer in pulsed-Q dissociation (PQD) mode for tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). A total of 1301 proteins were identified in both wt and HIV/gp120 transgenic mice. Three of the most differentially-regulated proteins were validated by immunoblotting. To elucidate putative pathways associated with the proteomic profile, 107 proteins manifesting a 1.5 fold change in expression were analyzed using a bioinformatics pathway analysis tool. This analysis revealed direct or indirect involvement of the phosphotidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) pathway, a well-known neuronal survival pathway. Immunoblots confirmed a lower phospho (p)Akt/Akt ratio in synaptosomes from HIV/gp120 transgenic animals compared to wt, suggesting that this neuroprotective pathway was inactivated in the HIV/gp120 transgenic brain. Based on this information, we then compared immunoblots of pAkt/Akt in the forebrains of these mice as well as in human postmortem brain. We observed a significant decrease in the pAkt/Akt ratio in synaptosomes and forebrain of HIV/gp120 transgenic compared to wt mice, and a similar decrease in human forebrain from HAND patients compared to neurologically unimpaired HIV+ and HIV- controls. Moreover, mechanistic insight into an additional pathway for decreased Akt activity in HIV/gp120 mouse brains and human HAND brains was shown to occur via S-nitrosylation of Akt protein, a posttranslational modification known to inhibit Akt activity and contribute to neuronal cell injury and death. Thus, MS proteomic profiling in the HIV/gp120 transgenic mouse predicted dysregulation of the PI3K/Akt pathway observed in human brains with HAND, providing evidence that this mouse is a useful disease model and that the Akt pathway may provide multiple drug targets for the treatment of HIV-related dementias.

Mutations of clock genes can lead to diabetes and obesity. REV-ERB, a nuclear receptor involved in the circadian clockwork, has been shown to control lipid metabolism. To gain insight into the role of REV-ERB in energy homeostasis in vivo, we explored daily metabolism of carbohydrates and lipids in chow-fed, unfed, or high-fat-fed Rev-erb(-/-) mice and their wild-type littermates. Chow-fed Rev-erb(-/-) mice displayed increased adiposity (2.5-fold) and mild hyperglycemia (10%) without insulin resistance. Indirect calorimetry indicates that chow-fed Rev-erb(-/-) mice utilize more fatty acids during daytime. A 24-h nonfeeding period in Rev-erb(-/-) animals favors further fatty acid mobilization at the expense of glycogen utilization and gluconeogenesis, without triggering hypoglycemia and hypothermia. High-fat feeding in Rev-erb(-/-) mice amplified metabolic disturbances, including expression of lipogenic factors. Lipoprotein lipase (Lpl) gene, critical in lipid utilization/storage, is triggered in liver at night and constitutively up-regulated (2-fold) in muscle and adipose tissue of Rev-erb(-/-) mice. We show that CLOCK, up-regulated (2-fold) at night in Rev-erb(-/-) mice, can transactivate Lpl. Thus, overexpression of Lpl facilitates muscle fatty acid utilization and contributes to fat overload. This study demonstrates the importance of clock-driven Lpl expression in energy balance and highlights circadian disruption as a potential cause for the metabolic syndrome.
Both cAMP and ERK are necessary for neuroendocrine cell neuritogenesis, and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) activates each. It is important to know whether cAMP and ERK are arranged in a novel, linear pathway or in two parallel pathways using known signaling mechanisms. Native cellular responses [cAMP elevation, ERK phosphorylation, cAMP responsive element binding (CREB) phosphorylation, and neuritogenesis] and promoter-reporter gene activation after treatment with forskolin, cAMP analogs, and PACAP were measured in Neuroscreen-1 (NS-1) cells, a PC12 variant enabling simultaneous morphological, molecular biological, and biochemical analysis. Forskolin (25 M) and cAMP analogs (8-bromo-cAMP, dibutyryl-cAMP, and 8-chlorophenylthio-cAMP) stimulated ERK phosphorylation and neuritogenesis in NS-1 cells. Both ERK phosphorylation and neuritogenesis were MEK dependent (blocked by 10 M U0126) and PKA independent (insensitive to 30 M H-89 or 100 nM myristoylated protein kinase A inhibitor). CREB phosphorylation induced by PACAP was blocked by H-89. The exchange protein activated by cAMP (Epac)-selective 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-2'-O-Me-cAMP (100-500 M) activated Rap1 without affecting the other cAMP-dependent processes. Thus, PACAP-38 potently stimulated two distinct and independent cAMP pathways leading to CREB or ERK activation in NS-1 cells. Drug concentrations for appropriate effect were derived from control data for all compounds. In summary, a novel PKA- and Epac-independent signaling pathway: PACAP  adenylate cyclase  cAMP  ERK  neuritogenesis has been identified.
One of the more important recent advances in neuroscience research is the understanding that there is extensive communication between the immune system and the central nervous system (CNS). Proinflammatory cytokines play a key role in this communication. The emerging realization is that glia and microglia, in particular, (which are the brain's resident macrophages), constitute an important source of inflammatory mediators and may have fundamental roles in CNS disorders from neuropathic pain and epilepsy to neurodegenerative diseases. Microglia respond also to proinflammatory signals released from other non-neuronal cells, principally those of immune origin. Mast cells are of particular relevance in this context. These immunity-related cells, while resident in the CNS, are capable of migrating across the blood-spinal cord and blood-brain barriers in situations where the barrier is compromised as a result of CNS pathology. Emerging evidence suggests the possibility of mast cell-glia communications and opens exciting new perspectives for designing therapies to target neuroinflammation by differentially modulating the activation of non-neuronal cells normally controlling neuronal sensitization, both peripherally and centrally. This review aims to provide an overview of recent progress relating to the pathobiology of neuroinflammation, the role of microglia, neuroimmune interactions involving mast cells, in particular, and the possibility that mast cell-microglia crosstalk may contribute to the exacerbation of acute symptoms of chronic neurodegenerative disease and accelerate disease progression, as well as promote pain transmission pathways. We conclude by considering the therapeutic potential of treating systemic inflammation or blockade of signaling pathways from the periphery to the brain in such settings.

The brain, endocrine, and immune systems are inextricably linked. Immune molecules have a powerful impact on neuroendocrine function, including hormone-behavior interactions, during health as well as sickness. Similarly, alterations in hormones, such as during stress, can powerfully impact immune function or reactivity. These functional shifts are evolved, adaptive responses that organize changes in behavior and mobilize immune resources, but can also lead to pathology or exacerbate disease if prolonged or exaggerated. The developing brain in particular is exquisitely sensitive to both endogenous and exogenous signals, and increasing evidence suggests the immune system has a critical role in brain development and associated behavioral outcomes for the life of the individual. Indeed, there are associations between many neuropsychiatric disorders and immune dysfunction, with a distinct etiology in neurodevelopment. The goal of this review is to describe the important role of the immune system during brain development, and to discuss some of the many ways in which immune activation during early brain development can affect the later-life outcomes of neural function, immune function, mood and cognition.
Disrupted dopamine (DA) signaling is believed to contribute to the core features of multiple neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. Essential features of DA neurotransmission are conserved in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, providing us with an opportunity to implement forward genetic approaches that may reveal novel, in vivo regulators of DA signaling. Previously, we identified a robust phenotype, termed Swimming-induced paralysis (Swip), that emerges in animals deficient in the plasma membrane DA transporter. Here, we report the use and quantitative analysis of Swip in the identification of mutant genes that control DA signaling. Two lines captured in our screen (vt21 and vt22) bear novel dat-1 alleles that disrupt expression and surface trafficking of transporter proteins in vitro and in vivo. Two additional lines, vt25 and vt29, lack transporter mutations but exhibit genetic, biochemical, and behavioral phenotypes consistent with distinct perturbations of DA signaling. Our studies validate the utility of the Swip screen, demonstrate the functional relevance of DA transporter structural elements, and reveal novel genomic loci that encode regulators of DA signaling.

Reduced NMDA-receptor (NMDAR) function has been implicated in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disease, most strongly in schizophrenia but also recently in autism spectrum disorders (ASD). To determine the direct contribution of NMDAR dysfunction to disease phenotypes, a mouse model with constitutively reduced expression of the obligatory NR1 subunit has been developed and extensively investigated. Adult NR1(neo-/-) mice show multiple abnormal behaviors, including reduced social interactions, locomotor hyperactivity, self-injury, deficits in prepulse inhibition (PPI) and sensory hypersensitivity, among others. Whereas such phenotypes have largely been interpreted in the context of schizophrenia, these behavioral abnormalities are rather non-specific and are frequently present across models of diseases characterized by negative symptom domains. This study investigated auditory electrophysiological and behavioral paradigms relevant to autism, to determine whether NMDAR hypofunction may be more consistent with adult ASD-like phenotypes. Indeed, transgenic mice showed behavioral deficits relevant to all core ASD symptoms, including decreased social interactions, altered ultrasonic vocalizations and increased repetitive behaviors. NMDAR disruption recapitulated clinical endophenotypes including reduced PPI, auditory-evoked response N1 latency delay and reduced gamma synchrony. Auditory electrophysiological abnormalities more closely resembled those seen in clinical studies of autism than schizophrenia. These results suggest that NMDAR hypofunction may be associated with a continuum of neuropsychiatric diseases, including schizophrenia and autism. Neural synchrony abnormalities suggest an imbalance of glutamatergic and GABAergic coupling and may provide a target, along with behavioral phenotypes, for preclinical screening of novel therapeutics.
A workshop on 'Improving translation of animal models for nervous system disorders' held at the National Academy of Sciences, Institute of Medicine, in Washington, DC, 28-29 March 2012, was organized to discuss the issues that contribute to the poor translation of results from animal models to human nervous system disorders, to consider strategies to increase the scientific rigor of preclinical testing, to identify methods to maximize bidirectional translation between basic and clinical research, and to determine the next steps for improvement of the development and testing of animal models of nervous system disorders. The proceedings of this workshop will be of great interest to those doing research in genes, brain and behaviour.

Studies performed over the last decade, in both animal models and human epilepsy, support the view that a defective K(+) buffering due to an altered expression of K(+) and aquaporin channels in astrocytes represents a possible causative factor of the pathological neuronal hyperexcitability in the epileptic brain. More recent studies, however, reappraised the role of neurons in epileptogenesis and suggested that Ca(2+)-dependent gliotransmission directly contributes to the excessive neuronal synchronization that predisposes the brain network to seizures. Significant support for this view comes from the finding that astrocytes from hyperexcitable networks respond to neuronal signals with massive Ca(2+) elevations and generate a recurrent excitatory loop with neurons that has the potential to promote a focal seizure. The specific aim of this review is on the one hand, to provide an overview of the experimental findings that hinted at a direct role of Ca(2+)-dependent gliotransmission in the generation of seizure-like discharges in models of focal epilepsy; and on the other hand, to emphasize the importance of developing new experimental tools that could help us to understand the amazing complexity of neuron-astrocyte partnership in brain disorders.
Astrocytes are endowed with the machinery to sense and respond to neuronal activity. Recent work has demonstrated that astrocytes play important physiological roles in the CNS, e.g., they synchronize action potential firing, ensure ion homeostasis, transmitter clearance and glucose metabolism, and regulate the vascular tone. Astrocytes are abundantly coupled through gap junctions, which is a prerequisite to redistribute elevated K(+) from sites of excessive neuronal activity to sites of lower extracellular K(+) concentration. Recent studies identified dysfunctional astrocytes as crucial players in epilepsy. Investigation of specimens from patients with pharmacoresistant temporal lobe epilepsy and epilepsy models revealed alterations in expression, localization, and function of astroglial inwardly rectifying K(+) (Kir) channels, particularly Kir4.1, which is suspected to entail impaired K(+) buffering. Gap junctions in astrocytes appear to play a dual role: on the one hand they counteract the generation of hyperactivity by facilitating clearance of elevated extracellular K(+) levels while in contrast, they constitute a pathway for energetic substrate delivery to fuel neuronal (hyper)activity. Recent work suggests that astrocyte dysfunction is causative of the generation or spread of seizure activity. Thus, astrocytes should be considered as promising targets for alternative antiepileptic therapies.
The glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was first identified as a survival factor for midbrain dopaminergic neurons, but additional studies provided evidences for a role as a trophic factor for other neurons of the central and peripheral nervous systems. GDNF regulates cellular activity through interaction with glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol-anchored cell surface receptors, GDNF family receptor-1, which might signal through the transmembrane Ret tyrosine receptors or the neural cell adhesion molecule, to promote cell survival, neurite outgrowth, and synaptogenesis. The neuroprotective effect of exogenous GDNF has been shown in different experimental models of focal and global brain ischemia, by local administration of the trophic factor, using viral vectors carrying the GDNF gene and by transplantation of GDNF-expressing cells. These different strategies and the mechanisms contributing to neuroprotection by GDNF are discussed in this review. Importantly, neuroprotection by GDNF was observed even when administered after the ischemic injury.

This study focused on mechanisms underlying azimuth selectivity in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of pallid bats. The pallid bat listens to prey-generated noise (5-35kHz) to localize and hunt terrestrial prey. The region of A1 tuned between 5 and 35kHz consists of two clusters of neurons distinguished by interaural intensity difference (IID) selectivity: binaurally inhibited (EI) and peaked. The first aim of this study was to use sequential dichotic/free-field stimulation to test the hypothesis that IID is the primary cue underlying azimuth selectivity in neurons tuned in the prey-generated noise frequency band. IID selectivity and ear directionality at the neuron's characteristic frequency (CF) were used to predict azimuth selectivity functions. The predicted azimuth selectivity was compared with the actual azimuth selectivity from the same neurons. Prediction accuracy was similarly high for EI neurons and peaked neurons with low CF, whereas predictions were increasingly inaccurate with increasing CF among the peaked neurons. The second aim of this study was to compare azimuth selectivity obtained with noise and CF tones to determine the extent to which stimulus bandwidth influences azimuth selectivity in neurons with different binaural properties. The azimuth selectivity functions were similar for the two stimuli in the majority of EI neurons. A greater percentage of peaked neurons showed differences in their azimuth selectivity for noise and tones. This included neurons with multiple peaks when tested with tones and a single peak when tested with noise. Taken together, data from the two aims suggest that azimuth tuning of EI neurons is primarily dictated by IID sensitivity at CF. Peaked neurons, particularly those with high CF, may integrate IID sensitivity across frequency to generate azimuth selectivity for broadband sound. The data are consistent with those found in cat and ferret A1 in that binaurally facilitated neurons depend to a greater extent (compared to EI neurons) on spectral integration of binaural properties to generate azimuth selectivity for broadband stimuli.
Temporary tinnitus is a common consequence of noise exposure, and may share important mechanisms with chronic tinnitus. Noise-induced hearing loss is the most prevalent cause of chronic tinnitus. The reversibility of temporary tinnitus offers some practical experimental advantages. We therefore adapted a behavioral method based on gap detection to measure temporary tinnitus following brief acoustic trauma. Although anesthesia is often used during acoustic trauma exposure, many anesthetics can protect against noise-induced hearing loss. Whether anesthesia during acoustic trauma affects temporary tinnitus therefore remains an open question that directly affects experimental design in tinnitus studies. Here we tested whether anesthetizing rats with isoflurane during trauma had any effect on tinnitus. We found that gap-detection deficits, a behavioral measure of tinnitus, were 5 times stronger and lasted 10 times longer when isoflurane was not used. This suggests that isoflurane largely prevents temporary noise-induced tinnitus.
In cochlear implants (CI) bipolar (BP) electrical stimulation has been suggested as a method to reduce the spread of current along the cochlea. However, behavioral measurements in BP mode have shown either similar or worse performance than in monopolar (MP) mode. This could be explained by a bimodal excitation pattern, with two main excitation peaks at the sites of the stimulating electrodes. We measured the spread of excitation (SOE) by means of the electrically evoked compound action potential (ECAP), obtained using the forward-masked paradigm. The aim was to measure the bimodality of the excitation and to determine whether it could be reduced by using asymmetric pulses. Three types of maskers shapes were used: symmetric (SYM), pseudomonophasic (PS), and symmetric with a long inter-phase gap (SYM-IPG) pulses. Maskers were presented in BP + 9 (wide), BP + 3 (narrow) and MP (only SYM) mode on fixed electrodes. The SOE obtained with the MP masker showed a main excitation peak close to the masker electrode. Wide SYM maskers produced bimodal excitation patterns showing two peaks close to the electrodes of the masker channel, whereas SYM-IPG maskers showed a single main peak near the electrode for which the masker's second phase (responsible for most of the masking) was anodic. Narrow SYM maskers showed complex and wider excitation patterns than asymmetric stimuli consistent with the overlap of the patterns produced by each channel's electrodes. The masking produced by narrow SYM-IPG and PS stimuli was more pronounced close to the masker electrode for which the effective phase was anodic. These results showed that the anodic polarity is the most effective one in BP mode and that the bimodal patterns produced by SYM maskers could be partially reduced by using asymmetric pulses.
The clinical manifestations of intracranial tumors are usually referable to the anatomic area of the brain involved or adjacent structures. Some anatomic regions may allow a tumor to reach substantial size while remaining clinically silent. In contrast, small lesions in critical areas are more likely to present early. The initial diagnosis of intracranial tumors is most efficiently made by imaging. This article discusses the clinicoanatomic features and imaging characteristics of brain tumors, including the use of dynamic susceptibility-weighted, T1 dynamic, diffusion, functional, and diffusion tensor imaging.
The resonance properties of individual neurons in entorhinal cortex (EC) may contribute to their functional properties in awake, behaving rats. Models propose that entorhinal grid cells could arise from shifts in the intrinsic frequency of neurons caused by changes in membrane potential owing to depolarizing input from neurons coding velocity. To test for potential changes in intrinsic frequency, we measured the resonance properties of neurons at different membrane potentials in neurons in medial and lateral EC. In medial entorhinal neurons, the resonant frequency of individual neurons decreased in a linear manner as the membrane potential was depolarized between -70 and -55 mV. At more hyperpolarized membrane potentials, cells asymptotically approached a maximum resonance frequency. Consistent with the previous studies, near resting potential, the cells of the medial EC possessed a decreasing gradient of resonance frequency along the dorsal to ventral axis, and cells of the lateral EC lacked resonant properties, regardless of membrane potential or position along the medial to lateral axis within lateral EC. Application of 10 M ZD7288, the H-channel blocker, abolished all resonant properties in MEC cells, and resulted in physiological properties very similar to lateral EC cells. These results on resonant properties show a clear change in frequency response with depolarization that could contribute to the generation of grid cell firing properties in the medial EC.
The CA3 and CA1 pyramidal neurons are the major principal cell types of the hippocampus proper. The strongly recurrent collateral system of CA3 cells and the largely parallel-organized CA1 neurons suggest that these regions perform distinct computations. However, a comprehensive comparison between CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells in terms of firing properties, network dynamics, and behavioral correlations is sparse in the intact animal. We performed large-scale recordings in the dorsal hippocampus of rats to quantify the similarities and differences between CA1 (n &gt; 3,600) and CA3 (n &gt; 2,200) pyramidal cells during sleep and exploration in multiple environments. CA1 and CA3 neurons differed significantly in firing rates, spike burst propensity, spike entrainment by the theta rhythm, and other aspects of spiking dynamics in a brain state-dependent manner. A smaller proportion of CA3 than CA1 cells displayed prominent place fields, but place fields of CA3 neurons were more compact, more stable, and carried more spatial information per spike than those of CA1 pyramidal cells. Several other features of the two cell types were specific to the testing environment. CA3 neurons showed less pronounced phase precession and a weaker position versus spike-phase relationship than CA1 cells. Our findings suggest that these distinct activity dynamics of CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells support their distinct computational roles.

The regulation and function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis and glucocorticoids have been well conserved across vertebrate species. Glucocorticoids influence a wide range of physiological functions that include glucose regulation, metabolism, inflammatory control, as well as cardiovascular, reproductive, and neuronal effects. Some of these are relatively quick-acting non-genomic effects, but most are slower-acting genomic effects. Thus, any stimulus that affects HPA function has the potential to exert wide-ranging short-term and long-term effects on much of vertebrate physiology. Here, we review the effects of social isolation on the functioning of the HPA axis in social species, and on glucocorticoid physiology in social mammals in particular. Evidence indicates that objective and perceived social isolation alter HPA regulation, although the nature and direction of the HPA response differs among species and across age. The inconsistencies in the direction and nature of HPA effects have implications for drawing cross-species conclusions about the effects of social isolation, and are particularly problematic for understanding HPA-related physiological processes in humans. The animal and human data are incommensurate because, for example, animal studies of objective isolation have typically not been modeled on, or for comparability with, the subjective experience of isolation in humans. An animal model of human isolation must be taken more seriously if we want to advance our understanding of the mechanisms for the effects of objective and perceived isolation in humans.
Effective immune responses are coordinated by interactions among the nervous, endocrine, and immune systems. Mounting immune, inflammatory, and sickness responses requires substantial energetic investments, and as such, an organism may need to balance energy allocation to these processes with the energetic demands of other competing physiological systems. The metabolic hormone leptin appears to be mediating trade-offs between the immune system and other physiological systems through its actions on immune cells and the brain. Here we review the evidence in both mammalian and non-mammalian vertebrates that suggests leptin is involved in regulating immune responses, inflammation, and sickness behaviors. Leptin has also been implicated in the regulation of seasonal immune responses, including sickness; however, the precise physiological mechanisms remain unclear. Thus, we discuss recent data in support of leptin as a mediator of seasonal sickness responses and provide a theoretical model that outlines how seasonal cues, leptin, and proinflammatory cytokines may interact to coordinate seasonal immune and sickness responses.
Many patients that present with cerebral ischemia exhibit moderate to severe hyperglycemia. Although many hyperglycemic patients suffer from diagnosed or previously undiagnosed diabetes a further subset of individuals is hyperglycemic without diabetes. Hyperglycemia during cerebral ischemia is associated with high levels of mortality and morbidity and limits the effective treatment interventions available. Controlling hyperglycemia with insulin treatment in critical care situations improves overall outcomes, although it is not without risk. Therefore it is critically important to understand the basic mechanisms that underlie both the induction of hyperglycemia and the consequences of it for ischemic outcomes. In this manuscript, the neuroendocrine mediators, and mechanisms of hyperglycemia exacerbated inflammation, glucose dysregulation and ischemic outcomes are discussed. The possibility that the advanced glycation end product (AGE) and receptor for AGE (RAGE) axis mediates the deleterious effects of hyperglycemia on inflammation and neuronal damage is discussed.
Microglia and astrocytes are the primary immune cells within the central nervous system. Microglia influence processes including neural development, synaptic plasticity and cognition; while their activation and production of immune molecules can induce stereotyped sickness behaviors or pathologies including cognitive dysfunction. Given their role in health and disease, we propose that glia may also be a critical link in understanding the etiology of many neuropsychiatric disorders that present with a strong sex-bias in their symptoms or prevalence. Specifically, males are more likely to be diagnosed with disorders that have distinct developmental origins such as autism or schizophrenia. In contrast, females are more likely to be diagnosed with disorders that present later in life, after the onset of adolescence, such as depression and anxiety disorders. In this review we will summarize the evidence suggesting that sex differences in the colonization and function of glia within the normal developing brain may contribute to distinct windows of vulnerability between males and females. We will also highlight the current gaps in our knowledge as well as the future directions and considerations of research aimed at understanding the link between neuroimmune function and sex differences in mental health disorders.
Stress-induced changes in immune function occur in animals across phyla, and these effects are usually immunosuppressive. The function of this immunomodulation remains elusive; however, the existence of specialized receptors on immune cells suggests that it is adaptive. A comparative approach may provide a useful perspective. Although invertebrates have simpler endocrine/neuroendocrine systems and immune systems than vertebrates, they have robust stress responses that include the release of stress hormones/neurohormones. Stress hormones modify immune function in mollusks, insects, and crustaceans. As in vertebrates, the effects of stress hormones/neurohormones on invertebrate immune function are complex, and are not always immunosuppressive. They are context-, stressor-, time- and concentration-dependent. Stress hormone effects on invertebrate immune function may help to re-align resources during fight-or-flight behavior. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that stress hormones induce a reconfiguration of networks at molecular, cellular and physiological levels that allow the animal to maintain optimal immunity as the internal environment changes. This reconfiguration enhances some immune functions while suppressing others. Knowing the molecular details of these shifts will be critical for understanding the adaptive function of stress hormones on immune function.
Healthy aged individuals are more likely to suffer profound memory impairments following a challenging life event such as a severe bacterial infection, surgery, or an intense psychological stressor, than are younger adults. Importantly, these peripheral challenges are capable of producing a neuroinflammatory response, (e.g., increased pro-inflammatory cytokines). In this review we will present the literature demonstrating that in the healthy aged brain this response is exaggerated and prolonged. Normal aging primes or sensitizes microglia and this appears to be the source of this amplified response. We will review the growing literature suggesting that a dysregulated neuroendocrine response in the aged organism is skewed toward higher brain CORT levels, and that this may play a critical role in priming microglia. Among the outcomes of an exaggerated neuroinflammatory response are impairments in synaptic plasticity, and reductions in key downstream mediators such as Arc and BDNF. We will show that each of these mechanisms is important for long-term memory formation, and is compromised by elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines.
There is consistent evidence that brain volume changes in early and late life. Most longitudinal studies usually only span a few years and include a limited number of participants. In this review, we integrate findings from 56 longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies on whole brain volume change in healthy individuals. The individual longitudinal MRI studies describe only the development in a limited age range. In total, 2,211 participants were included. Age at first measurement varied between 4 and 88 years of age. The studies included in this review were performed using a large range of methods (e.g., different scanner protocols and different acquisition parameters). We applied a weighted regression analysis to estimate the age dependency of the rate of relative annual brain volume change across studies. The results indicate that whole brain volume changes throughout the life span. A wave of growth occurs during childhood/adolescence, where around 9 years of age a 1% annual brain growth is found which levels off until at age 13 a gradual volume decrease sets in. During young adulthood, between 18 and 35 years of age, possibly another wave of growth occurs or at least a period of no brain tissue loss. After age 35 years, a steady volume loss is found of 0.2% per year, which accelerates gradually to an annual brain volume loss of 0.5% at age 60. The brains of people over 60 years of age show a steady volume loss of more than 0.5%. Understanding the mechanisms underlying these plastic brain changes may contribute to distinguishing progressive brain changes in psychiatric and neurological diseases from healthy aging processes. Hum Brain Mapp, 2012.  2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The ability to jointly consider several structured mental representations, or relations, is fundamental to human cognition. Prior studies have consistently linked this capacity for relational integration to rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (RLPFC). Here, we sought to test two competing hypotheses: (1) RLPFC processes relations in a domain-general manner, interacting with different brain regions as a function of the type of lower-level relations that must be integrated; or (2) A dorsal-ventral gradient exists within RLPFC, such that relational integration in the visuospatial domain involves relatively more dorsal RLPFC than integration in the semantic domain. To this end, we examined patterns of fMRI activation and functional connectivity during performance of visuospatial and semantic variants of a relational matching task. Across the two task variants, the regions that were most strongly engaged during relational comparison were left RLPFC and left intraparietal sulcus (IPS). Within left RLPFC, there was considerable overlap in activation for the semantic and visuospatial tasks. However, visuospatial task activation peaks were located dorsally to the semantic task peaks. In addition, RLPFC exhibited differential functional connectivity on the two tasks, interacting with different brain regions as a function of the type of relations being compared. While neurons throughout RLPFC may share the function of integrating diverse inputs, individual RLPFC neurons may have privileged access to particular representations depending on their anatomical inputs, organized along a dorsal-ventral gradient. Thus, RLPFC is well-positioned as a locus of abstraction from concrete, domain-specific details to the general principles and rules that enable higher-level cognition.
Frontostriatal brain areas have been implicated in the neurobiology of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but little work has directly addressed the white matter connections between these regions. The present study investigates the microstructural organization and myelination of frontostriatal white matter in children with ADHD and controls. Diffusion tensor imaging and magnetization transfer imaging scans were acquired in 30 children with ADHD and 34 controls. A study specific volume of interest (VOI) of frontostriatal white matter was created using a tractography based statistical group map. Fractional anisotropy (FA, indexing microstructural organization) and magnetization transfer ratio (MTR, indexing macromolecular content, myelin in particular) were computed for the frontostriatal VOI and for total cerebral white matter. Exploratory analyses were conducted investigating the effect of stimulant use on these measures. Frontostriatal FA but not MTR was decreased in ADHD compared with controls. There were no differences in FA or MTR for total cerebral white matter. Frontostriatal FA correlated negatively with teacher-rated attention problems in controls but not children with ADHD. The duration of stimulant use did not affect the main results. Changes in frontostriatal connectivity in ADHD appear to be related to changes in microstructural organization rather than myelination per se. A correlation with attention problems for controls suggests that frontostriatal organization is relevant to ADHD-related behaviors.
Connectivity analyses and computational modeling of human brain function from fMRI data frequently require the specification of regions of interests (ROIs). Several analyses have relied on atlases derived from anatomical or cyto-architectonic boundaries to specify these ROIs, yet the suitability of atlases for resting state functional connectivity (FC) studies has yet to be established. This article introduces a data-driven method for generating an ROI atlas by parcellating whole brain resting-state fMRI data into spatially coherent regions of homogeneous FC. Several clustering statistics are used to compare methodological trade-offs as well as determine an adequate number of clusters. Additionally, we evaluate the suitability of the parcellation atlas against four ROI atlases (Talairach and Tournoux, Harvard-Oxford, Eickoff-Zilles, and Automatic Anatomical Labeling) and a random parcellation approach. The evaluated anatomical atlases exhibit poor ROI homogeneity and do not accurately reproduce FC patterns present at the voxel scale. In general, the proposed functional and random parcellations perform equivalently for most of the metrics evaluated. ROI size and hence the number of ROIs in a parcellation had the greatest impact on their suitability for FC analysis. With 200 or fewer ROIs, the resulting parcellations consist of ROIs with anatomic homology, and thus offer increased interpretability. Parcellation results containing higher numbers of ROIs (600 or 1,000) most accurately represent FC patterns present at the voxel scale and are preferable when interpretability can be sacrificed for accuracy. The resulting atlases and clustering software have been made publicly available at: http://www.nitrc.org/projects/cluster_roi/.
In this commentary, the author reflects on the articles chosen for the special section on communications analysis. These articles problematize communication and raise an interesting set of questions for both human factors and communication scholars to ponder. In the end, both sets of scholars seek the same goal: How do we better examine communication to improve it? Problematizing communication requires scholars to challenge their fundamental assumptions about the phenomenon as well as to tease out the distinctions of methodological approaches typically used by both human factors and communication scholars. Human factors scholars tend to favor forms of communication in which technology or task roles control who can communicate and how. Communication scholars tend to favor contexts in which information flows more freely with fewer explicit restrictions. Creating opportunities to collaborate in research on the communication process may create the best understanding of technology that can better serve our understanding of communication.

Social behavior dysfunction is a symptomatic element of schizophrenia and autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Although altered activities in numerous brain regions are associated with defective social cognition and perception, the causative relationship between these altered activities and social cognition and perception-and their genetic underpinnings-are not known in humans. To address these issues, we took advantage of the link between hemizygous deletion of human chromosome 22q11.2 and high rates of social behavior dysfunction, schizophrenia and ASD. We genetically manipulated Sept5, a 22q11.2 gene, and evaluated its role in social interaction in mice. Sept5 deficiency, against a high degree of homogeneity in a congenic genetic background, selectively impaired active affiliative social interaction in mice. Conversely, virally guided overexpression of Sept5 in the hippocampus or, to a lesser extent, the amygdala elevated levels of active affiliative social interaction in C57BL/6J mice. Congenic knockout mice and mice overexpressing Sept5 in the hippocampus or amygdala were indistinguishable from control mice in novelty and olfactory responses, anxiety or motor activity. Moreover, post-weaning individual housing, an environmental condition designed to reduce stress in male mice, selectively raised levels of Sept5 protein in the amygdala and increased active affiliative social interaction in C57BL/6J mice. These findings identify this 22q11.2 gene in the hippocampus and amygdala as a determinant of social interaction and suggest that defective social interaction seen in 22q11.2-associated schizophrenia and ASD can be genetically and environmentally modified by altering this 22q11.2 gene.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an incurable neurological disorder caused by an abnormal glutamine repeat expansion in the huntingtin (Htt) protein. In the present studies, we investigated the role of Transducers of Regulated cAMP response element-binding (CREB) protein activity (TORCs) in HD, since TORCs play an important role in the expression of the transcriptional co-regulator peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 (PGC-1), whose expression is impaired in HD. We found significantly decreased TORC1 expression levels in STHdhQ111 cells expressing mutant Htt, in the striatum of NLS-N171-82Q, R6/2 and HdhQ111 HD transgenic mice and in postmortem striatal tissue from HD patients. TORC1 overexpression in wild-type (WT) and Htt striatal cells increased CREB mRNA and protein levels, PGC-1 promoter activity, mRNA expression of the PGC-1, NRF-1, Tfam and CytC genes, mitochondrial DNA content, mitochondrial activity and mitochondrial membrane potential. TORC1 overexpression also increased the resistance of striatal cells to 3-nitropropionic (3-NP) acid-mediated toxicity. In cultured WT and mutant Htt striatal cells, small hairpin RNA-mediated TORC1 knockdown resulted in decreased PGC-1 expression and increased susceptibility to 3-NP-induced toxicity. Overexpression of PGC-1 partially prevented TORC1 knockdown-mediated increased susceptibility of Htt striatal cells to 3-NP. Specific knockdown of TORC1 in the striatum of NLS-N171-82Q HD transgenic mice induced neurodegeneration. Lastly, knockdown of Htt prevents transcriptional repression of TORC1 and CREB in Htt striatal cells. These findings show that impaired expression and function of TORC1, which results in a reduction in PGC-1, plays an important role in mitochondrial dysfunction in HD.
Non-human primates provide genetic model systems biologically intermediate between humans and other mammalian model organisms. Populations of Caribbean vervet monkeys (Chlorocebus aethiops sabaeus) are genetically homogeneous and large enough to permit well-powered genetic mapping studies of quantitative traits relevant to human health, including expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL). Previous transcriptome-wide investigation in an extended vervet pedigree identified 29 heritable transcripts for which levels of expression in peripheral blood correlate strongly with expression levels in the brain. Quantitative trait linkage analysis using 261 microsatellite markers identified significant (n = 8) and suggestive (n = 4) linkages for 12 of these transcripts, including both cis- and trans-eQTL. Seven transcripts, located on different chromosomes, showed maximum linkage to markers in a single region of vervet chromosome 9; this observation suggests the possibility of a master trans-regulator locus in this region. For one cis-eQTL (at B3GALTL, beta-1,3-glucosyltransferase), we conducted follow-up single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping and fine-scale association analysis in a sample of unrelated Caribbean vervets, localizing this eQTL to a region of &lt;200 kb. These results suggest the value of pedigree and population samples of the Caribbean vervet for linkage and association mapping studies of quantitative traits. The imminent whole genome sequencing of many of these vervet samples will enhance the power of such investigations by providing a comprehensive catalog of genetic variation.
Rapid development in miniature implantable electronics are expediting advances in neuroscience by allowing observation and control of neural activities. The first stage of an implantable biosignal recording system, a low-noise biopotential amplifier (BPA), is critical to the overall power and noise performance of the system. In order to integrate a large number of front-end amplifiers in multichannel implantable systems, the power consumption of each amplifier must be minimized. This paper introduces a closed-loop complementary-input amplifier, which has a bandwidth of 0.05 Hz to 10.5 kHz, an input-referred noise of 2.2  Vrms, and a power dissipation of 12 W. As a point of comparison, a standard telescopic-cascode closed-loop amplifier with a 0.4 Hz to 8.5 kHz bandwidth, input-referred noise of 3.2  Vrms, and power dissipation of 12.5 W is presented. Also for comparison, we show results from an open-loop complementary-input amplifier that exhibits an input-referred noise of 3.6  Vrms while consuming 800 nW of power. The two closed-loop amplifiers are fabricated in a 0.13  m CMOS process. The open-loop amplifier is fabricated in a 0.5 m SOI-BiCMOS process. All three amplifiers operate with a 1 V supply.
We recently reported that early undernourishment and seizures to the rat brain resulted in morphological changes and progressive learning and memory disability, which started at around 6 week later and is representative of human adolescence. The purpose of the present study was to examine whether enriched environmental can recovery this slowly progressing deficits in early undernourished and in two different models for seizures. Undernourished groups were maintained on a nutritional deprivation regimen from post-natal day 2 (P2) to P15. From P8 to P10, recurrent seizures (RS) groups were exposed to three seizures per day, while status epilepticus (SE) groups experienced status epilepticus at P16, both induced by flurothyl. Next, animals were exposed to enriched environment between P30 and P60. Beginning at P61, all groups were trained and tested in the Morris water maze (MWM). Enriched environment led to a significant benefit in learning and retention of visual-spatial memory, being able to reverse the cognitive impairment generated by undernourishment and SE.

Adenosine A2A receptors and metabotropic glutamate type 5 (mGlu5) receptors are co-localized in the striatum and can functionally interact to regulate drug-seeking. We further explored this interaction using antagonism of mGlu5 receptors with 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]-pyridine (MTEP) in combination with genetic deletion of A2A receptors. The conditioned rewarding and locomotor-activating properties of cocaine were evaluated via conditioned place preference (CPP). Vehicle-treated mice of both genotypes expressed a CPP to cocaine while MTEP abolished cocaine CPP in wild-type, but not A2A knockout, mice. These results were mirrored when conditioned hyperactivity was assessed. In contrast, MTEP attenuated the acute locomotor-activating properties of cocaine similarly in both genotypes. These data provide evidence for a functional interaction between adenosine A2A and mGlu5 receptors in mediating the conditioned effects of cocaine but not direct cocaine-induced hyperactivity. This functional interaction is supported by modulation of 4-(2-[7-amino-2-[2-furyl][1,2,4]triazolol[2,3-a][1,3,5]triazin-5-yl-amino]ethyl)phenol ([125I]ZM241385) binding to the A2A receptor by MTEP.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is defined as the occurrence of spontaneous seizures that involve the limbic system, with the hippocampal formation and associated structures being central to the most prevalent refractory form of adult focal epilepsy. TLE is often associated with psychotic features resembling the hallucinations and delusions that occur with schizophrenia. Given evidence that the ventral hippocampus plays an important role in the maintenance of temporal lobe seizures, we investigated whether an animal model of TLE using intrahippocampal injection of pilocarpine induces alterations in mesolimbic dopamine neuron activity. We found that in 60% of rats in which pilocarpine induced seizure activity, there was a significant increase in the number of dopamine neurons firing per electrode track. Furthermore, this occurred in concert with an increase in amphetamine-stimulated locomotor activity. Both observations are similar to those observed in a rodent developmental model of psychosis. Therefore, as in animal models of schizophrenia, TLE-associated psychosis is probably due to abnormal hippocampal overdrive of dopamine neuron activity.
Acute administration of the cognitive enhancing drug, modafinil (Provigil), reduces methamphetamine (Meth) seeking following withdrawal from daily self-administration. However, the more clinically relevant effects of modafinil on Meth-seeking after chronic treatment have not been explored. Here, we determined the impact of modafinil on Meth-seeking after chronic daily treatment during extinction or abstinence following Meth self-administration. Rats self-administered intravenous Meth during daily 2-h sessions for 14 d, followed by extinction sessions or abstinence. During this period, rats received daily injections of vehicle, 30, or 100 mg/kg modafinil and were then tested for Meth-seeking via cue, Meth-primed, and context-induced reinstatement at early and late withdrawal time-points. We found that chronic modafinil attenuated relapse to a Meth-paired context, decreased conditioned cue-induced and Meth-primed reinstatement, and resulted in enduring reductions in Meth-seeking even after discontinuation of treatment. Additionally, we determined that only a very high dose of modafinil (300 mg/kg) during maintenance of self-administration had an impact on Meth intake. These results validate and extend clinical and preclinical findings that modafinil may be a viable treatment option for Meth addiction.
Atypical absence seizures are drug resistant in the majority of children with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and herald a poor neurodevelopmental outcome. Here we studied the effects of environmental enrichment, enriched housing conditions designed to stimulate sensory and motor systems in the brain, on behavioral outcome in mice treated with the cholesterol biosynthesis inhibitor AY-9944 (AY), a clinically relevant model of atypical absence epilepsy. Beginning at postnatal day (P) 2, C3H mice were treated with AY (7.5 mg/kg) every 6 days until P20 and then weaned into enriched or standard cages. After 30 days (P50), AY mice from the enriched housing condition exhibited less behavioral hyperactivity and anxiety, improved olfactory recognition, and spatial learning, but no significant reduction in the number of ictal discharges in comparison with their non-enriched cohorts. The beneficial effects of environmental enrichment in AY model were in some behavioral tests gender-specific in favor of males suggesting that other, possibly hormonally mediated mechanisms, may interact with the therapeutic effects of enrichment. Taken together, these data provide a starting point to derive clinical occupational therapies for improving behavioral outcome in cases of intractable childhood seizures.
Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) usually progresses insidiously with lower motor neuron-type weakness, minimal or no sensory symptoms. Diagnostic criteria include motor conduction block (CB) at sites not exposed to compression or entrapment. CBs may persist or reverse irrespective of clinical outcome. Acute onset with generalized weakness is uncommon. We report four patients who presented acutely areflexia, pure motor deficits without sensory disturbances, multifocal CBs persisting at the same motor nerves on serial electrophysiological studies. Three patients had preceding infections; two showed IgM reactivity against the ganglioside GM1. Intravenous immuneglobulin (IVIg) improved or stabilized symptoms. Patients 2,3,4 receive maintenance therapy with IVIg for years. Acute-onset MMN (AMMN) should be differentiated from other immune-mediated neuropathies such as acute inflammatory polyneuropathy either demyelinating (AIDP) or axonal (AMAN), acute motor conduction block neuropathy (AMCBN), acute-onset chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). The correct diagnosis deserves implications for patient long-term treatment and prognosis. Moreover, the authors address the problem of defining the spectrum of MMN particularly in the acute setting.
We have elucidated the alteration in hippocampal and cerebellum function following chronic cisplatin treatment in male and female rats. Hippocampus and cerebellum related behavioral dysfunction in cisplatin-treated [intraperitoneally, 5 mg/(kg/week) for 5 weeks from 23-day-old] rats were analyzed using explorative, motor function, learning, and memory tasks (grasping, rotarod, open field, and Morris water maze tests). Exposure to cisplatin impaired the motor coordination in male and female rats. Exposure to cisplatin was reflected by a decrease in grasping time compared to vehicle-treated controls (saline) only in male rat while there were not any differences in female rats. When the rearing frequency, total distance moved and velocity of their recorded in open fieldtest, both males and females were dramatically affected by exposure to cisplatin. Compared to the saline, male and female rats trained 5 weeks after cisplatin injection showed significant memory deficits in the Morris water maze test. However, hippocampal and cerebellum functions of male and female rats were profoundly affected by exposure to cisplatin while no sex differences in the most variable were evident.

In recent years, cannabinoids (the active components of Cannabis sativa) and their derivatives have received considerable interest due to findings that they can affect the viability and invasiveness of a variety of different cancer cells. Moreover, in addition to their inhibitory effects on tumor growth and migration, angiogenesis and metastasis, the ability of these compounds to induce different pathways of cell death has been highlighted. Here, we review the most recent results generating interest in the field of death mechanisms induced by cannabinoids in cancer cells. In particular, we analyze the pathways triggered by cannabinoids to induce apoptosis or autophagy and investigate the interplay between the two processes. Overall, the results reported here suggest that the exploration of molecular mechanisms induced by cannabinoids in cancer cells can contribute to the development of safe and effective treatments in cancer therapy.



Gliomas are the most common primary brain tumor, and their treatment is still a challenge. Here, we evaluated the antiproliferative effect of a novel combination of two potent oxidative stress enhancers: menadione (M) and sodium orthovanadate (SO). We observed both short-term and prolonged growth inhibitory effects of M or SO alone as well as in combination (M:SO) on DBTRG.05MG human glioma cells. A stronger antiproliferative effect was observed in the short-term proliferation assay with the M:SO combination compared to either investigated agent alone. In the long-term proliferation assay, a 10-day exposure to M:SO at concentrations of 10 M:17.5 M or 17.5 M:10 M was enough to kill 100% of the cells; no cell regrowth was observed after re-incubation in drug-free media. When used in combination, the single concentration of M and SO could be decreased by 2.5- to 5-fold of those used for each experimental drug alone and still obtain a similar antiproliferative effect. The underlying molecular mechanism was investigated by co-incubating M:SO with dithiothreitol (DTT) and genistein. Both substances partially neutralized the effects of the M:SO combination, showing additive effects. This observation suggests a role of oxidative stress and tyrosine kinase stimulation in the M:SO cytotoxic effect. Our results indicate that M:SO combination is an attractive alternative for glioma treatment that encourages further study. The neutralizing effects of genistein and DTT reveal a possibility for their use in the minimization of potential M:SO systemic toxicity.
Users of bilateral cochlear implants and a cochlear implant combined with a contralateral hearing aid are sensitive to interaural time differences (ITDs). The way cochlear implant speech processors work and differences between modalities may result in interaural differences in shape of the temporal envelope presented to the binaural system. The effect of interaural differences in envelope shape on ITD sensitivity was investigated with normal-hearing listeners using a 4 kHz pure tone modulated with a periodic envelope with a trapezoid shape in each cycle. In one ear the onset segment of the trapezoid was transformed by a power function. No effect on the just noticeable difference in ITD was found with an interaural difference in envelope shape, but the ITD for a centered percept was significantly different across envelope shape conditions.





Electrically evoked auditory steady-state responses (EASSRs) are EEG potentials in response to periodic electrical stimuli presented through a cochlear implant. For low-rate pulse trains in the 40-Hz range, electrophysiological thresholds derived from response amplitude growth functions correlate well with behavioral T levels at these rates. The aims of this study were: (1) to improve the correlation between electrophysiological thresholds and behavioral T levels at 900 pps by using amplitude-modulated (AM) and pulse-width-modulated (PWM) high-rate pulse trains, (2) to develop and evaluate the performance of a new statistical method for response detection which is robust in the presence of stimulus artifacts, and (3) to assess the ability of this statistical method to determine reliable electrophysiological thresholds without any stimulus artifact removal. For six users of a Nucleus cochlear implant and a total of 12 stimulation electrode pairs, EASSRs to symmetric biphasic bipolar pulse trains were recorded with seven scalp electrodes. Responses to six different stimuli were analyzed: two low-rate pulse trains with pulse rates in the 40-Hz range as well as two AM and two PWM high-rate pulse trains with a carrier rate of 900 pps and modulation frequencies in the 40-Hz range. Responses were measured at eight different stimulus intensities for each stimulus and stimulation electrode pair. Artifacts due to the electrical stimulation were removed from the recordings. To determine the presence of a neural response, a new statistical method based on a two-sample Hotelling T (2) test was used. Measurements from different recording electrodes and adjacent stimulus intensities were combined to increase statistical power. The results show that EASSRs to modulated high-rate pulse trains account for some of the temporal effects at 900 pps and result in improved electrophysiological thresholds that correlate very well with behavioral T levels at 900 pps. The proposed statistical method for response detection based on a two-sample Hotelling T (2) test has comparable performance to previously used one-sample tests and does not require stimulus artifacts to be removed from the EEG signal for the determination of reliable electrophysiological thresholds.
Temporary hearing threshold shift (TTS) resulting from a &quot;benign&quot; noise exposure can cause irreversible auditory nerve afferent terminal damage and retraction. While hearing thresholds and acute tissue injury recover within 1-2 weeks after a noise overexposure, it is not clear if multiple TTS noise exposures would result in cumulative damage even though sufficient TTS recovery time is provided. Here, we tested whether repeated TTS noise exposures affected permanent hearing thresholds and examined how that related to inner ear histopathology. Despite a peak 35-40 dB TTS 24 hours after each noise exposure, a double dose (2 weeks apart) of 100 dB noise (8-16 kHz) exposures to young (4-week-old) CBA mice resulted in no permanent threshold shifts (PTS) and abnormal distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE). However, although auditory brainstem response (ABR) thresholds recovered fully in once- and twice-exposed animals, the growth function of ABR wave 1( p-p ) amplitude (synchronized spiral ganglion cell activity) was significantly reduced to a similar extent, suggesting that damage resulting from a second dose of the exposure was not proportional to that observed after the initial exposure. Estimate of surviving inner hair cell afferent terminals using immunostaining of presynaptic ribbons revealed ribbon loss of  40 % at the  23 kHz region after the first round of noise exposure, but no additional loss of ribbons after the second exposure. In contrast, a third dose of the same noise exposure resulted in not only TTS, but also PTS even in regions where DPOAEs were not affected. The pattern of PTS seen was not entirely tonotopically related to the noise band used. Instead, it resembled more to that of age-related hearing loss, i.e., high frequency hearing impairment towards the base of the cochlea. Interestingly, after a 3rd dose of the noise exposure, additional loss of ribbons (another  25 %) was observed, suggesting a cumulative detrimental effect from individual &quot;benign&quot; noise exposures, which should result in a significant deficit in central temporal processing.
Circadian disruption is a common by-product of modern life. Although jet lag and shift work are well-documented challenges to circadian organization, many more subtle environmental changes cause circadian disruption. For example, frequent fluctuations in the timing of the sleep/wake schedule, as well as exposure to nighttime lighting, likely affect the circadian system. Most studies of these effects have focused on nocturnal rodents, which are very different from diurnal species with respect to their patterns of light exposure and the effects that light can have on their activity. Thus, the authors investigated the effect of nighttime light on behavior and the brain of a diurnal rodent, the Nile grass rat. Following 3 weeks of exposure to standard light/dark (LD; 14:10 light [~150 lux] /dark [0 lux]) or dim light at night (dLAN; 14:10 light [~150 lux] /dim [5 lux]), rats underwent behavioral testing, and hippocampal neurons within CA1, CA3, and the dentate gyrus (DG) were examined. Three behavioral effects of dLAN were observed: (1) decreased preference for a sucrose solution, (2) increased latency to float in a forced swim test, and (3) impaired learning and memory in the Barnes maze. Light at night also reduced dendritic length in DG and basilar CA1 dendrites. Dendritic length in the DG positively correlated with sucrose consumption in the sucrose anhedonia task. Nighttime light exposure did not disrupt the pattern of circadian locomotor activity, and all grass rats maintained a diurnal activity pattern. Together, these data suggest that exposure to dLAN can alter affective responses and impair cognition in a diurnal animal.
Addition of neural growth factors to bioengineered scaffolds may improve peripheral nerve regeneration. The aim of this study is to evaluate the short- and long term effect of microsphere delivered nerve growth factor (NGF) and glial cell derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in the 10 mm rat sciatic nerve gap. Eighty-four rats were assigned to seven groups (n = 6) at two endpoints (6 and 16 weeks): saline, saline NGF, saline NGF-microspheres, saline GDNF, saline GDNF-microspheres, saline blank microspheres, and autologous nerve graft. Total fascicular area and total number of myelinated fibers at mid-tube increased in all conduit groups between 6 and 16 weeks. Autologous, saline NGF-microsphere and saline GDNF-microsphere groups reached maximal histomorphometric values by 6 weeks (p &lt; 0.05). Compound muscle action potentials returned after 6 weeks for the autologous graft and continued to increase to a level of 3.6  1.9 mV at endpoint. No significant differences were found between study groups as measured by ankle angle. These experiments show an initial beneficial effect of incorporation of NGF- or GDNF-microspheres in a PLGA 85/15 nerve conduit, since histomorphometric values reached their maximum by 6 weeks compared to control groups. These results do not yet extrapolate into improved electrophysiological or functional improvement.
We perform an in vivo analysis of the effects of capsaicin on cutaneous microvascularization. A total of 29 healthy subjects are administered a solution of capsaicin (CAP group) or a vehicle solution (nonCAP group) on the dorsal side of the nondominant hand. The evaluation is performed using in vivo reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM). Ten minutes after administration, the area of the section, the perimeter, and the Feret's diameter of the capillaries in the dermal papillae become significantly larger in the CAP group as against the nonCAP group, and this difference is maintained until the conclusion of the experiment. In vivo RCM allows the investigation of cutaneous vascular reactions induced by capsaicin. As such, this method may constitute an useful technique both for research and clinical practice.
Understanding heart metabolism during preservation is crucial to develop new effective cardioplegic solutions. We aim to investigate metabolic alterations during heart preservation in the clinically used Celsior (Cs) and histidine buffer solution (HBS). We also focused in gender-specific metabolic adaptations during ischemia. We followed energy metabolism in hearts from males and females preserved during 6 hours in Cs and HBS. Hearts were subjected to cold ischemia (4C) in Cs or HBS, and aliquots of the cardioplegic solution were collected throughout preservation for nuclear magnetic resonance analysis. HBS-preserved hearts from males consumed glucose mostly between 240 and 360 minutes, whereas HBS-preserved hearts from females consumed glucose throughout the 6 hours of ischemia. Lactate production rates followed approximately the glucose consumption rates in HBS-preserved hearts. The lactate to alanine ratio, an indicator of the redox state, was increased in HBS-preserved hearts when compared with Cs-preserved hearts. Hearts from males presented a higher redox state than those from females preserved in Cs after 300 minutes. Both Cs and HBS were capable of preventing acidification in hearts from females but not in hearts from males, which decreased the extracellular pH. HBS-preserved hearts from males and females produced 0.1  0.01 and 0.15  0.03 molmingdw of lactate, respectively. Those rates were significantly higher than in Cs-preserved hearts. Thus, Cs was more effective in preventing lactate production. We conclude that glycolysis and lactate production are stimulated in HBS-preserved hearts. HBS shows better overall results particularly in hearts from females, which presented less extracellular acidification and were more effective in recycling the metabolic subproducts.
An indispensable role for oligodendrocytes in the protection of axon function and promotion of neuronal survival is strongly supported by the finding of progressive neuron/axon degeneration in human neurological diseases that affect oligodendrocytes. Imaging and pathological studies of the CNS have shown the presence of neuroaxonal injury in progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a demyelinating disease of the CNS, resulting from destruction of oligodendrocytes upon productive replication of the pathogenic neurotropic polyomavirus JC. Here, we examined the extracellular factors involved in communication between oligodendrocytes and neurons. Culturing cortical neurons with conditioned medium (CM) from rat CG4 oligodendrocytic cells that express the JCV agnoprotein showed that CXCL5/LIX, which is a chemokine closely related to the human CXCL5/ENA78 and CXCL6/GCP-2 chemokines, is essential for neuronal cell survival. We found that in CM from agnoprotein-producing CG-4 cells level of CXC5/LIX is decreased compared to control cells. We also demonstrated that a reduced expression of CXCL5/LIX by CG4 GFP-Agno cells triggered a cascade of signaling events in cortical neurons. Analysis of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) and glycogen synthase kinase (GSK3) pathways showed that they are involved in mechanisms of neuronal apoptosis in response to the depletion of CXCL5/LIX signaling. These data suggest that agnoprotein-induced dysregulation of chemokine production by oligodendrocytes may contribute to neuronal/axonal injury in the pathogenesis of PML lesions.
VAPB (vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein B) is a ubiquitously expressed, ER-resident tail-anchored protein that functions as adaptor for lipid-exchange proteins. Its mutant form, P56S-VAPB, is linked to a dominantly inherited form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS8). P56S-VAPB forms intracellular inclusions, whose role in ALS pathogenesis has not yet been elucidated. We recently demonstrated that these inclusions are formed by profoundly remodelled stacked ER cisternae. Here, we used stable HeLa-TetOff cell lines inducibly expressing wild-type VAPB and P56S-VAPB, as well as microinjection protocols in non-transfected cells, to investigate the dynamics of inclusion generation and degradation. Shortly after synthesis, the mutant protein forms small, polyubiquitinated clusters, which then congregate in the juxtanuclear region independently of the integrity of the microtubule cytoskeleton. The rate of degradation of the aggregated mutant is higher than that of the wild-type protein, so that the inclusions are cleared only a few hours after cessation of P56S-VAPB synthesis. At variance with other inclusion bodies linked to neurodegenerative diseases, clearance of P56S-VAPB inclusions involves the proteasome, with no apparent participation of macro-autophagy. Transfection of a dominant-negative form of the AAA ATPase p97/VCP stabilizes mutant VAPB, suggesting a role for this ATPase in extracting the aggregated protein from the inclusions. Our results demonstrate that the structures induced by P56S-VAPB stand apart from other inclusion bodies, both in the mechanism of their genesis and of their clearance from the cell, with possible implications for the pathogenic mechanism of the mutant protein.
Hypothermia improves clinical outcome after cardiac arrest in adults. Animal data show that a day or more of cooling optimally reduces edema and tissue injury after cerebral ischemia, especially after longer intervention delays. Lengthy treatments, however, may inhibit repair processes (e.g., synaptogenesis). Thus, we evaluated whether unilateral brain hypothermia (33C) affects neuroplasticity in the rat 2-vessel occlusion model. In the first experiment, we cooled starting 1hour after ischemia for 2, 4, or 7 days. Another group was cooled for 2 days starting 48hours after ischemia. One group remained normothermic throughout. All hypothermia treatments started 1hour after ischemia equally reduced hippocampal CA1 injury in the cooled hemisphere compared with the normothermic side and the normothermic group. Cooling only on days 3 and 4 was not beneficial. Importantly, no treatment influenced neurogenesis (Ki67/Doublecortin (DCX) staining), synapse formation (synaptophysin), or brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF) immunohistochemistry. A second experiment confirmed that BDNF levels (ELISA) were equivalent in normothermic and 7-day cooled rats. Last, we measured zinc (Zn), which is important in plasticity, with X-ray fluorescence imaging in normothermic and 7-day cooled rats. Hypothermia did not alter the postischemic distribution of Zn within the hippocampus. In summary, cooling significantly mitigates injury without compromising neuroplasticity.


Peripheral nerve changes in critically ill patients are common, sepsis being the most important risk factor. The aim of our study is to investigate interval neurophysiological changes in non septic mechanically ventilated critically ill patients, a group who has not been the focus of previous studies. Consecutive non septic mechanically ventilated critically ill patients were included. Baseline nerve conduction studies (NCS) were done within 3 days of intensive care unit admission, and 48 hours after the initiation of mechanical ventilation, and were followed up 7-8 days later. Sural and ulnar sensory, and median and peroneal motor nerves were tested. Nine patients were studied, five (56%) showed significant changes in their NCS compared to baseline. The peroneal and sural nerve amplitudes significantly dropped in all of the five affected patients, with drop of those of the median motor nerves in two, and ulnar sensory nerves in three patients. In conclusion, interval changes in peripheral nerves can exist in critically ill mechanically ventilated non septic patients. The pattern is similar to critically ill patients with sepsis. Theories of possible pathophysiology of critical illness neuropathy should not merely depend on the presence of sepsis as a trigger and other mechanisms should be investigated.
It is widely assumed that the recording of EEG infraslow activity (ISA) requires direct current amplifiers. Yet, it has been shown during the past decade that conventional EEG systems can record activity between 0.01 and 0.1 Hz and that this frequency band contains additional information, especially in regard to seizure onset. To delineate the characteristics of background ISA, 24-hour scalp and intracranial recordings obtained from 5 patients during long-term monitoring were investigated. Scalp recordings had been sampled but intracranial tracings were continuous over periods of up to 3 days. Although scalp recordings were subject to artifact, intermittent genuine ISA increase could occur episodically in the interictal state not only distant from the ictal onset zone but also in the contralateral hemisphere. Intracranial recordings were limited, in this study, to portions of one hemisphere but likewise revealed that distant areas could show ISA increase lasting minutes or hours. This was at times not detectable when only the conventional frequency band was viewed. It is concluded that ISA information is contained in the clinical setting of intensive video-monitoring studies for the detection of the epileptogenic zone and can provide additional information above and beyond what is seen in the conventional frequencies.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a devastating and common admitting diagnosis to intensive care units in the USA. Despite advances in critical care, patients with ICH often experience early neurological deterioration (END) in the first 72 hours after admission due to a variety of factors, including hematoma and cerebral edema evolution. The purpose of this study was to determine factors associated with END after ICH. Using the Duke University Hospital Neuroscience Critical Care Unit Database, we retrospectively identified patients with an admitting diagnosis of supratentorial ICH from January to December 2010, verified by CT imaging. END was defined as a decrease in the Glasgow Coma Scale score of 3 or death within the first 72 hours after hemorrhage. The chi-squared or t-test analysis was used to compare the groups, as appropriate. Multiple logistical regression modeling was performed to test for associations between likely predictors of END. Of the 89 subjects admitted with supratentorial ICH, we included 83 in the analysis based on complete datasets. Of these, 31 experienced END within 72 hours after onset of symptoms. ICH score, presence of midline shift on imaging, and white blood cell (WBC) count were used in a regression model for predicting END. WBC count demonstrated the greatest association with END. Patients with ICH are prone to END within the first few days after hemorrhage. Elevated WBC count appears predictive of deterioration. These data demonstrate that heightened inflammatory state after ICH may be related to early deterioration after injury.
Although most small arteriovenous malformations (AVM) are curable, over 90% of large lesions are untreatable with current surgery or radiosurgery. Endothelial cells (EC) are believed to be pivotal in the resulting vascular changes after AVM are irradiated, although their role is not fully understood. Elucidating the molecular effects of radiation on EC may allow development of new therapies that modulate the response of AVM to radiation. Cultured murine cerebral EC (bEnd.3) were exposed to a single 25 Gy dose of ionising radiation from a linear accelerator. Expression of the membrane proinflammatory and thrombotic molecules E-selectin, tissue factor (TF) and thrombomodulin (TM) were examined by immunofluorescent staining at times up to three weeks post irradiation. We found that E-selectin is significantly down regulated in the first 24 hours after irradiation. Later there is no significant difference in expression of this molecule between irradiated and non-irradiated groups. TM expression was significantly increased at all times, and the staining intensity of TF remained unchanged three weeks post irradiation. These results contribute to a greater understanding of the proinflammatory and thrombotic changes caused by irradiating normal brain EC.




The primary aim of the present study was to compare the effects of agomelatine (AGO) and venlafaxine XR (VLX) on anhedonia in patients with major depressive disorder. Secondary end points were to test its antidepressant and anxiolytic efficacy.Sixty patients were enrolled and randomly assigned to two different treatments: AGO (25-50 mg/d; n = 30 subjects) or VLX (75-150 mg/d, n = 30 subjects). Psychopathological assessment was performed at baseline and after 8 weeks of treatment with the Snaith Hamilton Rating Scale (SHAPS), the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale, and the Clinical Global Impression for anhedonia, depression, anxiety, and global improvement, respectively.Both groups showed a significant reduction in time for the SHAPS, the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, and the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale. A significant between-group difference was observed for SHAPS scores: patients treated with AGO showed a more relevant reduction compared with that in VLX-treated patients. Moreover, only patients treated with AGO showed a statistically significant improvement in Clinical Global Impression scores.In this study, AGO showed significantly greater efficacy on anhedonia and similar antidepressant efficacy to the serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor VLX in patients with major depressive disorder during an 8-week treatment period. Anhedonia has been considered a potential trait marker related to vulnerability for depression. Therefore, the efficacy of AGO on this dimension holds particular importance in the treatment of patients with anhedonic features.

Traditional models hold that the plastic reorganization of brain structures occurs mainly during childhood and adolescence, leaving adults with limited means to learn new knowledge and skills. Research within the last decade has begun to overturn this belief, documenting changes in the brain's gray and white matter as healthy adults learn simple motor and cognitive skills [Lvdn, M., Bodammer, N. C., Khn, S., Kaufmann, J., Schtze, H., Tempelmann, C., et al. Experience-dependent plasticity of white-matter microstructure extends into old age. Neuropsychologia, 48, 3878-3883, 2010; Taubert, M., Draganski, B., Anwander, A., Mller, K., Horstmann, A., Villringer, A., et al. Dynamic properties of human brain structure: Learning-related changes in cortical areas and associated fiber connections. The Journal of Neuroscience, 30, 11670-11677, 2010; Scholz, J., Klein, M. C., Behrens, T. E. J., &amp; Johansen-Berg, H. Training induces changes in white-matter architecture. Nature Neuroscience, 12, 1370-1371, 2009; Draganski, B., Gaser, C., Busch, V., Schuirer, G., Bogdahn, U., &amp; May, A. Changes in grey matter induced by training. Nature, 427, 311-312, 2004]. Although the significance of these changes is not fully understood, they reveal a brain that remains plastic well beyond early developmental periods. Here we investigate the role of adult structural plasticity in the complex, long-term learning process of foreign language acquisition. We collected monthly diffusion tensor imaging scans of 11 English speakers who took a 9-month intensive course in written and spoken Modern Standard Chinese as well as from 16 control participants who did not study a language. We show that white matter reorganizes progressively across multiple sites as adults study a new language. Language learners exhibited progressive changes in white matter tracts associated with traditional left hemisphere language areas and their right hemisphere analogs. Surprisingly, the most significant changes occurred in frontal lobe tracts crossing the genu of the corpus callosum-a region not generally included in current neural models of language processing. These results indicate that plasticity of white matter plays an important role in adult language learning and additionally demonstrate the potential of longitudinal diffusion tensor imaging as a new tool to yield insights into cognitive processes.
In a previous oddball task study, it was shown that the inclusion of electrophysiology (EEG), that is, single-trial P3 ERP parameters, in the analysis of fMRI responses can detect activation that is not apparent with conventional fMRI data modeling strategies [Warbrick, T., Mobascher, A., Brinkmeyer, J., Musso, F., Richter, N., Stoecker, T., et al. Single-trial P3 amplitude and latency informed event-related fMRI models yield different BOLD response patterns to a target detection task. Neuroimage, 47, 1532-1544, 2009]. Given that P3 is modulated by nicotine, including P3 parameters in the fMRI analysis might provide additional information about nicotine effects on brain function. A 1-mg nasal nicotine spray (0.5 mg each nostril) or placebo (pepper) spray was administered in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subject, randomized, cross-over design. Simultaneous EEG-fMRI and behavioral data were recorded from 19 current smokers in response to an oddball-type visual choice RT task. Conventional general linear model analysis and single-trial P3 amplitude informed general linear model analysis of the fMRI data were performed. Comparing the nicotine with the placebo condition, reduced RTs in the nicotine condition were related to decreased BOLD responses in the conventional analysis encompassing the superior parietal lobule, the precuneus, and the lateral occipital cortex. On the other hand, reduced RTs were related to increased BOLD responses in the precentral and postcentral gyri, and ACC in the EEG-informed fMRI analysis. Our results show how integrated analyses of simultaneous EEG-fMRI data can be used to detect nicotine effects that would not have been revealed through conventional analysis of either measure in isolation. This emphasizes the significance of applying multimodal imaging methods to pharmacoimaging.
The distinction between processes used to perceive and understand the self and others has received considerable attention in psychology and neuroscience. Brain findings highlight a role for various regions, in particular the medial PFC (mPFC), in supporting judgments about both the self and others. We performed a meta-analysis of 107 neuroimaging studies of self- and other-related judgments using multilevel kernel density analysis [Kober, H., &amp; Wager, T. D. Meta-analyses of neuroimaging data. Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews, 1, 293-300, 2010]. We sought to determine what brain regions are reliably involved in each judgment type and, in particular, what the spatial and functional organization of mPFC is with respect to them. Relative to nonmentalizing judgments, both self- and other judgments were associated with activity in mPFC, ranging from ventral to dorsal extents, as well as common activation of the left TPJ and posterior cingulate. A direct comparison between self- and other judgments revealed that ventral mPFC as well as left ventrolateral PFC and left insula were more frequently activated by self-related judgments, whereas dorsal mPFC, in addition to bilateral TPJ and cuneus, was more frequently activated by other-related judgments. Logistic regression analyses revealed that ventral and dorsal mPFC lay at opposite ends of a functional gradient: The z coordinates reported in individual studies predicted whether the study involved self- or other-related judgments, which were associated with increasingly ventral or dorsal portions of mPFC, respectively. These results argue for a distributed rather than localizationist account of mPFC organization and support an emerging view on the functional heterogeneity of mPFC.
The posterodorsal medial amygdala (MePD) exhibits numerous sex differences including differences in volume and in the number and morphology of neurons and astroctyes. In adulthood, gonadal hormones, including both androgens and estrogens, have been shown to play a role in maintaining the masculine character of many of these sex differences, but whether adult gonadal hormones maintain the increased number and complexity of astrocytes in the male MePD was unknown. To answer this question we examined astrocytes in the MePD of male and female Long Evans rats that were gonadectomized as adults and treated for 30 days with either testosterone or a control treatment. At the end of treatment brains were collected and immunostained for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Stereological analysis revealed that adult androgen levels influenced the number and complexity of astrocytes in the MePD of both sexes, but the specific effects of androgens were different in males and females. However, sex differences in the number and complexity of adult astrocytes persisted even in the absence of gonadal hormones in adulthood, suggesting that androgens also act earlier in life to determine these adult sex differences. Using immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy, we found robust androgen receptor immunostaining in a subpopulation of MePD astrocytes, suggesting that testosterone may act directly on MePD astrocytes to influence their structure and function.
The Etruscan shrew, Suncus etruscus, is one of the smallest mammals. Etruscan shrews can recognize prey shape with amazing speed and accuracy, based on whisker-mediated tactile cues. Because of its small size, quantitative analysis of the Etruscan shrew cortex is more tractable than in other animals. To quantitatively assess the anatomy of the Etruscan shrew's brain, we sectioned brains and applied Nissl staining and NeuN (neuronal nuclei) antibody staining. On the basis of these stains, we estimated the number of neurons of 10 cortical hemispheres by using Stereoinvestigator and Neurolucida (MBF Bioscience) software. On average, the neuron number per hemisphere was found to be ~1 million. We also measured cortical surface area and found an average of 11.1 mm (n = 7) and an average volume of 5.3 mm (n = 10) per hemisphere. We identified 13 cortical regions by cytoarchitectonic boundaries in coronal, sagittal, and tangential sections processed for Nissl substance, myelin, cytochrome oxidase, ionic zinc, neurofilaments, and vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGluT2). The Etruscan shrew is a highly tactile animal with a large somatosensory cortex, which contains a barrel field, but the barrels are much less clearly defined than in rodents. The anatomically derived cortical partitioning scheme roughly corresponds to physiologically derived maps of neocortical sensory areas.
()3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), a widely used drug of abuse, rapidly reduces serotonin levels in the brain when ingested or administered in sufficient quantities, resulting in deficits in complex route-based learning, spatial learning, and reference memory. Neurotrophins are important for survival and preservation of neurons in the adult brain, including serotonergic neurons. In this study, we examined the effects of MDMA on the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and their respective high-affinity receptors, tropomyosin receptor kinase (trk)B and trkC, in multiple regions of the rat brain. A serotonergic-depleting dose of MDMA (10 mg/kg  4 at 2-hour intervals on a single day) was administered to adult Sprague-Dawley rats, and brains were examined 1, 7, or 24 hours after the last dose. Messenger RNA levels of BDNF, NT-3, trkB, and trkC were analyzed by using in situ hybridization with cRNA probes. The prefrontal cortex was particularly vulnerable to MDMA-induced alterations in that BDNF, NT-3, trkB, and trkC mRNAs were all upregulated at multiple time points. MDMA-treated animals had increased BDNF expression in the frontal, parietal, piriform, and entorhinal cortices, increased NT-3 expression in the anterior cingulate cortex, and elevated trkC in the entorhinal cortex. In the nigrostriatal system, BDNF expression was upregulated in the substantia nigra pars compacta, and trkB was elevated in the striatum in MDMA-treated animals. Both neurotrophins and trkB were differentially regulated in several regions of the hippocampal formation. These findings suggest a possible role for neurotrophin signaling in the learning and memory deficits seen following MDMA treatment.
Yawning may serve both social and nonsocial functions. When budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) are briefly held, simulating capture by a predator, the temporal pattern of yawning changes. When this species is observed in a naturalistic setting (undisturbed flock), yawning and also stretching, a related behavior, are mildly contagious. On the basis of these findings, we hypothesized that a stressful event would be followed by the clustering of these behaviors in a group of birds, which may be facilitated both by a standard pattern of responding to a startling stressor and also contagion. In this study, we measured yawning and stretching in 4-bird groups following a nonspecific stressor (loud white noise) for a period of 1 hr, determining whether auditory disturbances alter the timing and frequency of these behaviors. Our results show that stretching, and to a lesser degree yawning, were nonrandomly clumped in time following the auditory disturbances, indicating that the temporal clustering is sensitive to, and enhanced by, environmental stressors while in small groups. No decrease in yawning such as found after handling stress was observed immediately after the loud noise but a similar increase in yawning 20 min after was observed. Future research is required to tease apart the roles of behavioral contagion and a time-setting effect following a startle in this species. This research is of interest because of the potential role that temporal clumping of yawning and stretching could play in both the collective detection of, and response to, local disturbances or predation threats.
Synchronized spontaneous firing among retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), on timescales faster than visual responses, has been reported in many studies. Two candidate mechanisms of synchronized firing include direct coupling and shared noisy inputs. In neighboring parasol cells of primate retina, which exhibit rapid synchronized firing that has been studied extensively, recent experimental work indicates that direct electrical or synaptic coupling is weak, but shared synaptic input in the absence of modulated stimuli is strong. However, previous modeling efforts have not accounted for this aspect of firing in the parasol cell population. Here we develop a new model that incorporates the effects of common noise, and apply it to analyze the light responses and synchronized firing of a large, densely-sampled network of over 250 simultaneously recorded parasol cells. We use a generalized linear model in which the spike rate in each cell is determined by the linear combination of the spatio-temporally filtered visual input, the temporally filtered prior spikes of that cell, and unobserved sources representing common noise. The model accurately captures the statistical structure of the spike trains and the encoding of the visual stimulus, without the direct coupling assumption present in previous modeling work. Finally, we examined the problem of decoding the visual stimulus from the spike train given the estimated parameters. The common-noise model produces Bayesian decoding performance as accurate as that of a model with direct coupling, but with significantly more robustness to spike timing perturbations.
An important tool to study rhythmic neuronal synchronization is provided by relating spiking activity to the Local Field Potential (LFP). Two types of interdependent spike-LFP measures exist. The first approach is to directly quantify the consistency of single spike-LFP phases across spikes, referred to here as point-field phase synchronization measures. We show that conventional point-field phase synchronization measures are sensitive not only to the consistency of spike-LFP phases, but are also affected by statistical dependencies between spike-LFP phases, caused by e.g. non-Poissonian history-effects within spike trains such as bursting and refractoriness. To solve this problem, we develop a new pairwise measure that is not biased by the number of spikes and not affected by statistical dependencies between spike-LFP phases. The second approach is to quantify, similar to EEG-EEG coherence, the consistency of the relative phase between spike train and LFP signals across trials instead of across spikes, referred to here as spike train to field phase synchronization measures. We demonstrate an analytical relationship between point-field and spike train to field phase synchronization measures. Based on this relationship, we prove that the spike train to field pairwise phase consistency (PPC), a quantity closely related to the squared spike-field coherence, is a monotonically increasing function of the number of spikes per trial. This derived relationship is exact and analytic, and takes a linear form for weak phase-coupling. To solve this problem, we introduce a corrected version of the spike train to field PPC that is independent of the number of spikes per trial. Finally, we address the problem that dependencies between spike-LFP phase and the number of spikes per trial can cause spike-LFP phase synchronization measures to be biased by the number of trials. We show how to modify the developed point-field and spike train to field phase synchronization measures in order to make them unbiased by the number of trials.
We discuss methods for optimally inferring the synaptic inputs to an electrotonically compact neuron, given intracellular voltage-clamp or current-clamp recordings from the postsynaptic cell. These methods are based on sequential Monte Carlo techniques (&quot;particle filtering&quot;). We demonstrate, on model data, that these methods can recover the time course of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs accurately on a single trial. Depending on the observation noise level, no averaging over multiple trials may be required. However, excitatory inputs are consistently inferred more accurately than inhibitory inputs at physiological resting potentials, due to the stronger driving force associated with excitatory conductances. Once these synaptic input time courses are recovered, it becomes possible to fit (via tractable convex optimization techniques) models describing the relationship between the sensory stimulus and the observed synaptic input. We develop both parametric and nonparametric expectation-maximization (EM) algorithms that consist of alternating iterations between these synaptic recovery and model estimation steps. We employ a fast, robust convex optimization-based method to effectively initialize the filter; these fast methods may be of independent interest. The proposed methods could be applied to better understand the balance between excitation and inhibition in sensory processing in vivo.
Neurosurgical patients commonly require mechanical ventilation and monitoring in a neurocritical care unit. There are only few studies that specifically address the process of liberation from mechanical ventilation in this population. Patients who remain ventilator or artificial airway dependent receive a tracheostomy. The appropriate timing for the procedure is not well defined and may be different among an inhomogeneous population of critically ill patients. In this article, we review the general principles of liberation and the current literature as it pertains to neurosurgical patients with primary brain injury. The criteria for &quot;readiness of extubation&quot; include a combination of neurologic assessment, hemodynamic, and respiratory parameters. Future studies are required to better assess indicators for extubation readiness, evaluate the predictors of extubation failure in brain-injured patients, and define the most appropriate timing for a tracheostomy.


The cladoceran crustacean Daphnia pulex has served as a standard organism for aquatic toxicity testing for decades. The model organism status of D. pulex rests largely on its remarkable ability to rapidly adapt morphologically, physiologically and behaviorally to a wide range of environmental challenges, as well as on its parthenogenetic reproduction and ease of laboratory culture. As in all multicellular organisms, neurochemical control systems are undoubtedly major contributors to the functional flexibility of Daphnia. Surprisingly, little work has focused on understanding its neurochemistry at any level. Recently, D. pulex has been the subject of extensive genome and transcriptome sequencing, and it is currently the only crustacean with a fully sequenced, publicly accessible genome. Although the molecular work was initiated for gene-based investigations of ecotoxicology and toxicogenomics, the data generated have allowed for investigations into numerous aspects of Daphnia biology, including its neurochemical signaling. This Commentary summarizes our knowledge of D. pulex neurochemistry obtained from recent genomic and transcriptomic studies, and places these data in context with other anatomical, biochemical and physiological experiments using D. pulex and its sister species Daphnia magna. Suggestions as to how the Daphnia molecular data may be useful for future investigations of crustacean neurochemical signaling are also provided.
The present study explored whether different executive control and speed measures (working memory, inhibition, processing speed, and naming speed) independently predict individual differences in word reading and reading comprehension. Although previous studies suggest these cognitive constructs are important for reading, the authors analyze the constructs simultaneously to test whether each is a unique predictor. Latent variables from 483 participants (ages 8-16 years) were used to portion each cognitive and reading construct into its unique and shared variance. In these models 2 specific issues are addressed: (a) Given that the wide age range may span the theoretical transition from &quot;learning to read&quot; to &quot;reading to learn,&quot; the authors first test whether the relation between word reading and reading comprehension is stable across 2 age groups (ages 8-10 and 11-16); and (b) the main theoretical question of interest: whether what is shared and what is separable for word reading and reading comprehension are associated with individual differences in working memory, inhibition, and measures of processing and naming speed. The results indicated that (a) the relation between word reading and reading comprehension is largely invariant across the age groups, and (b) working memory and general processing speed, but not inhibition or the speeded naming of non-alphanumeric stimuli, are unique predictors of both word reading and comprehension, with working memory equally important for both reading abilities and processing speed more important for word reading. These results have implications for understanding why reading comprehension and word reading are highly correlated yet separable
Reaching to targets in space requires the coordination of eye and hand movements. In two experiments, we recorded eye and hand kinematics to examine the role of gaze position at target onset on eye-hand coordination and reaching performance. Experiment 1 showed that with eyes and hand aligned on the same peripheral start location, time lags between eye and hand onsets were small and initiation times were substantially correlated, suggesting simultaneous control and tight eye-hand coupling. With eyes and hand departing from different start locations (gaze aligned with the center of the range of possible target positions), time lags between eye and hand onsets were large and initiation times were largely uncorrelated, suggesting independent control and decoupling of eye and hand movements. Furthermore, initial gaze position strongly mediated manual reaching performance indexed by increments in movement time as a function of target distance. Experiment 2 confirmed the impact of target foveation in modulating the effect of target distance on movement time. Our findings reveal the operation of an overarching, flexible neural control system that tunes the operation and cooperation of saccadic and manual control systems depending on where the eyes look at target onset.

Recovery of the light response in vertebrate photoreceptors requires the shutoff of both active intermediates in the phototransduction cascade: the visual pigment and the transducin-phosphodiesterase complex. Whichever intermediate quenches more slowly will dominate photoresponse recovery. In suction pipette recordings from isolated salamander ultraviolet- and blue-sensitive cones, response recovery was delayed, and the dominant time constant slowed when internal [Ca(2+)] was prevented from changing after a bright flash by exposure to 0Ca(2+)/0Na(+) solution. Taken together with a similar prior observation in salamander red-sensitive cones, these observations indicate that the dominance of response recovery by a Ca(2+)-sensitive process is a general feature of amphibian cone phototransduction. Moreover, changes in the external pH also influenced the dominant time constant of red-sensitive cones even when changes in internal [Ca(2+)] were prevented. Because the cone photopigment is, uniquely, exposed to the external solution, this may represent a direct effect of protons on the equilibrium between its inactive Meta I and active Meta II forms, consistent with the notion that the process dominating recovery of the bright flash response represents quenching of the active Meta II form of the cone photopigment.


Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) models in rats have been investigated in many studies, but detailed information on the impact of hepatic artery (HA) reconstruction on postoperative factors remains to be investigated. HA reconstruction also requires advanced skills. The effect of the reconstruction of the HA by a hand-suture technique in rats with a whole-liver syngeneic graft was investigated. Long-term survival, histopathological assessment, immunohistological evaluation, and blood biochemistry were investigated until postoperative day (POD) 28. From the early postoperative period, significant differences between OLTs with or without HA reconstruction were found in graft parenchymal damage, induction of apoptosis, and transaminase levels, though survival curves and the coagulation profile showed no differences. In OLT without HA reconstruction, biliary proliferation was decreased at POD 5-14, and total bilirubin level was increased at PODs 10 and 14. The study indicates that HA reconstruction is required for reliable OLT in rats.

The field of regenerative medicine is rapidly gaining momentum as an increasing number of reports emerge concerning the induced conversions observed in cellular fate reprogramming. While in recent years, much attention has been focused on the conversion of fate-committed somatic cells to an embryonic-like or pluripotent state, there are still many limitations associated with the applications of induced pluripotent stem cell reprogramming, including relatively low reprogramming efficiency, the times required for the reprogramming event to take place, the epigenetic instability, and the tumorigenicity associated with the pluripotent state. On the other hand, lineage reprogramming involves the conversion from one mature cell type to another without undergoing conversion to an unstable intermediate. It provides an alternative approach in regenerative medicine that has a relatively lower risk of tumorigenesis and increased efficiency within specific cellular contexts. While lineage reprogramming provides exciting potential, there is still much to be assessed before this technology is ready to be applied in a clinical setting.
From genes to behaviour, the simple model system approach has played many pivotal roles in deciphering nervous system function in both invertebrates and vertebrates. However, with the advent of sophisticated imaging and recording techniques enabling the direct investigation of single vertebrate neurons, the utility of simple invertebrate organisms as model systems has been put to question. To address this subject meaningfully and comprehensively, we first review the contributions made by invertebrates in the field of neuroscience over the years, paving the way for similar breakthroughs in higher animals. In particular, we focus on molluscan (Lymnaea, Aplysia, and Helisoma) and leech (Hirudo) models and the pivotal roles they have played in elucidating mechanisms of synapse formation and plasticity. While the ultimate goal in neuroscience is to understand the workings of the human brain in both its normal and diseased states, the sheer complexity of most vertebrate models still makes it difficult to define the underlying principles of nervous system function. Investigators have thus turned to invertebrate models, which are unique with respect to their simple nervous systems that are endowed with a finite number of large, individually identifiable neurons of known function. We start off by discussing in vivo and semi-intact preparations, regarding their amenability to simple circuit analysis. Despite the 'simplicity' of invertebrate nervous systems however, it is still difficult to study individual synaptic connections in detail. We therefore emphasize in the next section, the utility of studying identified invertebrate neurons in vitro, to directly examine the development, specificity, and plasticity of synaptic connections in a well-defined environment, at a resolution that it is still unapproachable in the intact brain. We conclude with a discussion of the future of invertebrates in neuroscience in elucidating mechanisms of neurological disease and developing neuron-silicon interfaces.
Liver damage due to infection, cirrhosis, accidents and diseases lead to destruction of hepatocytes and their regeneration to its original form is important for the proper functioning of the body. Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA), a neurotransmitter, was coupled with a biopolymer chitosan and the nanosized complexes were made. The morphology was studied by scanning electron microscope and the interaction of GABA with chitosan was analysed by FT-IR spectroscopy. The interaction of GABA-chitosan nanoparticles with hepatocytes were observed by FITC labeled nanoparticles. After partial hepatectomy in male Wistar rats, DNA synthesis was estimated by tritiated thymidine uptake and the activity of thymidine kinase and protein synthesis by tritiated leucine uptake in hepatocytes. There was an increase in tritiated thymidine uptake in partially hepatectomised groups with nanoparticle treatment (GCNP) when compared to partially hepatectomised groups without nanoparticle treatment (PHNT) and with pure GABA treatment (G). Inositol 1,4,5 trisphosphate (IP3) content and gene expression of phospholipase C mRNA and nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B (NF-KB) mRNA was decreased for groups G and GCNP with respect to PHNT. Thus our results showed increased hepatocyte regeneration with decreased cell death in group G and more better with GCNP when compared to PHNT.
ATP-activated P2X3 receptors of sensory ganglion neurons contribute to pain transduction and are involved in chronic pain signaling. Although highly homologous (97%) in rat and human species, it is unclear whether P2X3 receptors have identical function. Studying human and rat P2X3 receptors expressed in patch-clamped human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells, we investigated the role of non-conserved tyrosine residues in the C-terminal domain (rat tyrosine-393 and human tyrosine-376) as key determinants of receptor function. In comparison with rat P2X3 receptors, human P2X3 receptors were more expressed and produced larger responses with slower desensitization and faster recovery. In general, desensitization was closely related to peak current amplitude for rat and human receptors. Downsizing human receptor expression to the same level of the rat one still yielded larger responses retaining slower desensitization and faster recovery. Mutating phenylalanine-376 into tyrosine in the rat receptor did not change current amplitude; yet, it retarded desensitization onset, demonstrating how this residue was important to functionally link these two receptor states. Conversely, removing tyrosine from position 376 strongly down-regulated human receptor function. The different topology of tyrosine residues in the C-terminal domain has contrasting functional consequences and is sufficient to account for species-specific properties of this pain-transducing channel.
Genetic deletion or mutations of presenilin genes (PS1/PS2) cause familial Alzheimer's disease and calcium (Ca) signaling abnormalities. PS1/PS2 act as endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca leak channels that facilitate passive Ca leak across ER membrane. Studies with PS1/PS2 double knockout (PS1/PS2-DKO) mouse embryonic fibroblasts showed that PS1/PS2 were responsible for 80% of passive Ca leak from the lumen of endoplasmic reticulum to cytosol. Transient transfection of the wild type PS1 expression construct increased cytoplasmic Ca as a result of Ca leak across ER membrane whereas the FADPS1 (PS1-M146V) mutation construct alone or in combination with the wild type PS1 expression construct abrogated Ca leak in SK-N-SH cells. Inhibition of basal c-jun-NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) activity by JNK inhibitor SP600125 repressed PS1 transcription and PS1 protein expression by augmenting p53 protein level in SK-N-SH cells (Lee and Das 2008). In this report we also showed that repression of PS1 transcription by JNK inhibitor SP600125 inhibited passive Ca leak across ER membrane which could be rescued by expressing PS1 wild type and not by expressing FADPS1 (PS1-M146V) under a SP600125 non-responsive promoter. Treatment of SK-N-SH cells with SP600125 also triggered InsP3R-mediated Ca release from the ER by addition of 500nM bradykinin, an agonist of InsP3 receptor (InsP3R1) without changing the expression of InsP3R1. This data confirms that SP600125 increases the Ca store in the ER by inhibiting PS1-mediated Ca leak across ER membrane. p53, ZNF237 and Chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 3 which are repressors of PS1 transcription, also reduced Ca leak across ER membrane in SK-N-SH cells but -secretase inhibitor or dominant negative -secretase-specific PS1 mutant (PS1-D257A) had no significant effect. Therefore, p53, ZNF237, and Chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 3 inhibit the function ER Ca leak channels to regulate both ER and cytoplasmic Ca levels and may potentially control Ca-signaling function of PS1.
Up-regulation of neurotrophin synthesis is an important mechanism of peripheral nerve regeneration after injury. Neurotrophin expression is regulated by a complex series of events including cell interactions and multiple molecular stimuli. We have studied neurotrophin synthesis at 2weeks time-point in a transvertebral model of unilateral or bilateral transection of sciatic nerve in rats. We have found that unilateral sciatic nerve transection results in the elevation of nerve growth factor (NGF) and NT-3, but not glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor or brain-derived neural factor, in the uninjured nerve on the contralateral side, commonly considered as a control. Bilateral transection further increased NGF but not other neurotrophins in the nerve segment distal to the transection site, as compared to the unilateral injury. To further investigate the distinct role of NGF in regeneration and its potential for peripheral nerve repair, we transduced isogeneic Schwann cells with NGF-encoding lentivirus and transplanted the over-expressing cells into the distal segment of a transected nerve. Axonal regeneration was studied at 2weeks time-point using pan-neuronal marker NF-200 and found to directly correlate with NGF levels in the regenerating nerve.
We examined the role of the androgen receptor (AR) in the investigatory behaviour of conspecifics using mice carrying the testicular feminisation mutation (X(Tfm) Y). Responses to members of the same and opposite sex were evaluated in a habituation/dishabituation task. Adult mice were gonadectomised and treated with oestradiol (E(2) ) or testosterone. After E(2) treatment, regardless of the sex of the stimulus mouse, wild-type (WT) males engaged in significantly more investigation than WT females. X(Tfm) Y males treated with E(2) showed 'male-like' behaviour in response to a male but behaved 'female-like' when the stimulus was a female. Because WT and X(Tfm) Y males behaved the same in response to another male, we used two additional mouse models to ask whether sex chromosomes were responsible for this phenomenon. Regardless of sex chromosome complement, gonadal males displayed high levels of investigation. When mice were treated with testosterone, investigation by WT females was enhanced, which eliminated the sex differences. Most strikingly, X(Tfm) Y males receiving testosterone-treatment increased the investigation of females to levels equal to those shown by WT mice. Given that testosterone, but not its metabolite E(2) , caused X(Tfm) Y males to investigate female conspecifics at high levels, it is plausible that nonclassical actions of AR, and/or activation of a novel AR, may be involved in this behaviour. Taken together, our data show that AR activation during adulthood is not required for males to investigate mice of either sex. However, 'male-like' levels of investigation of a female stimulus may depend on neonatal activation of the classic nuclear AR.
Steroid hormones exert profound effects on the development of brain areas controlling complex cognitive function in adulthood. One class, progestins, may contribute by acting on the progestin receptor (PR), which is transiently expressed in a critical layer of developing cortex: the subplate. PR expression in the subplate coincides with the establishment of ongoing cortical connectivity and may play an important organisational role. Identification of the factor(s) that regulate the precise timing of PR expression within subplate may help elucidate the function of PR. Thyroid hormone may interact with hormone response elements within the PR gene. The present study examined the effects of maternal hypothyroidism on levels of PR immunoreactivity (PR-IR) within the foetal subplate. Pregnant rats were made hypothyroid by the administration of methimazole and potassium perchlorate in drinking water. Maternal hypothyroidism significantly decreased PR-IR within the foetal subplate. Using the incorporation of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrDU) during subplate cell neurogenesis (embryonic day 13.5) to determine subplate cell survival in hypothyroid animals, we found that decreases in PR-IR cannot be attributed to significant subplate cell loss but are more likely the result of altered PR expression. Gestational thyroxine replacement to hypothyroid dams prevented the decrease in PR-IR within the subplate. These results identify thyroid hormone as a potential factor in the regulation of PR expression in the developing brain. These results are consistent with the idea that endocrine cross-talk between progesterone and thyroid hormone may be one mechanism by which maternal hypothyroidism alters normal cortical development.
Gene-targeted deletion of the voltage-gated potassium channel, Kv1.3 (Kv1.3-/-), increases olfactory sensitivity and discriminatory ability, and causes resistance to diet-induced obesity (DIO) in mice. The present study aimed to determine whether the enhanced olfactory ability of the Kv1.3-/- mouse contributes to the resistance to DIO. Kv1.3+/+ and Kv1.3-/- mice were subject to bilateral olfactory bulbectomy (OBX) or sham surgery at 9weeks of age and placed on either a control chow diet or a 32% moderately high-fat diet (MHF). Caloric and water intake, locomotor activity and oxygen consumption were monitored after 5weeks of diet treatment. At the end of 26weeks of diet treatment, fat pad weight and blood chemistry were evaluated. Kv1.3+/+ mice exhibited a significant increase in weight, adiposity, fasting glucose and fasting leptin in response to the MHF-diet, with or without OBX. When treated with a MHF-diet, Kv1.3-/- mice gained significantly less weight than Kv1.3+/+ mice and exhibited a significant increase in light phase metabolism. OBX of Kv1.3-/- mice prevented the resistance to DIO and concomitant up-regulation of light phase metabolism at the same time as decreasing dark phase metabolism and total energy expenditure. These findings suggest that pathways activated in Kv1.3-/- that increased energy expenditure and led to resistance to DIO are olfactory bulb dependent. Thus, these findings add to a growing body of evidence suggesting that the olfactory system can modulate the pathways involved in the regulation of energy balance.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the contribution of posterior circulation to memory function by comparing memory scores between patients with and without a foetal-type posterior cerebral artery (FTP) during the intracarotid amobarbital procedure (IAP) in epilepsy patients. Patients undergoing bilateral IAP between January 2004 and January 2010 were retrospectively included. Pre-test angiograms were assessed for the presence of a FTP. Memory function scores (% correct) after right and left injections were obtained. Functional significance of FTP was affirmed by relative occipital versus parietal EEG slow-wave increase during IAP. Memory and EEG scores were compared between patients with and without FTP (Mann-Whitney U test). A total of 106 patients were included, 73 with posterior cerebral arteries (PCA) without FTP ('non-FTP'), 28 patients with unilateral FTP and 5 with a bilateral FTP. Memory scores were lower when amytal was injected to the hemisphere contralateral to the presumed seizure focus (on the right decreasing from 98.3 to 59.1, and on the left decreasing from 89.1 to 72.4; p &lt; 0.001). When IAP was performed on the side of FTP memory scores were significantly lower (70.8) compared to non-FTP (82.0; p = 0.02). Relative occipital EEG changes were 0.44 for FTP cases and 0.36 for non-FTP patients (p = 0.01). A relationship between vasculature and brain function was demonstrated by lower memory scores and more slow-wave activity on occipital EEG during IAP in patients with foetal-type PCA compared to patients with non-FTP. This suggests an important contribution of brain areas supplied by the PCA to memory function.
Functional neurological symptoms (FNS) are commonly encountered but have engendered remarkably little academic interest. 'UK-Functional Neurological Symptoms (UK-FNS)' was an informal inaugural meeting of UK based clinicians in March 2011 with a variety of research and clinical interests in the field. This narrative review reflects the content of the meeting, and our opinion of key findings in the field since the turn of the millennium.
Patients with brain tumor-related epilepsy (BTRE) present a complex therapeutic profile and require a unique and multidisciplinary approach. They, in fact, must face two different pathologies at the same time, brain tumor and epilepsy. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a customized treatment plan for each individual with BTRE. This requires a vision of patient management concerned not only with medical therapies related to the oncological disease and to the correct choice of antiepileptic therapies but also with emotional and psychological support for the individual and his/her family. The choice of antiepileptic drugs is challenging for these patients because BTRE is often drug-resistant, has a strong impact on the quality of life, and weighs heavily on public health expenditures. In brain tumor patients, the presence of epilepsy is considered the most important risk factor for long-term disability. The problem of the proper administration of medications and their potential side effects is of great importance, because good seizure control also has a significant impact on the patient's psychological and relational sphere.
Several methods have been introduced to improve the extent of resection in glioma surgery. Yet, radical tumor resections must not be attempted at the cost of neurological deterioration. We sought to assess whether the use of an intraoperative MRI (iMRI) in combination with multimodal neurophysiological monitoring is suitable to increase the extent of resection without endangering neurological function in patients with eloquently located gliomas. Fifty-four patients were included in this study. In 21 patients (38.9 %), iMRI led to additional tumor resection. A radiologically complete resection was achieved in 31 patients (57.4 %), while in 12 of these, iMRI had depicted residual tumor tissue before resection was continued. The mean extent of resection was 92.1 % according to volumetric analyses. Postoperatively, 13 patients (24.1 %) showed new or worsening of pre-existing sensory motor deficits. They were severe in 4 patients (7.4 %). There was no correlation between the occurrence of either any new (P = 0.77) or severe (P = 1.0) sensory motor deficit and continued resection after intraoperative image acquisition. Likewise, tumor location, histology, and tumor recurrence did not influence complication rate on uni- and multivariate analysis. We conclude that the combination of iMRI guidance with multimodal neurophysiological monitoring allows for extended resections in glioma surgery without inducing higher rates of neurological deficits, even in patients with eloquently located tumors.
A key feature of skilled object control is the ability to correct performance errors. This process is not straightforward for unstable objects (e.g., inverted pendulum or &quot;stick&quot; balancing) because the mechanics of the object are sensitive to small control errors, which can lead to rapid performance changes. In this study, we have characterized joint recruitment and coordination processes in an unstable object control task. Our objective was to determine whether skill acquisition involves changes in the recruitment of individual joints or distributed error compensation. To address this problem, we monitored stick-balancing performance across four experimental sessions. We confirmed that subjects learned the task by showing an increase in the stability and length of balancing trials across training sessions. We demonstrated that motor learning led to the development of a multijoint error compensation strategy such that after training, subjects preferentially constrained joint angle variance that jeopardized task performance. The selective constraint of destabilizing joint angle variance was an important metric of motor learning. Finally, we performed a combined uncontrolled manifold-permutation analysis to ensure the variance structure was not confounded by differences in the variance of individual joint angles. We showed that reliance on multijoint error compensation increased, whereas individual joint variation (primarily at the wrist joint) decreased systematically with training. We propose a learning mechanism that is based on the accurate estimation of sensory states.
The motor system must consider a variety of environmental factors when executing voluntary motor actions, such as the shape of the goal or the possible presence of intervening obstacles. It remains unknown whether rapid feedback responses to mechanical perturbations also consider these factors. Our first experiment quantified how feedback corrections were altered by target shape, which was either a circular dot or a bar. Unperturbed movements to each target were qualitatively similar on average but with greater dispersion of end point positions when reaching to the bar. On random trials, multijoint torque perturbations deviated the hand left or right. When reaching to a circular target, perturbations elicited corrective movements that were directed straight to the location of the target. In contrast, corrective movements when reaching to a bar were redirected to other locations along the bar axis. Our second experiment quantified whether the presence of obstacles could interfere with feedback corrections. We found that hand trajectories after the perturbations were altered to avoid obstacles in the environment. Importantly, changes in muscle activity reflecting the different target shapes (bar vs. dot) or the presence of obstacles were observed in as little as 70 ms. Such changes in motor responses were qualitatively consistent with simulations based on optimal feedback control. Taken together, these results highlight that long-latency motor responses consider spatial properties of the goal and environment.
The relationship between sensory and transcallosal inputs into the motor cortex may be important in motor performance, but it has not been well studied, especially in humans. The aim of this study was to reveal this relationship by investigating the interaction between short-latency interhemispheric inhibition (SIHI) and short-latency afferent inhibition (SAI) in humans with transcranial magnetic stimulation. SIHI is the inhibition of the primary motor cortex (M1) elicited by contralateral M1 stimulation given 10 ms before, and it reflects transcallosal inhibition. SAI is the inhibition of M1 elicited by contralateral median nerve stimulation preceding M1 stimulation by 20 ms. In this investigation, we studied the intensity dependence of SIHI and SAI and the interaction between SIHI and SAI in various conditioning intensities. Subjects were 11 normal volunteers. The degree of effects was evaluated by comparing motor evoked potential sizes recorded from the first dorsal interosseous muscle between a certain condition and control condition. Both SIHI and SAI were potentiated by increment of the conditioning stimulus intensity and saturated at 1.4 times resting motor threshold for SIHI and 3 times sensory threshold for SAI. No significant interaction was observed when either of their intensities was subthreshold for the inhibition on its own. Only when both intensities were strong enough for their inhibition did the presence of one inhibition lessen the other one. On the basis of these findings, we conclude that interneurons mediating SIHI and SAI have mutual, direct, and inhibitory interaction in a conditioning intensity-dependent manner.
NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activation requires coincident binding of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate and a coagonist, either glycine or D-serine. Changes in NMDAR currents during neural transmission are typically attributed to glutamate release against a steady background of coagonist, excluding the possibility of coagonist release. AMPA receptor (AMPAR) stimulation evokes D-serine release, but it is unknown whether this is a physiological phenomenon capable of influencing synaptic responses. In this study, we utilized the intact retina to determine whether light-evoked synaptic activity in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) is shaped by a dynamic pool of coagonist. The application of AMPAR antagonist abolished light-evoked NMDAR currents, which were rescued by adding coagonist to the bath. When NMDA was globally applied to RGCs via bath or picospritzing, the coagonist occupancy was also dependent on AMPARs but to a lesser extent than that observed during light responses, suggesting a difference in extrasynaptic coagonist regulation. By saturating the glutamate binding site of NMDARs, we were able to detect released coagonist reaching RGCs during light-evoked responses. Mutant mice lacking the d-serine-synthesizing enzyme serine racemase were deficient in coagonist release. Coagonist release in wild-type retinas was notably greater in ON than in OFF responses and depended on AMPARs. These findings suggest activity-dependent modulation of coagonist availability, particularly D-serine, and may add an extra dimension to NMDAR coincidence detection in the retina.
Odor signals are transmitted to the olfactory bulb by olfactory nerve (ON) synapses onto mitral/tufted cells (MCs) and external tufted cells (ETCs). ETCs, in turn, provide feedforward excitatory input to MCs. MC and ETCs are also regulated by inhibition: intraglomerular and interglomerular inhibitory circuits act at MC and ETC apical dendrites; granule cells (GCs) inhibit MC lateral dendrites via the MCGCMC circuit. We investigated the contribution of intraglomerular inhibition to MC and ETCs responses to ON input. ON input evokes initial excitation followed by early, strongly summating inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in MCs; this is followed by prolonged, intermittent IPSCs. The N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist dl-amino-5-phosphovaleric acid, known to suppress GABA release by GCs, reduced late IPSCs but had no effect on early IPSCs. In contrast, selective intraglomerular block of GABA(A) receptors eliminated all early IPSCs and caused a 5-fold increase in ON-evoked MC spiking and a 10-fold increase in response duration. ETCs also receive intraglomerular inhibition; blockade of inhibition doubled ETC spike responses. By reducing ETC excitatory drive and directly inhibiting MCs, intraglomerular inhibition is a key factor shaping the strength and temporal structure of MC responses to sensory input. Sensory input generates an intraglomerular excitation-inhibition sequence that limits MC spike output to a brief temporal window. Glomerular circuits may dynamically regulate this input-output window to optimize MC encoding across sniff-sampled inputs.
Disordered reflex activity and alterations in the neural control of walking have been observed after stroke. In addition to impairments in leg movement that affect locomotor ability after stroke, significant impairments are also seen in the arms. Altered neural control in the upper limb can often lead to altered tone and spasticity resulting in impaired coordination and flexion contractures. We sought to address the extent to which the neural control of movement is disordered after stroke by examining the modulation pattern of cutaneous reflexes in arm muscles during arm cycling. Twenty-five stroke participants who were at least 6 mo postinfarction and clinically stable, performed rhythmic arm cycling while cutaneous reflexes were evoked with trains (5  1.0-ms pulses at 300 Hz) of constant-current electrical stimulation to the superficial radial (SR) nerve at the wrist. Both the more (MA) and less affected (LA) arms were stimulated in separate trials. Bilateral electromyography (EMG) activity was recorded from muscles acting at the shoulder, elbow, and wrist. Analysis was conducted on averaged reflexes in 12 equidistant phases of the movement cycle. Phase-modulated cutaneous reflexes were present, but altered, in both MA and LA arms after stroke. Notably, the pattern was &quot;blunted&quot; in the MA arm in stroke compared with control participants. Differences between stroke and control were progressively more evident moving from shoulder to wrist. The results suggest that a reduced pattern of cutaneous reflex modulation persists during rhythmic arm movement after stroke. The overall implication of this result is that the putative spinal contributions to rhythmic human arm movement remain accessible after stroke, which has translational implications for rehabilitation.
Multiple classes of inhibitory interneurons shape the activity of principal neurons of the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN), a primary target of auditory nerve fibers in the mammalian brain stem. Feedforward inhibition mediated by glycinergic vertical cells (also termed tuberculoventral or corn cells) is thought to contribute importantly to the sound-evoked response properties of principal neurons, but the cellular and synaptic properties that determine how vertical cells function are unclear. We used transgenic mice in which glycinergic neurons express green fluorescent protein (GFP) to target vertical cells for whole cell patch-clamp recordings in acute slices of DCN. We found that vertical cells express diverse intrinsic spiking properties and could fire action potentials at high, sustained spiking rates. Using paired recordings, we directly examined synapses made by vertical cells onto fusiform cells, a primary DCN principal cell type. Vertical cell synapses produced unexpectedly small-amplitude unitary currents in fusiform cells, and additional experiments indicated that multiple vertical cells must be simultaneously active to inhibit fusiform cell spike output. Paired recordings also revealed that a major source of inhibition to vertical cells comes from other vertical cells.
Despite the diverse methods vertebrates use for locomotion, there is evidence that components of the locomotor central pattern generator (CPG) are conserved across species. When zebrafish begin swimming early in development, they perform short episodes of activity separated by periods of inactivity. Within these episodes, the trunk flexes with side-to-side alternation and the traveling body wave progresses rostrocaudally. To characterize the distribution of the swimming CPG along the rostrocaudal axis, we performed transections of the larval zebrafish spinal cord and induced fictive swimming using N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA). In both intact and spinalized larvae, bursting is found throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the spinal cord, and the properties of fictive swimming observed were dependent on the concentration of NMDA. We isolated series of contiguous spinal segments by performing multiple spinal transections on the same larvae. Although series from all regions of the spinal cord have the capacity to produce bursts, the capacity to produce organized episodes of fictive swimming has a rostral bias: in the rostral spinal cord, only 12 contiguous body segments are necessary, whereas 23 contiguous body segments are necessary in the caudal spinal cord. Shorter series of segments were often active but produced either continuous rhythmic bursting or sporadic, nonrhythmic bursting. Both episodic and continuous bursting alternated between the left and right sides of the body and showed rostrocaudal progression, demonstrating the functional dissociation of the circuits responsible for episodic structure and fine burst timing. These findings parallel results in mammalian locomotion, and we propose a hierarchical model of the larval zebrafish swimming CPG.
Although it is generally thought that sensory transduction occurs at or close to peripheral nerve endings, with action potentials subsequently propagating along the axons of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons toward the central nervous system, the small diameter of nociceptive axons and their endings have made it difficult to estimate their membrane properties and electrogenic characteristics. Even the resting potentials of nociceptive axons are unknown. In this study, we developed the capability to record directly with patch-clamp electrodes from the small-diameter distal axons of DRG neurons in vitro. We showed using current-clamp recordings that 1) these sensory axons have a resting potential of -60.2  1 mV; 2) both tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive (TTX-S) and TTX-resistant (TTX-R) Na(+) channels are present and available for activation at resting potential, at densities that can support action potential electrogenesis in these axons; 3) TTX-sensitive channels contribute to the amplification of small depolarizations that are subthreshold with respect to the action potential in these axons; 4) TTX-R channels can support the production of action potentials in these axons; and 5) these TTX-R channels can produce repetitive firing, even at depolarized membrane potentials where TTX-S channels are inactivated. Finally, using voltage-clamp recordings with an action potential as the command, we confirmed the presence of both TTX-S and TTX-R channels, which are activated sequentially during action potential in these axons. These results provide direct evidence for the presence of TTX-S and TTX-R Na(+) channels that are functionally available at resting potential and contribute to electrogenesis in small-diameter afferent axons.
Intense noise exposure causes hyperactivity to develop in the mammalian dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) and inferior colliculus (IC). It has not yet been established whether the IC hyperactivity is driven by hyperactivity from extrinsic sources that include the DCN or instead is maintained independently of this input. We have investigated the extent to which IC hyperactivity is dependent on input from the contralateral DCN by comparing recordings of spontaneous activity in the IC of noise-exposed and control hamsters before and after ablation of the contralateral DCN. One group of animals was binaurally exposed to intense sound (10 kHz, 115 dB SPL, 4 h), whereas the control group was not. Both groups were studied electrophysiologically 2-3 wk later by first mapping spontaneous activity along the tonotopic axis of the IC to confirm induction of hyperactivity. Spontaneous activity was then recorded at a hyperactive IC locus over two 30-min periods, one with DCNs intact and the other after ablation of the contralateral DCN. In a subset of animals, activity was again mapped along the tonotopic axis after the time course of the activity was recorded before and after DCN ablation. Following recordings, the brains were fixed, and histological evaluations were performed to assess the extent of DCN ablation. Ablation of the DCN resulted in major reductions of IC hyperactivity. Levels of postablation activity in exposed animals were similar to the levels of activity in the IC of control animals, indicating an almost complete loss of hyperactivity in exposed animals. The results suggest that hyperactivity in the IC is dependent on support from extrinsic sources that include and may even begin with the DCN. This finding does not rule out longer term compensatory or homeostatic adjustments that might restore hyperactivity in the IC over time.
The right posterior parietal cortex (rPPC) has been found to be critical in shaping visual selection and distractor-induced saccade curvature in the context of predictive as well as nonpredictive visual cues by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) interference. However, the dynamic details of how distractor-induced saccade curvatures are affected by rPPC TMS have not yet been investigated. This study aimed to elucidate the key dynamic properties that cause saccades to curve away from distractors with different degrees of curvature in various TMS and target predictability conditions. Stochastic optimal feedback control theory was used to model the dynamics of the TMS saccade data. This allowed estimation of torques, which was used to identify the critical dynamic mechanisms producing saccade curvature. The critical mechanisms of distractor-induced saccade curvatures were found to be the motor commands and torques in the transverse direction. When an unpredictable saccade target occurred with rPPC TMS, there was an initial period of greater distractor-induced torque toward the side opposite the distractor in the transverse direction, immediately followed by a relatively long period of recovery torque that brought the deviated trace back toward the target. The results imply that the mechanisms of distractor-induced saccade curvature may be comprised of two mechanisms: the first causing the initial deviation and the second bringing the deviated trace back toward the target. The pattern of the initial torque in the transverse direction revealed the former mechanism. Conversely, the later mechanism could be well explained as a consequence of the control policy in this model. To summarize, rPPC TMS increased the initial torque away from the distractor as well as the recovery torque toward the target.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) has been implicated in the maintenance of task-relevant information during goal-directed behavior. Using a combination of lesions, local inactivation, and optogenetics, we investigated the functional role of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in mice with a novel operant delayed alternation task. Task difficulty was manipulated by changing the duration of the delay between two sequential actions. In experiment 1, we showed that excitotoxic lesions of the mPFC impaired acquisition of delayed alternation with long delays (16 s), whereas lesions of the dorsal hippocampus and ventral striatum, areas connected with the PFC, did not produce any deficits. Lesions of dorsal hippocampus, however, significantly impaired reversal learning when the rule was changed from alternation to repetition. In experiment 2, we showed that local infusions of muscimol (an agonist of the GABA(A) receptor) into mPFC impaired performance even when the animal was well trained, suggesting that the mPFC is critical not only for acquisition but also for successful performance. In experiment 3, to examine the mechanisms underlying the role of GABAergic inhibition, we used Cre-inducible Channelrhodopsin-2 to activate parvalbumin (PV)-expressing GABAergic interneurons in the mPFC of PV-Cre transgenic mice as they performed the task. Using whole cell patch-clamp recording, we demonstrated that activation of PV-expressing interneurons in vitro with blue light in brain slices reliably produced spiking and inhibited nearby pyramidal projection neurons. With similar stimulation parameters, in vivo stimulation significantly impaired delayed alternation performance. Together these results demonstrate a critical role for the mPFC in the acquisition and performance of the delayed alternation task.
We explored the manner in which spatial information is encoded by retinal ganglion cell populations. We flashed a set of 36 shape stimuli onto the tiger salamander retina and used different decoding algorithms to read out information from a population of 162 ganglion cells. We compared the discrimination performance of linear decoders, which ignore correlation induced by common stimulation, with nonlinear decoders, which can accurately model these correlations. Similar to previous studies, decoders that ignored correlation suffered only a modest drop in discrimination performance for groups of up to 30 cells. However, for more realistic groups of 100+ cells, we found order-of-magnitude differences in the error rate. We also compared decoders that used only the presence of a single spike from each cell with more complex decoders that included information from multiple spike counts and multiple time bins. More complex decoders substantially outperformed simpler decoders, showing the importance of spike timing information. Particularly effective was the first spike latency representation, which allowed zero discrimination errors for the majority of shape stimuli. Furthermore, the performance of nonlinear decoders showed even greater enhancement compared with linear decoders for these complex representations. Finally, decoders that approximated the correlation structure in the population by matching all pairwise correlations with a maximum entropy model fit to all 162 neurons were quite successful, especially for the spike latency representation. Together, these results suggest a picture in which linear decoders allow a coarse categorization of shape stimuli, whereas nonlinear decoders, which take advantage of both correlation and spike timing, are needed to achieve high-fidelity discrimination.
Inhibitory interneurons play a critical role in the generation of gamma (20-50 Hz) oscillations, either by forming mutually inhibitory networks or as part of recurrent networks with pyramidal cells. A key property of fast spiking interneurons is their ability to generate brief spikes and high-frequency spike trains with little accommodation. However, the role of their firing properties in network oscillations has not been tested in vivo. Studies in hippocampus in vitro have shown that high-frequency spike doublets in interneurons play a key role in the long-range synchronization of gamma oscillations with little phase lag despite long axonal conduction delays. We generated a knockout (KO) mouse lacking Kv3.2 potassium channel subunits, where infragranular inhibitory interneurons lose the ability both to sustain high-frequency firing and reliably generate high-frequency spike doublets. We recorded cortical local field potentials in anesthetized and awake, restrained mice. Spontaneous activity of the KO and the wild-type (WT) showed similar content of gamma and slow (0.1-15 Hz) frequencies, but the KO showed a significantly larger decay of synchronization of gamma oscillations with distance. Coronal cuts in the cortex of WT mice decreased synchronization to values similar to the intact KO. The synchronization of the slow oscillation showed little decay with distance in both mice and was largely reduced after coronal cuts. Our results show that the firing properties of inhibitory interneurons are critical for long-range synchronization of gamma oscillations, and emphasize that intrinsic electrophysiological properties of single cells may play a key role in the spatiotemporal characteristics of network activity.
Arrestins belong to a family of multifunctional adaptor proteins that regulate internalization of diverse receptors including G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Defects associated with endocytosis of GPCRs have been linked to human diseases. We used enhanced green fluorescent protein-tagged arrestin 2 (Arr2) to monitor the turnover of the major rhodopsin (Rh1) in live Drosophila. We demonstrate that during degeneration of norpA(P24) photoreceptors the loss of Rh1 is parallel to the disappearance of rhabdomeres, the specialized visual organelle that houses Rh1. The cause of degeneration in norpA(P24) is the failure to activate CaMKII (Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II) and retinal degeneration C (RDGC) because of a loss of light-dependent Ca(2+) entry. A lack of activation in CaMKII, which phosphorylates Arr2, leads to hypophosphorylated Arr2, while a lack of activation of RDGC, which dephosphorylates Rh1, results in hyperphosphorylated Rh1. We investigated how reversible phosphorylation of Rh1 and Arr2 contributes to photoreceptor degeneration. To uncover the consequence underlying a lack of CaMKII activation, we characterized ala(1) flies in which CaMKII was suppressed by an inhibitory peptide, and showed that morphology of rhabdomeres was not affected. In contrast, we found that expression of phosphorylation-deficient Rh1s, which either lack the C terminus or contain Ala substitution in the phosphorylation sites, was able to prevent degeneration of norpA(P24) photoreceptors. This suppression is not due to a loss of Arr2 interaction. Importantly, co-expression of these modified Rh1s offered protective effects, which greatly delayed photoreceptor degeneration. Together, we conclude that phosphorylation of Rh1 is the major determinant that orchestrates its internalization leading to retinal degeneration.
The cognitive and neuronal mechanisms of perceptual decision making have been successfully linked to sequential sampling models. These models describe the decision process as a gradual accumulation of sensory evidence over time. The temporal evolution of economic choices, however, remains largely unexplored. We tested whether sequential sampling models help to understand the formation of value-based decisions in terms of behavior and brain responses. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to measure brain activity while human participants performed a buying task in which they freely decided upon how and when to choose. Behavior was accurately predicted by a time-variant sequential sampling model that uses a decreasing rather than fixed decision threshold to estimate the time point of the decision. Presupplementary motor area, caudate nucleus, and anterior insula activation was associated with the accumulation of evidence over time. Furthermore, at the beginning of the decision process the fMRI signal in these regions accounted for trial-by-trial deviations from behavioral model predictions: relatively high activation preceded relatively early responses. The updating of value information was correlated with signals in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, left and right orbitofrontal cortex, and ventral striatum but also in the primary motor cortex well before the response itself. Our results support a view of value-based decisions as emerging from sequential sampling of evidence and suggest a close link between the accumulation process and activity in the motor system when people are free to respond at any time.
During visual fixation, the image of an object is maintained within the fovea. Previous studies have shown that such maintenance involves the deep superior colliculus (dSC). However, the mechanisms by which the dSC supports visual fixation remain controversial. According to one view, activity in the rostral dSC maintains gaze direction by preventing neurons in the caudal dSC from issuing saccade commands. An alternative hypothesis proposes that gaze direction is achieved through equilibrium of target position signals originating from the two dSCs. Here, we show in monkeys that artificially reducing activity in the rostral half of one dSC results in a biased estimate of target position during fixation, consistent with the second hypothesis, rather than an inability to maintain gaze fixation as predicted by the first hypothesis. After injection of muscimol at rostral sites in the dSC, fixation became more stable since microsaccade rate was reduced rather than increased. Moreover, the scatter of eye positions was offset relative to preinactivation baselines. The magnitude and the direction of the offsets depended on both the target size and the injected site in the collicular map. Other oculomotor parameters, such as the accuracy of saccades to peripheral targets and the amplitude and velocity of fixational saccades, were largely unaffected. These results suggest that the rostral half of the dSC supports visual fixation through a distributed representation of behaviorally relevant target position signals. The inactivation-induced fixation offset establishes the foveal visual stimulation that is required to restore the balance of activity between the two dSCs.
Orientation tuning has been a classic model for understanding single-neuron computation in the neocortex. However, little is known about how orientation can be read out from the activity of neural populations, in particular in alert animals. Our study is a first step toward that goal. We recorded from up to 20 well isolated single neurons in the primary visual cortex of alert macaques simultaneously and applied a simple, neurally plausible decoder to read out the population code. We focus on two questions: First, what are the time course and the timescale at which orientation can be read out from the population response? Second, how complex does the decoding mechanism in a downstream neuron have to be to reliably discriminate between visual stimuli with different orientations? We show that the neural ensembles in primary visual cortex of awake macaques represent orientation in a way that facilitates a fast and simple readout mechanism: With an average latency of 30-80 ms, the population code can be read out instantaneously with a short integration time of only tens of milliseconds, and neither stimulus contrast nor correlations need to be taken into account to compute the optimal synaptic weight pattern. Our study shows that-similar to the case of single-neuron computation-the representation of orientation in the spike patterns of neural populations can serve as an exemplary case for understanding the computations performed by neural ensembles underlying visual processing during behavior.
Although the amyloid-(1-42) (A(1-42)) peptide involved in Alzheimer's disease is known to cause a dysregulation of intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis, its molecular mechanisms still remain unclear. We report that the extracellular-dependent early increase (30 min) in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), following A(1-42) exposure, caused the activation of calpain that in turn elicited a cleavage of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger isoform NCX3. This cleavage generated a hyperfunctional form of the antiporter and increased NCX currents (I(NCX)) in the reverse mode of operation. Interestingly, this NCX3 calpain-dependent cleavage was essential for the A(1-42)-dependent I(NCX) increase. Indeed, the calpain inhibitor calpeptin and the removal of the calpain-cleavage recognition sequence, via site-directed mutagenesis, abolished this effect. Moreover, the enhanced NCX3 activity was paralleled by an increased Ca(2+) content in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stores. Remarkably, the silencing in PC-12 cells or the knocking-out in mice of the ncx3 gene prevented the enhancement of both I(NCX) and Ca(2+) content in ER stores, suggesting that NCX3 was involved in the increase of ER Ca(2+) content stimulated by A(1-42). By contrast, in the late phase (72 h), when the NCX3 proteolytic cleavage abruptly ceased, the occurrence of a parallel reduction in ER Ca(2+) content triggered ER stress, as revealed by caspase-12 activation. Concomitantly, the late increase in [Ca(2+)](i) coincided with neuronal death. Interestingly, NCX3 silencing caused an earlier activation of A(1-42)-induced caspase-12. Indeed, in NCX3-silenced neurons, A(1-42) exposure hastened caspase-dependent apoptosis, thus reinforcing neuronal cell death. These results suggest that A(1-42), through Ca(2+)-dependent calpain activation, generates a hyperfunctional form of NCX3 that, by increasing Ca(2+) content into ER, delays caspase-12 activation and thus neuronal death.
The tet-off system has been widely used to create transgenic models of neurological disorders including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's, and prion disease. The utility of this system lies in the assumption that the tetracycline transactivator (TTA) acts as an inert control element and does not contribute to phenotypes under study. Here we report that neuronal expression of TTA can affect hippocampal cytoarchitecture and behavior in a strain-dependent manner. While studying neurodegeneration in two tet-off Alzheimer's disease models, we unexpectedly discovered neuronal loss within the dentate gyrus of single transgenic TTA controls. Granule neurons appeared most sensitive to TTA exposure during postnatal development, and doxycycline treatment during this period was neuroprotective. TTA-induced degeneration could be rescued by moving the transgene onto a congenic C57BL/6J background and recurred on reintroduction of either CBA or C3H/He backgrounds. Quantitative trait analysis of B6C3 F2 TTA mice identified a region on Chromosome 14 that contains a major modifier of the neurodegenerative phenotype. Although B6 mice were resistant to degeneration, they were not ideal for cognitive testing. F1 offspring of TTA C57BL/6J and 129X1/SvJ, FVB/NJ, or DBA/1J showed improved spatial learning, but TTA expression caused subtle differences in contextual fear conditioning on two of these backgrounds, indicating that strain and genotype can interact independently under different behavioral settings. All model systems have limitations that should be recognized and mitigated where possible; our findings stress the importance of mapping the effects caused by TTA alone when working with tet-off models.
The limits of human visual short-term memory (VSTM) have been well documented, and recent neuroscientific studies suggest that VSTM performance is associated with activity in the posterior parietal cortex. Here we show that artificially elevating parietal activity via positively charged electric current through the skull can rapidly and effortlessly improve people's VSTM performance. This artificial improvement, however, comes with an interesting twist: it interacts with people's natural VSTM capability such that low performers who tend to remember less information benefitted from the stimulation, whereas high performers did not. This behavioral dichotomy is explained by event-related potentials around the parietal regions: low performers showed increased waveforms in N2pc and contralateral delay activity (CDA), which implies improvement in attention deployment and memory access in the current paradigm, respectively. Interestingly, these components are found during the presentation of the test array instead of the retention interval, from the parietal sites ipsilateral to the target location, thus suggesting that transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) was mainly improving one's ability to suppress no-change distractors located on the irrelevant side of the display during the comparison stage. The high performers, however, did not benefit from tDCS as they showed equally large waveforms in N2pc and CDA, or SPCN (sustained parietal contralateral negativity), before and after the stimulation such that electrical stimulation could not help any further, which also accurately accounts for our behavioral observations. Together, these results suggest that there is indeed a fixed upper limit in VSTM, but the low performers can benefit from neurostimulation to reach that maximum via enhanced comparison processes, and such behavioral improvement can be directly quantified and visualized by the magnitude of its associated electrophysiological waveforms.
Functional neurosurgery has afforded the opportunity to assess interactions between populations of neurons in the human cerebral cortex and basal ganglia in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Interactions occur over a wide range of frequencies, and the functional significance of those &gt;30 Hz is particularly unclear. Do they improve movement, and, if so, in what way? We acquired simultaneously magnetoencephalography and direct recordings from the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in 17 PD patients. We examined the effect of synchronous and sequential finger movements and of the dopamine prodrug levodopa on induced power in the contralateral primary motor cortex (M1) and STN and on the coherence between the two structures. We observed discrete peaks in M1 and STN power at 60-90 Hz and at 300-400 Hz. All these power peaks increased with movement and levodopa treatment. Only STN activity at 60-90 Hz was coherent with activity in M1. Directionality analysis showed that STN gamma activity at 60-90 Hz tended to drive gamma activity in M1. The effects of levodopa on both local and distant synchronization at 60-90 Hz correlated with the degree of improvement in bradykinesia-rigidity as did local STN activity at 300-400 Hz. Despite this, there were no effects of movement type, nor interactions between movement type and levodopa in the STN, nor in the coherence between STN and M1. We conclude that synchronization at 60-90 Hz in the basal ganglia cortical network is prokinetic but likely through a modulatory effect rather than any involvement in explicit motor processing.
Adolescence is a critical period of brain development during which maturation of areas involved in cognitive functioning, such as the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), is still ongoing. Tobacco smoking during this age can compromise the normal course of prefrontal development and lead to cognitive impairments in later life. Recently, we reported that nicotine exposure during adolescence results in a short-term increase and lasting reduction in synaptic mGluR2 levels in the rat mPFC, causing attention deficits during adulthood. It is unknown how changed synaptic mGluR2 levels after adolescent nicotine exposure affect the ability of mPFC synapses to undergo long-term synaptic plasticity. Here, we addressed this question. To model nicotine exposure, adolescent (P34-P43) or adult (P60-P69) rats were treated with nicotine injections three times per day for 10 d. We found that, both during acute activation of nicotinic receptors in the adolescent mPFC as well as immediately following nicotine treatment during adolescence, long-term plasticity in response to timed presynaptic and postsynaptic activity (tLTP) was strongly reduced. In contrast, in the mPFC of adult rats 5 weeks after they received nicotine treatment during adolescence, but not during adulthood, tLTP was increased. Short- and long-term adaptation of mPFC synaptic plasticity after adolescent nicotine exposure could be explained by changed mGluR2 signaling. Blocking mGluR2s augmented tLTP, whereas activating mGluR2s reduced tLTP. Our findings suggest neuronal mechanisms by which exposure to nicotine during adolescence alters the rules for spike timing-dependent plasticity in prefrontal networks that may explain the observed deficits in cognitive performance in later life.
The physical arrangement of receptive fields (RFs) within neural structures is important for local computations. Nonuniform distribution of tuning within populations of neurons can influence emergent tuning properties, causing bias in local processing. This issue was studied in the auditory system of barn owls. The owl's external nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICx) contains a map of auditory space in which the frontal region is overrepresented. We measured spatiotemporal RFs of ICx neurons using spatial white noise. We found a population-wide bias in surround suppression such that suppression from frontal space was stronger. This asymmetry increased with laterality in spatial tuning. The bias could be explained by a model of lateral inhibition based on the overrepresentation of frontal space observed in ICx. The model predicted trends in surround suppression across ICx that matched the data. Thus, the uneven distribution of spatial tuning within the map could explain the topography of time-dependent tuning properties. This mechanism may have significant implications for the analysis of natural scenes by sensory systems.

P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors are selectively expressed on primary afferent nociceptors and have been implicated in modulating nociception in different models of pathological pain, including inflammatory pain. In an effort to delineate further the role of P2X3 receptors (homomeric and heteromeric) in the modulation of nociceptive transmission after a chronic inflammation injury, A-317491, a potent and selective P2X3-P2X2/3 antagonist, was administered to CFA-inflamed rats in order to examine its effects on responses of spinal dorsal horn neurons to mechanical and thermal stimulation. Systemic injection of A-317491 (30 mol/kg, i.v.) reduced the responses of wide-dynamic-range (WDR) and nociceptive specific (NS) neurons to both high-intensity mechanical (pinch) and heat (49C) stimulation. A-317491 also decreased low-intensity (10 g von Frey hair) mechanically evoked activity of WDR neurons but did not alter WDR neuronal responses to cold stimulation (5C). Spontaneous firing of WDR neurons in CFA-inflamed rats was also significantly attenuated by A-317491 injection. By using immunohistochemistry, P2X3 receptors were demonstrated to be enhanced in lamina II of the spinal dorsal horn after inflammation. In summary, blockade of P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors dampens mechanical- and heat-related signaling, as well as nonevoked activity of key classes of spinal nociceptive neurons in inflamed animals. These data suggest that P2X3 and/or P2X2/3 receptors have a broad contribution to somatosensory/nociceptive transmission in rats with a chronic inflammatory injury and are consistent with previous behavioral data demonstrating antiallodynic and antihyperalgesic effects of receptor antagonists.
The C677T polymorphism of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene differs in frequency in various ethnic groups that have differing prevalence of age-related cognitive impairments. We used a series of neuro-psychological tests to examine the association of the MTHFR C677T polymorphism with cognition and depression and also to assess whether genotype modifies the association of folate and homocysteine with these outcomes. This study analyzed pooled cross-sectional data from 2 ethnically diverse cohorts of community-living adults: the Boston Puerto Rican Health Study (n = 939) and the Nutrition, Aging, and Memory in Elders study (n = 1017). Individuals in both cohorts underwent anthropometric and laboratory measurements and dietary and health assessments using validated questionnaires between the years 2003 and 2007. Cognitive outcomes included measures of global cognition [Mini-Mental Status Exam (MMSE)], depression (Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale), and 3 factor scores for the domains of attention, executive function, and memory that were derived from a detailed set of neuropsychological tests. Low plasma vitamin B-12 concentrations were associated with poorer MMSE scores and higher depression scores, and low vitamin B-6 concentrations were associated with lower MMSE and worse attention and executive function in the multivariate analysis. In contrast, MTHFR genotype, folate, and homocysteine were not associated with cognition or depression in either ethnicity-pooled or stratified analysis. The current study did not find evidence of an association between the MTHFR C677T TT genotype and impaired cognition or depression in a population with adequate folate status and a high prevalence of cognitive impairment and depression.
Restenosis is a critical complication of angioplasty and stenting. Restenosis is multifactorial, involving endothelial injury, inflammation, platelet activation, and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation. Thus, dietary strategies to prevent restenosis likely require the use of more than one agent. Resveratrol (R) and quercetin (Q) are polyphenols that are known to exhibit vascular protective effects. We tested whether R and Q administered in the diet interact to inhibit vessel stenosis in mice with a carotid injury. B6.129 mice were administered a high-fat diet containing 21% fat and 0.2% cholesterol along with R (25 mg/kg), Q (10 mg/kg), or R + Q for 2 wk. A carotid injury was induced and the mice were again administered the enriched diet for 2 wk. Compared with the controls, R significantly decreased stenosis, assessed as an intima:media ratio, by 76%. Although Q treatment alone exhibited no effect, it potentiated the effect of R in that treatment with R + Q significantly decreased the intima:media ratio by 94%. Moreover, this effect was greater than that of R treatment alone (P &lt; 0.05). Although treatments with R, Q, and R + Q significantly affected platelet activation and endothelial function, the responses observed for R + Q were less than additive. Specifically, the effects of R + Q were less than the sum of effects for treatments with R and Q alone. In contrast, treatment with R + Q exhibited more-than-additive effects on inflammatory markers and significant interactions between R and Q were observed. The presence of synergy between R and Q was thus tested in cultures of VSMC and macrophages. Isobolographic analysis revealed that 2:1 molar ratios of R:Q exhibited synergistic inhibition of VSMC proliferation and macrophage chemotaxis. In conclusion, in combination, R and Q can interact to reduce the extent of restenosis, perhaps due to their synergistic inhibition of VSMC proliferation and inflammation.


The transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) channel is involved in the development and maintenance of pain and participates in the regulation of temperature. The channel is activated by diverse agents, including capsaicin, noxious heat ( 43C), acidic pH (&lt; 6), and endogenous lipids including N-arachidonoyl dopamine (NADA). Antagonists that block all modes of TRPV1 activation elicit hyperthermia. To identify efficacious TRPV1 antagonists that do not affect temperature antagonists representing multiple TRPV1 pharmacophores were evaluated at recombinant rat and human TRPV1 channels with Ca(2+) flux assays, and two classes of antagonists were identified based on their differential ability to inhibit acid activation. Although both classes of antagonists completely blocked capsaicin- and NADA-induced activation of TRPV1, select compounds only partially inhibited activation of the channel by protons. Electrophysiology and calcitonin gene-related peptide release studies confirmed the differential pharmacology of these antagonists at native TRPV1 channels in the rat. Comparison of the in vitro pharmacological properties of these TRPV1 antagonists with their in vivo effects on core body temperature confirms and expands earlier observations that acid-sparing TRPV1 antagonists do not significantly increase core body temperature. Although both classes of compounds elicit equivalent analgesia in a rat model of knee joint pain, the acid-sparing antagonist tested is not effective in a mouse model of bone cancer pain.

There is no standard model of specialist care for younger people with dementia (onset before the age of 65 years) and specialist service provision varies widely throughout the UK. In order to gain a clearer picture about ways in which clinical staff work with younger people with dementia, semi-structured interviews were conducted with dementia care staff working in the north-west of England. Interviews focused on exploring daily working practices and the meaning placed on clinical decision making when involving family/carers in routine practice. Content analysis generated three core themes: (1) Maintaining Separation: how clinical staff conceptualize the meaning of 'family' in the provision of dementia care services; (2) Providing Practical Help: the focus in care provision on assisting families with aspects of daily life such as finances, education and physical care; and (3) Acknowledging the Family Context: how staff understand and interact with family members in an attempt to initiate care, utilizing biographically informed practice. By understanding how staff view their role in providing younger people with dementia with effective, high-quality dementia care, it is anticipated that a more family-centred approach can be integrated into already established patterns of working that more holistically meet the needs of this group.
Recent studies have implicated adiponectin and other adipocytokines in brain function, particularly in processes related to memory and cognition. Blood levels of adiponectin are reduced in patients with primary cognitive disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment, and in adult patients with major depression. The aim of the present study is to determine serum levels of adiponectin in a sample of elderly patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) as compared to healthy older adults, and to examine the correlations between adiponectin levels and parameters indicative of mood and cognitive state. We recruited fifty-one unmedicated outpatients with late-life depression (LLD) and 47 age-matched controls in this study. The diagnosis of MDD was made according to the DSM-IV criteria, and the severity of depressive episode was determined with the 21-item Hamilton Depression Scale (HDRS). Cognitive state was ascertained with the Cambridge Cognitive Test (CAMCOG) and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Serum concentrations of adiponectin were determined using a sandwich ELISA method. Serum levels of adiponectin were significantly reduced in individuals with LLD (F=p&lt;0.001). Adiponectin level remained significantly reduced in after controlling for BMI index, scores on the CAMCOG, MMSE and HDRS and educational level (p&lt;0.001). Adiponectin levels showed a negative correlation with HDRS scores (r=-0.59, p&lt;0.001) and BMI index (r=-0.42, p&lt;0.001); and showed a positive correlation with CAMCOG (r=0.34, p&lt;0.01) and MMSE scores (r=0.20, p=0.05). The availability of circulating adiponectin is reduced in older adults with major depression, with likely implications on cognitive and mood state. Additional studies are required to determine whether this abnormality pertains to the pathophysiology of geriatric depression per se, or is a consequence of the morbid state.

The present study aimed to investigate glutamate concentrations in patients with unipolar depression in the midcingulate cortex (MCC) as compared to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). We hypothesized a dissociation of glutamate levels with unchanged levels in DLPFC and abnormally changed levels in MCC as well as differential effects of antidepressant pharmacotherapy. Glutamate was determined using magnetic resonance spectroscopy at 3T in DLPFC and MCC in fourteen depressed patients and matched healthy volunteers. A follow-up measurement was performed after 4 weeks of antidepressant treatment. The main finding is a region-specific pattern of glutamate concentrations with increased MCC glutamate concentrations and no significant differences in DLPFC glutamate concentrations in unipolar depressive patients compared to healthy controls. Response and non-response to antidepressant pharmacotherapy were predicted by high glutamate at baseline in DLPFC and MCC, respectively. In addition, treatment responders showed a further increase in DLPFC glutamate levels after successful antidepressant treatment. Findings indicate altered region-specific glutamate concentrations in DLPFC and MCC that are predictive of response and non-response, respectively, to antidepressant pharmacotherapy. These findings might serve as a starting point for future studies in which the value of this metabolite pattern for treatment response prediction should be investigated.
The orexin system plays a major role in the integration of metabolic and circadian influences that drive wakefulness. This paper describes initial Phase I trials of a novel dual orexin receptor antagonist SB-649868 that has demonstrated preclinical potential for treatment of sleep disorders. The trial designs included a single ascending dose escalation study (dose range: 10-80mg in the fed and fasted states) and a multiple repeat dose study (dose range: 5-30mg in the fed state) enrolling a total of 103 male volunteer subjects. SB-649868 was well tolerated at all doses in this study population, with mechanism-related adverse events (e.g. somnolence and fatigue) observed in a majority of subjects after 60 and 80mg single doses. Although total drug exposure was similar in the fed and fasted states, the rate, but not the extent, of absorption increased in the fed state, resulting in an increased C(max). The typical estimated half-life of SB-649868 was 3-6h - comparable with currently used hypnotic agents. Repeated administration of SB-649868 dose-dependently increased exposure to simvastatin (10mg), suggesting CYP3A4 inhibition ranging from very mild (5mg) to strong (30mg). Evening dosing resulted in significant dose-dependent improvement in latency to persistent sleep, total sleep time and wake after sleep onset as measured by polysomnography. Next-morning testing did not detect evidence of residual cognitive effects. Results of these trials support further investigation of SB-649868 and other dual orexin receptor antagonists as potentially effective and well-tolerated treatments for patients with sleep disorders.
Estrogens have been shown to exert powerful effects on cognitive behaviors mediated by several areas of the brain including the cortex. Remodeling of spiny synapses is a key step in the rewiring of neuronal circuitry thought to underlie the processing and storage of information in the forebrain. Whereas estrogen has been shown to regulate synapse structure and function, we are only just starting to understand the molecular and cellular underpinnings of how estrogens can modulate neuronal circuits. Here I will review recent molecular and cellular work that offers a potential mechanism of how estrogen may modulate synapse structure and function of cortical neurons. This mechanism allows cortical neurons to respond to activity-dependent stimuli with greater efficacy in a cellular model termed &quot;Two-Step Wiring Plasticity&quot;. This novel form of spine plasticity thus provides insight into how estrogens may modulate the rewiring of neuronal circuits, underlying its ability to influencing cortically based behaviors. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Neurosteroids'.
Progesterone is being utilized as a therapeutic means to ameliorate neuron loss and cognitive dysfunction following traumatic brain injury. Although there have been numerous attempts to determine the means by which progesterone exerts neuroprotective effects, studies describing the underlying molecular mechanisms are lacking. What has become clear, however, is the notion that progesterone can thwart several physiological processes that are detrimental to neuron function and survival, including inflammation, edema, demyelination and excitotoxicity. One clue regarding the means by which progesterone has restorative value comes from the notion that these aforementioned biological processes all share the common theme of eliciting pronounced increases in intracellular calcium. Thus, we propose the hypothesis that progesterone regulation of calcium signaling underlies its ability to mitigate these cellular insults, ultimately leading to neuroprotection. Further, we describe recent findings that indicate neuroprotection is achieved via progesterone block of voltage-gated calcium channels, although additional outcomes may arise from blockade of various other ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Neurosteroids'.
Coagulation necrosis is a peculiar type of ischemic necrosis that is characterized by firm, eosinophilic parenchyma with recognizable cell outlines without massive glial reactions. This is an autopsy report of coagulation necrosis 6 months after thrombolytic tissue plasminogen activator therapy against massive cerebral embolism in an 84-year-old man with atrial fibrillation.

The purpose of this study was to investigate QOL in parents/caretakers of children with cerebral palsy in the province of Kampong Cham, Cambodia. Forty parents/caretakers of children with cerebral palsy aged 1-13 years (F19/M21) participated in this study. The study was carried out using the Comprehensive Quality of life Scale A5 (ComQOL-A5) questionnaire. Results point out three major domains where quality of life is unsatisfactory: health, material well-being and emotional well-being. Of these areas, QOL in the health domain demonstrates the lowest scores. Results support a further commitment in providing comprehensive rehabilitation for parents and their children with CP in Kampong Cham. This study identifies the need for further research on QOL in parents/caretakers of children with CP in Cambodia and the need for development of valid and reliable QOL instruments targeting the developing world.


Cognitive deficits occur in over half of multiple sclerosis patients, with hippocampal-dependent learning and memory commonly impaired. Data from in vivo MRI and post-mortem studies in MS indicate that the hippocampus is targeted. However, the relationship between structural pathology and dysfunction of the hippocampus in MS remains unclear. Hippocampal neuropathology also occurs in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the most commonly used animal model of MS. Although estrogen treatment of EAE has been shown to be anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective in the spinal cord, it is unknown if estrogen treatment may prevent hippocampal pathology and dysfunction. In the current study we examined excitatory synaptic transmission during EAE and focused on pathological changes in synaptic protein complexes known to orchestrate functional synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. We then determined if estriol, a candidate hormone treatment, was capable of preventing functional changes in synaptic transmission and corresponding hippocampal synaptic pathology. Electrophysiological studies revealed altered excitatory synaptic transmission and paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) during EAE. Neuropathological experiments demonstrated that there were decreased levels of pre- and post-synaptic proteins in the hippocampus, diffuse loss of myelin staining and atrophy of the pyramidal layers of hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 (CA1). Estriol treatment prevented decreases in excitatory synaptic transmission and lessened the effect of EAE on PPF. In addition, estriol treatment prevented several neuropathological alterations that occurred in the hippocampus during EAE. Cross-modality correlations revealed that deficits in excitatory synaptic transmission were significantly correlated with reductions in trans-synaptic protein binding partners known to modulate excitatory synaptic transmission. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing a functional correlate to hippocampal neuropathology in any MS model. Furthermore, a treatment was identified that prevented both deficits in synaptic function and hippocampal neuropathology.
Dementia is one of the most common and important aspects of Parkinson's disease and has consequences for patients and caregivers, and has health-related costs. Mild cognitive impairment is also common and frequently progresses to dementia. The underlying mechanisms of dementia associated with Parkinson's disease are only partly known and no mechanism-based treatments are available. Both dysmetabolism of -synuclein and amyloid-protein and cholinergic deficits contribute to cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease, and preliminary findings show that imaging and neurophysiological and peripheral biomarkers could be useful in diagnosis and prognosis. Rivastigmine is the only licensed treatment for dementia in Parkinson's disease, but emerging evidence suggests that memantine might also be useful. Whether these or other treatments can delay the progression from mild cognitive impairment to dementia in Parkinson's disease is a key research question.

Single-shot echo-planar imaging has been used widely in diffusion magnetic resonance imaging due to the difficulties in correcting motion-induced phase corruption in multishot data. Readout-segmented EPI has addressed the multishot problem by introducing a two-dimensional nonlinear navigator correction with online reacquisition of uncorrectable data to enable acquisition of high-resolution diffusion data with reduced susceptibility artifact and T*(2) blurring. The primary shortcoming of readout-segmented EPI in its current form is its long acquisition time (longer than similar resolution single-shot echo-planar imaging protocols by approximately the number of readout segments), which limits the number of diffusion directions. By omitting readout segments at one side of k-space and using partial Fourier reconstruction, readout-segmented EPI imaging times could be reduced. In this study, the effects of homodyne and projection onto convex sets reconstructions on estimates of the fractional anisotropy, mean diffusivity, and diffusion orientation in fiber tracts and raw T(2)- and trace-weighted signal are compared, along with signal-to-noise ratio results. It is found that projections onto convex sets reconstruction with 3/5 segments in a 2 mm isotropic diffusion tensor image acquisition and 9/13 segments in a 0.9  0.9  4.0 mm(3) diffusion-weighted image acquisition provide good fidelity relative to the full k-space parameters. This allows application of readout-segmented EPI to tractography studies, and clinical stroke and oncology protocols.
Serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) innervate both the left and right hemispheres of the brain, but whether they affect lateralization of function is unknown. This paper concisely examines evidence that these two neurotransmitters differentially affect the two hemispheres, and puts forth the novel hypothesis 5-HT preferentially activates the right hemisphere (RH) and NE the left hemisphere (LH). The principal lines of evidence comprise studies of: (1) 5-HT and NE level measurement, (2) receptor binding, (3) functional brain imaging, (4) dichotic listening, and (5) electroencephalography and evoked potentials. In assessing these 5 lines, emphasis is placed on studies of pharmaceutical drugs that affect the 5-HT and NE systems. While all of the data do not support the hypothesis, they are generally consistent with it, or a variant of the hypothesis that there is a bias toward 5-HT preferentially activating a majority of brain areas or functions in the RH, and NE a majority of LH areas or functions. If this hypothesis, or a variant of it, is correct, it may be relevant to understanding the physiological basis of neuropsychiatric disorders that could involve dysfunction in brain monoaminergic systems, as well as understanding potential lateralization of the effects of drugs that act on these systems.
About 25-50% of children and adolescents with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) experience sleep problems. An appropriate assessment and treatment of such problems might improve the quality of life in such patients and reduce both the severity of ADHD and the impairment it causes. According to data in the literature and to the overall complexity of the interaction between ADHD and sleep, five sleep phenotypes may be identified in ADHD: (i) a sleep phenotype characterized mainly by a hypo-arousal state, resembling narcolepsy, which may be considered a &quot;primary&quot; form of ADHD (i.e. without the interference of other sleep disorders); (ii) a phenotype associated with delayed sleep onset latency and with a higher risk of bipolar disorder; (iii) a phenotype associated with sleep disordered breathing (SDB); (iv) another phenotype related to restless legs syndrome (RLS) and/or periodic limb movements; (v) lastly, a phenotype related to epilepsy/or EEG interictal discharges. Each sleep phenotype is characterized by peculiar sleep alterations expressed by either an increased or decreased level of arousal during sleep that have important treatment implications. Treatment with stimulants is recommended above all in the primary form of ADHD, whereas treatment of the main sleep disorders or of co-morbidities (i.e. bipolar disorders and epilepsy) is preferred in the other sleep phenotypes. All the sleep phenotypes, except the primary form of ADHD and those related to focal benign epilepsy or focal EEG discharges, are associated with an increased level of arousal during sleep. Recent studies have demonstrated that both an increase and a decrease in arousal are ascribable to executive dysfunctions controlled by prefrontal cortical regions (the main cortical areas implicated in the pathogenesis of ADHD), and that the arousal system, which may be hyperactivated or hypoactivated depending on the form of ADHD/sleep phenotype.


Clinical observations stemming from widespread employment of restorative L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) therapy for management of dyskinesia in Parkinson's Disease (PD) patients implicate a regulatory role for endogenous morphine in central nervous system dopamine neurotransmission. Reciprocally, it appears that restorative L-DOPA administration has provided us with a compelling in vivo pharmacological model for targeting peripheral sites involved in endogenous morphine expression in human subjects. The biological activities underlying endogenous morphine expression and its interaction with its major precursor dopamine strongly suggest that endogenous morphine systems are reciprocally dysregulated in PD. These critical issues are examined from historical and current perspectives within our short review.

The purpose of the present study was to highlight the role of location-identity binding mismatches in obscuring explicit awareness of a strong contingency. In a spatial-priming procedure, we introduced a high likelihood of location-repeat trials. Experiments 1, 2a, and 2b demonstrated that participants' explicit awareness of this contingency was heavily influenced by the local match in location-identity bindings. In Experiment 3, we sought to determine why location-identity binding mismatches produce such low levels of contingency awareness. Our results suggest that binding mismatches can interfere substantially with visual-memory performance. We attribute the low levels of contingency awareness to participants' inability to remember the critical location-identity binding in the prime on a trial-to-trial basis. These results imply a close interplay between object files and visual working memory.
The RecG enzyme, a superfamily 2 helicase, is present in nearly all bacteria. Here we report for the first time that the recG gene is also present in the genomes of most vascular plants as well as in green algae, but is not found in other eukaryotes or archaea. The precise function of RecG is poorly understood, although ample evidence shows that it plays critical roles in DNA repair, recombination and replication. We further demonstrate that Mycobacterium tuberculosis RecG (RecG(Mtb)) DNA binding activity had a broad substrate specificity, whereas it only unwound branched-DNA substrates such as Holliday junctions (HJs), replication forks, D-loops and R-loops, with a strong preference for the HJ as a helicase substrate. In addition, RecG(Mtb) preferentially bound relatively long (40 nt) ssDNA, exhibiting a higher affinity for the homopolymeric nucleotides poly(dT), poly(dG) and poly(dC) than for poly(dA). RecG(Mtb) helicase activity was supported by hydrolysis of ATP or dATP in the presence of Mg(2+), Mn(2+), Cu(2+) or Fe(2+). Like its Escherichia coli orthologue, RecG(Mtb) is also a strictly DNA-dependent ATPase.
Advances in microscopy allow one to probe the structure of neurons and their interactions with astrocytes in brain slices and in vivo at ever increasing resolution. Moreover, the dynamic interactions between the cells can be examined in live preparation. In this paper we discuss how a variety of imaging approaches: confocal microscopy, electron microscopy, and multiphoton time-lapse microscopy are employed to probe neuron glia interactions in the developing cerebellum.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone is a neuropeptide that acts via Gq coupled G-protein coupled receptors in the pituitary that mediate central control of reproduction. GnRH receptors (GnRHR) and GnRH ligands are also found in extra-pituitary sites including the CNS as well as reproductive tissues and cancer cells derived from such tissues. Much of the interest in the extra-pituitary receptors stems from the fact that they mediate anti-proliferative and/or pro-apoptotic effects and may therefore be directly targeted for cancer therapy. Type I mammalian GnRHR are atypical in that they do not bind to (or signal via) arrestins. In spite of this restriction on their signaling repertoire, there is good evidence for existence of multiple active GnRHR conformations and for activation of multiple upstream effectors (heterotrimeric and monomeric G-proteins). In this review GnRHR signaling is described, with emphasis on the relevance of functional selectivity for pharmacological characterization of GnRHR ligands, as well as its possible contribution to contextdependent GnRHR signaling and relevance for GnRHR-mediated effects on cell fate as well as GnRHR trafficking.
Most cells in tissues are polarized and usually have two distinct plasma membrane domains-an apical membrane and a basolateral membrane, which are the result of polarized trafficking of proteins and lipids. However, the mechanism underlying the cell polarization is not fully understood. In this study, we investigated the involvement of synaptotagmin-like protein 2-a (Slp2-a), an effector molecule for the small GTPase Rab27, in polarized trafficking by using Madin-Darby canine kidney II cells as a model of polarized cells. The results show that the level of Slp2-a expression in MDCK II cells increases greatly as the cells become polarized and that its expression is specifically localized at the apical membrane. The results also reveal that Slp2-a is required for targeting of the signaling molecule podocalyxin to the apical membrane in a Rab27A-dependent manner. In addition, ezrin, a downstream target of podocalyxin, and ERK1/2 are activated in Slp2-a-knockdown cells, and their activation results in a dramatic reduction in the amount of the tight junction protein claudin-2. Because both Slp2-a and claudin-2 are highly expressed in mouse renal proximal tubules, Slp2-a is likely to regulate claudin-2 expression through trafficking of podocalyxin to the apical surface in mouse renal tubule epithelial cells.
Autophagy is a bulk degradation system in all eukaryotic cells and regulates a variety of biological activities in higher eukaryotes. Recently involvement of autophagy in the regulation of the secretory pathway has also been reported, but the molecular mechanism linking autophagy with the secretory pathway remains largely unknown. Here we show that Atg16L1, an essential protein for canonical autophagy, is localized on hormone-containing dense-core vesicles in neuroendocrine PC12 cells and that knockdown of Atg16L1 causes a dramatic reduction in the level of hormone secretion independently of autophagic activity. We also find that Atg16L1 interacts with the small GTPase Rab33A and that this interaction is required for the dense-core vesicle localization of Atg16L1 in PC12 cells. Our findings indicate that Atg16L1 regulates not only autophagy in all cell types, but also secretion from dense-core vesicles, presumably by acting as a Rab33A effector, in particular cell types.
The generation of myelinating cells from multipotential neural stem cells in the CNS requires the initiation of specific gene expression programs in oligodendrocytes (OLs). We reasoned that microRNAs (miRNAs) could play an important role in this process by regulating genes crucial for OL development. Here we identified miR-7a as one of the highly enriched miRNAs in oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), overexpression of which in either neural progenitor cells (NPCs) or embryonic mouse cortex promoted the generation of OL lineage cells. Blocking the function of miR-7a in differentiating NPCs led to a reduction in OL number and an expansion of neuronal populations simultaneously. We also found that overexpression of this miRNA in purified OPC cultures promoted cell proliferation and inhibited further maturation. In addition, miR-7a might exert the effects just mentioned partially by directly repressing proneuronal differentiation factors including Pax6 and NeuroD4, or proOL genes involved in oligodendrocyte maturation. These results suggest that miRNA pathway is essential in determining cell fate commitment for OLs and thus providing a new strategy for modulating this process in OL loss diseases.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) plays a critical role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. APP is proteolytically cleaved by - and -secretases to generate the amyloid -protein (A), the core protein component of senile plaques in AD. It is also cleaved by -secretase to release the large soluble APP (sAPP) luminal domain that has been shown to exhibit trophic properties. Increasing evidence points to the development of synaptic deficits and dendritic spine loss prior to deposition of amyloid in transgenic mouse models that overexpress APP and A peptides. The consequence of loss of APP, however, is unsettled. In this study, we investigated whether APP itself plays a role in regulating synaptic structure and function using an APP knock-out (APP-/-) mouse model. We examined dendritic spines in primary cultures of hippocampal neurons and CA1 neurons of hippocampus from APP-/- mice. In the cultured neurons, there was a significant decrease (~35%) in spine density in neurons derived from APP-/- mice compared to littermate control neurons that were partially restored with sAPP-conditioned medium. In APP-/- mice in vivo, spine numbers were also significantly reduced but by a smaller magnitude (~15%). Furthermore, apical dendritic length and dendritic arborization were markedly diminished in hippocampal neurons. These abnormalities in neuronal morphology were accompanied by reduction in long-term potentiation. Strikingly, all these changes in vivo were only seen in mice that were 12-15 months in age but not in younger animals. We propose that APP, specifically sAPP, is necessary for the maintenance of dendritic integrity in the hippocampus in an age-associated manner. Finally, these age-related changes may contribute to AD pathology independent of A-mediated synaptic toxicity.
Lithium was recently shown to inhibit apoptosis and promote survival of neural progenitor cells after hypoxia-ischemia in the immature rat brain. Our aim was to evaluate the effects of lithium on cell death and proliferation in the hippocampus after irradiation (IR) to the immature brain. Male mice were injected with 2 mmol/kg lithium chloride i.p. on postnatal day 9 (P9) and additional lithium injections, 1 mmol/kg, were administered at 24 h intervals for up to 7 days. BrdU was injected 4 h after lithium injections on P9 and P10. The left hemisphere received a single dose of 8 Gy (MV photons) on P11. The animals were euthanized 6 h or 7 weeks after IR. The number of BrdU-labeled cells in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the granule cell layer (GCL) 6h after IR was 24% higher in the lithium-treated mice. The number of proliferating, phospho-histone H3-positive cells in the SGZ 7 weeks after IR was 59% higher in the lithium group, so the effect was long-lasting. The number of apoptotic cells in the SGZ 6 h after IR was lower in the lithium group, as judged by 3 different parameters, pyknosis, staining for active caspase-3 and TUNEL. Newly formed cells (BrdU-labeled 1 or 2 days before IR) showed the greatest degree of protection, as judged by 50% fewer TUNEL-positive cells, whereas non-BrdU-labeled cells showed 38% fewer TUNEL-positive cells 6 h after IR. Consequently, the growth retardation of the GCL was less pronounced in the lithium group. The number and size of microglia in the DG were also lower in the lithium group, indicating reduced inflammation. Learning was facilitated after lithium treatment, as judged by improved context-dependent fear conditioning, and improved place learning, as judged by assessment in the IntelliCage platform. In summary, lithium administration could decrease IR-induced neural progenitor cell apoptosis in the GCL of the hippocampus and ameliorate learning impairments. It remains to be shown if lithium can be used to prevent the debilitating cognitive late effects seen in children treated with cranial radiotherapy.
To determine the frequency of mutations responsible for Gaucher's disease, we systematically sequenced the GBA1 gene as part of a molecular characterization of 73 adult patients in the United Kingdom. Five hitherto unknown pathogenic variants were identified, one of which is a splice site change; the others are novel missense mutations. Given that GBA1 gene mutations are an important risk factor for the development of Parkinson's disease, we contend that a complete analysis and molecular characterization of both the known and novel GBA1 variants will be needed before the biochemical processes underlying this genetic association can be fully understood.
Neurodegenerative diseases encompass complex cell signaling disturbances that initially damage neuronal circuits and synapses. Due to multiple protective mechanisms enacted to counteract the onset of neurodegenerative diseases, there is often a prolonged period without noticeable impairments during their initiation. Since severe cognitive deficit or vision loss takes place after that period there is an opportunity to harness endogenous protective mechanisms as potential therapeutic approaches. The activation of the biosynthesis of the docosanoid mediator neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1) is an early response to the upsurge of protein misfolding and other neuroinflammatory events. This overview discusses the potent neuroprotective and inflammation-modulating bioactivity of NPD1. This lipid mediator represents an early response to neurodegenerations, aiming to restore homeostasis.

As the growth of the aging population continues to accelerate globally, increased prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and stroke, has generated substantial public concern. Unfortunately, despite of discoveries of common factors underlying these diseases, few drugs are available to effectively treat these diseases. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-) is a ligand-activated transcriptional factor that belongs to the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily. PPAR- has been shown to influence the expression or activity of a large number of genes in a variety of signaling networks, including regulation of insulin sensitivity, glucose homeostasis, fatty acid oxidation, immune responses, redox balance, cardiovascular integrity, and cell fates. Recent epidemiological, preclinical animal, and clinical studies also show that PPAR- agonists can lower the incidence of a number of neurological disorders, despite of multiple etiological factors involved in the development of these disorders. In this manuscript, we review current knowledge on mechanisms underlying the beneficial effect of PPAR- in different neurodegenerative diseases, in particular, AD, PD, and stroke, and attempt to analyze common and overlapping features among these diseases. Our investigation unveiled information suggesting the ability for PPAR- to inhibit NF-B-mediated inflammatory signaling at multiple sites, and conclude that PPAR- agonists represent a novel class of drugs for treating neuroinflammatory diseases.
Human brain cells rely on a specific subset of microRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) to shape their gene expression patterns, and this is mediated through microRNA effects on messenger RNA (mRNA) speciation and complexity. In recent studies (a) in short post-mortem interval Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain tissues versus age-matched controls, and (b) in pro-inflammatory cytokine- and A42 peptide-stressed human neuronal-glial (HNG) cells in primary culture, we have identified several brain-abundant miRNA species found to be significantly up-regulated, including miR-125b and miR-146a. Both of these nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B)-activated, 22 nucleotide small non-coding RNAs (sncRNAs) target the mRNA of the key, innate-immune- and inflammation-related regulatory protein, complement factor-H (CFH; chr 1q32), resulting in significant decreases in CFH expression (p&lt;0.01, ANOVA). Our results further indicate that HNG cells respond to IL-1+A42-peptide-induced stress by significant NF-B-modulated up-regulation of miRNA-125b- and miRNA-146a. The complex interactive signaling of NF-B, miR-125b, miR-146a, and perhaps other miRNAs, further illustrate interplay between inducible transcription factors and multiple pro-inflammatory sncRNAs that regulate CFH expression. The novel concept of miRNA actions involving mRNA target convergence and divergence are proposed and discussed. The combinatorial use of NF-B inhibitors with anti-miRNAs (AMs; antagomirs) may have potential against CFH-driven pathogenic signaling in neurodegenerative disease, and may redirect our therapeutic perspectives to novel treatment strategies that have not yet been considered.
Insulin receptors in the brain are found in high densities in the hippocampus, a region that is fundamentally involved in the acquisition, consolidation, and recollection of new information. Using the intranasal method, which effectively bypasses the blood-brain barrier to deliver and target insulin directly from the nose to the brain, a series of experiments involving healthy humans has shown that increased central nervous system (CNS) insulin action enhances learning and memory processes associated with the hippocampus. Since Alzheimer's disease (AD) is linked to CNS insulin resistance, decreased expression of insulin and insulin receptor genes and attenuated permeation of blood-borne insulin across the blood-brain barrier, impaired brain insulin signaling could partially account for the cognitive deficits associated with this disease. Considering that insulin mitigates hippocampal synapse vulnerability to amyloid beta and inhibits the phosphorylation of tau, pharmacological strategies bolstering brain insulin signaling, such as intranasal insulin, could have significant therapeutic potential to deter AD pathogenesis.
Drug-induced plasticity of excitatory synapses has been proposed to be the cellular mechanism underlying the aberrant learning associated with addiction. Exposure to various drugs of abuse causes both morphological plasticity of dendritic spines and functional plasticity of excitatory synaptic transmission. Chronic activation of -opioid receptors (MOR) in cultured hippocampal neurons causes two forms of synaptic plasticity: loss of dendritic spines and loss of synaptic -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors. With use of live imaging, patch-clamp electrophysiology, and immunocytochemistry, the present study reveals that these two forms of synaptic plasticity are mediated by separate, but interactive, intracellular signaling cascades. The inhibition of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II with 1-[N,O-bis(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-N-methyl-l-tyrosyl]-4-phenylpiperazine (KN-62) blocks MOR-mediated structural plasticity of dendritic spines, but not MOR-mediated cellular redistribution of GluR1 and GluR2 AMPA receptor subunits. In contrast, the inhibition of calcineurin with tacrolimus (FK506) blocks both cellular processes. These findings support the idea that drug-induced structural and functional plasticity of dendritic spines is mediated by divergent, but interactive, signaling pathways.
Links between impulsive-compulsive behaviors (ICBs) in treated Parkinson's disease (PD), behavioral addictions, and substance abuse have been postulated, but no direct comparisons have been carried out so far. We directly compared patients with PD with and without ICBs with illicit drug abusers, pathological gamblers, and age-matched healthy controls using the beads task, a test of reflection impulsivity, and a working memory task. We found that all patients with PD made more impulsive and irrational choices than the control group. PD patients who had an ICB showed similar behavior to illicit substance abusers, whereas patients without ICBs more closely resembled pathological gamblers. In contrast, we found no difference in working memory performance within the PD groups. However, PD patients without ICBs remembered distractors significantly less than all other patients during working memory tests. We were able to correctly classify 96% of the PD patients with respect to whether or not they had an ICB by analyzing three trials of the 80/20 loss condition of the beads task with a negative prediction value of 92.3%, and we propose that this task may prove to be a powerful screening tool to detect an ICB in PD. Our results also suggest that intact cortical processing and less distractibility in PD patients without ICBs may protect them from developing behavioral addictions.


Huntington's disease (HD) is a rare, neurodegenerative disorder characterized by chorea, behavioral manifestations, and dementia. The aim of this study was to estimate the incidence and prevalence of HD through a systematic review of the literature. Medline and Embase databases were searched using terms specific to HD as well as studies of incidence, prevalence, and epidemiology. All studies reporting the incidence and/or prevalence of HD were included. Twenty original research articles were included. Eight studies examined incidence, and 17 studies examined prevalence. Meta-analysis of data from four incidence studies revealed an incidence of 0.38 per 100,000 per year (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.16, 0.94). Lower incidence was reported in the Asian studies (n = 2), compared to the studies performed in Europe, North America, and Australia (n = 6). The worldwide service-based prevalence of HD, based on a meta-analysis (n = 13 studies), was 2.71 per 100,000 (95% CI: 1.55-4.72). Eleven studies were conducted in Europe, North American, and Australia, with an overall prevalence of 5.70 per 100,000 (95% CI: 4.42-7.35). Three studies were conducted in Asia, with an overall prevalence of 0.40 per 100,000 (95% CI: 0.26-0.61). Metaregression revealed a significantly lower prevalence of HD in Asia, compared to European, North American, and Australian populations. HD is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder with a higher prevalence in Europe, North America, and Australia than in Asia. The difference in prevalence of this genetic disorder can be largely explained by huntingtin gene haplotypes.
Two hundred and twenty-one subjects with Parkinson's disease (PD) were examined using the Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), with a subset of these (n = 98) examined on repeat testing up to 3 years. The MoCA was more sensitive in identifying cognitive deficit, specifically in the domains of visuospatial abilities, language, and memory. In longitudinal study, the MMSE changed significantly over time, particularly in patients with disease duration of &gt;10 years. The MoCA, however, did not change significantly, even when subjects were stratified by age, MMSE score, and disease duration. This suggests that the MoCA may be more sensitive for detecting early cognitive change in PD, but that the MMSE, and not the MoCA, may be better for tracking cognitive decline.


The human nociceptive withdrawal reflex is typically assessed using surface electromyography (sEMG). Based on sEMG, the reflex receptive field (RRF) can be mapped. However, EMG crosstalk can cause erroneous results in the RRF determination. Single differential (SD) vs. double differential (DD) surface EMG were evaluated. Different electrode areas and inter-electrode-distances (IED) were evaluated. The reflexes were elicited by electrical stimulation of the sole of the foot. EMG was obtained from both tibialis anterior (TA) and soleus (SOL) using both surface and intramuscular EMG (iEMG). The amount of crosstalk was significantly higher in SD recordings than in DD recordings (P &lt; 0.05). Crosstalk increased when electrode measuring area increased (P &lt; 0.05) and when IED increased (P &lt; 0.05). Reflex detection sensitivity decreases with increasing measuring area and increasing IED. These results stress that for determination of RRF and similar tasks, DD recordings should be applied.

Unlike healthy adult tissues, cancers produce energy mainly by aerobic glycolysis instead of oxidative phosphorylation. This adaptation, called the Warburg effect, may be a feature of all dividing cells, both normal and cancerous, or it may be specific to cancers. It is not known whether, in a normally growing tissue during development, proliferating and postmitotic cells produce energy in fundamentally different ways. Here we show in the embryonic Xenopus retina in vivo, that dividing progenitor cells depend less on oxidative phosphorylation for ATP production than non-dividing differentiated cells, and instead use glycogen to fuel aerobic glycolysis. The transition from glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation is connected to the cell differentiation process. Glycolysis is indispensable for progenitor proliferation and biosynthesis, even when it is not used for ATP production. These results suggest that the Warburg effect can be a feature of normal proliferation in vivo, and that the regulation of glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation is critical for normal development.
Primary astrocytomas of grade 3 or 4 according to the classification system of the World Health Organization (high-grade astrocytomas or HGAs) are preponderant among adults and are almost invariably fatal despite the use of multimodal therapy. Here we show that the juvenile brain has an endogenous defense mechanism against HGAs. Neural precursor cells (NPCs) migrate to HGAs, reduce glioma expansion and prolong survival time by releasing endovanilloids that activate the vanilloid receptor (transient receptor potential vanilloid subfamily member-1 or TRPV1) on HGA cells. TRPV1 is highly expressed in tumor and weakly expressed in tumor-free brain. TRPV1 stimulation triggers tumor cell death through the branch of the endoplasmic reticulum stress pathway that is controlled by activating transcription factor-3 (ATF3). The antitumorigenic response of NPCs is lost with aging. NPC-mediated tumor suppression can be mimicked in the adult brain by systemic administration of the synthetic vanilloid arvanil, suggesting that TRPV1 agonists have potential as new HGA therapeutics.
Mycobacterial pathogenesis is closely associated with a unique cell envelope rich in complex carbohydrates and unique lipids, among which are the mycolic acids. Mycobacteria also synthesize unique intracellular polymethylated polysaccharides (PMPSs), namely methylglucose lipopolysaccharides (MGLPs), which are acylated with short-chain fatty acids, and methylmannose polysaccharides (MMPs). Since PMPSs modulate the synthesis of long-chain fatty acids in vitro, the possibility of a similar role in vivo and the regulation of mycolic acids assembly have been anticipated. Unlike MGLPs, MMPs have been identified in M. smegmatis and other fast-growing mycobacteria but not in M. tuberculosis, implying an essential role for MGLPs in this pathogen and turning the biosynthetic enzymes into attractive drug targets. The genome of M. tuberculosis was decoded 14 years ago but only recently has the identity of the genes involved in MGLPs biosynthesis been investigated. Two gene clusters (Rv1208-Rv1213 and Rv3030-Rv3037c) containing a few genes considered to be essential for M. tuberculosis growth, have initially been proposed to coordinate MGLPs biosynthesis. Among these genes, only the product of Rv1208 for the first step in the MGLPs pathway has, so far, been crystallized and its three-dimensional structure been determined. However, recent results indicate that at least three additional clusters may be involved in this pathway. The functional assignment of authentic roles to some of these M. tuberculosis H37Rv genes sheds new light on the intricacy of MGLPs biogenesis and renewed interest on their biological role.
The cardinal symptoms of Parkinson disease (PD) are asymmetrical bradykinesia, rigidity, resting tremor and postural instability. However, the presence and spectrum of, and disability caused by, nonmotor symptoms (NMS) are being increasingly recognized. NMS include dementia, psychosis, depression and apathy, and are a major source of disability in later stages of PD, in association with axial symptoms that are resistant to levodopa therapy. The model of clinical progression of PD should, therefore, incorporate NMS, instead of being restricted to motor signs and levodopa-induced motor complications. Patients with disabling motor complications are classified as having advanced PD, which has been thought to represent the ultimate stage of disease. However, deep brain stimulation to treat motor complications has dramatically changed this scenario, with implications for the definition of advanced-stage disease. As treatment improves and survival times increase, patients are increasingly progressing to a later phase of disease in which they are highly dependent on caregivers, and disability is dominated by motor symptoms and NMS that are resistant to levodopa. In this article, we review the changing landscape of the later stages of PD, and propose a definition of late-stage PD to designate patients who have progressed beyond the advanced stage.
Amyloid- (A) plays a crucial part in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD), making this peptide an attractive therapeutic target. However, clearance of brain A in clinical trials of A-specific antibodies did not improve cognition in patients with AD, leading to reassessment of the current therapeutic strategies. Moreover, current immunotherapies are associated with autoimmunity-related adverse effects, and mobilization of neurotoxic insoluble A-oligomers. Despite the fact that antibodies to the N-terminal domain of A can promote A production, immunotherapies in ongoing clinical trials predominantly target this peptide region. Here, we address the challenges of adverse effects of immunotherapy for AD. We discuss available evidence regarding the mechanisms of both endogenous and exogenous A-specific antibodies, with a view to developing optimal immunotherapy based on peripheral A clearance, targeting of the toxic domain of A, and improvement of antibody specificity. Such strategies should help to make immunotherapy a safe and efficacious disease-modifying treatment option for AD.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a clinical syndrome with a heterogeneous molecular basis. Until recently, the underlying cause was known in only a minority of cases that were associated with abnormalities of the tau protein or gene. In 2006, however, mutations in the progranulin gene were discovered as another important cause of familial FTD. That same year, TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) was identified as the pathological protein in the most common subtypes of FTD and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Since then, substantial efforts have been made to understand the functions and regulation of progranulin and TDP-43, as well as their roles in neurodegeneration. More recently, other DNA/RNA binding proteins (FET family proteins) have been identified as the pathological proteins in most of the remaining cases of FTD. In 2011, abnormal expansion of a hexanucleotide repeat in the gene C9orf72 was found to be the most common genetic cause of both FTD and ALS. All common FTD-causing genes have seemingly now been discovered and the main pathological proteins identified. In this Review, we highlight recent advances in understanding the molecular aspects of FTD, which will provide the basis for improved patient care through the development of more-targeted diagnostic tests and therapies.
We present a general and fully dynamic neural system, which exploits intrinsic chaotic dynamics, for the real-time goal-directed exploration and learning of the possible locomotion patterns of an articulated robot of an arbitrary morphology in an unknown environment. The controller is modeled as a network of neural oscillators that are initially coupled only through physical embodiment, and goal-directed exploration of coordinated motor patterns is achieved by chaotic search using adaptive bifurcation. The phase space of the indirectly coupled neural-body-environment system contains multiple transient or permanent self-organized dynamics, each of which is a candidate for a locomotion behavior. The adaptive bifurcation enables the system orbit to wander through various phase-coordinated states, using its intrinsic chaotic dynamics as a driving force, and stabilizes on to one of the states matching the given goal criteria. In order to improve the sustainability of useful transient patterns, sensory homeostasis has been introduced, which results in an increased diversity of motor outputs, thus achieving multiscale exploration. A rhythmic pattern discovered by this process is memorized and sustained by changing the wiring between initially disconnected oscillators using an adaptive synchronization method. Our results show that the novel neurorobotic system is able to create and learn multiple locomotion behaviors for a wide range of body configurations and physical environments and can readapt in realtime after sustaining damage.
We discuss an attentional model for simultaneous object tracking and recognition that is driven by gaze data. Motivated by theories of perception, the model consists of two interacting pathways, identity and control, intended to mirror the what and where pathways in neuroscience models. The identity pathway models object appearance and performs classification using deep (factored)-restricted Boltzmann machines. At each point in time, the observations consist of foveated images, with decaying resolution toward the periphery of the gaze. The control pathway models the location, orientation, scale, and speed of the attended object. The posterior distribution of these states is estimated with particle filtering. Deeper in the control pathway, we encounter an attentional mechanism that learns to select gazes so as to minimize tracking uncertainty. Unlike in our previous work, we introduce gaze selection strategies that operate in the presence of partial information and on a continuous action space. We show that a straightforward extension of the existing approach to the partial information setting results in poor performance, and we propose an alternative method based on modeling the reward surface as a gaussian process. This approach gives good performance in the presence of partial information and allows us to expand the action space from a small, discrete set of fixation points to a continuous domain.

Insects are becoming a reference point in Neuroscience for the study of biological aspects at the basis of cognitive processes. These animals have much simpler brains with respect to higher animals, showing, at the same time, impressive capability to adaptively react and take decisions in front of complex environmental situations. In this paper we propose a neural model inspired by the insect olfactory system, with particular attention to the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. This architecture is a multilayer spiking network, where each layer is inspired by the structures of the insect brain mainly involved in olfactory information processing, namely the Mushroom Bodies, the Lateral Horns and the Antennal Lobes. In the Antennal Lobes layer olfactory signals lead to a competition among sets of neurons, resulting in a pattern which is projected to the Mushroom Bodies layer. Here a competitive reaction-diffusion process leads to a spontaneous emerging of clusters. The Lateral Horns have been modeled as a delayed input-triggered resetting system. Using plastic recurrent connections, with the addition of simple learning mechanisms, the structure is able to realize a top-down modulation at the input level. This leads to the emergence of an attentional loop as well as to the arousal of basic expectation behaviors in case of subsequently presented stimuli. Simulation results and analysis on the biological plausibility of the architecture are provided and the role of noise in the network is reported.
We sought to assess the population-based estimates of age-standardized survival among patients with low-grade gliomas (LGG) and to determine the impact of age and time on relative survival (RS). Data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) program of NCI from 1973 through 2006 were analyzed to assess survival among 5037 patients. Relationships were modeled using Dickman's piecewise constant hazards RS model. The 3- and 10-year age-standardized RS were 67% and 37%, respectively. When analyzed by age group, the 10-year overall survival (OS) and RS for children (age, &lt;16 years), young adults (age, 16-39 years), adults (age, 40-64 years), and older patients (age, 65 years) were 86% and 86%, 61% and 62%, 40% and 43%, and 10% and 14%, respectively. The observed difference between OS and RS was larger among older patients (4%) and smallest among children (&lt;1%). Older patients were 30.5 times (excess hazard ratio [eHR]; 95% confidence interval [CI], 20.3-50.0) as likely as young adults to die during the first year and 18.2 times as likely to die during the second year. Adults were 5.3 (eHR; 95% CI, 3.5-8.1) times as likely to die during their first year as young adults. In the remaining years, the observed survival differences were substantially decreased, and the presence of an age-by-follow-up interaction was observed. Survival among older patients with LGG was substantially different from the one computed for young adults and children. Despite the hazards across age groups not being proportional, RS does not provide additional information, compared with OS, in patients with LGG.
An intronic expansion of a hexanucleotide GGGGCC repeat in the C9ORF72 gene has recently been shown to be an important cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) in familial and sporadic cases. The frequency has only been defined in a small number of populations where the highest sporadic rate was identified in Finland (21.1%) and the lowest in mainland Italy (4.1%). We examined the C9ORF72 expansion in a series of 146 Greek ALS cases, 10.95% (n = 16) of cases carried the pathological expansion defined as greater than 30 repeats. In the 10 familial ALS probands, 50% (n = 5) of them carried a pathologically large expansion. In the remaining 136 sporadic ALS cases, 11 were carriers (8.2%). None of the 228 Greek controls carried an expanded repeat. The phenotype of our cases was spinal (13/16) or bulbar (3/16) ALS, the familial cases were all spinal ALS and none of our cases had behavioral frontotemporal dementia. Expansions in the C9ORF72 gene therefore represent a common cause of ALS in Greece and this test will be diagnostically very important to implement in the Greek population. The frequency is higher than other populations with the exception of Finland and this may be due to Greece being a relatively isolated population.

Polymorphisms in the paraoxonase family (PON) have been reported in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), but a recent meta-analysis did not show a clear association. Recently, PON mutations have also been identified in ALS patients. In this study, we assessed the frequency of PON variants in 1118 sporadic ALS patients, 93 familial ALS patients, and 1240 control subjects of Dutch descent. We identified PON mutations in 1.4% of sporadic ALS patients, 2.1% of familial ALS patients, and 2.5% of control subjects. There were no significant differences in mutational burden for rare variants or in allele frequencies of polymorphisms between patients and control subjects. Thus, this study does not support the premise that mutations or polymorphisms in PON contribute to ALS susceptibility.
Using resting state (RS) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the connectivity patterns of the default mode (DMN), frontoparietal, executive, and salience networks were explored in 13 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, 12 amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) patients, and 13 healthy controls. Compared with controls and aMCI, AD was associated with opposing connectivity effects in the DMN (decreased) and frontal networks (enhanced). The only RS abnormality found in aMCI patients compared with controls was a precuneus connectivity reduction in the DMN. RS fMRI group differences were only partly related to gray matter atrophy. In AD patients, the mean executive network connectivity was positively associated with frontal-executive and language neuropsychological scores. These results suggest that AD is associated with an alteration of large-scale functional brain networks, which extends well beyond the DMN. In AD, the limited resources of the DMN may be paralleled, in an attempt to maintain cognitive efficiency, by an increased prefrontal connectivity. A medial parietal RS fMRI signal change seems to be present since the early phase of AD.
We previously demonstrated that allopregnanolone (AP) increased proliferation of neural progenitor cells and reversed neurogenic and cognitive deficits prior to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology (Wang, J.M., Johnston, P.B., Ball, B.G., Brinton, R.D., 2005. The neurosteroid allopregnanolone promotes proliferation of rodent and human neural progenitor cells and regulates cell-cycle gene and protein expression. J. Neurosci. 25, 4706-4718; Wang, J.M., Singh, C., Liu, L., Irwin, R.W., Chen, S., Chung, E.J., Thompson, R.F., Brinton, R.D., 2010. Allopregnanolone reverses neurogenic and cognitive deficits in mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 107, 6498-6503). Herein, we determined efficacy of AP to restore neural progenitor cell survival and associative learning and memory subsequent to AD pathology in male 3xTgAD mice and their nontransgenic (nonTg) counterparts. AP significantly increased survival of bromodeoxyuridine positive (BrdU+) cells and hippocampal-dependent associative learning and memory in 3xTgAD mice in the presence of intraneuronal amyloid beta (A) whereas AP was ineffective subsequent to development of extraneuronal A plaques. Restoration of hippocampal-dependent associative learning was maximal by the first day and sustained throughout behavioral training. Learning and memory function in AP-treated 3xTgAD mice was 100% greater than vehicle-treated and comparable to maximal normal nonTg performance. In aged 15-month-old nonTg mice, AP significantly increased survival of bromodeoxyuridine-positive cells and hippocampal-dependent associative learning and memory. Results provide preclinical evidence that AP promoted survival of newly generated cells and restored cognitive performance in the preplaque phase of AD pathology and in late-stage normal aging.
Aberrant DNA methylation patterns have been linked to molecular and cellular alterations in the aging brain. Caloric restriction (CR) and upregulation of antioxidants have been proposed as interventions to prevent or delay age-related brain pathology. Previously, we have shown in large cohorts of aging mice, that age-related increases in DNA methyltransferase 3a (Dnmt3a) immunoreactivity in the mouse hippocampus were attenuated by CR, but not by overexpression of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). Here, we investigated age-related alterations of 5-methylcytidine (5-mC), a marker of DNA methylation levels, in a hippocampal subregion-specific manner. Examination of 5-mC immunoreactivity in 12- and 24-month-old wild type (WT) mice on control diet, mice overexpressing SOD1 on control diet, wild type mice on CR, and SOD1 mice on CR, indicated an age-related increase in 5-mC immunoreactivity in the hippocampal dentate gyrus, CA3, and CA1-2 regions, which was prevented by CR but not by SOD1 overexpression. Moreover, positive correlations between 5-mC and Dnmt3a immunoreactivity were observed in the CA3 and CA1-2. These findings suggest a crucial role for DNA methylation in hippocampal aging and in the mediation of the beneficial effects of CR on aging.
HIV-1-infected brains are characterized by elevated depositions of amyloid beta (A); however, the interactions between A and HIV-1 are poorly understood. In the present study, we administered specific HIV-1 protein Tat into the cerebral vasculature of 50-52-week-old double transgenic (B6C3-Tg) mice that express a chimeric mouse/human amyloid precursor protein (Mo/HuAPP695swe) and a mutant human presenilin 1 (PS1-dE9) and are characterized by increased A depositions in the brain. Exposure to Tat increased permeability across cerebral capillaries, enhanced disruption of zonula occludens (ZO)-1 tight junction protein, and elevated brain expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in B6C3-Tg mice as compared with age-matched littermate controls. These changes were associated with increased leukocyte attachment and their transcapillary migration. The majority of Tat-induced effects were attenuated by treatment with a specific Rho inhibitor, hydroxyfasudil. The results of animal experiments were reproduced in cultured brain endothelial cells exposed to A and/or Tat. The present data indicate that increased brain levels of A can enhance vascular toxicity and proinflammatory responses induced by HIV-1 protein Tat.
Neuroanatomical connections point to possible interactions between areas influencing energy homeostasis and those influencing cognition. We assessed whether serum leptin, thyroxine, and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels are associated with and interact to influence cognitive performance among US adults. Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey III (1988-1994) were used. Measures included a battery of neuropsychological tests and serum leptin, thyroxine, and TSH levels (20-59-year-old: n = 1114-2665; 60-90-year-old: n = 1365-5519). Among those 20-59-year-old, the middle tertile of leptin (vs. first tertile) was inversely related to the number of errors on the symbol digits substitution test. Increased thyroxine level was associated with a poorer performance on the serial digits test in the 20-59-year-old, but a better performance on the math test in 60-90-year-old group. TSH was associated with poor performance on various tests in the 20-59-year-old, but better performance in the 60-90-year-old group. Significant antagonistic interactions were found in both age groups between thyroxine, TSH, and leptin for a number of tests, including between leptin and thyroxine in the 60-90-year-old group in their association with word recall-correct score. We found significant associations of our main exposures with cognitive function among US adults, going in opposite directions between age groups in the cases of thyroid hormonal levels, as well as some interactive effects between exposures. It is important to conduct prospective cohort studies to provide further insight into potential interventions that would assess interactive effects of various hormonal replacement regimens.
Sleep disturbances in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients are associated with the severity of dementia and are often the primary reason for institutionalization. These sleep problems partly resemble core symptoms of narcolepsy, a sleep disorder caused by a general loss of the neurotransmitter hypocretin. AD is a neurodegenerative disorder targeting different brain areas and types of neurons. In this study, we assessed whether the neurodegenerative process of AD also affects hypothalamic hypocretin/orexin neurons. The total number of hypocretin-1 immunoreactive neurons was quantified in postmortem hypothalami of AD patients (n = 10) and matched controls (n = 10). In addition, the hypocretin-1 concentration was measured in postmortem ventricular cerebrospinal fluid of 24 AD patients and 25 controls (including the patients and controls in which the hypothalamic cell counts were performed). The number of hypocretin-1 immunoreactive neurons was significantly decreased by 40% in AD patients (median [25th-75th percentiles]); AD 12,935 neurons (9972-19,051); controls 21,002 neurons (16,439-25,765); p = 0.049). Lower cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) hypocretin-1 levels were found in AD patients compared with controls (AD: 275 pg/mL [197-317]; controls: 320 pg/mL [262-363]; p = 0.038). Two AD patients with documented excessive daytime sleepiness showed the lowest CSF hypocretin-1 concentrations (55 pg/mL and 76 pg/mL). We conclude that the hypocretin system is affected in advanced AD. This is reflected in a 40% decreased cell number, and 14% lower CSF hypocretin-1 levels.
It is now accepted that transition metals, such as iron and copper, are involved in the pathogenesis of the Alzheimer's disease (AD) through their participation in toxic oxidative phenomena. In this context, hemochromatosis (Hfe) and transferrin (Tf) genes are of particular importance, since they play a key role in iron homeostasis. Also, signs of liver distress which accompany metal dysmetabolisms have been shown to be linked to AD. In order to investigate whether and how all these factors are interconnected, in this study we have explored the relationship of the gene variants of Hfe H63D and C282Y and of Tf C2 with serum markers of iron status (iron, ferritin, TF, TF-saturation, ceruloplasmin -CP-, CP and TF serum concentrations (CP/TF) ratio), and of liver function (albumin, transaminases, prothrombin time-prothrombin time (PT)) in a sample of 160 AD patients and 79 healthy elderly controls. Albumin resulted in lower, PT longer and AST/ALT higher ratios in AD patients than in controls, indicating a distress of the liver. Also TF was lower and ferritin higher in AD. Multiple logistic regression backward analyses, performed to evaluate the effects of our biochemical variables upon the probability of developing AD, revealed that a one-unit TF serum-decrease increases the probability of AD by 80%, a one-unit albumin serum-decrease reduces this probability by 20%, and a one-unit increase of AST/ALT ratio generates a 4-fold probability increase. Patients who were carriers of the H63D mutation showed higher levels of iron, lower levels of TF and CP and higher CP/TF ratios, a panel resembling hemochromatosis. This picture was found neither in H63D non-carrier patients, nor in healthy controls. Our results suggest the existence of a link between Hfe mutations and iron abnormalities that increases the probability of developing AD when accompanied by a distress of the liver.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) causes neuronal death, demyelination of surviving axons, and altered ion channel functioning, resulting in impaired axonal conduction. The large-conductance, voltage and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK or Maxi K(+)) channels contribute to the repolarization phase of action potentials. Therefore, they may play a significant role in regulating axonal conduction in SCI. In this paper, using combined electrophysiological and molecular approaches, we tested the hypothesis that the deficit in axonal conduction in chronic SCI is partially due to the activation of axonal BK channels. BK channels were found to be expressed in spinal cord white matter axons. These channels are not sensitive to BK channel blocker iberiotoxin in uninjured cords, likely reflecting their juxtaparanodal localization. After chronic injury, BK channels were exposed due to axonal demyelination at the injured site and their activation was found to depend on calcium influx, likely through N-type voltage-dependent calcium channels. Activation of BK channels introduced a reduction in the size of the compound action potentials (CAPs) and in axonal response to high frequency stimulation (HFS). Administration of BK channel blocker iberiotoxin significantly enhanced axonal conduction in the injured cords. Thus, pharmacological targeting of axonal BK channels may provide a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of chronic SCI, by restoring conduction to the remaining functional axons.
ATP-binding cassette (ABC) drug efflux transporters in the CNS are predominantly localized to the luminal surface of endothelial cells in capillaries to impede CNS accumulation of xenobiotics. Inflammatory mediators and cellular stressors regulate their activity. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease of upper and lower motor neurons characterized by extensive neuroinflammation. Here we tested the hypothesis that disease-driven changes in ABC transporter expression and function occur in ALS. Given the multitude of ABC transporters with their widespread substrate recognition, we began by examining expression levels of several ABC transporters. We found a selective increase in only two transporters: P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) both at mRNA and protein levels, in the SOD1-G93A mouse model of ALS, specifically in disease-affected CNS regions. Detailed analysis revealed a similar disease-driven increase in P-gp and BCRP levels in spinal cord microvessels, indicating that their altered expression occurs at the blood spinal cord barrier. Transport activity of P-gp and BCRP increased with disease progression in spinal cord and cerebral cortex capillaries. Finally, P-gp and BCRP protein expression also increased in spinal cords of ALS patients. Preclinical drug trials in the mouse model of ALS have failed to decisively slow or arrest disease progression; pharmacoresistance imparted by ABC transporters is one possible explanation for these failures. Our observations have large implications for ALS therapeutics in humans and suggest that the obstacle provided by these transporters to drug treatments must be overcome to develop effective ALS pharmacotherapies.
Several lines of evidence indicate that glutamate plays a crucial role in the initiation of seizures and their propagation; abnormal glutamate release causes synchronous firing of large populations of neurons, leading to seizures. In the present study, we investigated whether enhanced glutamate uptake by increased glial glutamate transporter EAAT2, the major glutamate transporter, could prevent seizure activity and reduce epileptogenic processes. EAAT2 transgenic mice, which have a 1.5-2 fold increase in EAAT2 protein levels as compared to their non-transgenic counterparts, were tested in a pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) model. Several striking phenomena were observed in EAAT2 transgenic mice compared with their non-transgenic littermates. First, the post-SE mortality rate and chronic seizure frequency were significantly decreased. Second, neuronal degeneration in hippocampal subfields after SE were significantly reduced. Third, the SE-induced neurogenesis and mossy fiber sprouting were significantly decreased. The severity of cell loss in epileptic mice was positively correlated with that of mossy fiber sprouting and chronic seizure frequency. Our results suggest that increased EAAT2 expression can protect mice against SE-induced death, neuropathological changes, and chronic seizure development. This study suggests that enhancing EAAT2 protein expression is a potential therapeutic approach.
Hypoxia in neonates causes dysfunction of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission resulting in permanent brain damage. The present study is to understand the cerebellar GABA(A) receptor alterations and neuroprotective effect of glucose supplementation prior to current sequence of resuscitation - oxygen and epinephrine supplementation in hypoxic neonatal rats. Hypoxic insult caused a significant decrease in GABA(A) receptor number along with down regulated expression of GABA(A1,) GABA(A5), GABA(A) and GABA(A3) receptor subunits in the cerebellum which accounts for the respiratory inhibition. Hypoxic rats supplemented with glucose alone and with oxygen showed a reversal of the receptor alterations and changes in GABA(A) receptor subunits expression to near control. Glucose can reduce ATP-depletion-induced alterations in GABA receptors, thereby assisting in overcoming the neuronal damage caused by hypoxia. Resuscitation with oxygen alone and epinephrine was less effective in reversing the receptor alterations. The reduction in the GABA(A) receptors functional regulation during hypoxia plays an important role in cerebellar damage. Resuscitation with glucose alone and glucose with oxygenation to hypoxic neonatal rats helps in protecting the brain from severe hypoxic damage.
Depressed energy metabolism and oxidative stress are common features in many pathological situations in the brain, including stroke. In order to investigate astrocytic responses to such stress, we induced metabolic depression in cultured rat astrocytes. Iodoacetate (IA), an inhibitor of the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) was used and resulted in a rapid inhibition of GAPDH activity. After 1h of GAPDH inhibition the ATP levels started to decrease and were completely abolished at 4h. In parallel, the activity of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was significantly increased, followed by extensive cell death involving flipping of phosphatidylserine and translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor, but not caspase-3 activation. When IA was combined with azide, a respiratory chain complex IV inhibitor, the ATP levels decreased immediately. Interestingly, with azide present, the ROS activity remained low and the astrocytes remained viable even at very low ATP levels. Addition of exogenous ROS-scavengers prevented the IA-induced ROS activity, the ATP levels were maintained and cell death was prevented. Similar protection could be obtained when astrocytes, prior to addition of IA, were incubated with substances known to activate the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-regulated endogenous antioxidant system. When IA was washed out, after a relatively moderate ATP depression, massive cell death occurred. This was efficiently prevented by addition of azide or ROS scavengers during the IA treatment or by pre-activation of the Nrf2 system. Our results demonstrate that astrocytes in culture can endure and recover from glycolytic inhibition if the ROS activity remained at a low level and suggest that oxidative stress can be an important component for astrocytic cell death following metabolic stress.
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage are implicated in the evolution of neurodegenerative diseases. Increased oxidative damage in specific brain regions during aging might render the brain susceptible to degeneration. Previously, we demonstrated increased oxidative damage and lowered antioxidant function in substantia nigra during aging making it vulnerable to degeneration associated with Parkinson's disease. To understand whether aging contributes to the vulnerability of brain regions in Alzheimer's disease, we assessed the oxidant and antioxidant markers, glutathione (GSH) metabolic enzymes, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression and mitochondrial complex I (CI) activity in hippocampus (HC) and frontal cortex (FC) compared with cerebellum (CB) in human brains with increasing age (0.01-80 years). We observed significant increase in protein oxidation (HC: p = 0.01; FC: p = 0.0002) and protein nitration (HC: p = 0.001; FC: p = 0.02) and increased GFAP expression (HC: p = 0.03; FC: p = 0.001) with a decreasing trend in CI activity in HC and FC compared to CB with increasing age. These changes were associated with a decrease in antioxidant enzyme activities, such as superoxide dismutase (HC: p = 0.005), catalase (HC: p = 0.02), thioredoxin reductase (FC: p = 0.04), GSH reductase (GR) (HC: p = 0.005), glutathione-s-transferase (HC: p = 0.0001; FC: p = 0.03) and GSH (HC: p = 0.01) with age. However, these parameters were relatively unaltered in CB. We suggest that the regions HC and FC are subjected to widespread oxidative stress, loss of antioxidant function and enhanced GFAP expression during aging which might make them more susceptible to deranged physiology and selective neuronal degeneration.





Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant progressive neurodegenerative disorder that typically begins in middle adulthood. The neurodegenerative process that underlies HD, however, likely begins many years before clinical diagnosis. Since genetic testing can identify individuals that will develop HD during this preclinical period, clinical trials aiming to slow disease progression will likely focus on this phase of the illness in an effort to delay disease onset. How to best measure the efficacy of potential disease-modifying therapies in preclinical HD remains a complex challenge. This article will review the clinical and imaging measures that have been assessed as potential markers of disease progression in preclinical and early symptomatic HD.
Flexible response adaptation and the control of conflicting information play a pivotal role in daily life. Yet, little is known about the neuronal mechanisms mediating parallel control of these processes. We examined these mechanisms using a multi-methodological approach that integrated data from event-related potentials (ERPs) with structural MRI data and source localisation using sLORETA. Moreover, we calculated evoked wavelet oscillations. We applied this multi-methodological approach in healthy subjects and patients in a prodromal phase of a major basal ganglia disorder (i.e., Huntington's disease), to directly focus on fronto-striatal networks. Behavioural data indicated, especially the parallel execution of conflict monitoring and flexible response adaptation was modulated across the examined cohorts. When both processes do not co-incide a high integrity of fronto-striatal loops seems to be dispensable. The neurophysiological data suggests that conflict monitoring (reflected by the N2 ERP) and working memory processes (reflected by the P3 ERP) differentially contribute to this pattern of results. Flexible response adaptation under the constraint of high conflict processing affected the N2 and P3 ERP, as well as their delta frequency band oscillations. Yet, modulatory effects were strongest for the N2 ERP and evoked wavelet oscillations in this time range. The N2 ERPs were localized in the anterior cingulate cortex (BA32, BA24). Modulations of the P3 ERP were localized in parietal areas (BA7). In addition, MRI-determined caudate head volume predicted modulations in conflict monitoring, but not working memory processes. The results show how parallel conflict monitoring and flexible adaptation of action is mediated via fronto-striatal networks. While both, response monitoring and working memory processes seem to play a role, especially response selection processes and ACC-basal ganglia networks seem to be the driving force in mediating parallel conflict monitoring and flexible adaptation of actions.
Recently, multivariate analysis algorithms have become a popular tool to diagnose neurological diseases based on neuroimaging data. Most studies, however, are biased for one specific scale, namely the scale given by the spatial resolution (i.e. dimension) of the data. In the present study, we propose to use the dual-tree complex wavelet transform to extract information on different spatial scales from structural MRI data and show its relevance for disease classification. Based on the magnitude representation of the complex wavelet coefficients calculated from the MR images, we identified a new class of features taking scale, directionality and potentially local information into account simultaneously. By using a linear support vector machine, these features were shown to discriminate significantly between spatially normalized MR images of 41 patients suffering from multiple sclerosis and 26 healthy controls. Interestingly, the decoding accuracies varied strongly among the different scales and it turned out that scales containing low frequency information were partly superior to scales containing high frequency information. Usually, this type of information is neglected since most decoding studies use only the original scale of the data. In conclusion, our proposed method has not only a high potential to assist in the diagnostic process of multiple sclerosis, but can be applied to other diseases or general decoding problems in structural or functional MRI.
Expertise in non-visual domains such as musical performance is associated with differences in gray matter volume of particular regions of the human brain. Whether this is also the case for expertise in visual object recognition is unknown. Here we tested whether individual variability in the ability to recognize car models, from novice performance to high level of expertise, is associated with specific structural changes in gray matter volume. We found that inter-individual variability in expertise with cars was significantly and selectively correlated with gray matter volume in prefrontal cortex. Inter-individual differences in the recognition of airplanes, that none of the participants had expertise with, were correlated with structural variability of regions bordering the visual cortex. These results highlight the role of prefrontal regions outside the visual cortex in accessing and processing visual knowledge about objects from the domain of expertise and suggest that expertise in visual object recognition may entail structural changes in regions associated with semantic knowledge.
Schizophrenia is a highly heritable psychiatric disorder that is associated with a number of structural and functional neurophenotypes. DTNBP1, the gene encoding dysbindin-1, is a promising candidate gene for schizophrenia. Use of a mouse model carrying a large genomic deletion exclusively within the dysbindin gene permits a direct investigation of the gene in isolation. Here, we use manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MEMRI) to explore the regional alterations in brain structure and function caused by loss of the gene encoding dysbindin-1. We report novel findings that uniquely inform our understanding of the relationship of dysbindin-1 to known schizophrenia phenotypes. First, in mutant mice, analysis of the rate of manganese uptake into the brain over a 24-hour period, putatively indexing basal cellular activity, revealed differences in dopamine rich brain regions, as well as in CA1 and dentate subregions of the hippocampus formation. Finally, novel tensor-based morphometry techniques were applied to the mouse MRI data, providing evidence for structural volume deficits in cortical regions, subiculum and dentate gyrus, and the striatum of dysbindin mutant mice. The affected cortical regions were primarily localized to the sensory cortices in particular the auditory cortex. This work represents the first application of manganese-enhanced small animal imaging to a mouse model of schizophrenia endophenotypes, and a novel combination of functional and structural measures. It revealed both hypothesized and novel structural and functional neural alterations related to dysbindin-1.
Accumulating empirical evidence suggests a role of Bayesian inference and learning for shaping neural responses in auditory and visual perception. However, its relevance for somatosensory processing is unclear. In the present study we test the hypothesis that cortical somatosensory processing exhibits dynamics that are consistent with Bayesian accounts of brain function. Specifically, we investigate the cortical encoding of Bayesian surprise, a recently proposed marker of Bayesian perceptual learning, using EEG data recorded from 15 subjects. Capitalizing on a somatosensory mismatch roving paradigm, we performed computational single-trial modeling of evoked somatosensory potentials for the entire peri-stimulus time period in source space. By means of Bayesian model selection, we find that, at 140 ms post-stimulus onset, secondary somatosensory cortex represents Bayesian surprise rather than stimulus change, which is the conventional marker of EEG mismatch responses. In contrast, at 250 ms, right inferior frontal cortex indexes stimulus change. Finally, at 360 ms, our analyses indicate additional perceptual learning attributable to medial cingulate cortex. In summary, the present study provides novel evidence for anatomical-temporal/functional segregation in human somatosensory processing that is consistent with the Bayesian brain hypothesis.
Neuroimaging research of fluid intelligence (Gf) has mainly focused on the neural basis of abilities explaining performance on cognitive tasks. However, the neuro-functional basis of clearly defined theoretical cognitive components underlying Gf remains unclear. Induction, visualization, and spatial relationships have the highest relevance for Gf (Carroll, 1993). Here we report a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study exploring the neural correlates of these abilities characterized by their unidimensionality and matched for task-difficulty, as evidenced by a psychometric calibration study. Twenty-two healthy young adult females, recruited from a large sample of 300 participants, with either below- or above-average Gf abilities underwent fMRI scanning during Gf task performance. The results reveal that these tasks activate a shared frontoparietal network. Specific activations were also observed, in particular for induction and visualization. The key findings suggest that Gf comprises distinguishable cognitive abilities, but the Gf construct is associated with a common network.
Decision-making invokes two fundamental axes of control: affect or valence, spanning reward and punishment, and effect or action, spanning invigoration and inhibition. We studied the acquisition of instrumental responding in healthy human volunteers in a task in which we orthogonalized action requirements and outcome valence. Subjects were much more successful in learning active choices in rewarded conditions, and passive choices in punished conditions. Using computational reinforcement-learning models, we teased apart contributions from putatively instrumental and Pavlovian components in the generation of the observed asymmetry during learning. Moreover, using model-based fMRI, we showed that BOLD signals in striatum and substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area (SN/VTA) correlated with instrumentally learnt action values, but with opposite signs for go and no-go choices. Finally, we showed that successful instrumental learning depends on engagement of bilateral inferior frontal gyrus. Our behavioral and computational data showed that instrumental learning is contingent on overcoming inherent and plastic Pavlovian biases, while our neuronal data showed this learning is linked to unique patterns of brain activity in regions implicated in action and inhibition respectively.
Recollection is typically associated with high recognition confidence and accurate source memory. However, subjects sometimes make accurate source memory judgments even for items that are not confidently recognized, and it is not known whether these responses are based on recollection or some other memory process. In the current study, we measured event related potentials (ERPs) while subjects made item and source memory confidence judgments in order to determine whether recollection supported accurate source recognition responses for items that were not confidently recognized. In line with previous studies, we found that recognition memory was associated with two ERP effects: an early on-setting FN400 effect, and a later parietal old-new effect [late positive component (LPC)], which have been associated with familiarity and recollection, respectively. The FN400 increased gradually with item recognition confidence, whereas the LPC was only observed for highly confident recognition responses. The LPC was also related to source accuracy, but only for items that had received a high confidence item recognition response; accurate source judgments to items that were less confidently recognized did not exhibit the typical ERP correlate of recollection or familiarity, but rather showed a late, broadly distributed negative ERP difference. The results indicate that accurate source judgments of episodic context can occur even when recollection fails.
Everything else being the same, an equal outcome is generally preferred; however, an equitable allocation sometimes is possible only by sacrificing the total amount of resources available to society. Moreover, direct interests may interact with the perception of equality. Here, we have investigated individual preferences, and their neural basis, by employing a task in which an allocation of a fixed amount between the subject and another person (MS condition) or two third parties (TP condition) is randomly determined. The subject can accept or reject the outcome, in the same fashion as the Ultimatum Game: thus an unequal offer may be rejected at the cost of a loss in total amount. Behavioral results show preference for equal outcomes in TP and for equal and advantageous outcomes in MS. An activation of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), extending to the anterior middle cingulate cortex (aMCC), was found in MS unequal outcomes, particularly for disadvantageous outcomes and consequent rejections. The anterior insula (AI) was active for unequal outcomes, in both MS and TP. We propose that the equal treatment is a default social norm, and its violation is signaled by the AI, whereas aMCC/mPFC activation, negatively correlated to rejections, reflects the effort to overcome the default rule of equal treatment in favor of a self-advantageous efficiency.
Capecitabine plus oxaliplatin combination (XELOX) is the first-line treatment in metastatic colorectal cancer. Here we report a case of acute, severe but substantially reversible, neuromuscular and cardiac toxicity following XELOX chemotherapy. Muscle biopsy findings were consistent with a toxic myopathy with necrotizing features and vacuolar changes; COX-negative fibers were also present. The time course could support a main role for capecitabine, which may have some neurotoxic effects (more frequently central), but a detrimental interaction between the two drugs cannot be ruled out and further studies are needed.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are rare genetically and clinically heterogeneous disorders characterized by an impaired neuromuscular transmission. Exact prevalence data are not available, approximately 2000 to 3000 patients worldwide have been diagnosed on a molecular level; mutations in 14 different genes are known to date leading to causal defects in presynaptic nerve terminal, synaptic cleft, and postsynaptic apparatus. At last, all known mutations are estimated to cause approximately 50% of all clinically diagnosed CMS. However, phenotypes may vary widely and symptoms can be unspecific, therefore CMS are often missed and their prevalence may be underestimated. But, the exact diagnosis is extremely important to start early appropriate therapy to prevent life-threatening events and to improve the clinical course. Most patients are eligible for drug therapy with esterase inhibitors, 3, 4-diaminopyridine, ephedrine, fluoxetine or quinidine, but the effect of these drugs differs depending on the underlying genetic defect. Moreover, very little is known about the best treatment and care in these patients over a longer period of time.This article provides an overview of specific clinical symptoms, diagnostic work-up, and care including possible pharmacotherapy in case of CMS.
The presence of galanin and galanin binding sites in sweat gland has been demonstrated previously. In order to investigate whether galanin can influence sweat gland function, we compared sweating induced in footpads of wild type and galanin knockout mice by cholinergic and thermal stimulation using the silicone impression technique. Pilocarpine injections resulted in a similar number of reactive sweat glands and non-significant difference in the amount of sweat secretion in wild type and galanin knockout mice. However, thermal stimulation led to a significant increase in the number of secreting sweat glands in galanin knockout mice. To further evaluate possible differences in the innervation of sweat glands that could explain differences in their secretory activity, immunohistochemical labeling of cutaneous and sudomotor innervations against protein gene product 9.5, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and choline acetyltransferase in plantar pads was performed. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed no significant differences in the distribution and intensity of the innervations between wild type mice and galanin knockout mice. Although our results indicate normal cholinergic responses and innervation of the sweat glands in galanin knockout mice, they also demonstrate that galanin plays a role in regulating the sudomotor activity in response to thermal stimulation.
Peptide YY (PYY) is best known for its important role in appetite regulation, but recent pharmacological studies have suggested that PYY is also involved in regulating energy balance and glucose homeostasis. However, the mechanism behind the regulation of these parameters by PYY is less clear. Here, by utilising an inducible transgenic mouse model where PYY overexpression is induced in adult animals (PYYtg) and release of mature PYY peptides is controlled by endogenous machineries, we show that elevating PYY levels leads to reduced food intake after a 24-h fast. Furthermore, PYYtg mice, although not significantly different from WT with respect to body weight, adiposity, lean mass, physical activity or energy expenditure, exhibited a significantly increased respiratory exchange ratio (RER), indicating decreased lipid oxidation and/or increased lipogenesis. Importantly, PYYtg mice showed a 25% reduction in liver protein levels of phosphorylated acetyl-CoA carboxylase (pACC) in the absence of changes in total ACC levels compared to those of WT mice. Moreover, liver protein levels of AMP-activated kinase (AMPK) in PYYtg mice were 25% lower than those of WT mice, consistent with a reduced pACC in these mice. These data suggest that elevation of PYY levels as seen after a meal can increase lipogenic capacity, which is likely a key contributor to the increased RER seen in PYYtg mice. In addition, PYYtg mice exhibited comparable insulin tolerance and oral glucose tolerance to those of WT, but showed a trend towards decreased insulin levels in response to an oral glucose challenge, indicating that PYY could improve insulin action. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that under physiological conditions, PYY reduces food intake while enhancing lipogenic capacity and insulin action, likely contributing to fuel assimilation in the postprandial state.
Although the acute effects of ethanol exposure on brain development have been extensively studied, the long term consequences of juvenile ethanol intake on behavior at adult age, regarding especially ethanol consumption, are still poorly known. The aim of this study was to analyze the consequences of ethanol ingestion in juvenile C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice on ethanol intake and neurobiological regulations at adulthood. Mice were given intragastric ethanol at 4 weeks of age under different protocols and their spontaneous ethanol consumption was assessed in a free choice paradigm at adulthood. Both serotonin 5-HT(1A) and cannabinoid CB1 receptors were investigated using [(35)S]GTP--S binding assay for the juvenile ethanol regimens which modified adult ethanol consumption. In DBA/2J mice, juvenile ethanol ingestion dose-dependently promoted adult spontaneous ethanol consumption. This early ethanol exposure enhanced 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor-mediated [(35)S]GTP--S binding in the dorsal raphe nucleus and reduced CB1 receptor-mediated G protein coupling in both the striatum and the globus pallidus at adult age. In contrast, early ethanol ingestion by C57BL/6J mice transiently lowered spontaneous ethanol consumption and increased G protein coupling of postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors in the hippocampus but had no effect on CB1 receptors at adulthood. These results show that a brief and early exposure to ethanol can induce strain-dependent long-lasting changes in both behavior toward ethanol and key receptors of central 5-HT and CB systems in mice.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate, by means of quantitative and multivariate analyses, the effects of diazepam on the behavioral structure of the rat's response to pain in the hot-plate test as well as whether such changes are associated with drug-induced effects on anxiety and/or nociception. To this purpose, ten groups of male Wistar rats were intraperitoneally injected with saline, diazepam (0.25, 0.5 and 2 mg/kg), FG-7142 (1, 4 and 8 mg/kg) or morphine (3, 6 and 12 mg/kg). The mean number and mean latency to first appearance were calculated for each behavioral component. In addition, multivariate cluster and adjusted residual analyses based on the elaboration of transition matrices were performed. Three main behavioral categories were identified: exploratory (walking, sniffing), primary noxious-evoked (hind paw licking, front paw licking, shaking/stamping) and escape (climbing, jumping). Although no significant modifications in the latencies of the primary noxious-evoked components were induced by treatment with diazepam or FG-7142, significant effects were provoked by morphine treatment. Multivariate analyses showed that diazepam-induced anxiolysis redirected the rat's behavior toward a more purposeful and effective escape strategy. In contrast, the high level of anxiety induced by FG-7142 caused the behavioral structure to become disorganized and not purposefully oriented. Changes in the organization of behavioral components were observed in morphine-treated animals and mainly consisted of modifications in the primary noxious-evoked and escape components. The findings suggest that the effects of diazepam on the structure of the rat's response to pain in the hot-plate test are more likely attributable to anxiolysis than pain modulation.
Appropriate attention levels are pivotal for cognitive processes, and individual differences in attentional functioning are related to variations in the interplay of neurotransmitters. The attention network theory reflects attention as a non-homogenous set of separate neural networks: alerting, orienting and conflicting. In the present study, the role of variations in GRIN2B, which encodes the NR2B subunit of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, was explored with regard to the regulation of arousal and attention by comparing the efficiency of the three attentional networks as measured with the Attention Network Test (ANT). Two synonymous SNPs in GRIN2B, rs1806201 (T888T) and rs1806191 (H1178H) were genotyped in 324 young Caucasian adults. Results revealed a highly specific modulatory influence of SNP rs1806201 on alerting processes with subjects homozygous for the frequent C allele displaying higher alerting network scores as compared to the other two genotype groups (CT and TT). This effect is due to the fact that in the no cue condition faster reaction times were evident in participants carrying at least one of the rare T alleles, possibly as a result of more effective glutamatergic neurotransmission. The results might be further explained by a dissociation between tonic and phasic alertness modulated by the GRIN2B genotype and by a ceiling effect, meaning that subjects cannot be phasicly alert in excess to a certain level. Altogether, the results show that variations in GRIN2B have to be taken into consideration when examining attentional processes.
Histamine is involved in the central control of arousal, circadian rhythms and metabolism. The preoptic area, a region that contains thermoregulatory neurons is the main locus of histamine modulation of body temperature. Here we report that in mice, histamine activates H(2) subtype receptors in the medial preoptic nucleus (MPON) and induces hyperthermia. We also found that a population of glutamatergic MPON neurons express H(2) receptors and are excited by histamine or H(2) specific agonists. The agonists decreased the input resistance of the neuron and increased the depolarizing &quot;sag&quot; observed during hyperpolarizing current injections. Furthermore, at -60 mV holding potential, activation of H(2) receptors induced an inward current that was blocked by ZD7288, a specific blocker of the hyperpolarization activated cationic current (I(h)). Indeed, activation of H(2) receptors resulted in increased I(h) amplitude in response to hyperpolarizing voltage steps and a depolarizing shift in its voltage-dependent activation. The neurons excited by H(2) specific agonism expressed the HCN1 and HCN2 channel subunits. Our data indicate that at the level of the MPON histamine influences thermoregulation by increasing the firing rate of glutamatergic neurons that express H(2) receptors.
Antimicrobial compounds and psychotropic medications often share overlapping mechanisms of actions and pharmacological effects. The immune system appears to be an important site of interaction as several antimicrobials display neurological and, at times, direct psychotropic effects, while psychotropics have shown significant immunomodulatory properties. The isoniazid class of antibiotics for example has been shown to possess monoamine oxidase activity, while selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors have shown significant effects on leukocyte populations. As the importance of the immune system's role in CNS homeostasis and disease continues to move to the forefront of neuropsychiatric research, these shared pharmacological effects may provide an important insight, elucidating the complexities in neuroimmune pathophysiology and guiding the development of potential treatments.
Confabulation denotes the emergence of memories of experiences and events which never took place. Whether there are distinct forms with distinct mechanisms is still debated. In this study, we explored 4 forms of confabulation and their mechanisms in 29 amnesic patients. Patients performed tests of explicit memory, executive functions, and two test of orbitofrontal reality filtering (memory selection and extinction capacity in a reversal learning task) previously shown to be strongly associated with confabulations that patients act upon and disorientation. Results indicated the following associations: (1) Intrusions in a verbal memory test (simple provoked confabulations) dissociated from all other forms of confabulation and were not associated with any specific cognitive measure. (2) Momentary confabulations, defined as confabulatory responses to questions and measured with a confabulation questionnaire, were associated with impaired mental flexibility, a tendency to fill gaps in memory, and with one measure of reality filtering. Momentary confabulations, therefore, may emanate from diverse causes. (3) Behaviourally spontaneous confabulation, characterized by confabulations that the patients act upon and disorientation, was strongly associated with failure in the two reality filtering tasks. Behaviourally spontaneous confabulation may be seen as a specific instance of momentary confabulations with a distinct mechanism. (4) A patient producing fantastic confabulations with nonsensical, illogical content had wide-spread cognitive dysfunction and failed in the reality filtering tasks. The results support the presence of truly or partially dissociable types of confabulation with different mechanisms.
Timing is central to all motor behavior, especially repetitive or rhythmic movements. Such complex programs are underpinned by a network of motor structures, including the cerebellum, motor cortex, and basal ganglia. Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are impaired in some aspects of timing behavior, presumably as a result of the disruption to basal ganglia function. However, direct evidence that this deficit is specifically due to basal ganglia dysfunction is limited. Here, we sought to further understand the role of the basal ganglia in motor timing by studying PD patients with implanted subthalamic nucleus (STN) electrodes. Patients performed a synchronization-continuation tapping task at 500 ms and 2000 ms intervals both off and on therapeutic high frequency stimulation of the STN. Our results show that the mean tap interval was not affected by STN stimulation. However, in the un-stimulated state variability of tapping was abnormally high relative to controls, and this deficit was significantly improved, even normalized, with stimulation. Moreover, when partitioning the variance into central and peripheral motor components according to the Wing and Kristofferson model (1973), a selective reduction of central, but not motor, variance was revealed. The effect of stimulation on central variance was dependent on off-stimulation performance. These results demonstrate that STN stimulation can improve rhythmic movement performance in PD through an effect on central timing. Our experimental approach strongly implicates the STN, and more generally the basal ganglia, in the control of timing stability.
Active tool-use can result in the incorporation of the tool into the body schema, e.g., the representation of the arm is enlarged according to tool length. This modification even influences the processing of space: using a long tool leads to a remapping of far space as near space. We here further investigate the interaction of the neural representations of the human body, tool use, and spatial domain. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was performed in twelve right-handed healthy individuals while they imagined moving a cylinder towards a target position in far or near space by mentally using either pliers or a joystick. The fMRI data revealed that already the imagined use of preferred tools in near and far space (i.e., pliers in far space, joystick in near space) modulated the neural activity in the extra-striate body area (EBA) located in the occipito-temporal cortex. Moreover, psycho-physical interaction analysis showed that during imagined tool-use the functional connectivity of left EBA to a network representing the near-personal space around the hand was strengthened. This increased functional connectivity is likely to reflect the neural processes underlying the incorporation of the tool into the body schema. Thus, the current data suggest that simulating tool-use modulates the representation of the human body in extra-striate cortex.
The neuregulin 1 (NRG1) receptor ErbB4 is involved in the development of cortical inhibitory GABAergic circuits and NRG1-ErbB4 signaling has been implicated in schizophrenia (SCZ). A magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) study has demonstrated that a single-nucleotide polymorphism in ERBB4, rs7598440, influences human cortical GABA concentrations. Other work has highlighted the significant impact of this genetic variant on expression of ERBB4 in the hippocampus and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in human post mortem tissue. Our aim was to examine the association of rs7598440 with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) GABA levels in healthy volunteers (n=155). We detected a significant dose-dependent association of the rs7598440 genotype with CSF GABA levels (G-allele standardized =-0.23; 95% CIs: -0.39 to -0.07; P=0.0066). GABA concentrations were highest in A homozygous, intermediate in heterozygous, and lowest in G homozygous subjects. When excluding subjects on psychotropic medication (three subjects using antidepressants), the results did not change (G-allele standardized =-0.23; 95% CIs: -0.40 to -0.07; P=0.0051). The explained variance in CSF GABA by rs7598440 in our model is 5.2% (P=0.004). The directionality of our findings agrees with the aforementioned (1)H-MRS and gene expression studies. Our observation therefore strengthens the evidence that the A-allele of rs7598440 in ERBB4 is associated with increased GABA concentrations in the human central nervous system (CNS). To our knowledge, our finding constitutes the first confirmation that CSF can be used to study genotype-phenotype correlations of GABA levels in the CNS. Such quantitative genetic analyses may be extrapolated to other CSF constituents relevant to SCZ in future studies.
Impulsive behavior is a hallmark of several neuropsychiatric disorders (eg, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, ADHD). Although dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) have a significant role in the modulation of impulsivity their neural loci of action is not well understood. Here, we investigated the effects of the selective NE re-uptake inhibitor atomoxetine (ATO) and the mixed DA/NE re-uptake inhibitor methylphenidate (MPH), both with proven clinical efficacy in ADHD, on the number of premature responses on a five-choice serial reaction time task, an operational measure of impulsivity. Microinfusions of ATO into the shell, but not the core, sub-region of the nucleus accumbens (NAcb) significantly decreased premature responding whereas infusions of MPH in the core, but not the shell, sub-region significantly increased premature responding. However, neither ATO nor MPH significantly altered impulsive behavior when infused into the prelimbic or infralimbic cortices. The opposing effects of ATO and MPH in the NAcb core and shell on impulsivity were unlikely mediated by ancillary effects on behavioral activation as locomotor activity was either unaffected, as in the case of ATO infusions in the core and shell, or increased when MPH was infused into either the core and shell sub-region. These findings indicate an apparently 'opponent' modulation of premature responses by NE and DA in the NAcb shell or core, respectively, and suggest that the symptom clusters of hyperactive-impulsive type ADHD may have distinct neural and neurochemical substrates.
Alcohol-dependence is associated with cognitive and biological alterations, and also with interpersonal impairments. Although overwhelming in clinical settings and involved in relapse, these social impairments have received little attention from researchers. Particularly, brain alterations related to social exclusion have not been explored in alcohol-dependence. Our primary purpose was to determine the neural correlates of social exclusion feelings in this population. In all, 44 participants (22 abstinent alcohol-dependent patients and 22 paired controls) played a virtual game ('cyberball') during fMRI recording. They were first included by other players, then excluded, and finally re-included. Brain areas involved in social exclusion were identified and the functional connectivity between these areas was explored using psycho-physiological interactions (PPI). Results showed that while both groups presented dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) activations during social exclusion, alcohol-dependent participants exhibited increased insula and reduced frontal activations (in ventrolateral prefrontal cortex) as compared with controls. Alcohol-dependence was also associated with persistent dACC and parahippocampal gyrus activations in re-inclusion. PPI analyses showed reduced frontocingulate connectivity during social exclusion in alcohol-dependence. Alcohol-dependence is thus linked with increased activation in areas eliciting social exclusion feelings (dACC-insula), and with impaired ability to inhibit these feelings (indexed by reduced frontal activations). Altered frontal regulation thus appears implied in the interpersonal alterations observed in alcohol-dependence, which seem reinforced by impaired frontocingulate connectivity. This first exploration of the neural correlates of interpersonal problems in alcohol-dependence could initiate the development of a social neuroscience of addictive states.
Brain trauma induces a multitude of reactions at molecular, cellular, and tissue levels, some of which are beneficial to recovery, whereas others are detrimental. Osteopontin (OPN), a glycosylated phosphoprotein, can be found in both the soluble form and as an extracellular matrix constituent in several tissues in the vertebrate body, but its function after brain injury is largely unknown. In this study, the expression of OPN after an experimental traumatic brain injury in rats was examined and its effects on hippocampal neurons and cortical astrocytes were studied using cell-culture techniques. OPN had no influence astrocyte behavior in a scratch assay. However, hippocampal neurons grew well on an OPN substrate with growth comparable to that seen on laminin, but showed a higher degree of primary neurites. Finally, growth on OPN was mediated through 1 intregrins and CD44. These findings indicate that injury-induced OPN may support neurite sprouting, suggesting a role for this molecule in recovery from central nervous system trauma.
Social difficulties form a part of the canonical description of autism spectrum conditions (ASC), and the development of familiarity with new faces is a key ability required to navigate the social world. Here, we investigated the acquisition of new face representations in ASC by analysing the N170 and N250 event-related potential components induced by a previously unfamiliar face that was embedded in a series of other unfamiliar faces. We found that participants with ASC developed a smaller N250 component to the target face, indicating that the development of new face representations is impaired. We also found that the participants with ASC showed a smaller N170 component to both the target and the nontarget faces. This highlights the role of the early stages of face detection, structural encoding and attention in the formation of face memories in the typical population and implicates the dysfunction of these stages in the manifestation of the social difficulties observed in ASC.
Much of animal and human cognition is compositional in nature: higher order, complex representations are formed by (rule-governed) combination of more primitive representations. We review here some of the evidence for compositionality in perception and memory, motivating an approach that takes ideas and techniques from computational linguistics to model aspects of structural representation in cognition. We summarize some recent developments in our work that, on the one hand, use algorithms from computational linguistics to model memory consolidation and the formation of semantic memory, and on the other hand use insights from the neurobiology of memory to develop a neurally inspired model of syntactic parsing that improves over existing (not cognitively motivated) models in computational linguistics. These two theoretical studies highlight interesting analogies between language acquisition, semantic memory and memory consolidation, and suggest possible neural mechanisms, implemented in computational algorithms that may underlie memory consolidation.
A growing body of literature considers the development of episodic memory systems in the brain; the majority are neuroimaging studies conducted during memory encoding in order to explore developmental trajectories in memory formation. This review considers evidence from behavioral studies of memory development, neural correlates of memory formation in adults, and structural brain development, all of which form the foundation of a developmental cognitive neuroscience approach to memory development. I then aim to integrate the current evidence from developmental functional neuroimaging studies of memory formation with respect to three hypotheses. First, memory development reflects the development in the use of memory strategies, linked to prefrontal cortex. Second, developmental effects within the medial temporal lobes are more complex, and correspond to current notions about the nature in which the MTL support the formation of memory. Third, neurocognitive changes in content representation influence memory. Open issues and current directions are discussed.
Intact social memory forms the basis of meaningful interactions between individuals. Many factors can modulate the quality of social memory, and these have been studied in detail in rodents. Social memory, however, cannot be considered a single entity. The term social memory reflects different processes, such as social recognition of a novel conspecific individual and social learning (or 'learning from others'). This review summarizes the findings obtained with behavioral paradigms that were developed for the study of memory formation by social recognition and social learning. In particular, we focus on studies that include tests for social habituation/discrimination paradigms, tests for memory of a previously established social hierarchy and the social transmission of the food preference test. The role of individual differences and the main neurobiological mechanisms (i.e., the brain regions and neurochemical systems involved) that have been implicated in each of these types of social-related memories are reviewed. In addition, we address the key modulatory influence of stress on the formation of these types of memories; discussing the contribution of central (corticotropin-releasing factor, CRF) and peripheral (glucocorticoids) stress systems and their interactions with the social neuropeptide systems. Overall, we present here a general overview of the current state of a thriving research area within the field of social neuroscience.

Optogenetics is a newly-introduced technology in the life sciences and is gaining increasing attention. It refers to the combination of optical technologies and genetic methods to control the activity of specific cell groups in living tissue, during which high-resolution spatial and temporal manipulation of cells is achieved. Optogenetics has been applied to numerous regions, including cerebral cortex, hippocampus, ventral tegmental area, nucleus accumbens, striatum, spinal cord, and retina, and has revealed new directions of research in neuroscience and the treatment of related diseases. Since optogenetic tools are controllable at high spatial and temporal resolution, we discuss its applications in these regions in detail and the recent understanding of higher brain functions, such as reward-seeking, learning and memory, and sleep. Further, the possibilities of improved utility of this newly-emerging technology are discussed. We intend to provide a paradigm of the latest advances in neuroscience using optogenetics.
Ion channels, as membrane proteins, are the sensors of the cell. They act as the first line of communication with the world beyond the plasma membrane and transduce changes in the external and internal environments into unique electrical signals to shape the responses of excitable cells. Because of their importance in cellular communication, ion channels have been intensively studied at the structural and functional levels. Here, we summarize the diverse approaches, including molecular and cellular, chemical, optical, biophysical, and computational, used to probe the structural and functional rearrangements that occur during channel activation (or sensitization), inactivation (or desensitization), and various forms of modulation. The emerging insights into the structure and function of ion channels by multidisciplinary approaches allow the development of new pharmacotherapies as well as new tools useful in controlling cellular activity.
Patch-clamp recording requires direct accessibility of the cell membrane to patch pipettes and allows the investigation of ion channel properties and functions in specific cellular compartments. The cell body and relatively thick dendrites are the most accessible compartments of a neuron, due to their large diameters and therefore great membrane surface areas. However, axons are normally inaccessible to patch pipettes because of their thin structure; thus studies of axon physiology have long been hampered by the lack of axon recording methods. Recently, a new method of patch-clamp recording has been developed, enabling direct and tight-seal recording from cortical axons. These recordings are performed at the enlarged structure (axonal bleb) formed at the cut end of an axon after slicing procedures. This method has facilitated studies of the mechanisms underlying the generation and propagation of the main output signal, the action potential, and led to the finding that cortical neurons communicate not only in action potential-mediated digital mode but also in membrane potential-dependent analog mode.
A disturbance of glutamatergic transmission has been suggested to contribute to the development of schizophrenic pathophysiology, based primarily on the ability of glutamate receptor antagonists to induce schizophrenic-like symptoms. The excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2) is responsible for the majority of glutamate uptake. It also contributes to energy metabolism in the brain, by transporting glutamate into astrocytes for conversion into glutamine. A dysregulation of its level of expression has been associated with multiple neurological disorders. Blocking glutamate uptake by EAAT2 in cultured oligodendrocytes leads to cell death, demyelination and axonal damage, suggesting that it is crucial for normal oligodendrocyte function. Different studies focused on EAAT2 alterations among subjects affected by schizophrenia, reporting a decreased expression in the parahippocampal region and in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Moreover, subjects with the high-risk metabotropic glutamate receptor 3 (GRM3) haplotype associated with schizophrenia had lower EAAT2 expression in the prefrontal cortex and also showed impaired cognitive performances for measures of verbal list learning and verbal fluency. EAAT2 protein activity is regulated by a SNP rs4354668 (-181T/G) which falls in the gene promoter region, with the G allele resulting in a lower activity of the transporter. Based on these data, we assessed possible effects of the -181T/G EAAT2 polymorphism on two core prefrontal cognitive performances, known to be impaired in schizophrenia, in a sample of 211 clinically stabilized patients. We observed better executive functions (WCST, no. of categories) and working memory (N-back: 1-back, 2-back) performances in subjects homozygous for the T allele, compared to the G carriers group. These observations suggest that the presence of the G allele is associated, among patients with schizophrenia, with a disadvantageous effect on core cognitive functions that depend on prefrontal cortex activity. These results are preliminary and need to be replicated by future and larger studies, however they suggest that EAAT2 inefficiency may represent a target of interest for development of pharmacological strategies aimed to improve prefrontal performances by compensating the impaired glutamate reuptake.
Neurons may release more than one classical neurotransmitter (co-mediator). It has been demonstrated in a recent study that a burst of action potentials in frog retina ganglion cells induces an after-burst increase (phasic potentiation) of the retinotectal transmission that lasts tens of seconds. This increase is mediated by presynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors that are activated by the endogenous acetylcholine released during the burst of action potentials of the retinotectal fiber. The objective of the present study was to find out the origin of acetylcholine release. We show that reduction of the retinotectal transmission to the subthreshold level by application of moderate concentrations of kynurenic acid or CNQX had no effect on the phasic nicotinic potentiation of the retinotectal transmission. This demonstrates that the retinotectal terminals are the source of acetylcholine - responsible for the phasic potentiation of retinotectal transmission. The acetylcholine is thus co-released with glutamate.
The ability to detect and discriminate sensory stimuli greatly improves with age. To better understand the neural basis of perceptual development, we studied the postnatal development of sensory responses in cortical neurons. Specifically, we analyzed neuronal responses to single-whisker deflections in the posteromedial barrel subfield (PMBSF) of the rat primary somatosensory cortex. Responses of PMBSF neurons showed a long onset latency and duration in the first postnatal week, but became fast and transient over the next few weeks. Trial-by-trial variations of single neuron responses did not change systematically with age, whereas the covariation of responses across trials between neurons (noise correlation) was high on postnatal day 5-6 (P5-6), and gradually decreased with age to near zero by P30-31. Computational analyses showed that pooled responses of multiple neurons became more reliable across stimulus trials with age. The period over which these changes occurred corresponds to the period when rats develop a full set of exploratory whisking behavior. We suggest that reduced noise correlation across a population of neurons, in addition to sharpening the temporal characteristics of single neuron responses, may help improve behavioral performance.
Maternal smoking results in myriad physical, cognitive, and behavioral effects in offspring due to prenatal exposure to nicotine. As the mammalian neocortex coordinates sensory integration and higher-order processes including cognition and behavioral regulation, it follows that cognitive and behavioral phenotypes of prenatal nicotine exposure (PNE) may correlate with, or stem from changes in anatomy and physiology of the neocortex. The current study uses a prenatal nicotine mouse model to determine effects of PNE on body weight, brain weight, brain length and development of neocortical circuitry, including thalamocortical afferents (TCAs) and intraneocortical connections (INCs). Although dam nutrition, dam weight gain and litter size were not significantly affected by nicotine treatment, PNE resulted in lower newborn birth weight, brain weight and length. Interestingly, the reduction of body weight, brain weight, and brain length observed in newborn PNE mice compared to control mice was no longer present at postnatal day (P) 10. A morphological study of somatosensory and visual TCAs and INCs shows no major defects in areal patterning of these connections. These data add to a growing body of literature on the neurobiological effects of PNE by providing new information on the time course of PNE-related change in the postnatal brain.


Humphrey Ridley, M.D. (1653-1708), is a relatively unknown historical figure, belonging to the postmedieval era of neuroanatomical discovery. He was born in the market town of Mansfield, 14 miles from the county of Nottinghamshire, England. After studying at Merton College, Oxford, he pursued medicine at Leiden University in the Netherlands. In 1688, he was incorporated as an M.D. at Cambridge. Ridley authored the first original treatise in English language on neuroanatomy, The Anatomy of the Brain Containing its Mechanisms and Physiology: Together with Some New Discoveries and Corrections of Ancient and Modern Authors upon that Subject. Ridley described the venous anatomy of the eponymous circular sinus in connection with the parasellar compartment. His methods were novel, unique, and effective. To appreciate the venous anatomy, he preferred to perform his anatomical dissections on recently executed criminals who had been hanged. These cadavers had considerable venous engorgement, which made the skull base venous anatomy clearer. To enhance the appearance of the cerebral vasculature further, he used tinged wax and quicksilver in the injections. He set up experimental models to answer questions definitively, in proving that the arachnoid mater is a separate meningeal layer. The first description of the subarachnoid cisterns, blood-brain barrier, and the fifth cranial nerve ganglion with its branches are also attributed to Ridley. This historical vignette revisits Ridley's life and academic work that influenced neuroscience and neurosurgical understanding in its infancy. It is unfortunate that most of his novel contributions have gone unnoticed and uncited. The authors hope that this article will inform the neurosurgical community of Ridley's contributions to the field of neurosurgery.



Glucocorticoids (GCs) are essential for normal brain development; however, there is consistent evidence that prenatal exposure of the fetal brain to excess GCs permanently modifies the phenotype of neuronal cells. In this paper, the murine-derived multipotent stem cell line C17.2 was used, as an in vitro model, to investigate the impact of GCs on neural stem cell survival. Our results indicate that dexamethasone (Dex) increases the sensitivity of murine neural stem cells (NSCs) to 2,3-methoxy-1,4-naphthoquinone-induced apoptosis, and this effect could be blocked by the glucocorticoid-receptor (GR) antagonist mifepristone, strongly suggesting the involvement of the GR. Furthermore, our results show that Dex decreases cell number and induces a G1-arrest. We hypothesized that the mitochondria are the main target of Dex. Interestingly, after treatment with Dex, 72% of the investigated genes involved in the mitochondrial respiratory chain are down-regulated, as well as 29% of the genes encoding for antioxidant enzymes. In conclusion, using the C17.2 cell line as a model to study developmental neurotoxicity in vitro, we have shown that GCs can increase cellular sensitivity to oxidative stress and alter the phenotype of NCSs.
Since peripheral sensory neuropathy is the major, clinically relevant side effect of sagopilone we investigated the general and peripheral neurotoxicity of sagopilone administered intravenously with different doses (1.2 and 2.4 mg/kg) and schedules in 48 Wistar rats and we performed in parallel a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) study. A trend toward a different peripheral neurotoxicity could be assessed after 2 weeks of treatment (bolus &gt; 30-min infusion &gt; 3-h infusion) with both doses of sagopilone. Although sagopilone concentrations in peripheral nerve tissue above 100 ng/g were associated with a reduction in nerve conduction velocity (NCV), a clear dose-dependence of this reduction on the level of systemic exposure to sagopilone was not observed. The PK/PD evaluation revealed no consistent effect of the infusion duration on serum PK parameters or the PD read-out NCV. Sagopilone concentrations in brain, sciatic nerve, liver, and kidney were higher after bolus compared to infusion, but there were no influence of infusion duration on these concentrations. No correlation between sagopilone concentrations in any organ/tissue with NCV changes was detected. This study evidences that the PD of sagopilone is not the main determinant of the onset and severity of sagopilone-induced peripheral neurotoxicity in the investigated clinically-relevant dose range, thus indicating that further investigation might identify neuronal-specific mechanisms of action able to drive a focused strategy to prevent peripheral neurotoxicity without reducing the anticancer effectiveness of the epothilones.

Although males and females differ both biologically and in their social and power relations throughout their life span, research in environmental and occupational neurotoxicology often ignore sex and/or gender as a characteristic that requires in-depth consideration. The neurotoxicology literature continues to confuse the terms sex (biological attributes) and gender (socially constructed roles and behavior) and the words are still used interchangeably. Throughout the lifespan, sex and gender are in interaction and both may play a role in influencing exposure and effect. Studies that have examined both males and females, provide evidence for sex differences in toxicokinetics and responses to neurotoxic assault as well as gender differences in exposure patterns, biomarkers of exposure, neurobehavioral performance and social consequences. Integrating sex and gender considerations into research in neurotoxicology would not only provide us with a better understanding of the mechanisms and pathways that lead to toxic assault, but also provide a means to improve preventive intervention strategies.

Two international scientific societies dedicated to research in neurotoxicology and neurobehavioral toxicology are the International Neurotoxicology Association (INA) and the International Congress on Occupational Health International Scientific Committee on Neurotoxicology and Psychophysiology (ICOH SCNP). From June 5-10, 2011 these two societies held a joint conference in Xi'an China entitled the Xi'an International Neurotoxicology Conference, Neurotoxicity and Neurodegeneration: Local Effect and Global Impact. At the conference two featured talks presented a brief history of the two societies. This article is a synthesis and expansion of those two presentations. The history of INA and ICOH SCNP is described in relation to the antecedent events leading to the formation of the two societies, their parallel developments, the nature of the societies and their scientific conferences, and a brief description of some of their accomplishments. Together, the historical development of these two societies is an important component of the development of the scientific discipline of neurotoxicology.
A change in paradigm is needed in the prevention of toxic effects on the nervous system, moving from its present reliance solely on data from animal testing to a prediction model mostly based on in vitro toxicity testing and in silico modeling. According to the report published by the National Research Council (NRC) of the US National Academies of Science, high-throughput in vitro tests will provide evidence for alterations in &quot;toxicity pathways&quot; as the best possible method of large scale toxicity prediction. The challenges to implement this proposal are enormous, and provide much room for debate. While many efforts address the technical aspects of implementing the vision, many questions around it need also to be addressed. Is the overall strategy the only one to be pursued? How can we move from current to future paradigms? Will we ever be able to reliably model for chronic and developmental neurotoxicity in vitro? This paper summarizes four presentations from a symposium held at the International Neurotoxicology Conference held in Xi'an, China, in June 2011. A. Li reviewed the current guidelines for neurotoxicity and developmental neurotoxicity testing, and discussed the major challenges existing to realize the NCR vision for toxicity testing. J. Llorens reviewed the biology of mammalian toxic avoidance in view of present knowledge on the physiology and molecular biology of the chemical senses, taste and smell. This background information supports the hypothesis that relating in vivo toxicity to chemical epitope descriptors that mimic the chemical encoding performed by the olfactory system may provide a way to the long term future of complete in silico toxicity prediction. S. Ceccatelli reviewed the implementation of rodent and human neural stem cells (NSCs) as models for in vitro toxicity testing that measures parameters such as cell proliferation, differentiation and migration. These appear to be sensitive endpoints that can identify substances with developmental neurotoxic potential. C. Suol reviewed the use of primary neuronal cultures in testing for neurotoxicity of environmental pollutants, including the study of the effects of persistent exposures and/or in differentiating cells, which allow recording of effects that can be extrapolated to human developmental neurotoxicity.
Behavioral toxicology is an important discipline of toxicology that traces its roots back to the origin of psychology. A parallel development can be traced for behavioral toxicology and psychology, in that both were focused on the mind or behavior, as distinct from neurology, that recognized the brain as the ultimate target. Ancient physicians and non-medical authors incidentally described the effects of neurotoxic agents on mood. In the last two centuries, experimental psychology, behaviorism and behavioral pharmacology further developed the observation of behavior with scientific methodology. During the Industrial Revolution exposure to neurotoxicants became widespread in the western world and the consequent &quot;psycho-organic syndrome&quot; was likely to affect a large part of the working population. Occupational Medicine met behavioral toxicology in the 1960s. The assessment of the effects of exposure on behavior was achieved with specific tests for motor and cognitive functions, and computer technology could be used to control and analyze behavioral experiments. The contribution of this discipline became further important in the identification of early adverse effects, also from environmental and dietary exposure. The detection of behavioral changes can precede the detection of neural changes, which makes the assessment of behavior especially suitable for risk assessment. Neurobehavioral methodology has further developed in the latest years towards a global and integrated approach to the different life stages of individuals, from early life to old age.
Translational research is needed to understand and predict the neurotoxic consequences associated with repeated occupational exposures to organophosphorus pesticides (OPs). In this report, we describe a research strategy for identifying biomarkers of OP neurotoxicity, and we characterize pesticide application workers in Egypt's Menoufia Governorate who serve as our anchor human population for developing a parallel animal model with similar exposures and behavioral deficits and for examining the influence of human polymorphisms in cytochrome P450 (CYP) and paraoxonase 1 (PON1) enzymes on OP metabolism and toxicity. This population has previously been shown to have high occupational exposures and to exhibit a broad range of neurobehavioral deficits. In addition to observational studies of work practices in the field, questionnaires on demographics, lifestyle and work practices were administered to 146 Egyptian pesticide application workers applying pesticides to the cotton crop. Survey results indicated that the application workforce uses standard operating procedures and standardized equipment provided by Egypt's Ministry of Agriculture, which provides a workforce with a stable work history. We also found that few workers report using personal protective equipment (PPE), which likely contributes to the relatively high exposures reported in these application workers. In summary, this population provides a unique opportunity for identifying biomarkers of OP-induced neurotoxicity associated with occupational exposure.
The developing nervous system is particularly vulnerable to chemical insults. Exposure to chemicals can result in neurobehavioural alterations, and these have been used as sensitive readouts to assess neurotoxicity in animals and man. Deconstructing neurobehaviour into relevant cellular and molecular components may allow for detection of specific neurotoxic effects in cell-based systems, which in turn may allow an easier examination of neurotoxic pathways and modes of actions and eventually inform the regulatory assessment of chemicals with potential developmental neurotoxicity. Here, current developments towards these goals are reviewed. Imaging genetics (CB) provides new insights into the neurobiological correlates of cognitive function that are being used to delineate neurotoxic mechanisms. The gaps between in vivo neurobehaviour and real-time in vitro measurements of neuronal function are being bridged by ex vivo measurements of synaptic plasticity (RW). An example of solvent neurotoxicity demonstrates how an in vivo neurological defect can be linked via the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-glutamate receptor as a common target to in vitro readouts (AB). Axonal and dendritic morphology in vitro proved to be good correlates of neuronal connectivity and neurobehaviour in animals exposed to polychlorinated biphenyls and organophosphorus pesticides (PJL). Similarly, chemically induced changes in neuronal morphology affected the formation of neuronal networks on structured surfaces. Such network formation may become an important readout for developmental neurotoxicity in vitro (CvT), especially when combined with human neurons derived from embryonic stem cells (ML). We envision that future in vitro test systems for developmental neurotoxicity will combine the above approaches with exposure information, and we suggest a strategy for test system development and cell-based risk assessment.

Depression is a stress-induced disorder and there is compelling evidence for the involvement of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis abnormalities in the disease. Chronic hyperactivity of the HPA axis and resultant excessive glucocorticoid (hypercortisolism) may be causal to depression. We demonstrated that the dexamethasone (DEX)/CRH test is a sensitive state-dependent marker to monitor HPA axis abnormalities. Restoration from HPA axis abnormalities occurs with clinical responses to treatment. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has also been implicated in depression. We found that glucocorticoid (DEX) suppresses BDNF-induced dendrite outgrowth and synaptic formation via blocking the MAPK pathway in early-developing cultured hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, we demonstrated that glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and TrkB (a specific receptor of BDNF) interact and that DEX acutely suppresses BDNF-induced glutamate release by affecting the PLC-gamma pathway in cultured cortical neurons, indicating a mechanism underlying the effect of excessive glucocorticoid on BDNF function and resultant damage in cortical neurons. In a macroscopic view using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), we found that individuals with hypercortisolism detected by the DEX/CRH test demonstrated volume loss in gray matter and reduced neural network assessed with diffusion tensor imaging in several brain regions. Finally, we observed that individuals with hypocortisolism detected by the DEX/CRH test tend to present more distress symptoms, maladaptive coping styles, and schizotypal personality traits than their counterparts, which points to the important role of hypocortisolism as well as hypercortisolism in depression spectrum disorders.
Pharmacological agents enhancing fear extinction may be promising tools for the treatment of PTSD. Histone acetylation is involved in memory formation, and histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors increase histone acetylation and subsequently enhance fear extinction. In this study, we examined whether vorinostat, an HDAC inhibitor, facilitated fear extinction, using a contextual fear conditioning (FC) paradigm. We found that vorinostat facilitated fear extinction. Next, the levels of global acetylated histone were measured by Western blotting. We also assessed the effect of vorinostat on the hippocampal levels of NMDA receptor mRNA by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-PCR). The levels of acetylated histone and NR2B mRNA, but not NR1 or NR2A mRNA, were elevated in the hippocampus 2 h after administration of vorinostat. We investigated the levels of acetylated histones and phospho-CREB (p-CREB) binding at the promoter of the NR2B gene using the chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay followed by RT-PCR. The levels of acetylated histone and the binding of p-CREB to its binding site at the promoter of the NR2B gene were increased. These findings suggest that vorinostat in conjunction with exposure therapy can be a promising new avenue for the treatment of PTSD.
Collegium Internationale Neuropsychopharmacologicum (CINP) is an international society which was established to facilitate academic exchange of basic and clinical studies related to psychotropic drugs. The CINP has been devoted to the problems of methodology and to the analysis of the pharmacological and therapeutic results with psychotropic drugs under normal and pathological conditions as well to the medico-social implications of neuropsychopharmacology. The CINP was organized by Prof. Trabucchi (Milan) in collaboration with an international team of neuropsychopharmacologists from 15 countries. The first International CINP Congress was held on September of 1958 in Rome. Thereafter, CINP world congresses were held every two years until 2012. The number of Japanese neuropsycho-pharmacologists who are members has been increasing since the 1970s. The 17th CINP Congress was held in Kyoto in 1990, and the CINP Hiroshima regional meeting was held, combined the annual meeting of the Japanese Society of Neuropsychopharmacology and Korean Society of Psychopharmacology in 2001. The early history of CINP between 1958 and 2000 is briefly described with special reference to the participation of the Japanese Society of Neuropsychopharmacology.
Rapid volumetric imaging of hyperpolarized (13) C compounds allows the real-time measurement of metabolic activity and can be useful in distinguishing between normal and diseased tissues. This work extends a fast two-dimensional undersampled spiral MRSI sequence to provide volumetric coverage, acquiring a 16  16  12 matrix with a nominal isotropic resolution of 5 mm in 4.5 s. The rapid acquisition enables a high temporal resolution for dynamic imaging. This dynamic three-dimensional MRSI method was used to investigate hyperpolarized [1-(13) C]pyruvate metabolism modulated by the administration of ethanol in rat liver. A significant increase in the pyruvate to lactate conversion was observed in the liver as a result of the greater availability of NADH (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, reduced form) from ethanol metabolism.
P27(Kip1) (p27) is a member of the Cip/Kip family of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors. Recently, a new function of p27 as transcriptional regulator has been reported. It has been shown that p27 regulates the expression of target genes mostly involved in splicing, cell cycle, respiration and translation. We report here that p27 directly binds to the transcriptional coactivator PCAF by a region including amino acids 91-120. PCAF associates with p27 through its catalytic domain and acetylates p27 at lysine 100. Our data showed that overexpression of PCAF induces the degradation of p27 whereas in contrast, the knockdown of PCAF stabilizes the protein. A p27 mutant in which K100 was substituted by arginine (p27-K100R) cannot be acetylated by PCAF and has a half-life much higher than that of p27WT. Moreover, p27-K100R remains stable along cell-cycle progression. Ubiquitylation assays and the use of proteasome inhibitors indicate that PCAF induces p27 degradation via proteasome. We also observed that knockdown of skp2 did not affect the PCAF induced degradation of p27. In conclusion, our data suggest that the p27 acetylation by PCAF regulates its stability.


The loop diuretics furosemide and bumetanide are used widely for the management of fluid overload in both acute and chronic disease states. To date, most pharmacokinetic studies in neonates have been conducted with furosemide and little is known about bumetanide. The aim of this article was to review the published data on the pharmacology of furosemide and bumetanide in neonates and infants in order to provide a critical analysis of the literature, and a useful tool for physicians. The bibliographic search was performed electronically using PubMed and EMBASE databases as search engines and March 2011 was the cutoff point. The half-life (t()) of both furosemide and bumetanide is considerably longer in neonates than in adults and consequently the clearance (CL) of these drugs is reduced at birth. In healthy volunteers, plasma t() of furosemide ranges from 33 to 100 minutes, whereas in neonates it ranges from 8 to 27 hours. The volume of distribution (V(d)) of furosemide undergoes little variation during neonate maturation. The dose of furosemide, administered by intermittent intravenous infusion, is 1 mg/kg and may increase to a maximum of 2 mg/kg every 24 hours in premature infants and every 12 hours in full-term infants. Comparison of continuous infusion versus intermittent infusion of furosemide showed that the diuresis is more controlled with fewer hemodynamic and electrolytic variations during continuous infusion. The appropriate infusion rate of furosemide ranges from 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg/h and when the diuresis is &lt;1 mL/kg/h the infusion rate may be increased to 0.4 mg/kg/h. Treatment with theophylline before administration of furosemide results in a significant increase of urine flow rate. Bumetanide is more potent than furosemide and its dose after intermittent intravenous infusion ranges from 0.005 to 0.1 mg/kg every 24 hours. The t() of bumetanide in neonates ranges from 1.74 to 7.0 hours. Up to now, no data are available on the continuous infusion of bumetanide. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is used for a variety of indications including sepsis, persistent pulmonary hypertension, meconium aspiration syndrome, cardiac defects and congenital diaphragmatic hernia. There are two studies of furosemide in neonates undergoing ECMO and only one on the pharmacokinetics of bumetanide under ECMO. When ECMO was conducted for 72 hours, the total amount of furosemide administered was 7.0 mg/kg, and the urine production in the 3 days of treatment was about 6 mL/kg/h, which is the target value. The t() of bumetanide in neonates during ECMO was extremely variable. CL, t(), and V(d) were 0.63 mL/min/kg, 13.2 hours, and 0.45 L/kg, respectively. Furosemide may be administered by inhalation and inhibits the bronco-constrictive effect of exercise, cold air ventilation and antigen challenge. However, inhaled furosemide is not active in infants with viral bronchiolitis and its effect on broncho-pulmonary dysplasia is still uncertain. Furosemide does not significantly increase the risk of failure of patent ductus arteriosus closure when indomethacin or ibuprofen have been co-administered. Infants with low birth weight treated long-term with furosemide are at risk for the development of intra-renal calcification. Furosemide therapy above 10 mg/kg bodyweight cumulative dose had a 48-fold increased risk of nephrocalcinosis. The use of furosemide in combination with indomethacin increased the incidence of acute renal failure. The maturation of the kidney governs the pharmacokinetics of furosemide and bumetanide in the infant. CL and t() are influenced by development, and this must be taken into consideration when planning a dosage regimen with these drugs.

It is well established that there is individual variability in pain and temperature sensitivity. Functional brain imaging studies have found that interindividual heat pain variability correlates with brain activity in sensory and pain modulation areas. Thus, it is possible that these individual differences are associated with variability in gray matter thickness of cortical regions involved in thermoreception and pain. To test this, we investigated the relationship between thermal thresholds and cortical thickness in 80 healthy subjects. Subjects underwent a psychophysical session to determine their cool detection (CD), warm detection (WD), cold pain (CP), and heat pain (HP) threshold. A high-resolution structural magnetic resonance imaging scan was acquired for each subject. We correlated each threshold measure to cortical thickness of regions associated with thermoreception and pain. The mean ( SD) thresholds were 30.7 C ( 0.8) for CD, 33.8 C ( 0.7) for WD, 11.7 C ( 9.7) for CP, and 45.3 C ( 2.8) for HP. The brain gray matter analysis revealed a strong correlation between greater thermal and pain sensitivity and cortical thickening of the primary somatosensory cortex. Additionally, greater sensitivity to cool stimuli correlated with cortical thickening in the paracentral lobule, and greater WD correlated with cortical thinning in the anterior midcingulate cortex. We also found that greater HP sensitivity correlated with thickening in the posterior midcingulate cortex and the orbitofrontal cortex. These cortical gray matter correlates of thermal and pain sensitivity provide a neural basis for individual differences in thermal sensitivity.


Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are heteropentameric ligand-gated ion channels that mediate excitatory neurotransmission at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) and other peripheral and central synapses. At the NMJ, acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) are constantly exposed to mechanical stress resulting from muscle contraction. It is therefore of interest to understand if their function is influenced by mechanical stimuli. In this study, patch-clamp recordings showed that AChR channel activity was enhanced upon membrane stretching in both cultured Xenopus muscle cells and C2C12 myotubes. To examine how this property is physiologically regulated, effects of membrane-intrinsic and membrane-extrinsic factors on AChRs expressed in HEK293T cells were studied. As in muscle cells, AChR single channel currents recorded under cell-attached configuration were significantly increased-without change in current amplitude-when negative pressure was applied through the patch pipette. GsMTx-4, a peptide toxin that blocks mechanically activated cation channels, inhibited this effect on AChRs. The mechanosensitivity decreased when cells were treated with MCD, latrunculin A or cytochalasin D, but increased when exposed to lysophosphatidylcholine, indicating contributions from both membrane lipids and the cytoskeleton. Rapsyn, which binds to AChRs and mediates their cytoskeletal interaction in muscle, suppressed AChR mechanosensitivity when co-expressed in HEK293T cells, but this influence of rapsyn was impaired following the deletion of rapsyn's AChR-binding domain or upon cytoskeletal disruption by cytochalasin D. These results suggest a mechanism for regulating AChR's mechanosensitivity through its cytoskeletal linkage via rapsyn, which may serve to protect the receptors and sarcolemmal integrity under high mechanical stress encountered by the NMJ.
Fluctuations in the concentrations of the neuroactive steroid allopregnanolone are thought to influence -amino-butyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor gene expression and function. Long-term treatment with ethinyl estradiol (EE) plus levonorgestrel (LNG), two of the most widely used steroids in the hormonal contraceptive pill, decreases allopregnanolone levels in rat cerebral cortex and plasma, alters GABA(A) receptor expression and induces anxiety-like behavior. We evaluated which component of the hormonal contraceptive pill is responsible for the aforementioned changes. Female rats were injected subcutaneously (s.c.) with EE (0.030 mg) or LNG (0.125 mg) once a day for 4 weeks. Compared to the respective vehicle-treated control groups, EE decreased cerebral cortical levels of allopregnanolone, progesterone and pregnenolone by 76, 72 and 33%, respectively and hippocampal levels by 52, 56 and 50%, respectively. Likewise, LNG decreased cerebral cortical levels of allopregnanolone, progesterone and pregnenolone by 75, 68 and 33%, respectively, and hippocampal levels by 55, 65 and 60%, respectively. Administration of LNG, but not EE, increased the abundance of the 2 subunit peptide in cerebral cortex and hippocampus by 38 and 59%, respectively. Further, LNG, but not EE, decreased the time spent and the number of entries into the open arms of the elevated plus maze by 56 and 43%, respectively, an index of anxiety-like behavior. These results suggest that alterations in GABA(A) receptor subunit expression and anxiety-like behavior induced by long-term treatment with combined EE/LNG appear to be caused by LNG. Given that both EE and LNG decrease allopregnanolone levels in a similar manner, these results further suggest that changes in allopregnanolone levels are not associated with GABA(A) receptor expression.
Hyperactivity of the hypothalamic pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis plays a role in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). Recent studies suggest the role of the glutamatergic system in the pathophysiology of MDD, and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists have shown antidepressant effects in both preclinical and clinical studies. However, little is known about the role of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) specifically in the glutamatergic response to HPA axis activation. Glutamate is an NMDA receptor agonist, and glycine and D-serine act as co-agonists. Here, we measured brain concentrations of these amino acids in rats given repeated administration of ACTH (100 g/rat/day, sc, for 14 days). Further, we also evaluated behavioral effects of memantine, a non-competitive NMDA antagonist, on immobility time in the forced swimming test and on locomotor activity in ACTH-treated rats. Compared with control rats, glutamine, glycine, L-serine, and D-serine levels were increased in the hippocampus of ACTH-treated rats; glutamate, glutamine, glycine, L-serine, and D-serine were increased in the cerebellum; and glutamine and glycine were increased in the frontal cortex and striatum, all with statistical significance. Remarkably, these increases in agonists and co-agonists might have led to the augmentation of NMDA receptor activity. ACTH treatment increased immobility time in the forced swimming test and decreased locomotor activity in rats. On the contrary, memantine (10 mg/kg, ip) significantly decreased immobility time in the forced swimming test and increased locomotor activity in ACTH-treated rats. Furthermore, imipramine (15 mg/kg, ip) did not alter immobility time in the forced swimming test whereas this drug significantly decreased locomotor activity in ACTH-treated rats. These results suggest that depressive-like behaviors by chronic ACTH treatment could be blocked by memantine.
Clinical studies have shown a link between early-life adversity and severity of adulthood responses to a traumatic stress event (post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD). Despite a need for basic research, few rodent models are available to test the lasting impacts of early-life traumatic stressors. Underwater trauma (UWT) has been used previously to model traumatic stress; however, effects of this procedure have only been characterized in adulthood. Susceptibility of younger animals to physiological or psychological damage from a forced submersion procedure is unknown. A procedure involving swimming may be a stressful stimulus outside of the underwater component of the experience, as well. The acute effects of a 1-minute sham exposure (empty water tank), swim-only, and UWT (40s swim followed by 20s underwater) were compared in adolescent rats at postnatal day 37. No effects on blood oxygenation or lung tissue were observed. Stepwise decreases in open arm behavior were observed on the elevated plus maze (EPM) in swim-only rats, while UWT rats showed an immediate, lasting decrease in open arm behavior. UWT rats showed a significant decrease in basal corticosterone one week after trauma. These results show that while water immersion is a stressor, UWT causes a distinct syndrome of traumatic stress response in adolescent rats.
Low back pain (LBP) is a common complaint within the athletic population and is commonly managed through a biomedical approach. The injured or damaged structure causing the LBP is identified and treated, and complete recovery from the episode is expected. Clinical experience shows us that often, athletes with LBP will not recover from their episode and may continue their sports participation despite persistent pain, or they may limit participation. Recent neuroscience research into the biology of pain suggests that clinicians involved in the management of athletes with LBP should embrace a biopsychosocial approach by engaging the brain and nervous system. This manuscript provides an overview of such a biopsychosocial approach, and presents information on the neurobiology of the athlete's pain experience.
The structural organization of the brain is important for normal brain function and is critical to understand in order to evaluate changes that occur during disease processes. Three-dimensional (3D) imaging of the mouse brain is necessary to appreciate the spatial context of structures within the brain. In addition, the small scale of many brain structures necessitates resolution at the 10 m scale. 3D optical imaging techniques, such as optical projection tomography (OPT), have the ability to image intact large specimens (1 cm(3)) with 5 m resolution. In this work we assessed the potential of autofluorescence optical imaging methods, and specifically OPT, for phenotyping the mouse brain. We found that both specimen size and fixation methods affected the quality of the OPT image. Based on these findings we developed a specimen preparation method to improve the images. Using this method we assessed the potential of optical imaging for phenotyping. Phenotypic differences between wild-type male and female mice were quantified using computer-automated methods. We found that optical imaging of the endogenous autofluorescence in the mouse brain allows for 3D characterization of neuroanatomy and detailed analysis of brain phenotypes. This will be a powerful tool for understanding mouse models of disease and development and is a technology that fits easily within the workflow of biology and neuroscience labs.
In mammals, smell is mediated by odorant receptors expressed by sensory neurons in the nose. These specialized receptors are found both on olfactory sensory neurons' cilia and axon terminals. Although the primary function of ciliary odorant receptors is to detect odorants, their axonal role remains unclear but is thought to involve axon guidance. This review discusses findings that show axonal odorant receptors are indeed functional and capable of modulating neural connectivity.
Correlations in spike-train ensembles can seriously impair the encoding of information by their spatio-temporal structure. An inevitable source of correlation in finite neural networks is common presynaptic input to pairs of neurons. Recent studies demonstrate that spike correlations in recurrent neural networks are considerably smaller than expected based on the amount of shared presynaptic input. Here, we explain this observation by means of a linear network model and simulations of networks of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons. We show that inhibitory feedback efficiently suppresses pairwise correlations and, hence, population-rate fluctuations, thereby assigning inhibitory neurons the new role of active decorrelation. We quantify this decorrelation by comparing the responses of the intact recurrent network (feedback system) and systems where the statistics of the feedback channel is perturbed (feedforward system). Manipulations of the feedback statistics can lead to a significant increase in the power and coherence of the population response. In particular, neglecting correlations within the ensemble of feedback channels or between the external stimulus and the feedback amplifies population-rate fluctuations by orders of magnitude. The fluctuation suppression in homogeneous inhibitory networks is explained by a negative feedback loop in the one-dimensional dynamics of the compound activity. Similarly, a change of coordinates exposes an effective negative feedback loop in the compound dynamics of stable excitatory-inhibitory networks. The suppression of input correlations in finite networks is explained by the population averaged correlations in the linear network model: In purely inhibitory networks, shared-input correlations are canceled by negative spike-train correlations. In excitatory-inhibitory networks, spike-train correlations are typically positive. Here, the suppression of input correlations is not a result of the mere existence of correlations between excitatory (E) and inhibitory (I) neurons, but a consequence of a particular structure of correlations among the three possible pairings (EE, EI, II).




Myoclonus is a brief (less than half a second)contraction involving agonist and antagonist muscles, leading to a sudden jerk. It may be a normal phenomenon,as in the so-called 'sleep starts'. When pathological, myoclonus is a symptom of a broad range of neurological and systemic diseases. Alternatively, it may signal non-organic illness (8% of myoclonus is psychogenic). This review provides pragmatic and systematic guidance to the assessment and differential diagnosis of adult patients presenting with myoclonus.
Recent data has indicated that the traditional view of Parkinson's disease (PD) as an isolated disorder of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system alone is an oversimplification of its complex symptomatology. Aside from classical motor deficits, various non-motor symptoms including autonomic dysfunction, sensory and cognitive impairments as well as neuropsychiatric alterations and sleep disturbances are common in PD. Some of these non-motor symptoms can even antedate the motor problems. Many of them are associated with extranigral neuropathological changes, such as extensive -synuclein pathology and also neuroinflammatory responses in specific brain regions, i.e. microglial activation, which has been implicated in several aspects of PD pathogenesis and progression. However, microglia do not represent a uniform population, but comprise a diverse group of cells with brain region-specific phenotypes that can exert beneficial or detrimental effects, depending on the local phenotype and context. Understanding how microglia can be neuroprotective in one brain region, while promoting neurotoxicity in another, will improve our understanding of the role of microglia in neurodegeneration in general, and of their role in PD pathology in particular. Since neuroinflammatory responses are in principle modifiable, such approaches could help to identify new targets or adjunctive therapies for the full spectrum of PD-related symptoms.
The interaction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) with its tropomyosin-related kinase receptor B (TrkB) is involved in fundamental cellular processes including neuronal proliferation, differentiation and survival as well as neurotransmitter release and synaptic plasticity. TrkB signaling has been widely associated with beneficial, trophic effects and many commonly used psychotropic drugs aim to increase BDNF levels in the brain. However, it is likely that a prolonged increased TrkB activation is observed in many pathological conditions, which may underlie the development and course of clinical symptoms. Interestingly, genetic and pharmacological studies aiming at decreasing TrkB activation in rodent models mimicking human pathology have demonstrated a promising therapeutic landscape for TrkB inhibitors in the treatment of various diseases, e.g. central nervous system (CNS) disorders and several types of cancer. Up to date, only a few selective and potent TrkB inhibitors have been developed. As such, the use of crystallography and in silico approaches to model BDNF-TrkB interaction and to generate relevant pharmacophores represent powerful tools to develop novel compounds targeting the TrkB receptor.
Presenilins (PSs) are catalytic components of the -secretase proteolytic complexes that produce A and cell signaling peptides. -Secretase substrates are mostly membrane-bound peptides derived following proteolytic cleavage of the extracellular domain of type I transmembrane proteins. Recent work reveals that -secretase substrate processing is regulated by proteins termed -secretase substrate recruiting factors (SSRFs) that bridge substrates to -secretase complexes. These factors constitute novel targets for pharmacological control of specific -secretase products, such as A and signaling peptides. PS familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) mutants cause a loss of -secretase cleavage function at epsilon sites of substrates thus inhibiting production of cell signaling peptides while promoting accumulation of uncleaved toxic substrates. Importantly, -secretase inhibitors may cause toxicity in vivo by similar mechanisms. Here we review novel mechanisms that control -secretase substrate selection and cleavage and examine their relevance to AD.
A typical high-sensitivity antibody affinity purification-mass spectrometry experiment easily identifies hundreds of protein interactors. However, most of these are non-valid resulting from multiple causes other than interaction with the bait protein. To discriminate true interactors from off-target recognition, we propose to differentially include an (peptide) antigen during the antibody incubation in the immuno-precipitation experiment. This contrasts the specific antibody-bait protein interactions, versus all other off-target protein interactions. To exemplify the power of the approach, we studied the DMXL2 interactome. From the initial six immuno-precipitations, we identified about 600 proteins. When filtering for interactors present in all anti-DMXL2 antibody immuno-precipitation experiments, absent in the bead controls, and competed off by the peptide antigen, this hit list is reduced to ten proteins, including known and novel interactors of DMXL2. Together, our approach enables the use of a wide range of available antibodies in large-scale protein interaction proteomics, while gaining specificity of the interactions.
Aplysia californica (AC) is a widely used model for testing learning and memory. Although ESTs have been generated, proteomics studies on AC proteins are limited. Studies at the protein level, however, are mandatory, not only due to the fact that studies at the nucleic acid level are not allowing conclusions about PTMs. A gel-based proteomics method was therefore applied to carry out protein profiling in abdominal ganglia from AC. Abdominal ganglia were extirpated, proteins extracted and run on 2DE with subsequent in-gel digestion with trypsin, chymotrypsin, and partially by subtilisin. Peptides were identified using a nano-LC-ESI-LTQ-FT-mass spectrometer. MS/MS data were analyzed by searching the NCBI nonredundant public AC EST database and the NCBI nonredundant public AC protein database. A total of 477 different proteins represented by 363 protein spots were detected and were assigned to different protein pathways as for instance signaling (receptors, protein kinases, and phosphatases), metabolism, protein synthesis, handling and degradation, cytoskeleton and structural, oxido-redox, heat shock and chaperone, hypothetical, predicted and unnamed proteins. The generation of a protein map of soluble proteins shows the existence of so far hypothetical and predicted proteins and is allowing and challenging further work at the protein level, in particular in the field of neuroscience.
A number of studies have demonstrated impairment of working memory (WM) in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). However, the relationship between the underlying brain activity associated with impairment of WM function in MDD patients and their clinical characteristics is not yet clear. The objective of this study is to evaluate prefrontal hemodynamic response related to a WM task in patients with late-onset depression (LOD) and to assess the relationship between activation in the prefrontal cortex and clinical characteristics. Thirty-six patients with LOD and 35 age- and gender-matched healthy controls were recruited for the present study. We measured hemoglobin concentration changes in the prefrontal and temporal regions during a WM (2-back, letter version) task using 52-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). LOD patients were associated with reduced increase in prefrontal and temporal activation compared with healthy controls. Moreover, reduced activation in the prefrontal and temporal regions was significantly related to lower scores on the Social Adaptation Self-Evaluation Scale (SASS) in the patient group. More specifically, the reduced hemodynamic response in the frontopolar region was associated with functional impairment related to interpersonal relationship factor scores on the SASS. These findings suggest that hemodynamic response in prefrontal and temporal regions during a WM task may act as a biological marker of social functioning in LOD patients.
Antisocial and violent behaviour have been associated with both structural and functional brain abnormalities in the frontal and the temporal lobes. The aim of the present study was to assess cortical thickness in offenders undergoing forensic psychiatric assessments, one group with psychopathy (PSY, n=7) and one group with autism spectrum disorder (ASD, n=7) compared to each other as well as to a reference group consisting of healthy non-criminal subjects (RG, n=12). A second aim was to assess correlation between scores on a psychopathy checklist (PCL-SV) and cortical thickness. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and surface-based cortical segmentation were used to calculate cortical thickness. Analyses used both regions of interest and statistical maps. When the two groups of offenders were compared, there were no differences in cortical thickness, but the PSY group had thinner cortex in the temporal lobes and in the whole right hemisphere compared to RG. There were no differences in cortical thickness between the ASD group and RG. Across subjects there was a negative correlation between PCL-SV scores and cortical thickness in the temporal lobes and the whole right hemisphere. The findings indicate that thinner cortex in the temporal lobes is present in psychopathic offenders and that these regions are important for the expression of psychopathy. However, whether thinner temporal cortex is a cause or a consequence of the antisocial behaviour is still unknown.
Across many studies, researchers have found that representations in working memory (WM) can guide visual attention toward items that match the features of the WM contents. While some researchers have contended that this occurs involuntarily, others have suggested that the impact of WM contents on attention can be strategically controlled. Here, we varied the probability that WM items would coincide with either targets or distractors in a visual search task to examine (1) whether participants could intentionally enhance or inhibit the influence of WM items on attention and (2) whether cognitive control over WM biases would also affect access to the memory contents in a surprise recognition test. We found visual search to be faster when the WM item coincided with the search target, and this effect was enhanced when the memory item reliably predicted the location of the target. Conversely, visual search was slowed when the memory item coincided with a search distractor, and this effect was diminished, but not abolished, when the memory item was reliably associated with distractors. This strategic dampening of the influence of WM items on attention came at a price to memory, however, as participants were slowest to perform WM recognition tests on blocks in which the WM contents were consistently invalid. These results document that attentional capture by WM contents is partly, but not fully, malleable by top-down control, which appears to adjust the state of the WM contents to optimize search behavior. These data illustrate the role of cognitive control in modulating the strength of WM biases of selection, and they support a tight coupling between WM and attention.
It was demonstrated that central arrows produce orienting of attention even when they are nonpredictive as to the target location. This finding was suggested to indicate reflexive orienting of attention by central arrows. However, it is not clear whether central arrows can produce an attentional effect without awareness. In two experiments, using a variation of the inattentional blindness task, we examine whether orienting of attention by a central arrow can be demonstrated without conscious perception of the arrow. We found that attention could be directed to the cued location even when the arrow was not consciously perceived.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) can sensitively detect white matter sex differences and the effects of pharmacological treatments. Before cross-sex hormone treatment, the white matter microstructure of several brain bundles in female-to-male transsexuals (FtMs) differs from those in females but not from that in males. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether cross-sex hormone treatment (androgenization) affects the brain white matter microstructure. Using a Siemens 3 T Trio Tim Magneton, DTI was performed twice, before and during cross-sex hormonal treatment with testosterone in 15 FtMs scanned. Fractional anisotropy (FA) was analyzed on white matter of the whole brain, and the latter was spatially analyzed using Tract-Based Spatial Statistics. Before each scan the subjects were assessed for serum testosterone, sex hormone binding globulin level (SHBG), and their free testosterone index. After at least seven months of cross-gender hormonal treatment, FA values increased in the right superior longitudinal fasciculus (SLF) and the right corticospinal tract (CST) in FtMs compared to their pre-treatment values. Hierarchical regression analyses showed that the increments in the FA values in the SLF and CST are predicted by the free testosterone index before hormonal treatment. All these observations suggest that testosterone treatment changes white matter microstructure in FtMs.





In two experiments, we investigated comprehension monitoring in 10-12years old children differing in reading comprehension skill. The children's self-paced reading times (Experiment 1) and eye fixations and regressions (Experiment 2) were measured as they read narrative texts in which an action of the protagonist was consistent or inconsistent with a description of the protagonist's character given earlier. The character description and action were adjacent (local condition) or separated by a long filler paragraph (global condition). The self-paced reading data (Experiment 1), the initial reading and rereading data (Experiment 2), together with the comprehension question data (both experiments), are discussed within the situation model framework and suggest that poor comprehenders find difficulty in constructing a richly elaborated situation model. Poor comprehenders presumably fail to represent character information in the model as a consequence of which they are not able to detect inconsistencies in the global condition (in which the character information is lost from working memory). The patterns of results rule out an explanation in terms of impaired situation model updating ability.
The present paper summarizes experimental and clinical data suggesting the therapeutic potential of the prototypic GABAB receptor agonist, baclofen, for the treatment of alcohol-use disorders (AUDs). Numerous studies have reported baclofen-induced suppression of alcohol drinking, relapse-like drinking, and alcohol reinforcing, rewarding, stimulating, and motivational properties in rats and mice. The majority of clinical surveys conducted to date have demonstrated the capacity of baclofen to suppress alcohol consumption, craving for alcohol, and alcohol withdrawal symptomatology in alcohol-dependent patients. More recently, the discovery of a positive allosteric modulatory binding site, together with the synthesis of in vivo effective ligands, provided a new tool for pharmacological manipulations of the GABAB receptor. Accumulating lines of preclinical evidence suggest that positive allosteric modulators of the GABAB receptor (GABAB PAMs), such as GS39783, display a high therapeutic index and retain baclofen's capacity to suppress alcohol consumption and alcohol reinforcing and motivational properties. The present paper also summarizes the most relevant patents on GABAB receptor agonists and GABAB PAMs as possible pharmacotherapies for AUDs.
A non-surgical method to induce sterility would be a useful tool to control feral populations of animals. Our laboratories have experience with approaches aimed at targeting brain cells in vivo with vehicles that deliver a payload of either inhibitory RNAs or genes intended to correct cellular dysfunction. A combination/modification of these methods may provide a useful framework for the design of approaches that can be used to sterilize cats and dogs. For this approach to succeed, it has to meet several conditions: it needs to target a gene essential for fertility. It must involve a method that can selectively silence the gene of interest. It also needs to deliver the silencing agent via a minimally invasive method. Finally, the silencing effect needs to be sustained for many years, so that expansion of the targeted population can be effectively prevented. In this article, we discuss this subject and provide a succinct account of our previous experience with: (i) molecular reagents able to disrupt reproductive cyclicity when delivered to regions of the brain involved in the control of reproduction and (ii) molecular reagents able to ameliorate neuronal disease when delivered systemically using a novel approach of gene therapy.
Ethical dilemmas resulting from neural sciences have promoted the emergence of a new discipline termed neuroethics. Researchers distinguish between ethics of neuroscience and neuroscience of ethics. The former deals with ethical problems arising from new forms of interventions into the brain. The latter investigates the neural mechanisms that may possibly underlie morality as such. This article presents a survey of the new empirical facts and directions, and a critical evaluation of the methodological and ontological problems underlying neuroethics as such. Conceptual analyses of research issues and the underlying implicit conceptions of human being are thoroughly investigated based on Heidegger's thought.
Parkinson's disease is mainly considered as a motor disorder defined by a motor triad. However, various non-motor manifestations may be encountered in Parkinson's disease, including hyposmia, pain, fatigue, sleep disorders, cognitive and behavioral disorders. The pathophysiology of these signs is complex, not univocal and remains poorly understood. Functional imaging techniques either by positron emission tomography, single photon emission tomography or functional magnetic resonance imaging provide an invaluable opportunity to better understand the pathophysiology of these signs. In this paper, we present a review of the recent advances provided by functional imaging in this area.


The relationship between psychotropic drugs and sleep remains poorly understood. In this study, we examined the relationship between the number (and dosage) of concurrently-taken antipsychotic medications and sleep in a psychiatric inpatient population. Eighty-three long-stay inpatients with severe mental disorders were administered the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index questionnaire (PSQI). Results showed that increasing antipsychotics dosages were linked to better sleep, although antipsychotic medications only accounted for a relatively small amount of the variance in sleep quality. The results also showed that, when taken in combination with several antipsychotics, SSRI/SNRI antidepressants failed to show the expected disruptive effects on sleep patterns and daytime functions. Altogether, sleep complaints remained pervasive in 70% of this medicated clinical sample. This suggests that the use of the sedative properties of antipsychotic medication has limited efficacy as a treatment option for sleep dysfunctions, and is not an appropriate substitute for other sleep interventions. Altogether, the results support the case for more systematic screening and interventions for sleep problems in patients with severe psychiatric illness.

A recent single-site study (Fisher et al., 2009. Am J Psychiatry. 166 (7) 805-11) showed that repeated training with the Brain Fitness Program (BFP) improved performance on a battery of neuropsychological tasks. If replicated these data suggest an important non-pharmacological method for ameliorating cognitive impairment in schizophrenia. Our study evaluated the BFP training effects in an open-label, multi-site, multinational clinical trial. Fifty-five stable adult patients with schizophrenia on regular antipsychotic medication completed  32 BFP training sessions over 8-10 weeks. Training effects on cognitive performance and functional capacity outcome measures were measured using CogState schizophrenia battery, UCSD Performance based Skills Assessment (UPSA-2) and Cognitive Assessment Interview (CAI). BFP training showed a large and significant treatment effect on a training exercise task (auditory processing speed), however this effect did not generalize to improved performance on independent CogState assessment. There were no significant effects on UPSA-2 or CAI scores. Our study demonstrated the feasibility of implementing BFP training in a multi-site study. However, BFP training did not show significant treatment effects on cognitive performance or functional capacity outcome measures despite showing large and significant effects on a training exercise.




Affective empathy (AE) is distinguished clinically and neurally from cognitive empathy (CE). While AE is selectively disrupted in psychopathy, autism is associated with deficits in CE. Despite such dissociations, AE and CE together contribute to normal human empathic experience. A dimensional measure of individual differences in AE 'relative to' CE captures this interaction and may reveal brain-behavior relationships beyond those detectable with AE and CE separately. Using resting-state fMRI and measures of empathy in healthy adults, we show that relative empathic ability (REA) is reflected in the brain's intrinsic functional dynamics. Dominance of AE was associated with stronger functional connectivity among social-emotional regions (ventral anterior insula, orbitofrontal cortex, amygdala, perigenual anterior cingulate). Dominance of CE was related to stronger connectivity among areas implicated in interoception, autonomic monitoring and social-cognitive processing (brainstem, superior temporal sulcus, ventral anterior insula). These patterns were distinct from those observed with AE and CE separately. Finally, REA and the strength of several functional connections were associated with symptoms of psychopathology. These findings suggest that REA provides a dimensional index of empathic function and pathological tendencies in healthy adults, which are reflected in the intrinsic functional dynamics of neural systems associated with social and emotional cognition.




Depression affects a significant proportion of the population, with 1-year and lifetime prevalence of 3-5% and 10-30% respectively. Full remission is achieved in only a third of patients following treatment with first-line antidepressant. There is a need for novel treatments for treatment-resistant depression (TRD). Dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis has been described in patients with depression. There is persistent rise in the levels of cortisol (end product of the HPA axis) and impairment of the negative feedback inhibition mechanism of the HPA axis. Dysregulation of the HPA axis has been found to be linked to nonresponse to antidepressants and relapse following successful treatment. The efficacy of pharmacological agents that intervene with the mechanisms involved in dysregulation of cortisol synthesis and release are being explored in depression, particularly in TRD. Studies have been carried out with these drugs as augmenting agents for antidepressants or as monotherapy. The strongest evidence has come from studies using metyrapone, a cortisol synthesis inhibitor, and this has been described in detail in this review. The most robust evidence for its antidepressant efficacy in depression comes from a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study of augmentation of serotonergic antidepressants with metyrapone. A 3-week augmentation of serotonergic antidepressants with 1 g metyrapone daily was shown to be superior to placebo in reducing the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale by 50%, 5 weeks following initiation of treatment. The mechanism of the antidepressant action of metyrapone is not clear but the evidence for various potential mechanisms is discussed.
The widely used botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNT/A) blocks neurotransmission via cleavage of the synaptic protein SNAP-25 (synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa). Recent evidence demonstrating long-distance propagation of SNAP-25 proteolysis has challenged the idea that BoNT/A remains localized to the injection site. However, the extent to which distant neuronal networks are impacted by BoNT/A retrograde trafficking remains unknown. Importantly, no studies have addressed whether SNAP-25 cleavage translates into structural and functional changes in distant intoxicated synapses. Here we show that the BoNT/A injections into the adult rat optic tectum result in SNAP-25 cleavage in retinal neurons two synapses away from the injection site, such as rod bipolar cells and photoreceptors. Retinal endings displaying cleaved SNAP-25 were enlarged and contained an abnormally high number of synaptic vesicles, indicating impaired exocytosis. Tectal injection of BoNT/A in rat pups resulted in appearance of truncated-SNAP-25 in cholinergic amacrine cells. Functional imaging with calcium indicators showed a clear reduction in cholinergic-driven wave activity, demonstrating impairments in neurotransmission. These data provide the first evidence for functional effects of the retrograde trafficking of BoNT/A, and open the possibility of using BoNT/A fragments as drug delivery vehicles targeting the central nervous system.
For decades, studying the behavioral effects of individual drugs and genetic mutations has been at the heart of efforts to understand and treat nervous system disorders. High-throughput technologies adapted from other disciplines (e.g., high-throughput chemical screening, genomics) are changing the scale of data acquisition in behavioral neuroscience. Massive behavioral datasets are beginning to emerge, particularly from zebrafish labs, where behavioral assays can be performed rapidly and reproducibly in 96-well, high-throughput format. Mining these datasets and making comparisons across different assays are major challenges for the field. Here, we review behavioral barcoding, a process by which complex behavioral assays are reduced to a string of numeric features, facilitating analysis and comparison within and across datasets.
Transformation of experience into memories that can guide future behavior is a common ability across species. However, only humans can declare their perceptions and memories of experienced events (episodes). The medial temporal lobe (MTL) is central to episodic memory, yet the neuronal code underlying the translation from sensory information to memory remains unclear. Recordings from neurons within the brain in patients who have electrodes implanted for clinical reasons provide an opportunity to bridge physiology with cognitive theories. Recent evidence illustrates several striking response properties of MTL neurons. Responses are selective yet invariant, associated with conscious perception, can be internally generated and modulated, and spontaneously retrieved. Representation of information by these neurons is highly explicit, suggesting abstraction of information for future conscious recall.
Identifying cortical areas for language and speech processing is a prerequisite for cognitive neuroscience and clinical research. Although Broca's region is one of the essential nodes in the language network, its anatomical constituents are ill-defined and multiple definitions of Broca's region exist. Sanides' concept of microstructural gradations interpreted Broca's region as developing from neighboring motor, dorsolateral-prefrontal, and insular cortices. Recent mapping approaches based on cytoarchitecture, transmitter receptor distribution, and connectivity revealed a highly differentiated segregation of this region far beyond Brodmann's classical scheme. This novel segregational concept of structural and functional architecture more adequately reflects the various functions of Broca's region in cognitive and/or linguistic processes.
In addition to muscle disease, defects in processing and assembly of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) are associated with a spectrum of brain abnormalities ranging from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to neuronal migration disorders. In brain, the DGC is involved in the organisation of GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) and aquaporin-4 (AQP4)-containing protein complexes in neurons and glia, respectively. During development, defects in the glycosylation of -dystroglycan that impair its ability to interact with the extracellular matrix (ECM) are frequently associated with cobblestone lissencephaly and mental retardation. Furthermore, mutations in the gene encoding -sarcoglycan (SGCE) cause the neurogenic movement disorder myoclonus dystonia syndrome. In this review, we describe recent progress in defining distinct roles for the DGC in neurons and glia.

ABSTRACT: Advances in genetics and genomics have improved our understanding of autism spectrum disorders. As many genes have been implicated, we look to points of convergence among these genes across biological systems to better understand and treat these disorders.
In the past two decades, interleukin-10 (IL-10) has gained much attention as an important regulatory cytokine involved in self-tolerance. Functional assessment of IL-10 producing immune cells is traditionally done by stimulation and measurement of cytokine production by flowcytometry. Thereby a protein transport inhibitor like monensin is used to accumulate the cytokine of interest intracellularly. In this study we elaborated on the monensin effect on cytokine detection and focused on IL-10 detection in human T cells. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of 32 study subjects were isolated and stimulated with PMA/ionomycin, in the absence and presence of monensin, and stained intracellularly for IFN-, IL-4, IL-10 and IL-17A. Our results re-established that detection of IFN-+ and IL-4+ T cells benefited from the presence of monensin during stimulation. However, stimulation in the presence of monensin yielded lower proportions of IL-10+ T cells (0.45% (0.28-0.80) versus 0.80% (0.50-1.50) of CD4+ T cells, p&lt;0.01), although monensin addition did result in an increased MFI (2431 (1273-4959) versus 1928 (1147-3760), p&lt;0.01). Detectable fractions of IL-17A+ CD4+ T cells were not affected by monensin. A shorter incubation time, but not lower monensin concentrations, was effective in improving the detection of IL-10+ T cells. We found a strong correlation between the fraction of IL-10+ CD4+ T cells in the presence and absence of monensin (R=0.80 p&lt;0.01). Next to this, also the detection of IL-10+ NK-T cells and IL-10+ monocytes, but not IL-10+ B cells, is impaired in the presence of monensin. This study shows that the effect of monensin on cytokine accumulation is time and cytokine dependent. Due to the use of monensin, previous research may have underestimated the number of IL-10+ leukocytes or may even have not been able to detect them at all. It is important to consider this for future research or when interpreting historical IL-10 data.




Neurophobia is the fear of neurological diseases. Its main symptom is that medical students and young doctors are not able to utilize their basic neurological knowledge at the bedside. According to statistics, every second student suffers from neurophobia. This attitude could explain why in the last two decades less and less young doctors wanted to become neurologist. Medical students complain that they receive no instructions, and are afraid of loosing their interest and of facing the failure of their clinical competence. The hardship of neurology was explained by the insufficient knowledge of anatomy and the infrequent encounter with patients. Even general practitioners have anxiety about neurological patients. The loss of interest in the neurosciences seems to be associated with insensitivity to human-centered culture and with the corruption of empathic thinking. The professional burnout of medical doctors and students can be explained by stress, loss of respect, permanent competition, independence that interferes with responsibility, stiff hierarchy of the medical establishment, fear of diagnostic failures and of economical difficulties. The scores of depression were higher in female students than in males. The idea of the &quot;good neurologist&quot; has been changed. Business-oriented care, shortage of time, and financial restrictions corroded conventional practice and ceased vocational idealism. At present, personal teaching is being transformed into impersonal multimedia instruction and learning. Because of the drastic change of values, the age of inner-oriented professionals has ended also in medicine. Medical doctors follow even less the traditional path of professional behavior, but according to social demands, they choose their specialization for financial reasons. The highly esteemed social status of neurologists and psychiatrists is going to sink in Europe. To reduce neurophobia it would be desirable 1. to introduce neurology training in the early years of medical school; 2. to teach neurology in all semesters, 3. to assure the effective teaching of neuroanatomy and neurophysiology, 4. to organize more one-to-one teacher-student communication. In the United States, residents participate in teaching during their residency training. To master neurology dedicated teachers are needed whom neurology residents would have to meet personally with optimal frequency. However, these requirements seem to fail because of the chiefly technical character of the actual reforms.
The FD Rapid GolgiStain Kit (FD NeuroTechnologies, Inc., Ellicott City, MD) was developed using an improved Golgi-Cox impregnation method to provide stable, sensitive, and convenient staining of mature neurons. However, embryonic neurons cannot be clearly visualized using this method. We have further improved the Golgi-Cox method by introducing an additional aldehyde fixation step before impregnation; thus, we can stably and sufficiently impregnate fetal brain neurons so that even the fine branches of the dendritic trees are visible.
Insights into the anatomical organization of complex neural circuits provide important information about function, and thus tools that facilitate neuroanatomical studies have proved invaluable in neuroscience. Advances in molecular cloning have allowed the production of novel recombinant neuroinvasive viruses for use in transynaptic neural tracing studies. However, the vast majority of these viruses have motility in the retrograde direction only, therefore limiting their use to studies of synaptic input circuitry. Here we describe the construction of an EGFP reporting herpes simplex virus, strain H129, which preferentially moves along synaptically connected neurons in the anterograde direction. In vitro and in vivo characterization studies confirm that the HSV-1 H129-EGFP retains comparable replication and neuroinvasiveness as the wildtype H129 virus. As a proof of principle we confirm anterograde movement of the H129-EGFP along polysynaptic pathways by inoculating the upper airways and tracking time-dependent EGFP expression in previously described ascending sensory pathways. These data confirm a genomic locus for recombining HSV-1 H129 such that normal viral function and replication is maintained. Novel viral recombinants such as HSV-1 H129-EGFP will be useful tools for delineating the central organization of peripheral sensory pathways as well as the synaptic outputs from central neuronal populations.
The size of dendritic spines and postsynaptic densities (PSDs) is well known to be correlated with molecular and functional characteristics of the synapse. Thus, the development of microscopy methods that allow high throughput quantification and measurement of PSDs is a contemporary need in the field of neurobiology. While the gold standard for measurement of sub-micrometer structures remains electron microscopy (EM), this method is exceedingly laborious and therefore not always feasible. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) is a much faster technique for identifying biological structures such as PSDs, but the fluorescent images resulting from it have traditionally been harder to interpret and quantify. Here, we report on two new image analysis tools that result in accurate size and density measurements of fluorescent puncta. Anti-PSD-95 staining was used to target synapses. The new technique of vamping, using Volume Assisted Measurement of Puncta in 2 and 3 Dimensions (VAMP2D and VAMP3D) respectively, is based on stereological principles. The fully automated image analysis tool was tested on the same subjects for whom we had previously obtained EM measurements of PSD size and/or density. Based on highly consistent results between data obtained by each of these methods, vamping offers an expedient alternative to EM that can nonetheless deliver a high level of accuracy in measuring sub-cellular structures.
Penetrating neural probes are considered for neuroprosthetic devices to restore sensory or motor functions of the CNS using electrical neural microstimulation. These multielectrode systems require optimal electrode configurations to allow precise and focused tissue activation. Combining a finite element model of the spinal cord and compartmentalized models of both simple and complex neuron morphologies, we evaluated the use of the &quot;ground surface&quot; configuration, which consists in the integration of a conductive layer on the front side of electrode shanks, for the return of the stimulation current. Compared to the classical monopolar and bipolar configurations, this strategy resulted in a focalization of both the potential field and the threshold-distance curves. The improvement in focalization was highest for lowest impedance of the ground surface. Moreover, the gain in focality was highest on the side of the shank opposite to the electrode, so that only the neurons located in front of stimulation electrode were activated. This focalizing strategy will allow the design of new microstimulation paradigms aiming at precisely targeting the CNS with complex spatio-temporal stimulation patterns, which could benefit to future stimulation-based neuroprosthesis.
Although deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been proven to be an effective treatment for several neuropsychiatric disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, the underlying working mechanisms are still largely unknown. Behavioral animal models are essential in examining the working mechanisms of DBS and especially mouse models are necessary to investigate the genetic component underlying specific behaviors related to psychiatric diseases. Unfortunately, currently available stimulation devices are unsuitable to test behavior in freely-moving mice. As such, no DBS studies in behaving mice have been reported thus far. In order to overcome this limitation we have developed a new light-weight wireless implantable micro stimulator device for mice that delivers biphasic pulse patterns to two individual electrode pairs, mimicking partly the clinical situation. This paper describes in detail the bench-top validation and in vivo implementation of this device. The results in this study indicate that the wireless implantable stimulator in mice reliably delivers continuous bilateral stimulation, importantly, does not restrict the animals mobility and hygiene (grooming behavior). In vivo testing furthermore showed that stimulation of the mice ventral striatum yields similar results as previously shown by others in rats where conventional deep brain stimulation techniques were used. This newly designed device can now be used in the highly needed DBS behavioral studies in mice, to further investigate the underlying mechanisms of DBS in behavioral animal models for psychiatric disorders.
Detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA) is a technique commonly used to assess and quantify the presence of long-range temporal correlations (LRTCs) in neurophysiological time series. Convergence of the method is asymptotic only and therefore its application assumes a constant scaling exponent. However, most neurophysiological data are likely to involve either spontaneous or experimentally induced scaling exponent changes. We present a novel extension of the DFA method that permits the characterisation of time-varying scaling exponents. The effectiveness of the methodology in recovering known changes in scaling exponents is demonstrated through its application to synthetic data. The dependence of the method on its free parameters is systematically explored. Finally, application of the methodology to neurophysiological data demonstrates that it provides experimenters with a way to identify previously un-recognised changes in the scaling exponent in the data. We suggest that this methodology will make it possible to go beyond a simple demonstration of the presence of scaling to an appreciation of how it may vary in response to either intrinsic changes or experimental perturbations.
Pituitary volumes were measured in 55 first-episode schizophrenia patients at a baseline timepoint with 38 receiving a followup scan after antipsychotic treatment. Fifty-nine healthy volunteers had baseline scans with 34 receiving a followup scan. There were no baseline group differences in pituitary volumes or changes in volume following antipsychotic treatment.
Numerous reports have emphasized the value of neurological soft signs (NSS) as endophenotypic markers in schizophrenia. NSS also appear as useful prognostic predictors for functional outcome, response and tolerance to antipsychotics. Although several standardized scales have been proposed and offer fair inter-rater reliability, they still rely on the experience and accuracy of the investigators. This study was designed to assess NSS objectively. We evaluated 27 patients who met the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, fourth edition (DSM-IV) criteria for schizophrenia and 15 healthy controls using a standardized examination encompassing a 23-item NSS scale as well as an assessment of parkinsonism and dyskinesia. Movements were then recorded using inertia sensors while the patients were performing a selection of motor items from the aforementioned scale (balance tasks, rapid alternative movements, rigidity). To our knowledge, this study is the first to provide an objective assessment of specific NSS in schizophrenia using inertial sensors. The results objectively demonstrate impairments in patients with schizophrenia when balance relies on proprioceptive information, with specific differences in groups of patients based on their NSS scores. Inertia sensors are promising, inexpensive and 'easy-to-use' tools that could improve the assessment of motor and sensory impairments in patients with schizophrenia in daily clinical practice, especially when the dysfunction is subtle.
Cognitive impairment has been recognized since the earliest descriptions of schizophrenia as a core feature of the illness and different programmes have been developed to remediate these deficits. In all likelihood it is important for compliance and adherence to treatment that not only the patients but also their relatives be aware of the patients; cognitive deficits. Sixty-two patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia and, for each one of them, one family member and an informant from the medical staff, were recruited and administered the Schizophrenia Cognition Rating Scale (SCoRS) ratings. Patients were tested for cognitive deficits with a neuropsychological battery and their performance was compared to the ratings of cognitive functioning provided by the patient himself, his family member and the informant. Results show no significant association between cognitive performance and SCoRS ratings in patients; only for executive functions the patient's performance was found to be predictive of the respective judgment on the SCoRS that was given by the relative. This is the first study to investigate awareness of the patients' cognitive deficits, both in the patients themselves and in their first degree relatives, through a direct comparison between subjective clinical ratings and objective measures of cognitive performances. When both patients and relatives are unaware of the patients' cognitive deficits, this could affect adherence to remediation treatment and need to be specifically addressed in future rehabilitation strategies.
Newly diagnosed, antipsychotic-nave patients with nonaffective psychosis appear to have increases in pro-inflammatory cytokines. Patients characterized by primary, enduring negative symptoms (deficit symptoms) differ from patients without such features with regard to course of illness, treatment response, risk factors and metabolic disturbances. We hypothesized that they would also differ on concentrations of the inflammatory markers interleukin-6 (IL6) and C-reactive protein (CRP). Newly diagnosed, antipsychotic-nave patients with nonaffective psychosis were categorized into deficit (N=20) and nondeficit (N=42) groups, and were matched on age, gender, body mass index, smoking, cortisol level, socioeconomic status, and the severity of psychotic symptoms. Fasting concentrations of IL6 were significantly higher in deficit (mean [S.D.]) (8.0 pg/ml [12.7]) than nondeficit patients (0.3 pg/ml [1.3]). CRP levels were also significantly higher in the deficit patients (0.3 mg/dl [0.4]) vs. (0.2 mg/dl [0.4]), respectively. In contrast, 2-h glucose concentrations (2HG) in a glucose tolerance test were lower in the deficit than the nondeficit group. Our results show a double dissociation with regard to glucose intolerance and inflammation: the deficit group has greater inflammation, but less severe glucose intolerance. These results provide further evidence for the validity of the deficit/nondeficit categorization.

A-Kinase anchoring protein 150 (AKAP150) is required for the phosphorylation of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1 (TRPV1) by PKA or PKC in sensory neurons and, hence, affects TRPV1-dependent hyperalgesia under pathological conditions. Recently, we showed that the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors sensitizes TRPV1 by enhancing serine phosphorylation through PKC in trigeminal nociceptors. In this study, we extended this observation by investigating whether AKAP150 mediates NMDA-induced phosphorylation of TRPV1 via PKC in native sensory neurons in the rat. By adopting a phospho-specific antibody combined with a surface biotinylation assay, we first assessed NMDA-induced changes in the phosphorylation level of serine 800 residues (S800) in TRPV1 delimited to cell surface membrane in cultured trigeminal ganglia (TG). The biotinylation assay yielded that the application of NMDA significantly increased the phosphorylation of S800 (p-S800) of TRPV1 at time points correlating with the development of NMDA-induced mechanical hyperalgesia [10]. We then obtained a siRNA sequence against AKAP150 that dose-dependently down-regulated the AKAP150 protein. Pretreatment of TG culture with the siRNA, but not mismatch sequences, prevented the NMDA-induced phosphorylation of serine residues of total TRPV1 as well as S800 of membrane bound TRPV1. We confirmed that AKAP150 co-immunoprecipitated with TRPV1 and demonstrated that it also co-immunoprecipitated with NMDA receptor subunits (NR1 and NR2B) in TG. These data offer novel information that the activation of NMDA-induced TRPV1 sensitization involves p-S800 of TRPV1 in cell surface membrane in native sensory neurons and that AKAP150 is required for NMDA-and PKC-mediated phosphorylation of TRPV1 S800. Therefore, we propose that the NMDA receptor, AKAP150, and TRPV1 forms a signaling complex that underlies the sensitization of trigeminal nociceptors by modulating phosphorylation of specific TRPV1 residues.
Cytoglobin, a new member of the mammalian heme-globin family has been shown to bind oxygen and to have cell protective properties in vitro. Cytoglobin is specifically expressed in a subpopulation of brain neurons. Based on hypoxia-induced up regulation and proposed scavenging of reactive oxygen species Cytoglobin was suggested as a candidate for pharmaceutical stroke treatment. Since production of reactive oxygen species is a hallmark of ischemia, we hypothesized that Cytoglobin expression would be increased and that Cytoglobin expressing neurons would be spared after ischemic injury. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were used in the experimental design. Ten were sham operated and ten were given permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAo). All animals were euthanized after 24h. From each group, three animals were used for histology and seven for QRT-PCR and western blotting. Immunohistochemical examination of the ischemic penumbra revealed neither changes in Cytoglobin immunoreactivity nor any changes in expression in the necrotic infarct area. The lack of expression change was confirmed by western blotting and QRT-PCR showing no significant difference between sham and pMCAo operated mice. This suggests that Cytoglobin is likely not important for global neuronal protection following ischemia and the role of Cytoglobin in relation to endogenous neuroprotection remains unresolved.

The apolipoprotein 4 allele is the strongest genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is associated with earlier age of onset. The incidence of spontaneous seizures has been reported to be increased in sporadic AD as well as in the early onset autosomal dominant forms of AD. We now report the emergence of a seizure phenotype in aged apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4) targeted replacement (TR) mice but not in age-matched apoE2 TR or apoE3 TR mice. Tonic-clonic seizures developed spontaneously after 5 months of age in apoE4 TR mice and are triggered by mild stress. Female mice had increased seizure penetrance compared to male mice, but had slightly reduced overall seizure severity. The majority of seizures were characterized by head and neck jerks, but 25% of aged apoE4 TR mice had more severe tonic-clonic seizures which occasionally progressed to tonic extension and death. Aged apoE4 TR mice progressed through pentylenetetrazol-induced seizure stages more rapidly than did apoE3 TR and apoE2 TR mice. Electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings revealed more frequent bursts of synchronous theta activity in the hippocampus of apoE4 TR mice than in apoE2 TR or apoE3 TR mice. Cortical EEG recordings also revealed sharp spikes and other abnormalities in apoE4 TR mice. Taken together, these findings demonstrate the emergence of an age-dependent seizure phenotype in old apoE4 TR mice in the absence of human amyloid- peptide (A) overexpression, suggesting increased central nervous system neural network excitability.
We performed a Delayed-Item-Recognition task to investigate the neural substrates of non-verbal visual working memory with event-related fMRI ('Shape task'). 25 young subjects (mean age: 24.0 years; STD=3.8 years) were instructed to study a list of either 1, 2 or 3 unnamable nonsense line drawings for 3s ('stimulus phase' or STIM). Subsequently, the screen went blank for 7s ('retention phase' or RET), and then displayed a probe stimulus for 3s in which subjects indicated with a differential button press whether the probe was contained in the studied shape-array or not ('probe phase' or PROBE). Ordinal Trend Canonical Variates Analysis (Habeck et al., 2005a) was performed to identify spatial covariance patterns that showed a monotonic increase in expression with memory load during all task phases. Reliable load-related patterns were identified in the stimulus and retention phase (p&lt;0.01), while no significant pattern could be discerned during the probe phase. Spatial covariance patterns that were obtained from an earlier version of this task (Habeck et al., 2005b) using 1, 3, or 6 letters ('Letter task') were also prospectively applied to their corresponding task phases in the current non-verbal task version. Interestingly, subject expression of covariance patterns from both verbal and non-verbal retention phases correlated positively in the non-verbal task for all memory loads (p&lt;0.0001). Both patterns also involved similar frontoparietal brain regions that were increasing in activity with memory load, and mediofrontal and temporal regions that were decreasing. Mean subject expression of both patterns across memory load during retention also correlated positively with recognition accuracy (d(L)) in the Shape task (p&lt;0.005). These findings point to similarities in the neural substrates of verbal and non-verbal rehearsal processes. Encoding processes, on the other hand, are critically dependent on the to-be-remembered material, and seem to necessitate material-specific neural substrates.
-Secretase is an intramembrane-cleaving protease related to the etiology of Alzheimer disease. -Secretase is a membrane protein complex composed of presenilin (PS) and three indispensable subunits: nicastrin, Aph-1, and Pen-2. PS functions as a protease subunit forming a hydrophilic catalytic pore structure within the lipid bilayer. However, it remains unclear how other subunits are involved in the pore formation. Here, we show that the hydrophilic pore adopted with an open conformation has already been formed by PS within the immature -secretase complex. The binding of the subunits induces the close proximity between transmembrane domains facing the catalytic pore. We propose a model in which the -secretase subunits restrict the arrangement of the transmembrane domains of PS during the formation of the functional structure of the catalytic pore.
-Hydroxyl acids (AHAs) from natural sources act as proton donors and topical compounds that penetrate skin and are well known in the cosmetic industry for their use in chemical peels and improvement of the skin. However, little is known about how AHAs cause exfoliation to expose fresh skin cells. Here we report that the transient receptor potential vanilloid 3 (TRPV3) channel in keratinocytes is potently activated by intracellular acidification induced by glycolic acid. Patch clamp recordings and cell death assay of both human keratinocyte HaCaT cells and TRPV3-expressing HEK-293 cells confirmed that intracellular acidification led to direct activation of TRPV3 and promoted cell death. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that an N-terminal histidine residue, His-426, known to be involved in 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate-mediated TRPV3 activation, is critical for sensing intracellular proton levels. Taken together, our findings suggest that intracellular protons can strongly activate TRPV3, and TRPV3-mediated proton sensing and cell death in keratinocytes may serve as a molecular basis for the cosmetic use of AHAs and their therapeutic potential in acidic pH-related skin disorders.
When cell cycle re-activation occurs in post-mitotic neurons it places them at increased risk for death. The cell cycle/cell death association has been reported in many neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer disease (AD), yet the mechanisms by which a normal neuron suppresses the cycle remain largely unknown. Recently, our laboratory has shown that Cdk5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5) is a key player in this protective function. When a neuron is under stress, Cdk5 is transported to the cytoplasm; this eliminates its cell cycle suppression activity and the neuron re-enters S-phase. In the current study we show that a similar principle applies during a normal cell cycle. When a neuronal cell enters S phase, Cdk5 is transported to the cytoplasm where it is ubiquitinated by the E3 ligase APC-Cdh1. Ubiquitinated Cdk5 is then rapidly degraded by the proteasome. The ubiquitination site of Cdk5 appears to be in the p35 binding area; in the presence of high levels of p35, the ubiquitination of Cdk5 was blocked, and the degradation in S phase was attenuated. The data suggest an unsuspected role for Cdk5 during the progression of a normal cell cycle and offer new pharmaceutical targets for regulating neuronal cell cycling and cell death.
The protein deleted in liver cancer 1 (DLC1) interacts with the tensin family of focal adhesion proteins to play a role as a tumor suppressor in a wide spectrum of human cancers. This interaction has been proven to be crucial to the oncogenic inhibitory capacity and focal adhesion localization of DLC1. The phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain of tensin2 predominantly interacts with a novel site on DLC1, not the canonical NPXY motif. In this study, we characterized this interaction biochemically and determined the complex structure of tensin2 PTB domain with DLC1 peptide by NMR spectroscopy. Our HADDOCK-derived complex structure model elucidates the molecular mechanism by which tensin2 PTB domain recognizes DLC1 peptide and reveals a PTB-peptide binding mode that is unique in that peptide occupies the binding site opposite to the canonical NPXY motif interaction site with the peptide utilizing a non-canonical binding motif to bind in an extended conformation and that the N-terminal helix, which is unique to some Shc- and Dab-like PTB domains, is required for binding. Mutations of crucial residues defined for the PTB-DLC1 interaction affected the co-localization of DLC1 and tensin2 in cells and abolished DLC1-mediated growth suppression of hepatocellular carcinoma cells. This tensin2 PTB-DLC1 peptide complex with a novel binding mode extends the versatile binding repertoire of the PTB domains in mediating diverse cellular signaling pathways as well as provides a molecular and structural basis for better understanding the tumor-suppressive activity of DLC1 and tensin2.



Arsenic in the form of arsenic trioxide (ATO) is used as a therapeutic drug for treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). The mechanism by which this agent cures this disease was previously shown to involve direct interactions between ATO and the promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML), as well as accelerated degradation of the APL-associated fusion oncoprotein PML/retinoic acid receptor  (RARA). Here we investigated the fate of PML-generated nuclear structures called PML bodies in ATO-treated cells. We found that ATO inhibits formation of progeny PML bodies while it stabilizes cytoplasmic precursor compartments, referred to as cytoplasmic assemblies of PML and nucleoporins (CyPNs), after cell division. This block in PML body recycling is readily detected at pharmacologic relevant ATO concentrations (0.02-0.5M) that do not cause detectable cell-cycle defects, and it does not require modification of PML by SUMOylation. In addition, PML and PML/RARA carrying mutations previously identified in ATO-resistant APL patients are impeded in their ability to become sequestered within CyPNs. Thus, ATO may inhibit nuclear activities of PML and PML/RARA in postmitotic cells through CyPN-dependent cytoplasmic sequestration.
The CNS, which consists of the brain and spinal cord, is continuously monitored by resident microglia and blood-borne immune cells such as macrophages, dendritic cells and T cells to detect for damaging agents that would disrupt homeostasis and optimal functioning of these vital organs. Further, the CNS must balance between vigilantly detecting for potentially harmful factors and resolving any immunological responses that in themselves can create damage if left unabated. We discuss the physiological roles of the immune sentinels that patrol the CNS, the molecular markers that underlie their surveillance duties, and the consequences of interrupting their functions following injury and infection by viruses such as JC virus, human immunodeficiency virus, herpes simplex virus and West Nile virus.
Neuropathic pain, the most debilitating of all clinical pain syndromes, may be a consequence of trauma, infection or pathology from diseases that affect peripheral nerves. Here we provide a framework for understanding the spinal mechanisms of neuropathic pain as distinct from those of acute pain or inflammatory pain. Recent work suggests that a specific microglia response phenotype characterized by de novo expression of the purinergic receptor P2X4 is critical for the pathogenesis of pain hypersensitivity caused by injury to peripheral nerves. Stimulating P2X4 receptors initiates a core pain signaling pathway mediated by release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which produces a disinhibitory increase in intracellular chloride in nociceptive (pain-transmitting) neurons in the spinal dorsal horn. The changes caused by signaling from P2X4R(+) microglia to nociceptive transmission neurons may account for the main symptoms of neuropathic pain in humans, and they point to specific interventions to alleviate this debilitating condition.
Natural or artificially induced electrical activity changes can alter ion balance so as to briefly influence firing. An optogenetics study delineates one mechanism: Cl- shifts causing seconds-long excitability changes after silencing.
Mice lacking NMDA receptors in the dentate gyrus and CA1 subfields of the hippocampus form spatial memories just as well as wild-type mice, but they disregard them when confounded by ambiguous local cues. Hippocampal NMDA receptors may influence spatial memory more subtly than previously thought.
Hubel and Wiesel began the modern study of development and plasticity of primary visual cortex (V1), discovering response properties of cortical neurons that distinguished them from their inputs and that were arranged in a functional architecture. Their findings revealed an early innate period of development and a later critical period of dramatic experience-dependent plasticity. Recent studies have used rodents to benefit from biochemistry and genetics. The roles of spontaneous neural activity and molecular signaling in innate, experience-independent development have been clarified, as have the later roles of visual experience. Plasticity produced by monocular visual deprivation (MD) has been dissected into stages governed by distinct signaling mechanisms, some of whose molecular players are known. Many crucial questions remain, but new tools for perturbing cortical cells and measuring plasticity at the level of changes in connections among identified neurons now exist. The future for the study of V1 to illuminate cortical development and plasticity is bright.
In a theoretical study in this issue of Neuron,Gidon and Segev (2012) identify several new principles governing how inhibition interacts with excitation in active dendrites. They show that inhibitory synapses can interact with excitability at a distance, effectively &quot;throwing their voices&quot; in the dendritic tree, such that distributed inhibitory synapses can act synergistically to provide a global veto of dendritic excitability.
While attending medical school at McGill, David Hubel developed an interest in the nervous system during the summers he spent at the Montreal Neurological Institute. After heading to the United States in 1954 for a Neurology year at Johns Hopkins, he was drafted by the army and was assigned to the Neuropsychiatry Division at the Walter Reed Hospital, where he began his career in research and did his first recordings from the visual cortex of sleeping and awake cats. In 1958, he moved to the lab of Stephen Kuffler at Johns Hopkins, where he began a long and fruitful collaboration with Torsten Wiesel. Born in Sweden, Torsten Wiesel began his scientific career at the Karolinska Institute, where he received his medical degree in 1954. After spending a year in Carl Gustaf Bernhard's laboratory doing basic neurophysiological research, he moved to the United States to be a postdoctoral fellow with Stephen Kuffler. It was at Johns Hopkins where he met David Hubel in 1958, and they began working together on exploring the receptive field properties of neurons in the visual cortex. Their collaboration continued until the late seventies. Hubel and Wiesel's work provided fundamental insight into information processing in the visual system and laid the foundation for the field of visual neuroscience. They have had many achievements, including--but not limited to--the discovery of orientation selectivity in visual cortex neurons and the characterization of the columnar organization of visual cortex through their discovery of orientation columns and ocular-dominance columns. Their work earned them the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1981, which they shared with Roger Sperry.

Pesticide exposure has been suggested to increase the risk to develop Parkinson's disease (PD). The arylesterase paraoxonase 1 (PON1) is mainly expressed in the liver and hydrolyzes organophosphates such as pesticides. The polymorphism Leu54Met (rs854560) in PON1, impairing enzyme activity and leading to decreased PON1 expression levels, has been reported to be associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). PON1 is part of a cluster on chromosome 7q21.3 together with PON2 and PON3. We investigated the occurrence of four additional polymorphisms in PON1 and two in PON2 in a Swedish PD case-control material. We found a significant association (p=0.007) with a PON1 promoter polymorphism, rs854571. The minor allele was more common among controls than PD cases which suggest a protective effect. This is strengthened by the fact that rs854571 is in strong linkage disequilibrium with another PON1 promoter polymorphism, rs854572, reported to increase PON1 gene expression. Our findings support the hypothesis that PON1 is involved in the etiology of PD and that higher PON1 levels are reducing the risk for PD.
The inbred Roman low- (RLA-I) and high-avoidance (RHA-I) rats used in this study were initially selected and bred for extremely poor vs. rapid acquisition of active two-way avoidance behavior in the shuttle box. As a result of the selection for divergent avoidance acquisition, clear behavioral differences have been found between RHA and RLA rats in a variety of tasks related to anxiety and conflict. In rats of these two strains/lines previous brain studies have been performed, specifically in the striatum, the mesencephalic dopaminergic areas and the prefrontal cortex, as these brain areas are the classical ones for their critical role in sensitization and may play a role in the well-characterized anxiety response. In this study we analyzed, in RHA and RLA groups (N=5 each), the density of NeuN neurons counterstained with toluidine blue in the cingulate cortex (subdivision 1) and the hippocampus (CA1, CA2 and CA3). A statistical difference was found in the density of neurons of CA1 and CA2 (p=0.047 in both) and in the total density of the hippocampus (p=0.009). Contrary to our expectations, significant strain differences for the density of neurons in the cingulate cortex were not found. The relationship between those differences in the hippocampus and the between-strain differences in anxiety and in learning processes depending on anxiety are discussed.
We used the behavioral task and theoretical construct of the countermanding paradigm to test whether there is any difference between the inhibitory control of the finger, wrist, and arm. Participants were instructed (primary task) to respond to a directional go signal presented at the fovea by pressing a button with either their index or middle fingers, moving a joystick with their wrists, or reaching to a stimulus on a touch screen with their arms. They were also instructed (secondary task) to withhold their responses when a stop signal was presented on 25% of trials. The participants' ability to inhibit each of the commanded movements was captured by their inhibition probability function, which describes how withholding is increasingly difficult as the delay between the go and stop signals increased. By modeling each participant's inhibition function, we estimated that the time needed to inhibit a commanded movement was about 240 ms, a variable that did not differ significantly between the three limb segments. Moreover, we found that the best-fit model of each segment's inhibition function could fit equally well the inhibition functions obtained with the other two segments. These results provide evidence that the upper limb segments share a common inhibitory control, which may facilitate the regulation of neuronal activity within the distributed motor cortical representations and thus simplify the voluntary control of multi-segmental movements.
The effects of regular exercise versus a single bout of exercise on cognition, anxiety, and mood were systematically examined in healthy, sedentary young adults who were genotyped to determine brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) allelic status (i.e., Val-Val or Val66Met polymorphism). Participants were evaluated on novel object recognition (NOR) memory and a battery of mental health surveys before and after engaging in either (a) a 4-week exercise program, with exercise on the final test day, (b) a 4-week exercise program, without exercise on the final test day, (c) a single bout of exercise on the final test day, or (d) remaining sedentary between test days. Exercise enhanced object recognition memory and produced a beneficial decrease in perceived stress, but only in participants who exercised for 4 weeks including the final day of testing. In contrast, a single bout of exercise did not affect recognition memory and resulted in increased perceived stress levels. An additional novel finding was that the improvements on the NOR task were observed exclusively in participants who were homozygous for the BDNF Val allele, indicating that altered activity-dependent release of BDNF in Met allele carriers may attenuate the cognitive benefits of exercise. Importantly, exercise-induced changes in cognition were not correlated with changes in mood/anxiety, suggesting that separate neural systems mediate these effects. These data in humans mirror recent data from our group in rodents. Taken together, these current findings provide new insights into the behavioral and neural mechanisms that mediate the effects of physical exercise on memory and mental health in humans.
The striatum is particularly vulnerable to mitochondrial dysfunction and this problem is linked to pathology created by environmental neurotoxins, stimulants like amphetamine, and metabolic disease and ischemia. We studied the course of recovery following a single systemic injection of the mitochondrial complex II inhibitor 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) and found 3-NP caused lasting changes in motor behavior that were associated with altered activity-dependent plasticity at corticostriatal synapses in Fischer 344 rats. The changes in synapse behavior varied with the time after exposure to the 3-NP injection. The earliest time point studied, 24h after 3-NP, revealed 3-NP-induced an exaggeration of D1 Dopamine (DA) receptor dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) that reversed to normal by 48 h post-3-NP exposure. Thereafter, the likelihood and degree of inducing D2 DA receptor dependent long-term depression (LTD) gradually increased, relative to saline controls, peaking at 1 month after the 3-NP exposure. NMDA receptor binding did not change over the same post 3-NP time points. These data indicate even brief exposure to 3-NP can have lasting behavioral effects mediated by changes in the way DA and glutamate synapses interact.
Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) may alleviate certain forms of neuropathic pain; its mechanisms of action are, however, not fully understood. Previous studies have mainly been focused onto segmental spinal mechanisms, though there is evidence indicating a supraspinal involvement. This study aims to evaluate the relative importance of segmental and supraspinal mechanisms related to the activation of the dorsal columns (DCs). Rats were used to induce the spared nerve injury neuropathy and simultaneously subjected to chronic bilateral DC lesions at the C6-C8 level. Two pairs of miniature electrodes were implanted in each animal, with a monopolar system placed in the dorsal epidural space at a low thoracic level (below lesion) and a bipolar system placed onto the dorsal column nuclei (above lesion). Stimulation (50 Hz, 0.2 ms, 2-4V, 5 min) was applied via either type of electrodes, and tests for sensitivity to tactile and thermal stimuli were used to assess its inhibitory effects. Various receptor antagonists {bicuculline (GABA(A)), saclofen (GABA(B)), ketanserine (5HT(2)), methysergide (5HT(1-2)), phentolamine (-adrenergic), propranolol (-adrenergic), sulpiride (D(2)/D(3) dopamine) or saline were injected prior to the SCS. Rostral and caudal stimulations produced a comparable inhibition of neuropathic manifestations, and these effects were attenuated by about 50% after DC lesions. Pretreatment with the various receptor antagonists differentially influenced the effects of rostral and caudal stimulation. Our findings suggest that both supraspinal and segmental mechanisms are activated by SCS, and that in this model with DC lesions, rostral and caudal stimulations may activate different synaptic circuitries and transmitter systems.
High frequency stimulation (HFS) has the potential to interfere with learning and memory. HFS and motor skill training both lead to potentiation of the stimulated network and alter motor map expression. However, the extent to which HFS can interfere with the learning and performance of a skilled motor task and the resulting effect on the representation of movement has not been examined. Moreover, the molecular mechanisms associated with HFS and skilled motor training on the motor cortex are not known. We hypothesized that HFS would impair performance on a skilled reaching task, and would be associated with alterations in motor map expression and protein levels compared to non-stimulated and untrained controls. Long Evans Hooded rats were chronically implanted with stimulating and recording electrodes in the corpus callosum and frontal neocortex, respectively. High frequency theta burst stimulation or sham stimulation was applied once daily for 20 sessions. The rats were divided into five groups: control, HFS and assessed at 1 week post stimulation, HFS and assessed 3 weeks post stimulation, reach trained, and HFS and reach trained. A subset of rats from each group was assessed with either intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) to examine motor map expression or Western blot techniques to determine protein expression of several excitatory and inhibitory receptor subunits. Firstly, we found that HFS resulted in larger and reorganized motor maps, and lower movement thresholds compared to controls. This was associated with an up-regulation of the GABA(A)1 and NR1 receptor subunits 3 weeks after the last stimulation session only. Stimulation affected skilled reaching performance in a subset of all stimulated rats. Rats that were poor performers had larger rostral forelimb areas, higher proximal and lower distal movement thresholds compared to rats that were good performers after stimulation. Reach training alone was associated with an up-regulation of GABA(A)1, 2, GluR2, NR1 and NR2A compared to controls. HFS and reach-trained rats showed an up-regulation of GABA(A)2 compared to stimulated rats that were not reach-trained. Therefore, we have shown that HFS induces significant plasticity in the motor cortex, and has the potential to disrupt performance on a skilled motor task.
Inwardly rectifying potassium (Kir) channel Kir4.1 (also called Kcnj10) is expressed in various cells such as satellite glial cells. It is suggested that these cells would absorb excess accumulated K(+) from intercellular space which is surrounded by these cell membranes expressing Kir4.1. In the vestibular system, loss of Kir4.1 results in selective degeneration of type I hair cells despite normal development of type II hair cells. The mechanisms underlying this developmental disorder have been unclear, because it was thought that Kir4.1 is only expressed in glial cells throughout the entire nervous system. Here, we show that Kir4.1 is expressed not only in glial cells but also in neurons of the mouse vestibular system. In the vestibular ganglion, Kir4.1 mRNA is transcribed in both satellite cells and neuronal somata, whereas Kir4.1 protein is expressed only in satellite cells. On the other hand, in the vestibular sensory epithelia, Kir4.1 protein is localized at the calyx endings of vestibular afferents, which surround type I hair cells. Kir4.1 protein expression in the vestibular sensory epithelia is detected beginning after birth, and its localization gradually adopts a calyceal shape until type I hair cells are mature. Kir4.1 localized at the calyx endings may play a role in the K(+)-buffering action of vestibular afferents surrounding type I hair cells.
Minocycline has been reported to reduce infarct size after focal cerebral ischemia, due to an attenuation of microglia activation and prevention of secondary damage from stroke-induced neuroinflammation. We here investigated the effects of minocycline on endogenous neural stem cells (NSCs) in vitro and in a rat stroke model. Primary cultures of fetal rat NSCs were exposed to minocycline to characterize its effects on cell survival and proliferation. To assess these effects in vivo, permanent cerebral ischemia was induced in adult rats, treated systemically with minocycline or placebo. Imaging 7 days after ischemia comprised (i) Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), assessing the extent of infarcts, (ii) Positron Emission Tomography (PET) with [(11)C]PK11195, characterizing neuroinflammation, and (iii) PET with 3'-deoxy-3'-[(18)F]fluoro-L-thymidine ([(18)F]FLT), detecting proliferating endogenous NSCs. Immunohistochemistry was used to verify ischemic damage and characterize cellular inflammatory and repair processes in more detail. In vitro, specific concentrations of minocycline significantly increased NSC numbers without increasing their proliferation, indicating a positive effect of minocycline on NSC survival. In vivo, endogenous NSC activation in the subventricular zone (SVZ) measured by [(18)F]FLT PET correlated well with infarct volumes. Similar to in vitro findings, minocycline led to a specific increase in endogenous NSC activity in both the SVZ as well as the hippocampus. [(11)C]PK11195 PET detected neuroinflammation in the infarct core as well as in peri-infarct regions, with both its extent and location independent of the infarct size. The data did not reveal an effect of minocycline on stroke-induced neuroinflammation. We show that multimodal PET imaging can be used to characterize and quantify complex cellular processes occurring after stroke, as well as their modulation by therapeutic agents. We found minocycline, previously implied in attenuating microglial activation, to have positive effects on endogenous NSC survival. These findings hold promise for the development of novel treatments in stroke therapy.
The glomeruli are the first synaptic relay on the olfactory pathway and play a basic role in smell perception. Glomerular degeneration occurs in humans with age and in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The glomeruli heavily express -amyloid precursor protein (APP), -secretase (BACE1) and -secretase complex. However, extracellular -amyloid peptide (A) deposition occurs fairly rarely at this location in postmortem pathological studies. We sought to explore age-related glomerular changes that might link to alteration in amyloidogenic proteins and/or plaque pathogenesis in transgenic models of AD and humans. Focally increased BACE1 immunoreactivity (IR) in the glomerular layer was identified in several transgenic models, and characterized systematically in transgenic mice harboring five familiar AD-related mutations (5XFAD). These elements were co-labeled with antibodies against APP N-terminal (22C11) and A N-terminal (3D6, 6E10) and mid-sequence (4G8). They were not co-labeled with two A C-terminal antibodies (Ter40, Ter42), nor associated with extracellular amyloidosis. These profiles were further characterized to be most likely abnormal olfactory nerve terminals. Reduced glomerular area was detected in 6-12-month-old 5XFAD mice relative to non-transgenic controls, and in aged humans relative to young/adult controls, more robust in AD than aged subjects without cerebral amyloid and tau pathologies. The results suggest that olfactory nerve terminals may undergo age-related dystrophic and degenerative changes in AD model mice and humans, which are associated with increased labeling for amyloidogenic proteins but not local extracellular A deposition. The identified axon terminal pathology might affect neuronal signal transmission and integration at the first olfactory synaptic relay.
Neuroligins are a family of cell adhesion molecules critical in establishing proper central nervous system connectivity; disruption of neuroligin signaling in vivo precipitates a broad range of cognitive deficits. Despite considerable recent progress, the specific synaptic function of neuroligin-1 (NL1) remains unclear. A current model proposes that NL1 acts exclusively to mature pre-existent synaptic connections in an activity-dependent manner. A second element of this activity-dependent maturation model is that an alternate molecule acts upstream of NL1 to initiate synaptic connections. SynCAM1 (SC1) is hypothesized to function in this capacity, though several uncertainties remain regarding SC1 function. Using overexpression and chronic pharmacological blockade of synaptic activity, we now demonstrate that NL1 is capable of robustly recruiting synapsin-positive terminals independent of synaptic maturation and activity in 2-week old primary hippocampal neuronal cultures. We further report that neither SC1 overexpression nor knockdown of endogenous SC1 impacts synapsin punctum densities, suggesting that SC1 is not a limiting factor of synapse initiation in maturing hippocampal neurons in vitro. Consistent with these findings, we observed profoundly greater recruitment of synapsin-positive presynaptic terminals by NL1 than SC1 in a mixed-culture assay of artificial synaptogenesis between primary neurons and heterologous cells. Collectively, our results contend multiple aspects of the proposed model of NL1 and SC1 function and motivate an alternative model whereby SC1 may mature synaptic connections forged by NL1. Supporting this model, we present evidence that combined NL1 and SC1 overexpression triggers excitotoxic neurodegeneration through SC1 signaling at synaptic connections initiated by NL1.
Stressors encountered during the juvenile period may have persistent effects on later behavioral and neurochemical functioning and may influence later responses to stressors. In the current investigation, we evaluated the influence of stressor exposure applied during the juvenile period (26-28 days of age) on anxiety-related behavior, plasma corticosterone and on GABA(A) 2, 3, 5 and 2 mRNA expression within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and amygdala measured during adulthood. These changes were monitored in the absence of a further challenge, as well as in response to either a social or a non-social psychogenic stressor administered during adulthood. Exposure to an acute adult stressor elicited anxiety in females and was still more pronounced among females that had also experienced the juvenile stressor. Among males, arousal and impulsivity predominated so that anxiety responses were less notable. Furthermore, experiencing the stressor as a juvenile influenced adult GABA(A) subunit expression, as did the adult stressor experience. These changes were differentially expressed in males and females. Moreover, these subunit variations were further moderated among mice that stressed as juveniles and were again exposed to an adult stressor. Interestingly, under conditions in which the juvenile stressor increased the expression of a particular subunit, exposure to a further stressor in adulthood resulted in the -aminobutyric acid (GABA) subunit variations being attenuated in both sexes. The current results suggest that juvenile and adult stressor experiences elicit variations of GABA(A) receptor subunit expression that are region-specific as well as sexually-dimorphic. Stressful events during the juvenile period may have pronounced proactive effects on anxiety-related behaviors, but linking these to specific GABA(A) subunits is made difficult by the diversity of GABA changes that are evident as well as the dimorphic nature of these variations. Nevertheless, these GABA(A) sex-specific subunit variations may be tied to the differences in anxiety in males and females.
Impulsive people have a strong urge to act without thinking. It is sometimes regarded as a positive trait but rash impulsiveness is also widely present in clinical disorders such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), drug dependence, mania, and antisocial behaviour. Contemporary research has begun to make major inroads into unravelling the brain mechanisms underlying impulsive behaviour with a prominent focus on the limbic cortico-striatal systems. With this progress has come the understanding that impulsivity is a multi-faceted behavioural trait involving neurally and psychologically diverse elements. We discuss the significance of this heterogeneity for clinical disorders expressing impulsive behaviour and the pivotal contribution made by the brain dopamine and serotonin systems in the aetiology and treatment of behavioural syndromes expressing impulsive symptoms.
Manganese is a common environmental and occupational pollutant. Excessive intake of manganese can cause toxicity known as manganism. Recently it has been demonstrated that unusual expression of cell cycle proteins and aberrant cell cycle progression in the central nervous system are involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. The present studies were initiated to investigate whether p21 are induced after manganese exposure and its potential effects in vitro, with particular attention being given to understand the underlying regulatory mechanism of p21 induction by manganese in this process. We found that manganese induced DAergic cells injury and upregulation of p21 levels in nigrostriatal regions. Treatment of the PC12 cells with manganese resulted in a time- and concentration-dependent loss of cell viability. Analysis of cell cycle profile indicated that manganese blocked cell cycle progression by arresting the cell cycle at G2/M phase. Moreover, manganese treatment resulted in an increase in the mRNA and protein levels of p21, but did not have the same effect on other related factors. Silencing p21 by RNA interference showed a marked reversal of both G2/M arrest and the decrease in cell viability induced by manganese. Manganese did not stabilize the p21 protein and mRNA, and caused a marked increase in p21 mRNA levels together with an increase in its promoter activity, indicating a transcriptional mechanism. Overall, the in vivo and in vitro data suggest that exposure to manganese can increase p21 levels. An altered cell cycle status of PC12 cells can be induced by manganese through p21 up-regulation, and the induction of p21 occurs at the transcriptional level via promoter activation and mRNA induction.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) participates in opioid receptor signalling through complex molecular mechanisms. The acute effects of selective -(fentanyl) and -(SNC-80) opioid receptor agonists, as well as the chronic effects of morphine (the prototypic opiate agonist mainly acting at -receptors), modulating cdk5 and activators p35/p25 and their interactions with neurotoxic/apoptotic factors, dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32kDa (DARPP-32) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) were quantified (Western Blot analyses) in the rat corpus striatum and/or cerebral cortex. To assess the involved mechanisms, MDL28170 was used to inhibit calpain activity and SL327 to disrupt MEK (ERK kinase)-ERK activation. Acute fentanyl (0.1mg/kg) and SNC-80 (10mg/kg) induced rapid (7-60 min) 2- to 4-fold increases of p25 content, without induction of cdk5/p25 pro-apoptotic c-Jun NH(2)-terminal protein kinase or aberrant cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose)-polymerase-1, a hallmark of apoptosis. In contrast, fentanyl and SNC-80 stimulated cdk5-mediated p-Thr75 DARPP-32 (+116-166%; PKA inhibition) and p-Thr286 MEK1 (+21-82%; MEK inactivation), and this latter effect resulted in uncoupling of MEK to ERK signals. Calpain inhibition with MDL28170 (cleavage of p35 to p25) attenuated fentanyl-induced p25 accumulation (-57%), but not the stimulation of p-Thr286 MEK1 or p-Thr75 DARPP-32. MEK-ERK inhibition with SL327 fully prevented fentanyl-induced p25 upregulation. Notably, chronic morphine treatment (10-100mg/kg for 6 days) also increased p25 content and p25/p35 ratio (and activated/inactivated MEK1) in rat brain cortex, which indicated that p25 upregulation persisted under the sustained stimulation of -opioid receptors. The results demonstrate that the acute stimulation of opioid receptors leads to upregulation of p25 activator through a MEK-ERK and calpain-dependent pathway, and to disruption of MEK-ERK signalling by a cdk5/p35-induced MEK1 inhibition. Moreover, the effects induced by the sustained stimulation of -receptors with morphine suggest the participation of cdk5/p25 complex in opiate-induced long-term neuroplasticity.
Basal ganglia are a network of interconnected nuclei, involved in motor control, goal-directed behaviors and procedural learning. Basal ganglia process information from the cerebral cortex through three main pathways. The striatum is the input nucleus of the direct (cortico-striato-nigral) and indirect (cortico-striato-pallido-subthalamo-nigral) pathways while the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is the input structure of the hyperdirect (cortico-subthalamo-nigral) pathway. Despite the fact that the hyperdirect pathway constitutes a central part of most of basal ganglia models, experimental studies concerning its synaptic transmission and plasticity are still lacking. This is mainly because in vitro brain slices do not preserve the hyperdirect pathway. Here, we address this by developing a hyperdirect pathway brain slice where cortico-subthalamo-nigral connections were preserved. We characterized the transmission properties and its monosynaptic features between the frontal cortex and the STN, and between the STN and the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), the output nucleus of the hyperdirect pathway. Cortical stimulation evoked monosynaptic glutamatergic events in STN neurons with a mean latency of 11.3 ms and a mean amplitude of 21 pA. STN stimulations evoked monosynaptic glutamatergic events in SNr neurons with a mean latency of 2.5 ms and a mean amplitude of 116 pA. This brain slice also preserved a part of the direct and indirect pathways such as the cortico-striatal connection. This novel slice configuration containing the hyperdirect pathway is a useful tool to better understand the transmission and plasticity in this pathway and hence the physiology and the pathophysiology of basal ganglia.
The cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) is a neuronal-anchored glycoprotein that has been associated with several functions in the CNS such as synaptic plasticity, learning and memory and neuroprotection. There is great interest in understanding the role of PrP(C) in the deleterious effects induced by the central accumulation of amyloid- (A) peptides, a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, but the existent results are still controversial. Here we compared the effects of a single intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of aggregated A(1-40) peptide (400pmol/mouse) on the spatial learning and memory performance as well as hippocampal cell death biomarkers in adult wild type (Prnp(+/+)), PrP(C) knockout (Prnp(0/0)) and the PrP(C) overexpressing Tg-20 mice. Tg-20 mice, which present a fivefold increase in PrP(C) expression in comparison to wild type mice, were resistant to the A(1-40)-induced spatial learning and memory impairments as indicated by reduced escape latencies to find the platform and higher percentage of time spent in the correct quadrant during training and probe test sessions of the water maze task. The protection against A(1-40)-induced cognitive impairments observed in Tg-20 mice was accompanied by a significant decrease in the hippocampal expression of the activated caspase-3 protein and Bax/Bcl-2 ratio as well as reduced hippocampal cell damage assessed by MTT and propidium iodide incorporation assays. These findings indicate that the overexpression of PrP(C) prevents A(1-40)-induced spatial learning and memory deficits in mice and that this response is mediated, at least in part, by the modulation of programed cell death pathways.
Psychiatric disorders are fairly common comorbidities of epilepsy in humans. Following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE), experimental animals not only developed spontaneous recurrent seizures, but also exhibited significantly elevated levels of aggressive behavior. The cellular and molecular mechanism triggering these behavioral alterations remains unclear. In the present study, we found that aggression is positively correlated with development of spontaneous seizures. Treatment with rapamycin, a potent mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin pathway)-pathway inhibitor, markedly diminished aggressive behavior. Therefore, the mTOR pathway may have significance in the underlying molecular mechanism leading to aggression associated with epilepsy.
Maternal separation (MS) has been used to model the causal relationship between early life stress and the later stress-over-reactivity and affective disorders. Arginine vasopressin (AVP) is among several factors reported to be abnormal. The role of AVP on anxiety is still unclear. In order to further investigate this causal relationship and its possible role in anxiogenesis, male rat pups were separated from their dams for 3h daily (3 hMS) from post-natal day (PND) 2 to PND15. Fos expression in AVP+ neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic nuclei (SON) triggered by 3 hMS, and AVP-mRNA expression, were examined at PND10 and PND21 respectively, whereas AVP-mRNA expression, PVN and SON volumes and plasma AVP concentration were assessed in adulthood. Elevated plus maze test (EPM) and Vogel conflict test (VCT) were also performed to evaluate unconditioned and conditioned anxious states at PND70-75. At PND10, a single 3hMS event increased Fos expression in AVP+ neurons fourfold in PVN and six to twelvefold in SON. AVP-mRNA was over-expressed in whole hypothalamus, PVN and SON between 122% and 147% at PND21 and PND63. Volumes of AVP-PVN and AVP-SON measured at PND75 had marked increases as well as AVP plasma concentration at 12h of water deprivation (WD). MS rats demonstrated a high conditioned anxious state under VCT paradigm whereas no difference was found under EPM. These data demonstrate direct relationships between enhanced AVP neuronal activation and a potentiated vasopressin system, and this latter one with high conditioned anxiety in MS male rats.
Although previous investigations agree in showing significant cortical modifications related to short-term limb immobilization, little is known about the functional changes induced by non-use. To address this issue, we studied the kinematic effect of 10h of hand immobilization. In order to prevent any movement, right handed healthy participants wore on their dominant hand a soft bandage. They were requested to perform the same reaching-to-grasping task immediately after immobilization, 1 day before (baseline 1) and in other two following days without non-use (baseline 2 and baseline 3). While no differences were found among baseline conditions, an increase of the total duration of reaching movement together with an anticipation of the time to peak velocity were observed in the first trial after immobilization. Interestingly, these initial effects decreased quickly trial-by-trial, following an exponential function till reaching values equal to those observed in the control conditions. The present findings show firstly that the transport phase of the reaching-to-grasp task was affected by a temporary reduction of sensory and motor information. Secondly, a trial-by-trial recovery of the immobilization-related changes, likely driven by the sensory inputs and motor outputs associated to the repetition of the movement has been observed. All together these results confirm a fundamental role of a continuous stream of sensorimotor signals in maintaining motor efficiency and in driving recovery process.
Neurotrophic factors are best known for their roles in both development and continued maintenance of the nervous system. Their strong potential to elicit pro-survival and pro-functional responses in neurons of the peripheral and central nervous system make them good drug candidates for treatment of a multitude of neurodegenerative disorders. However, significant obstacles remain and need to be overcome before translating the potential of neurotrophins into the therapeutic arena. This article addresses current efforts and advances in resolving these challenges and provides an overview of roadmaps for future translational research and neurotrophin-based drug developments.
The use of artificial, prepatterned neuronal networks in vitro is a promising approach for studying the development and dynamics of small neural systems in order to understand the basic functionality of neurons and later on of the brain. The present work presents a high fidelity and robust procedure for controlling neuronal growth on substrates such as silicon wafers and glass, enabling us to obtain mature and durable neural networks of individual cells at designed geometries. It offers several advantages compared to other related techniques that have been reported in recent years mainly because of its high yield and reproducibility. The procedure is based on surface chemistry that allows the formation of functional, tailormade neural architectures with a micrometer high-resolution partition, that has the ability to promote or repel cells attachment. The main achievements of this work are deemed to be the creation of a large scale neuronal network at low density down to individual cells, that develop intact typical neurites and synapses without any glia-supportive cells straight from the plating stage and with a relatively long term survival rate, up to 4 weeks. An important application of this method is its use on 3D nanopillars and 3D nanowire-device arrays, enabling not only the cell bodies, but also their neurites to be positioned directly on electrical devices and grow with registration to the recording elements underneath.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is one of the most robust environmental risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Compelling evidence is accumulating that a single event of TBI is associated with increased levels of A. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. We report here that the BACE1 interacting protein, GGA3, is depleted while BACE1 levels increase in the acute phase after injury (48 h) in a mouse model of TBI. We further demonstrated the role of GGA3 in the regulation of BACE1 in vivo by showing that BACE1 levels are increased in the brain of GGA3-null mice. We next found that head trauma potentiates BACE1 elevation in GGA3-null mice in the acute phase after TBI, and discovered that GGA1, a GGA3 homolog, is a novel caspase-3 substrate depleted at 48 h after TBI. Moreover, GGA1 silencing potentiates BACE1 elevation induced by GGA3 deletion in neurons in vitro, indicating that GGA1 and GGA3 synergistically regulate BACE1. Accordingly, we found that levels of both GGA1 and GGA3 are depleted while BACE1 levels are increased in a series of postmortem AD brains. Finally, we show that GGA3 haploinsufficiency results in sustained elevation of BACE1 and A levels while GGA1 levels are restored in the subacute phase (7 d) after injury. In conclusion, our data indicate that depletion of GGA1 and GGA3 engender a rapid and robust elevation of BACE1 in the acute phase after injury. However, the efficient disposal of the acutely accumulated BACE1 solely depends on GGA3 levels in the subacute phase of injury.
Ca(V)2.2 (N-type) calcium channels control the entry of calcium into neurons to regulate essential functions but most notably presynaptic transmitter release. Ca(V)2.2 channel expression levels are precisely controlled, but we know little of the cellular mechanisms involved. The ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) is known to regulate expression of many synaptic proteins, including presynaptic elements, to optimize synaptic efficiency. However, we have limited information about ubiquitination of Ca(V)2 channels. Here we show that Ca(V)2.2 proteins are ubiquitinated, and that elements in the proximal C terminus of Ca(V)2.2 encoded by exon 37b of the mouse Cacna1b gene predispose cloned and native channels to downregulation by the UPS. Ca(V)2.2 channels containing e37b are expressed throughout the mammalian nervous system, but in some cells, notably nociceptors, sometimes e37a--not e37b--is selected during alternative splicing of Ca(V)2.2 pre-mRNA. By a combination of biochemical and functional analyses we show e37b promotes a form of ubiquitination that is coupled to reduced Ca(V)2.2 current density and increased sensitivity to the UPS. Cell-specific alternative splicing of e37a in nociceptors reduces Ca(V)2.2 channel ubiquitination and sensitivity to the UPS, suggesting a role in pain processing.
Integrins are involved in axon growth and regeneration. Manipulation of integrins is a route to promoting axon regeneration and understanding regeneration failure in the CNS. Expression of 9 integrin promotes axon regeneration, so we have investigated 91 trafficking and transport in axons and at the growth cone. We have previously found that 9 and 1 integrins traffic via Rab11-positive recycling endosomes in peripheral axons and growth cones. However, transport via Rab11 is slow, while rapid transport occurs in vesicles lacking Rab11. We have further studied 9 and 1 integrin transport and traffic in adult rat dorsal root ganglion axons and PC12 cells. Integrins are in ARF6 vesicles during rapid axonal transport and during trafficking in the growth cone. We report that rapid axonal transport of these integrins and their trafficking at the cell surface is regulated by ARF6. ARF6 inactivation by expression of ACAP1 leads to increased recycling of 1 integrins to the neuronal surface and to increased anterograde axonal transport. ARF6 activation by expression of the neuronal guanine nucleotide exchange factors, ARNO or EFA6, increases retrograde integrin transport in axons and increases integrin internalization. ARF6 inactivation increases integrin-mediated outgrowth, while activation decreases it. The coordinated changes in integrin transport and recycling resulting from ARF6 activation or inactivation are the probable mechanism behind this regulation of axon growth. Our data suggest a novel mechanism of integrin traffic and transport in peripheral axons, regulated by the activation state of ARF6, and suggest that ARF6 might be targeted to enhance integrin-dependent axon regeneration after injury.
Brain damage resulting in loss of sensory stimulation can induce reorganization of sensory maps in cerebral cortex. Previous research on recovery from brain damage has focused primarily on adaptive plasticity within the affected modality. Less attention has been paid to maladaptive plasticity that may arise as a result of ectopic innervation from other modalities. Using ferrets in which neonatal midbrain damage results in diversion of retinal projections to the auditory thalamus, we investigated how auditory cortical function is impacted by the resulting ectopic visual activation. We found that, although auditory neurons in cross-modal auditory cortex (XMAC) retained sound frequency tuning, their thresholds were increased, their tuning was broader, and tonotopic order in their frequency maps was disturbed. Multisensory neurons in XMAC also exhibited frequency tuning, but they had longer latencies than normal auditory neurons, suggesting they arise from multisynaptic, non-geniculocortical sources. In a control group of animals with neonatal deafferentation of auditory thalamus but without redirection of retinal axons, tonotopic order and sharp tuning curves were seen, indicating that this aspect of auditory function had developed normally. This result shows that the compromised auditory function in XMAC results from invasion by ectopic visual inputs and not from deafferentation. These findings suggest that the cross-modal plasticity that commonly occurs after loss of sensory input can significantly interfere with recovery from brain damage and that mitigation of maladaptive effects is critical to maximizing the potential for recovery.
Misalignment of the eyes can lead to double vision and visual confusion. However, these sensations are rare when strabismus is acquired early in life, because the extra image is suppressed. To explore the mechanism of perceptual suppression in strabismus, the visual fields were mapped binocularly in 14 human subjects with exotropia. Subjects wore red/blue filter glasses to permit dichoptic stimulation while fixating a central target on a tangent screen. A purple stimulus was flashed at a peripheral location; its reported color (&quot;red&quot; or &quot;blue&quot;) revealed which eye's image was perceived at that locus. The maps showed a vertical border between the center of gaze for each eye, splitting the visual field into two separate regions. In each region, perception was mediated by only one eye, with suppression of the other eye. Unexpectedly, stimuli falling on the fovea of the deviated eye were seen in all subjects. However, they were perceived in a location shifted by the angle of ocular deviation. This plasticity in the coding of visual direction allows accurate localization of objects everywhere in the visual scene, despite the presence of strabismus.
How supplementary eye field (SEF) contributes to visual search is unknown. Inputs from cortical and subcortical structures known to represent visual salience suggest that SEF may serve as an additional node in this network. This hypothesis was tested by recording action potentials and local field potentials (LFPs) in two monkeys performing an efficient pop-out visual search task. Target selection modulation, tuning width, and response magnitude of spikes and LFP in SEF were compared with those in frontal eye field. Surprisingly, only 2% of SEF neurons and 8% of SEF LFP sites selected the location of the search target. The absence of salience in SEF may be due to an absence of appropriate visual afferents, which suggests that these inputs are a necessary anatomical feature of areas representing salience. We also tested whether SEF contributes to overcoming the automatic tendency to respond to a primed color when the target identity switches during priming of pop-out. Very few SEF neurons or LFP sites modulated in association with performance deficits following target switches. However, a subset of SEF neurons and LFPs exhibited strong modulation following erroneous saccades to a distractor. Altogether, these results suggest that SEF plays a limited role in controlling ongoing visual search behavior, but may play a larger role in monitoring search performance.
FosB, a Fosb gene product, is induced in nucleus accumbens (NAc) and caudate-putamen (CPu) by repeated exposure to drugs of abuse such as cocaine. This induction contributes to aberrant patterns of gene expression and behavioral abnormalities seen with repeated drug exposure. Here, we assessed whether a remote history of cocaine exposure in rats might alter inducibility of the Fosb gene elicited by subsequent drug exposure. We show that prior chronic cocaine administration, followed by extended withdrawal, increases inducibility of Fosb in NAc, as evidenced by greater acute induction of FosB mRNA and faster accumulation of FosB protein after repeated cocaine reexposure. No such primed Fosb induction was observed in CPu; in fact, subsequent acute induction of FosB mRNA was suppressed in CPu. These abnormal patterns of Fosb expression are associated with chromatin modifications at the Fosb gene promoter. Prior chronic cocaine administration induces a long-lasting increase in RNA polymerase II (Pol II) binding at the Fosb promoter in NAc only, suggesting that Pol II &quot;stalling&quot; primes Fosb for induction in this region upon reexposure to cocaine. A cocaine challenge then triggers the release of Pol II from the gene promoter, allowing for more rapid Fosb transcription. A cocaine challenge also decreases repressive histone modifications at the Fosb promoter in NAc, but increases such repressive marks and decreases activating marks in CPu. These results provide new insight into the chromatin dynamics at the Fosb promoter and reveal a novel mechanism for primed Fosb induction in NAc upon reexposure to cocaine.
Recent evidence has emphasized soluble species of amyloid- (A) and tau as pathogenic effectors in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Despite the fact that A, tau, and -synuclein (Syn) can promote each other's aggregation, the potential contribution of soluble Syn to AD pathogenesis is unknown. Here, we found an approximate twofold increase over controls in soluble Syn levels in AD brains in the absence of Lewy body cytopathology. Importantly, soluble Syn levels were a quantitatively stronger correlate of cognitive impairment than soluble A and tau levels. To examine a putative role for Syn in modulating cognitive function, we used the Barnes circular maze to assess spatial reference memory in transgenic mice overexpressing human wild-type Syn. The results revealed that an approximate threefold elevation of Syn in vivo induced memory deficits similar to those observed in AD mouse models. The neurobiological changes associated with this elevation of soluble Syn included decreases in selected synaptic vesicle proteins and an alteration of the protein composition of synaptic vesicles. Finally, a synergism between A/APP and human tau seems to be responsible for the abnormal elevation of soluble Syn in transgenic mice. Altogether, our data reveal an unexpected role for soluble, intraneuronal Syn in AD pathophysiology.
The neural mechanism of unconsciousness has been a major unsolved question in neuroscience despite its vital role in brain states like coma and anesthesia. The existing literature suggests that neural connections, information integration, and conscious states are closely related. Indeed, alterations in several important neural circuitries and networks during unconscious conditions have been reported. However, how the whole-brain network is topologically reorganized to support different patterns of information transfer during unconscious states remains unknown. Here we directly compared whole-brain neural networks in awake and anesthetized states in rodents. Consistent with our previous report, the awake rat brain was organized in a nontrivial manner and conserved fundamental topological properties in a way similar to the human brain. Strikingly, these topological features were well maintained in the anesthetized brain. Local neural networks in the anesthetized brain were reorganized with altered local network properties. The connectional strength between brain regions was also considerably different between the awake and anesthetized conditions. Interestingly, we found that long-distance connections were not preferentially reduced in the anesthetized condition, arguing against the hypothesis that loss of long-distance connections is characteristic to unconsciousness. These findings collectively show that the integrity of the whole-brain network can be conserved between widely dissimilar physiologic states while local neural networks can flexibly adapt to new conditions. They also illustrate that the governing principles of intrinsic brain organization might represent fundamental characteristics of the healthy brain. With the unique spatial and temporal scales of resting-state fMRI, this study has opened a new avenue for understanding the neural mechanism of (un)consciousness.
Alzheimer's disease is associated with a disruption of amyloid  (A) homeostasis, resulting in the accumulation and subsequent deposition of A peptides within the brain. The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor- (PPAR) is a ligand-activated nuclear receptor that acts in a coupled metabolic cycle with Liver X Receptors (LXRs) to increase brain apolipoprotein E (apoE) levels. apoE functions to promote the proteolytic clearance of soluble forms of A, and we found that the synthetic PPAR agonist, pioglitazone, stimulated A degradation by both microglia and astrocytes in an LXR and apoE-dependent manner. Remarkably, a brief 9 d oral treatment of APPswe/PS1e9 mice with pioglitazone resulted in dramatic reductions in brain levels of soluble and insoluble A levels which correlated with the loss of both diffuse and dense-core plaques within the cortex. The removal of preexisting amyloid deposits was associated with the appearance of abundant A-laden microglia and astrocytes. Pioglitazone treatment resulted in the phenotypic polarization of microglial cells from a proinflammatory M1 state, into an anti-inflammatory M2 state that was associated with enhanced phagocytosis of deposited forms of amyloid. The reduction in amyloid levels was associated with a reversal of contextual memory deficits in the drug-treated mice. These data provide a mechanistic explanation for how PPAR activation facilitates amyloid clearance and supports the therapeutic utility of PPAR agonists for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.



Moving animals often have difficulty detecting moving objects because self-generated optic flow patterns confound image motion. The new hypothesis of 'regressive motion salience' reveals simple rules used by fruit flies.
Human communication entirely depends on the functional integrity of the neuromuscular system. This is devastatingly illustrated in clinical conditions such as the so-called locked-in syndrome (LIS), in which severely motor-disabled patients become incapable to communicate naturally--while being fully conscious and awake. For the last 20 years, research on motor-independent communication has focused on developing brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) implementing neuroelectric signals for communication (e.g., [2-7]), and BCIs based on electroencephalography (EEG) have already been applied successfully to concerned patients. However, not all patients achieve proficiency in EEG-based BCI control. Thus, more recently, hemodynamic brain signals have also been explored for BCI purposes. Here, we introduce the first spelling device based on fMRI. By exploiting spatiotemporal characteristics of hemodynamic responses, evoked by performing differently timed mental imagery tasks, our novel letter encoding technique allows translating any freely chosen answer (letter-by-letter) into reliable and differentiable single-trial fMRI signals. Most importantly, automated letter decoding in real time enables back-and-forth communication within a single scanning session. Because the suggested spelling device requires only little effort and pretraining, it is immediately operational and possesses high potential for clinical applications, both in terms of diagnostics and establishing short-term communication with nonresponsive and severely motor-impaired patients.
GABA(B) receptors mediate slow inhibitory neurotransmission in the brain and feature during excitatory synaptic plasticity, as well as various neurological conditions. These receptors are obligate heterodimers composed of GABA(B)R1 and R2 subunits. The two predominant R1 isoforms differ by the presence of two complement control protein modules or Sushi domains (SDs) in the N terminus of R1a. By using live imaging, with an -bungarotoxin-binding site (BBS) and fluorophore-linked bungarotoxin, we studied how R2 stabilizes R1b subunits at the cell surface. Heterodimerization with R2 reduced the rate of internalization of R1b, compared with R1b homomers. However, R1aR2 heteromers exhibited increased cell surface stability compared with R1bR2 receptors in hippocampal neurons, suggesting that for receptors containing the R1a subunit, the SDs play an additional role in the surface stability of GABA(B) receptors. Both SDs were necessary to increase the stability of R1aR2 because single deletions caused the receptors to be internalized at the same rate and extent as R1bR2 receptors. Consistent with these findings, a chimera formed from the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)2 and the SDs from R1a increased the surface stability of mGluR2. These results suggest a role for SDs in stabilizing cell surface receptors that could impart different pre- and postsynaptic trafficking itineraries on GABA(B) receptors, thereby contributing to their physiological and pathological roles.
Sensory circuits are shaped by experience in early postnatal life and in many brain areas late maturation of inhibition drives activity-dependent development. In the newborn spinal dorsal horn, activity is dominated by inputs from low threshold A fibers, whereas nociceptive C-fiber inputs mature gradually over the first postnatal weeks. How this changing afferent input influences the maturation of dorsal horn inhibition is not known. We show an absence of functional glycinergic inhibition in newborn dorsal horn circuits: Dorsal horn receptive fields and afferent-evoked excitation are initially facilitated by glycinergic activity due, at least in part, to glycinergic disinhibition of GAD67 cells. Glycinergic inhibitory control emerges in the second postnatal week, coinciding with an expression switch from neonatal (2) homomeric to predominantly mature (1)/ glycine receptors (GlyRs). We further show that the onset of glycinergic inhibition depends upon the maturation of C-fiber inputs to the dorsal horn: selective block of afferent C fibers in postnatal week 2, using perisciatic injections of the cationic anesthetic QX-314, lidocaine, and capsaicin, delays the maturation of both GlyR subunits and glycinergic inhibition, maintaining dorsal neurons in a neonatal state, where tactile responses are facilitated, rather than inhibited, by glycinergic network activity. Thus, glycine may serve to facilitate tactile A-fiber-mediated information and enhance activity-dependent synaptic strengthening in the immature dorsal horn. This period ceases in the second postnatal week with the maturation of C-fiber spinal input, which triggers postsynaptic changes leading to glycinergic inhibition and only then is balanced excitation and inhibition achieved in dorsal horn sensory circuits.
Agomelatine is a potent melatonergic (MT1 and MT2) receptor agonist and 5HT(2C) antagonist that is an effective antidepressant in animal models of depression and in patients suffering from depression. Our recent studies revealed that acute restraint stress increases extracellular levels of glutamate and GABA and that these increases in amino acid efflux are inhibited by some but not all antidepressants. In view of the increasing evidence supporting a role of amino acids in the pathology of depression, the current study examined whether acute stress-mediated changes in glutamate and GABA neurotransmission are modulated by agomelatine. In agreement with our previous work, acute stress increases extracellular glutamate levels in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA). Similarly, acute stress increases glutamate efflux in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). In the hippocampus, acute stress increases glutamate efflux and elicits an oscillatory pattern of GABA efflux. Agomelatine administration (40mg/kg ip) prior to acute stress inhibited stress-mediated increases in glutamate efflux in the hippocampus, BLA and CeA. These results demonstrate that acute agomelatine administration effectively inhibits acute stress-mediated changes in extracellular glutamate in the rat hippocampus and amygdala. While acute stress did not modulate GABA efflux in these regions, agomelatine treatment induced an overall reduction of GABA levels in the hippocampus. These data suggest that agomelatine modulates amino acid efflux in limbic structures implicated in major depressive disorder.

Opioids are the most effective analgesics for the treatment of moderate to severe pain. However, chronic opioid treatment can cause both hyperalgesia and analgesic tolerance, which limit their clinical efficacy. In this study, we determined the role of pre- and postsynaptic NMDA receptors (NMDARs) in controlling increased glutamatergic input in the spinal cord induced by chronic systemic morphine administration. Whole-cell voltage clamp recordings of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were performed on dorsal horn neurons in rat spinal cord slices. Chronic morphine significantly increased the amplitude of monosynaptic EPSCs evoked from the dorsal root and the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs, and these changes were largely attenuated by blocking NMDARs and by inhibiting PKC, but not PKA. Also, blocking NR2A- or NR2B-containing NMDARs significantly reduced the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs and the amplitude of evoked EPSCs in morphine-treated rats. Strikingly, morphine treatment largely decreased the amplitude of evoked NMDAR-EPSCs and NMDAR currents of dorsal horn neurons elicited by puff NMDA application. The reduction in postsynaptic NMDAR currents caused by morphine was prevented by resiniferatoxin pretreatment to ablate TRPV1-expressing primary afferents. Furthermore, intrathecal injection of the NMDAR antagonist significantly attenuated the development of analgesic tolerance and the reduction in nociceptive thresholds induced by chronic morphine. Collectively, our findings indicate that chronic opioid treatment potentiates presynaptic, but impairs postsynaptic, NMDAR activity in the spinal cord. PKC-mediated increases in NMDAR activity at nociceptive primary afferent terminals in the spinal cord contribute critically to the development of opioid hyperalgesia and analgesic tolerance.
Treatment and diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases and other CNS disorders are nowadays considered some of the most challenging tasks in modern medicine. The development of effective strategies for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of CNS pathologies require better understanding of neurological disorders that is still lacking. The use of nanomaterials is thought to contribute to our further understanding of the CNS and the development of novel therapeutic and diagnostic modalities for neurological interventions. Even though the application of nanoparticles in neuroscience is still embryonic, this article attempts to illustrate the use of different types of nanomaterials and the way in which they have been used in various CNS applications in an attempt to limit or reverse neuropathological processes.
Nanotechnologies offer exciting opportunities for targeted drug delivery which is anticipated to increase the efficacy of the drug and reduce potential side-effects, through the reduction of the dose of the drug in bystander tissues and an increase of the drug at the desired target site. Nevertheless, understanding whether the nano-scale carriers themselves may exert adverse effects is of great importance. The small size may enable nanoparticles to negotiate various biological barriers in the body which could, in turn, give rise to unexpected toxicities. On the other hand, the potential of nanoparticles to cross barriers can also be exploited for drug delivery. Determining the fate of nanoparticles following their therapeutic or diagnostic application is critical: are nanoparticles excreted, or biodegraded, or do they accumulate, potentially leading to harmful long-term effects? The bio-corona of proteins or lipids on the surface of nanoparticles is a key parameter for the understanding of biological interactions of nanoparticles. In the present review, we discuss some of the major challenges related to safety of nanomedicines.
Mitochondrial fusion plays an essential role in mitochondrial calcium homeostasis, bioenergetics, autophagy and quality control. Fusion is quantified in living cells by photo-conversion of matrix targeted photoactivatable GFP (mtPAGFP) in a subset of mitochondria. The rate at which the photoconverted molecules equilibrate across the entire mitochondrial population is used as a measure of fusion activity. Thus far measurements were performed using a single cell time lapse approach, quantifying the equilibration in one cell over an hour. Here, we scale up and automate a previously published live cell method based on using mtPAGFP and a low concentration of TMRE (15 nm). This method involves photoactivating a small portion of the mitochondrial network, collecting highly resolved stacks of confocal sections every 15 min for 1 hour, and quantifying the change in signal intensity. Depending on several factors such as ease of finding PAGFP expressing cells, and the signal of the photoactivated regions, it is possible to collect around 10 cells within the 15 min intervals. This provides a significant improvement in the time efficiency of this assay while maintaining the highly resolved subcellular quantification as well as the kinetic parameters necessary to capture the detail of mitochondrial behavior in its native cytoarchitectural environment. Mitochondrial dynamics play a role in many cellular processes including respiration, calcium regulation, and apoptosis. The structure of the mitochondrial network affects the function of mitochondria, and the way they interact with the rest of the cell. Undergoing constant division and fusion, mitochondrial networks attain various shapes ranging from highly fused networks, to being more fragmented. Interestingly, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Charcot Marie Tooth 2A, and dominant optic atrophy have been correlated with altered mitochondrial morphology, namely fragmented networks. Often times, upon fragmentation, mitochondria become depolarized, and upon accumulation this leads to impaired cell function. Mitochondrial fission has been shown to signal a cell to progress toward apoptosis. It can also provide a mechanism by which to separate depolarized and inactive mitochondria to keep the bulk of the network robust. Fusion of mitochondria, on the other hand, leads to sharing of matrix proteins, solutes, mtDNA and the electrochemical gradient, and also seems to prevent progression to apoptosis. How fission and fusion of mitochondria affects cell homeostasis and ultimately the functioning of the organism needs further understanding, and therefore the continuous development and optimization of how to gather information on these phenomena is necessary. Existing mitochondrial fusion assays have revealed various insights into mitochondrial physiology, each having its own advantages. The hybrid PEG fusion assay, mixes two populations of differently labeled cells (mtRFP and mtYFP), and analyzes the amount of mixing and colocalization of fluorophores in fused, multinucleated, cells. Although this method has yielded valuable information, not all cell types can fuse, and the conditions under which fusion is stimulated involves the use of toxic drugs that likely affect the normal fusion process. More recently, a cell free technique has been devised, using isolated mitochondria to observe fusion events based on a luciferase assay. Two human cell lines are targeted with either the amino or a carboxy terminal part of Renilla luciferase along with a leucine zipper to ensure dimerization upon mixing. Mitochondria are isolated from each cell line, and fused. The fusion reaction can occur without the cytosol under physiological conditions in the presence of energy, appropriate temperature and inner mitochondrial membrane potential. Interestingly, the cytosol was found to modulate the extent of fusion, demonstrating that cell signaling regulates the fusion process. This assay will be very useful for high throughput screening to identify components of the fusion machinery and also pharmacological compounds that may affect mitochondrial dynamics. However, more detailed whole cell mitochondrial assays will be needed to complement this in vitro assay to observe these events within a cellular environment. A technique for monitoring whole-cell mitochondrial dynamics has been in use for some time and is based on a mitochondrially-targeted photoactivatable GFP (mtPAGFP). Upon expression of the mtPAGFP, a small portion of the mitochondrial network is photoactivated (10-20%), and the spread of the signal to the rest of the mitochondrial network is recorded every 15 minutes for 1 hour using time lapse confocal imaging. Each fusion event leads to a dilution of signal intensity, enabling quantification of the fusion rate. Although fusion and fission are continuously occurring in cells, this technique only monitors fusion as fission does not lead to a dilution of the PAGFP signal. Co-labeling with low levels of TMRE (7-15 nM in INS1 cells) allows quantification of the membrane potential of mitochondria. When mitochondria are hyperpolarized they uptake more TMRE, and when they depolarize they lose the TMRE dye. Mitochondria that depolarize no longer have a sufficient membrane potential and tend not to fuse as efficiently if at all. Therefore, active fusing mitochondria can be tracked with these low levels of TMRE. Accumulation of depolarized mitochondria that lack a TMRE signal may be a sign of phototoxicity or cell death. Higher concentrations of TMRE render mitochondria very sensitive to laser light, and therefore great care must be taken to avoid overlabeling with TMRE. If the effect of depolarization of mitochondria is the topic of interest, a technique using slightly higher levels of TMRE and more intense laser light can be used to depolarize mitochondria in a controlled fashion (Mitra and Lippincott-Schwartz, 2010). To ensure that toxicity due to TMRE is not an issue, we suggest exposing loaded cells (3-15 nM TMRE) to the imaging parameters that will be used in the assay (perhaps 7 stacks of 6 optical sections in a row), and assessing cell health after 2 hours. If the mitochondria appear too fragmented and cells are dying, other mitochondrial markers, such as dsRED or Mitotracker red could be used instead of TMRE. The mtPAGFP method has revealed details about mitochondrial network behavior that could not be visualized using other methods. For example, we now know that mitochondrial fusion can be full or transient, where matrix content can mix without changing the overall network morphology. Additionally, we know that the probability of fusion is independent of contact duration and organelle dimension, is influenced by organelle motility, membrane potential and history of previous fusion activity. In this manuscript, we describe a methodology for scaling up the previously published protocol using mtPAGFP and 15 nM TMRE in order to examine multiple cells at a time and improve the time efficiency of data collection without sacrificing the subcellular resolution. This has been made possible by the use of an automated microscope stage, and programmable image acquisition software. Zen software from Zeiss allows the user to mark and track several designated cells expressing mtPAGFP. Each of these cells can be photoactivated in a particular region of interest, and stacks of confocal slices can be monitored for mtPAGFP signal as well as TMRE at specified intervals. Other confocal systems could be used to perform this protocol provided there is an automated stage that is programmable, an incubator with CO2, and a means by which to photoactivate the PAGFP; either a multiphoton laser, or a 405 nm diode laser.
In the present study, we analyzed mice with a targeted deletion of -catenin in DA neurons (DA-cat KO mice) to address the functional significance of this molecule in the shaping of synaptic responses associated with motor learning and following exposure to drugs of abuse. Relative to controls, DA-cat KO mice showed significant deficits in their ability to form long-term memories and displayed reduced expression of methamphetamine-induced behavioral sensitization after subsequent challenge doses with this drug, suggesting that motor learning and drug-induced learning plasticity are altered in these mice. Morphological analyses showed no changes in the number or distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase-labeled neurons in the ventral midbrain. While electrochemical measurements in the striatum determined no changes in acute DA release and uptake, a small but significant decrease in DA release was detected in mutant animals after prolonged repetitive stimulation, suggesting a possible deficit in the DA neurotransmitter vesicle reserve pool. However, electron microscopy analyses did not reveal significant differences in the content of synaptic vesicles per terminal, and striatal DA levels were unchanged in DA-cat KO animals. In contrast, striatal mRNA levels for several markers known to regulate synaptic plasticity and DA neurotransmission were altered in DA-cat KO mice. This study demonstrates that ablation of -catenin in DA neurons leads to alterations of motor and reward-associated memories and to adaptations of the DA neurotransmitter system and suggests that -catenin signaling in DA neurons is required to facilitate the synaptic remodeling underlying the consolidation of long-term memories.
The discovery that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) secrete SOD3 may help explain studies in which MSCs have direct antioxidant activities both in vivo and in vitro. SOD3 is an antioxidant enzyme that dismutes toxic free radicals produced during inflammatory processes. Therefore, MSC production and secretion of active and therapeutically significant levels of SOD3 would further support the use of MSCs as a cellular based antioxidant therapy. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate in vitro if MSC differentiation down the adipogenic, chondrogenic, and osteogenic lineages influences the expression of the antioxidant molecule SOD3. Human bone marrow MSCs and their differentiated progeny were cultured under standard conditions and both the SOD3 gene and protein expression examined. Following adipogenesis, cultures demonstrated that both SOD3 protein and gene expression are significantly increased, and conversely, following chondrogenesis SOD3 protein and gene expression is significantly decreased. Following osteogenesis there were no significant changes in SOD3 protein or gene expression. This in vitro study describes the initial characterization of SOD3 expression and secretion by differentiated MSCs. This should help guide further in vivo work establishing the therapeutic and antioxidative potential of MSC and their differentiated progeny.
The aggregation, deposition, and dysfunction of alpha-synuclein (aSyn) are common events in neurodegenerative disorders known as synucleinopathies. These include Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and multiple system atrophy. A growing body of knowledge on the biology of aSyn is emerging and enabling novel hypotheses to be tested. In particular, the hypothesis that aSyn is secreted from neurons, thus contributing to the spreading of pathology not only in the brain but also in other organs, is gaining momentum. Nevertheless, the precise mechanism(s) of secretion, as well as the consequences of extracellular aSyn species for neighboring cells are still unclear. Here, we review the current literature and integrate existing data in order to propose possible mechanisms of secretion, cell dysfunction, and death. Ultimately, the complete understanding of these processes might open novel avenues for the development of new therapeutic strategies.
Many behavioral functions in mammals, including rodents and humans, are mediated principally by discrete brain regions. A common method for discerning the function of various brain regions for behavior or other experimental outcomes is to implement a localized ablation of function. In humans, patient populations with localized brain lesions are often studied for deficits, in hopes of revealing the underlying function of the damaged area. In rodents, one can experimentally induce lesions of specific brain regions. Lesion can be accomplished in several ways. Electrolytic lesions can cause localized damage but will damage a variety of cell types as well as traversing fibers from other brain regions that happen to be near the lesion site. Inducible genetic techniques using cell-type specific promoters may also enable site-specific targeting. These techniques are complex and not always practical depending on the target brain area. Excitotoxic lesion using stereotaxic surgery, by contrast, is one of the most reliable and practical methods of lesioning excitatory neurons without damaging local glial cells or traversing fibers. Here, we present a protocol for stereotaxic infusion of the excitotoxin, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), into the basolateral amygdala complex. Using anatomical indications, we apply stereotaxic coordinates to determine the location of our target brain region and lower an injection needle in place just above the target. We then infuse our excitotoxin into the brain, resulting in excitotoxic death of nearby neurons. While our experimental subject of choice is a rat, the same methods can be applied to other mammals, with the appropriate adjustments in equipment and coordinates. This method can be used on a variety of brain regions, including the basolateral amygdala, other amygdala nuclei, hippocampus, entorhinal cortex and prefrontal cortex. It can also be used to infuse biological compounds such as viral vectors. The basic stereotaxic technique could also be adapted for implantation of more permanent osmotic pumps, allowing more prolonged exposure to a compound of interest.
Eye movements are very important in order to track an object or to stabilize an image on the retina during movement. Animals without a fovea, such as the mouse, have a limited capacity to lock their eyes onto a target. In contrast to these target directed eye movements, compensatory ocular eye movements are easily elicited in afoveate animals. Compensatory ocular movements are generated by processing vestibular and optokinetic information into a command signal that will drive the eye muscles. The processing of the vestibular and optokinetic information can be investigated separately and together, allowing the specification of a deficit in the oculomotor system. The oculomotor system can be tested by evoking an optokinetic reflex (OKR), vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) or a visually-enhanced vestibulo-ocular reflex (VVOR). The OKR is a reflex movement that compensates for &quot;full-field&quot; image movements on the retina, whereas the VOR is a reflex eye movement that compensates head movements. The VVOR is a reflex eye movement that uses both vestibular as well as optokinetic information to make the appropriate compensation. The cerebellum monitors and is able to adjust these compensatory eye movements. Therefore, oculography is a very powerful tool to investigate brain-behavior relationship under normal as well as under pathological conditions (f.e. of vestibular, ocular and/or cerebellar origin). Testing the oculomotor system, as a behavioral paradigm, is interesting for several reasons. First, the oculomotor system is a well understood neural system. Second, the oculomotor system is relative simple; the amount of possible eye movement is limited by its ball-in-socket architecture (&quot;single joint&quot;) and the three pairs of extra-ocular muscles. Third, the behavioral output and sensory input can easily be measured, which makes this a highly accessible system for quantitative analysis. Many behavioral tests lack this high level of quantitative power. And finally, both performance as well as plasticity of the oculomotor system can be tested, allowing research on learning and memory processes. Genetically modified mice are nowadays widely available and they form an important source for the exploration of brain functions at various levels. In addition, they can be used as models to mimic human diseases. Applying oculography on normal, pharmacologically-treated or genetically modified mice is a powerful research tool to explore the underlying physiology of motor behaviors under normal and pathological conditions. Here, we describe how to measure video-oculography in mice.
The ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) is a fundamental cellular pathway, degrading most unwanted intracellular soluble proteins. Dysfunction of the UPS has been associated with normal aging as well as various age-related pathological conditions, including chronic human neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, leading to a significant interest in the involvement of this degradative system in neurones. We previously reported that the 26S proteasome was essential for neuronal homeostasis and survival in mouse brains following conditional genetic homozygous knockout of a key subunit of the multi-meric 26S proteasome (19S ATPase Psmc1). Here, we investigated the effects of Psmc1 heterozygosity in the mouse brain and primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Neuropathologically and biochemically, Psmc1 heterozygous (Psmc1(+/-)) knockout mice were indistinguishable from wild-type mice. However, we report a novel age-related accumulation of intraneuronal lysine 48-specific polyubiquitin-positive granular staining in both wild-type and heterozygous Psmc1 knockout mouse brain. In Psmc1(+/-) MEFs, we found a significant decrease in PSMC1 levels, altered 26S proteasome assembly and a notable G2/M cell cycle arrest that was not associated with an increase in the cell cycle regulatory protein p21. The disturbance in cell cycle progression may be responsible for the growth inhibitory effects in Psmc1(+/-) MEFs.
Songbirds have become impressive neurobiological models for aspects of human verbal communication because they learn to sequence their song elements, analogous, in some ways, to how humans learn to produce spoken sequences with syntactic structure. However, mammals such as non-human primates are considered to be at best limited-vocal learners and not able to sequence their vocalizations, although some of these animals can learn certain 'artificial grammar' sequences. Thus, conceptual issues have slowed the progress in exploring potential neurobiological homologues to language-related processes in species that are taxonomically closely related to humans. We consider some of the conceptual issues impeding a pursuit of, as we define them, 'proto-syntactic' capabilities and their neuronal substrates in non-human animals. We also discuss ways to better bridge comparative behavioural and neurobiological data between humans and other animals. Finally, we propose guiding neurobiological hypotheses with which we aim to facilitate the future testing of the level of correspondence between the human brain network for syntactic-learning and related neurobiological networks present in other primates. Insights from the study of non-human primates and other mammals are likely to complement those being obtained in birds to further our knowledge of the human language-related network at the cellular level.
The human capacity to acquire language is an outstanding scientific challenge to understand. Somehow our language capacities arise from the way the human brain processes, develops and learns in interaction with its environment. To set the stage, we begin with a summary of what is known about the neural organization of language and what our artificial grammar learning (AGL) studies have revealed. We then review the Chomsky hierarchy in the context of the theory of computation and formal learning theory. Finally, we outline a neurobiological model of language acquisition and processing based on an adaptive, recurrent, spiking network architecture. This architecture implements an asynchronous, event-driven, parallel system for recursive processing. We conclude that the brain represents grammars (or more precisely, the parser/generator) in its connectivity, and its ability for syntax is based on neurobiological infrastructure for structured sequence processing. The acquisition of this ability is accounted for in an adaptive dynamical systems framework. Artificial language learning (ALL) paradigms might be used to study the acquisition process within such a framework, as well as the processing properties of the underlying neurobiological infrastructure. However, it is necessary to combine and constrain the interpretation of ALL results by theoretical models and empirical studies on natural language processing. Given that the faculty of language is captured by classical computational models to a significant extent, and that these can be embedded in dynamic network architectures, there is hope that significant progress can be made in understanding the neurobiology of the language faculty.
Research on pattern perception and rule learning, grounded in formal language theory (FLT) and using artificial grammar learning paradigms, has exploded in the last decade. This approach marries empirical research conducted by neuroscientists, psychologists and ethologists with the theory of computation and FLT, developed by mathematicians, linguists and computer scientists over the last century. Of particular current interest are comparative extensions of this work to non-human animals, and neuroscientific investigations using brain imaging techniques. We provide a short introduction to the history of these fields, and to some of the dominant hypotheses, to help contextualize these ongoing research programmes, and finally briefly introduce the papers in the current issue.
Several methods exist for reliably determining the motivational valence of a taste stimulus in animals, but few to determine its perceptual quality independent of its apparent affective properties. Individual differences in taste preference and acceptability could result from variance in the perceptual qualities of the stimulus leading to different hedonic evaluations. Alternatively, taste perception might be identical across subjects, but the processing of the sensory signals in reward circuits could differ. Using an operant-based taste cue discrimination/generalization task involving a gustometer, we trained male Long-Evans rats to report the degree to which a test stimulus resembled the taste quality of either sucrose or quinine regardless of its intensity. The rats, grouped by a characteristic bimodal phenotypic difference in their preference for sucralose, treated this artificial sweetener as qualitatively different-compared to sucralose-avoiding rats, the sucralose-preferring rats found the stimulus much more perceptually similar to sucrose. Although the possibility that stimulus palatability may have served as a discriminative cue cannot entirely be ruled out, the profile of results suggests otherwise. Subsequent brief-access licking tests revealed that affective licking responses of the same sucralose-avoiding and -preferring rats differed across concentration in a manner approximately similar to that found in the stimulus generalization task. Thus, the perceived taste quality of sucralose alone may be sufficient to drive the observed behavioral avoidance of the compound. By virtue of its potential ability to dissociate the sensory and motivational consequences of a given experimental manipulation on taste-related behavior, this approach could be interpretively valuable.
Abnormal accumulation of -synuclein is centrally involved in the pathogenesis of many disorders with Parkinsonism and dementia. Previous in vitro studies suggest that -synuclein dysregulates intracellular calcium. However, it is unclear whether these alterations occur in vivo. For this reason, we investigated calcium dynamics in transgenic mice expressing human WT -synuclein using two-photon microscopy. We imaged spontaneous and stimulus-induced neuronal activity in the barrel cortex. Transgenic mice exhibited augmented, long-lasting calcium transients characterized by considerable deviation from the exponential decay. The most evident pathology was observed in response to a repetitive stimulation in which subsequent stimuli were presented before relaxation of calcium signal to the baseline. These alterations were detected in the absence of significant increase in neuronal spiking response compared with age-matched controls, supporting the possibility that -synuclein promoted alterations in calcium dynamics via interference with intracellular buffering mechanisms. The characteristic shape of calcium decay and augmented response during repetitive stimulation can serve as in vivo imaging biomarkers in this model of neurodegeneration, to monitor progression of the disease and screen candidate treatment strategies.
Evidence indirectly implicates the amygdala as the primary processor of emotional information used by cortex to drive appropriate behavioral responses to stimuli. Taste provides an ideal system with which to test this hypothesis directly, as neurons in both basolateral amygdala (BLA) and gustatory cortex (GC)-anatomically interconnected nodes of the gustatory system-code the emotional valence of taste stimuli (i.e., palatability), in firing rate responses that progress similarly through &quot;epochs.&quot; The fact that palatability-related firing appears one epoch earlier in BLA than GC is broadly consistent with the hypothesis that such information may propagate from the former to the latter. Here, we provide evidence supporting this hypothesis, assaying taste responses in small GC single-neuron ensembles before, during, and after temporarily inactivating BLA in awake rats. BLA inactivation (BLAx) changed responses in 98% of taste-responsive GC neurons, altering the entirety of every taste response in many neurons. Most changes involved reductions in firing rate, but regardless of the direction of change, the effect of BLAx was epoch-specific: while firing rates were changed, the taste specificity of responses remained stable; information about taste palatability, however, which normally resides in the &quot;Late&quot; epoch, was reduced in magnitude across the entire GC sample and outright eliminated in most neurons. Only in the specific minority of neurons for which BLAx enhanced responses did palatability specificity survive undiminished. Our data therefore provide direct evidence that BLA is a necessary component of GC gustatory processing, and that cortical palatability processing in particular is, in part, a function of BLA activity.
It is a vital ability of humans to flexibly adapt their behavior to different environmental situations. Constantly, the rules for our sensory-to-motor mappings need to be adapted to the current task demands. For example, the same sensory input might require two different motor responses depending on the actual situation. How does the brain prepare for such different responses? It has been suggested that the functional connections within cortex are biased according to the present rule to guide the flow of information in accordance with the required sensory-to-motor mapping. Here, we investigated with fMRI whether task settings might indeed change the functional connectivity structure in a large-scale brain network. Subjects performed a visuomotor response task that required an interaction between visual and motor cortex: either within each hemisphere or across the two hemispheres of the brain depending on the task condition. A multivariate analysis on the functional connectivity graph of a cortical visuomotor network revealed that the functional integration, i.e., the connectivity structure, is altered according to the task condition already during a preparatory period before the visual cue and the actual movement. Our results show that the topology of connection weights within a single network changes according to and thus predicts the upcoming task. This suggests that the human brain prepares to respond in different conditions by altering its large scale functional connectivity structure even before an action is required.
The formation of enduring declarative-like memories engages a dialog between the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Electrophysiological and neuroanatomical evidence for reciprocal connections with both of these structures makes the reuniens and rhomboid nuclei (ReRh) of the thalamus a major functional link between the PFC and hippocampus. Using immediate early gene imaging (c-Fos), fiber-sparing excitotoxic lesion, and reversible inactivation in rats, we provide evidence demonstrating a contribution of the ReRh to the persistence of a spatial memory. Intact rats trained in a Morris water maze showed increased c-Fos expression (vs home cage and visible platform groups: &gt;500%) in the ReRh when tested in a probe trial at a 25 d delay, against no change at a 5 d delay; behavioral performance was comparable at both delays. In rats subjected to excitotoxic fiber-sparing NMDA lesions circumscribed to the ReRh, we found normal acquisition of the water-maze task (vs sham-operated controls) and normal probe trial performance at the 5 d delay, but there was no evidence for memory retrieval at the 25 d delay. In rats having learned the water-maze task, lidocaine-induced inactivation of the ReRh right before the probe trial did not alter memory retrieval tested at the 5 d or 25 d delay. Together, these data suggest an implication of the ReRh in the long-term consolidation of a spatial memory at the system level. These nuclei could then be a key structure contributing to the transformation of a new hippocampal-dependent spatial memory into a remote one also depending on cortical networks.
Two distinct strategies have been suggested to support action selection in humans and other animals on the basis of experiential learning: a goal-directed strategy that generates decisions based on the value and causal antecedents of action outcomes, and a habitual strategy that relies on the automatic elicitation of actions by environmental stimuli. In the present study, we investigated whether a similar dichotomy exists for actions that are acquired vicariously, through observation of other individuals rather than through direct experience, and assessed whether these strategies are mediated by distinct brain regions. We scanned participants with functional magnetic resonance imaging while they performed an observational learning task designed to encourage either goal-directed encoding of the consequences of observed actions, or a mapping of observed actions to conditional discriminative cues. Activity in different parts of the action observation network discriminated between the two conditions during observational learning and correlated with the degree of insensitivity to outcome devaluation in subsequent performance. Our findings suggest that, in striking parallel to experiential learning, neural systems mediating the observational acquisition of actions may be dissociated into distinct components: a goal-directed, outcome-sensitive component and a less flexible stimulus-response component.
Thioredoxin interacting protein (TXNIP) has recently been described as a key regulator of energy metabolism through pleiotropic actions that include nutrient sensing in the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH). However, the role of TXNIP in neurochemically specific hypothalamic subpopulations and the circuits downstream from MBH TXNIP engaged to regulate energy homeostasis remain unexplored. To evaluate the metabolic role of TXNIP activity specifically within arcuate Agrp neurons, we generated Agrp-specific TXNIP gain-of-function and loss-of-function mouse models using Agrp-Ires-cre mice, TXNIP (flox/flox) mice, and a lentivector expressing the human TXNIP isoform conditionally in the presence of Cre recombinase. Overexpression of TXNIP in Agrp neurons predisposed to diet-induced obesity and adipose tissue storage by decreasing energy expenditure and spontaneous locomotion, without affecting food intake. Conversely, Agrp neuronal TXNIP deletion protected against diet-induced obesity and adipose tissue storage by increasing energy expenditure and spontaneous locomotion, also without affecting food intake. TXNIP overexpression in Agrp neurons did not primarily affect glycemic control, whereas deletion of TXNIP in Agrp neurons improved fasting glucose levels and glucose tolerance independently of its effects on body weight and adiposity. Bidirectional manipulation of TXNIP expression induced reciprocal changes in central leptin sensitivity and the neural regulation of lipolysis. Together, these results identify a critical role for TXNIP in Agrp neurons in mediating diet-induced obesity through the regulation of energy expenditure and adipose tissue metabolism, independently of food intake. They also reveal a previously unidentified role for Agrp neurons in the brain-adipose axis.
Platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) has been reported to provide tropic support for neurons in the CNS. However, whether PDGF-BB regulates neurogenesis, especially in the context of HIV-associated neurological disorder and drug abuse, remains essentially unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that pretreatment of rat hippocampal neuronal progenitor cells (NPCs) with PDGF-BB restored proliferation that had been impaired by HIV Tat-cocaine via the cognate receptors. We identify the essential role of transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC) channels in PDGF-BB-mediated proliferation. Parallel but distinct ERK/CREB, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt signaling pathways with downstream activation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)/eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein (4E-BP)-p70S6K and nuclear factor-B were critical for proliferation. Blocking TRPC1 channel suppressed PDGF-mediated proliferation as well as PDGF-BB-induced ERK/CREB and mTOR/4E-BP-p70S6K activation, thereby underscoring its role in this process. In vivo relevance of these findings was further corroborated in Tat transgenic mice wherein hippocampal injection of recombinant AAV2-PDGF-B restored impaired NPC proliferation that was induced by Tat-cocaine. Together, these data underpin the role of TRPC1 channel as a novel target that regulates cell proliferation mediated by PDGF-BB with implications for therapeutic intervention for reversal of impaired neurogenesis inflicted by Tat and cocaine.
Criticality has gained widespread interest in neuroscience as an attractive framework for understanding the character and functional implications of variability in brain activity. The metastability of critical systems maximizes their dynamic range, storage capacity, and computational power. Power-law scaling-a hallmark of criticality-has been observed on different levels, e.g., in the distribution of neuronal avalanches in vitro and in vivo, but also in the decay of temporal correlations in behavioral performance and ongoing oscillations in humans. An unresolved issue is whether power-law scaling on different organizational levels in the brain-and possibly in other hierarchically organized systems-can be related. Here, we show that critical-state dynamics of avalanches and oscillations jointly emerge in a neuronal network model when excitation and inhibition is balanced. The oscillatory activity of the model was qualitatively similar to what is typically observed in recordings of human resting-state MEG. We propose that homeostatic plasticity mechanisms tune this balance in healthy brain networks, and that it is essential for critical behavior on multiple levels of neuronal organization with ensuing functional benefits. Based on our network model, we introduce a concept of multi-level criticality in which power-law scaling can emerge on multiple time scales in oscillating networks.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors, which underlie a majority of excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS, associate with transmembrane proteins that modify their intracellular trafficking and channel gating. Significant advances have been made in our understanding of AMPA-type glutamate receptor (AMPAR) regulation by transmembrane AMPAR regulatory proteins. Less is known about the functional influence of cornichons-unrelated AMPAR-interacting proteins, identified by proteomic analysis. Here we confirm that cornichon homologs 2 and 3 (CNIH-2 and CNIH-3), but not CNIH-1, slow the deactivation and desensitization of both GluA2-containing calcium-impermeable and GluA2-lacking calcium-permeable (CP) AMPARs expressed in tsA201 cells. CNIH-2 and -3 also enhanced the glutamate sensitivity, single-channel conductance, and calcium permeability of CP-AMPARs while decreasing their block by intracellular polyamines. We examined the potential effects of CNIHs on native AMPARs by recording from rat optic nerve oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), known to express a significant population of CP-AMPARs. These glial cells exhibited surface labeling with an anti-CNIH-2/3 antibody. Two features of their AMPAR-mediated currents-the relative efficacy of the partial agonist kainate (I(KA)/I(Glu) ratio 0.4) and a greater than fivefold potentiation of kainate responses by cyclothiazide-suggest AMPAR association with CNIHs. Additionally, overexpression of CNIH-3 in OPCs markedly slowed AMPAR desensitization. Together, our experiments support the view that CNIHs are capable of altering key properties of AMPARs and suggest that they may do so in glia.
PTI-125 is a novel compound demonstrating a promising new approach to treating Alzheimer's disease (AD), characterized by neurodegeneration and amyloid plaque and neurofibrillary pathologies. We show that the toxic signaling of amyloid-(42) (A(42)) by the 7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (7nAChR), which results in tau phosphorylation and formation of neurofibrillary tangles, requires the recruitment of the scaffolding protein filamin A (FLNA). By binding FLNA with high affinity, PTI-125 prevents A(42)'s toxic cascade, decreasing phospho-tau and A aggregates and reducing the dysfunction of 7nAChRs, NMDARs, and insulin receptors. PTI-125 prevents A(42) signaling by drastically reducing its affinity for 7nAChRs and can even dissociate existing A(42)-7nAChR complexes. Additionally, PTI-125 prevents A-induced inflammatory cytokine release by blocking FLNA recruitment to toll-like receptor 4, illustrating an anti-inflammatory effect. PTI-125's broad spectrum of beneficial effects is demonstrated here in an intracerebroventricular A(42) infusion mouse model of AD and in human postmortem AD brain tissue.
Despite some advances in the understanding of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) pathogenesis, significant achievements in treating this disease are still lacking. Mesenchymal stromal (stem) cells (MSCs) have been shown to be effective in several models of neurological disease. To determine the effects of the intravenous injection of MSCs in an ALS mouse model during the symptomatic stage of disease, MSCs (1  10) were intravenously injected in mice expressing human superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) carrying the G93A mutation (SOD1/G93A) presenting with experimental ALS. Survival, motor abilities, histology, oxidative stress markers and [H]D-aspartate release in the spinal cord were investigated. MSC injection in SOD1/G93A mice improved survival and motor functions compared with saline-injected controls. Injected MSCs scantly home to the central nervous system and poorly engraft. We observed a reduced accumulation of ubiquitin agglomerates and of activated astrocytes and microglia in the spinal cord of MSC-treated SOD1/G93A mice, with no changes in the number of choline acetyltransferase- and glutamate transporter type 1-positive cells. MSC administration turned around the upregulation of metallothionein mRNA expression and of the activity of the antioxidant enzyme glutathione S-transferase, both associated with disease progression. Last, we observed that MSCs reverted both spontaneous and stimulus-evoked neuronal release of [H]D-aspartate, a marker of endogenous glutamate, which is upregulated in SOD1/G93A mice. These findings suggest that intravenous administration of MSCs significantly improves the clinical outcome and pathological scores of mutant SOD1/G93A mice, thus providing the rationale for their exploitation for the treatment of ALS.
The voltage-gated calcium channel (2) and  subunits are traditionally considered to be auxiliary subunits that enhance channel trafficking, increase the expression of functional calcium channels at the plasma membrane and influence the channels' biophysical properties. Accumulating evidence indicates that these subunits may also have roles in the nervous system that are not directly linked to calcium channel function. For example,  subunits may act as transcriptional regulators, and certain (2) subunits may function in synaptogenesis. The aim of this Review is to examine both the classic and novel roles for these auxiliary subunits in voltage-gated calcium channel function and beyond.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a specific gene-silencing mechanism that can be mediated by the delivery of chemical synthesized small-interfering RNA (siRNA). RNAi might constitute a novel therapeutic approach for cancer treatment because researchers can easily design siRNA molecules to inhibit, specifically and potently, the expression of any protein involved in tumor initiation and progression. Despite all the potential of siRNA as a novel class of drugs, the limited cellular uptake, low biological stability, and unfavorable pharmacokinetics of siRNAs have limited their application in the clinic. Indeed, blood nucleases easily degrade naked siRNAs, and the kidneys rapidly eliminate these molecules. Furthermore, at the level of target cells, the negative charge and hydrophilicity of siRNAs strongly impair their cellular internalization. Therefore, the translation of siRNA to the clinical setting is highly dependent on the development of an appropriate delivery system, able to ameliorate siRNA pharmacokinetic and biodistribution properties. In this regard, major advances have been achieved with lipid-based nanocarriers sterically stabilized by poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG), such as the stabilized nucleic acid lipid particles (SNALP). However, PEG has not solved all the major problems associated with siRNA delivery. In this Account, the major problems associated with PEGylated lipid-based nanoparticles, and the different strategies to overcome them are discussed. Although PEG has revolutionized the field of nanocarriers, cumulative experience has revealed that upon repeated administration, PEGylated liposomes lose their ability to circulate over long periods in the bloodstream, a phenomenon known as accelerated blood clearance. In addition, PEGylation impairs the internalization of the siRNA into the target cell and its subsequent escape from the endocytic pathway, which reduces biological activity. An interesting approach to overcome such limitations relies on the design of novel exchangeable PEG-derivatized lipids. After systemic administration, these lipids can be released from the nanoparticle surface. Moreover, the design and synthesis of novel cationic lipids that are more fusogenic and the use of internalizing targeting ligands have contributed to the emergence of novel lipid-based nanoparticles with remarkable transfection efficiency.
Multiple sclerosis is a progressive neurological disorder that results in the degradation of myelin sheaths that insulate axons in the central nervous system. Therefore promotion of myelin repair is a major thrust of multiple sclerosis treatment research. Two mouse monoclonal natural autoantibodies, O1 and O4, promote myelin repair in several mouse models of multiple sclerosis. Natural autoantibodies are generally polyreactive and predominantly of the IgM isotype. The prevailing paradigm is that because they are polyreactive, these antibodies bind antigens with low affinities. Despite their wide use in neuroscience and glial cell research, however, the affinities and kinetic constants of O1 and O4 antibodies have not been measured to date. In this work, we developed a membrane biosensing platform based on surface plasmon resonance in gold nanohole arrays with a series of surface modification techniques to form myelin-mimicking lipid bilayer membranes to measure both the association and dissociation rate constants for O1 and O4 antibodies binding to their myelin lipid antigens. The ratio of rate constants shows that O1 and O4 bind to galactocerebroside and sulfated galactocerebroside, respectively, with unusually small apparent dissociation constants (K(D)  0.9 nM) for natural autoantibodies. This is approximately one to 2 orders of magnitude lower than typically observed for the highest affinity natural autoantibodies. We propose that the unusually high affinity of O1 and O4 to their targets in myelin contributes to the mechanism by which they signal oligodendrocytes and induce central nervous system repair.
Sequence analysis suggests that KALRN, a Rho GDP/GTP exchange factor genetically linked to schizophrenia, could contain as many as nine tandem spectrin repeats (SRs). We expressed and purified fragments of Kalirin containing from one to five putative SRs to determine whether they formed nested structures that could endow Kalirin with the flexible rodlike properties characteristic of spectrin and dystrophin. Far-UV circular dichroism studies indicated that Kalirin contains nine SRs. On the basis of thermal denaturation, sensitivity to chemical denaturants, and the solubility of pairs of repeats, the nine SRs of Kalirin form nested structures. Modeling studies confirmed this conclusion and identified an exposed loop in SR5; consistent with the modeling, this loop was extremely labile to proteolytic cleavage. Analysis of a direpeat fragment (SR4:5) encompassing the region of Kalirin known to interact with NOS2, DISC-1, PAM, and Arf6 identified this as the least stable region. Analytical ultracentrifugation indicated that SR1:3, SR4:6, and SR7:9 were monomers and adopted an extended conformation. Gel filtration suggested that Kal7, a natural isoform that includes SR5:9, was monomeric and was not more extended than SR5:9. Similarly, the nine SRs of Kal7, which was also monomeric, were not more extended than SR5:9. The rigidity and flexibility of the nine SRs of Kal7, which separate its essential N-terminal Sec14p domain from its catalytic domain, play an essential role in its contribution to the formation and function of dendritic spines.
Stereotyped axonal pruning and growth cone repulsion, modulators of neuronal connectivity, share many ligands and receptors systems. Riccomagno etal. (2012) show in Cell that common ligands can link functionally specialized downstream pathways, demonstrating that the Rac GAP 2-Chimaerin is needed in Semaphorin-mediated axonal pruning but not growth cone repulsion.
The Publisher regrets that this article is an accidental duplication of an article that has already been published, doi 10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2012.07.003. The duplicate article has therefore been withdrawn.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by episodic memory impairment that often precedes clinical diagnosis by many years. Probing the mechanisms of such impairment may provide much needed means of diagnosis and therapeutic intervention at an early, pre-dementia, stage. Prior to the onset of significant neurodegeneration, the structural and functional integrity of synapses in mnemonic circuitry is severely compromised in the presence of amyloidosis. This review examines recent evidence evaluating the role of amyloid- protein (A) in causing rapid disruption of synaptic plasticity and memory impairment. We evaluate the relative importance of different sizes and conformations of A, including monomer, oligomer, protofibril and fibril. We pay particular attention to recent controversies over the relevance to the pathophysiology of AD of different water soluble A aggregates and the importance of cellular prion protein in mediating their effects. Current data are consistent with the view that both low-n oligomers and larger soluble assemblies present in AD brain, some of them via a direct interaction with cellular prion protein, cause synaptic memory failure. At the two extremes of aggregation, monomers and fibrils appear to act in vivo both as sources and sinks of certain metastable conformations of soluble aggregates that powerfully disrupt synaptic plasticity. The same principle appears to apply to other synaptotoxic amyloidogenic proteins including tau, -synuclein and prion protein.
In utero electroporation is a powerful tool to transfect and manipulate neural-precursor cells of the rodent parietal cortex and their progeny in vivo. Although this technique can potentially target numerous brain areas, reliability of transfection in some brain regions is low or physical access is limited. Here we present a new in utero electroporation configuration based on the use of three electrodes, the relative position and polarities of which can be adjusted. The technique allows easy access and exceedingly reliable monolateral or bilateral transfection at brain locations that could only be sporadically targeted before. By improvement in the efficiency of the electrical field distribution, demonstrated here by a mathematical simulation, the multi-electrode configuration also extends the developmental timeframe for reliable in utero electroporation, allowing for the first time specific transfection of Purkinje cells in the rat cerebellum.

Functional (psychogenic) motor symptoms are diagnosed on the basis of positive signs of inconsistency or incongruity with known neurologic disease. These signs, such as Hoover sign or tremor entrainment, are often regarded by neurologists as 'tricks of the trade,' to 'catch the patient out, ' and certainly not to be shared with them. In this reflective article, the authors suggest that showing the patient with functional motor symptoms their physical signs, if done in the right way, is actually one of the most useful things a neurologist can do for these patients in persuading them of the accuracy of their diagnosis and the potential reversibility of their symptoms.


Long QT syndrome (LQTS) is a genetic disease characterized by a prolonged QT interval in an electrocardiogram (ECG), leading to higher risk of sudden cardiac death. Among the 12 identified genes causal to heritable LQTS, 90% of affected individuals harbor mutations in either KCNQ1 or human ether-a-go-go related genes (hERG), which encode two repolarizing potassium currents known as I(Ks) and I(Kr). The ability to quantitatively assess contributions of different current components is therefore important for investigating disease phenotypes and testing effectiveness of pharmacological modulation. Here we report a quantitative analysis by simulating cardiac action potentials of cultured human cardiomyocytes to match the experimental waveforms of both healthy control and LQT syndrome type 1 (LQT1) action potentials. The quantitative evaluation suggests that elevation of I(Kr) by reducing voltage sensitivity of inactivation, not via slowing of deactivation, could more effectively restore normal QT duration if I(Ks) is reduced. Using a unique specific chemical activator for I(Kr) that has a primary effect of causing a right shift of V(1/2) for inactivation, we then examined the duration changes of autonomous action potentials from differentiated human cardiomyocytes. Indeed, this activator causes dose-dependent shortening of the action potential durations and is able to normalize action potentials of cells of patients with LQT1. In contrast, an I(Kr) chemical activator of primary effects in slowing channel deactivation was not effective in modulating action potential durations. Our studies provide both the theoretical basis and experimental support for compensatory normalization of action potential duration by a pharmacological agent.
Reduced N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor (NMDAR) signaling has been associated with schizophrenia, autism and intellectual disability. NMDAR-hypofunction is thought to contribute to social, cognitive and gamma (30-80Hz) oscillatory abnormalities, phenotypes common to these disorders. However, circuit-level mechanisms underlying such deficits remain unclear. This study investigated the relationship between gamma synchrony, excitatory-inhibitory (E/I) signaling, and behavioral phenotypes in NMDA-NR1(neo-/-) mice, which have constitutively reduced expression of the obligate NR1 subunit to model disrupted developmental NMDAR function. Constitutive NMDAR-hypofunction caused a loss of E/I balance, with an increase in intrinsic pyramidal cell excitability and a selective disruption of parvalbumin-expressing interneurons. Disrupted E/I coupling was associated with deficits in auditory-evoked gamma signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). Gamma-band abnormalities predicted deficits in spatial working memory and social preference, linking cellular changes in E/I signaling to target behaviors. The GABA(B)-receptor agonist baclofen improved E/I balance, gamma-SNR and broadly reversed behavioral deficits. These data demonstrate a clinically relevant, highly translatable neural-activity-based biomarker for preclinical screening and therapeutic development across a broad range of disorders that share common endophenotypes and disrupted NMDA-receptor signaling.

Neuroantigen-specific T cells play an important role in the disease process of multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). These cells are encephalitogenic and in susceptible animals, these cells alone can cause EAE. However, mechanisms by which encephalitogenicity is controlled are poorly understood. This study underlines the importance of nitric oxide (NO) in the regulation of encephalitogenicity of T cells. Interestingly, reducing NO during myelin basic protein (MBP)-priming of T cells attenuated the ability of these T cells to induce EAE and EAE-associated neuroinflammation and demyelination. Consistently, increasing NO had opposite effect. Similarly scavenging NO reduced the encephalitogenicity of PLP-specific T cells isolated from female PLP-TCR transgenic mice and supplementation of NO broke the tolerance of PLP-specific T cells of male PLP-TCR mice. Reduced encephalitogenicity of neuroantigen-primed T cells isolated from iNOS (-/-) mice compared to that from wild type mice clearly defines an essential role of iNOS-derived NO in controlling the encephalitogenicity of myelin-specific T cells. This study illustrates a novel role of NO in controlling encephalitogenicity of T cells that may participate in the complex pathogenesis of MS.
Growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible  (Gadd45b) has been shown to be involved in DNA demethylation and may be important for cognitive processes. Gadd45b is abnormally expressed in subjects with autism and psychosis, two disorders associated with cognitive deficits. Furthermore, several high-throughput screens have identified Gadd45b as a candidate plasticity-related gene. However, a direct demonstration of a link between Gadd45b and memory has not been established. The current studies first determined whether expression of the Gadd45 family of genes was affected by contextual fear conditioning. Gadd45b, and to a lesser extent Gadd45g, were up-regulated in the hippocampus following contextual fear conditioning, whereas Gadd45a was not. Next, Gadd45b knockout mice were tested for contextual and cued fear conditioning. Gadd45b knockout mice exhibited a significant deficit in long-term contextual fear conditioning; however, they displayed normal levels of short-term contextual fear conditioning. No differences between Gadd45b knockout and wild-type mice were observed in cued fear conditioning. Because cued fear conditioning is hippocampus independent, while contextual fear conditioning is hippocampus dependent, the current studies suggest that Gadd45b may be important for long-term hippocampus-dependent memory storage. Therefore, Gadd45b may be a novel therapeutic target for the cognitive deficits associated with many neurodevelopmental, neurological, and psychiatric disorders.
The importance of the genetic factor in the aetiology of premature ovarian failure (POF) is emphasized by the high percentage of familial cases and X chromosome abnormalities account for 10% of chromosomal aberrations. In this study, we report the detailed analysis of 4 chromosomal abnormalities involving the X chromosome and associated with POF that were detected during a screening of 269 affected women. Conventional and molecular cytogenetics were valuable tools for locating the breakpoint regions and thus the following karyotypes were defined: 46,X,der(X)t(X;19)(p21.1;q13.42)mat, 46,X,t(X;2)(q21.33;q14.3)dn, 46,X,der(X)t(X;Y)(q26.2;q11.223)mat and 46,X,t(X;13)(q13.3;q31)dn. A bioinformatic analysis of the breakpoint regions identified putative candidate genes for ovarian failure near the breakpoint regions on the X chromosome or on autosomes that were involved in the translocation event. HS6ST1, HS6ST2 and MATER genes were identified and their functions and a literature review revealed an interesting connection to the POF phenotype. Moreover, the 19q13.32 locus is associated with the age of onset of the natural menopause. These results support the position effect of the breakpoint on flanking genes, and cytogenetic techniques, in combination with bioinformatic analysis, may help to improve what is known about this puzzling disorder and its diagnostic potential.
The estimation of the activity-related ion currents by measuring the induced electromagnetic fields at the head surface is a challenging and severely ill-posed inverse problem. This is especially true in the recovery of brain networks involving deep-lying sources by means of EEG/MEG recordings which is still a challenging task for any inverse method. Recently, hierarchical Bayesian modeling (HBM) emerged as a unifying framework for current density reconstruction (CDR) approaches comprising most established methods as well as offering promising new methods. Our work examines the performance of fully-Bayesian inference methods for HBM for source configurations consisting of few, focal sources when used with realistic, high-resolution finite element (FE) head models. The main foci of interest are the correct depth localization, a well-known source of systematic error of many CDR methods, and the separation of single sources in multiple-source scenarios. Both aspects are very important in the analysis of neurophysiological data and in clinical applications. For these tasks, HBM provides a promising framework and is able to improve upon established CDR methods such as minimum norm estimation (MNE) or sLORETA in many aspects. For challenging multiple-source scenarios where the established methods show crucial errors, promising results are attained. Additionally, we introduce Wasserstein distances as performance measures for the validation of inverse methods in complex source scenarios.
Potentially dangerous events in the environment evoke automatic ocular responses, called reactive saccades. Adaptation processes, which maintain saccade accuracy against various events (e.g. growth, aging, neuro-muscular lesions), are to date mostly relayed to cerebellar activity. Here we demonstrate that adaptation of reactive saccades also involves cerebral cortical areas. Moreover, we provide the first identification of the neural substrates of adaptation of voluntary saccades, representing the complement to reactive saccades for the active exploration of our environment. An fMRI approach was designed to isolate adaptation from saccade production: an adaptation condition in which the visual target stepped backward 50 ms after saccade termination was compared to a control condition where the same target backstep occurred 500 ms after saccade termination. Subjects were tested for reactive and voluntary saccades in separate sessions. Multi-voxel pattern analyses of fMRI data from previously-defined regions of interests (ROIs) significantly discriminated between adaptation and control conditions for several ROIs. Some of these areas were revealed for adaptation of both saccade categories (cerebellum, frontal cortex), whereas others were specifically related to reactive saccades (temporo-parietal junction, hMT+/V5) or to voluntary saccades (medial and posterior areas of intra-parietal sulcus). These findings critically extend our knowledge on brain motor plasticity by showing that saccadic adaptation relies on a hitherto unknown contribution of the cerebral cortex.
Growing evidence suggests that age-related deficits in associative memory are alleviated when the to-be-associated items are semantically related. Here we investigate whether this beneficial effect of semantic relatedness is paralleled by spatio-temporal changes in cortical EEG dynamics during incidental encoding. Young and older adults were presented with faces at a particular spatial location preceded by a biographical cue that was either semantically related or unrelated. As expected, automatic encoding of face-location associations benefited from semantic relatedness in the two groups of age. This effect correlated with increased power of theta oscillations over medial and anterior lateral regions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and lateral regions of the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) in both groups. But better-performing elders also showed increased brain-behavior correlation in the theta band over the right inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) as compared to young adults. Semantic relatedness was, however, insufficient to fully eliminate age-related differences in associative memory. In line with this finding, poorer-performing elders relative to young adults showed significant reductions of theta power in the left IFG that were further predictive of behavioral impairment in the recognition task. All together, these results suggest that older adults benefit less than young adults from executive processes during encoding mainly due to neural inefficiency over regions of the left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC). But this associative deficit may be partially compensated for by engaging preexistent semantic knowledge, which likely leads to an efficient recruitment of attentional and integration processes supported by the left PPC and left anterior PFC respectively, together with neural compensatory mechanisms governed by the right VLPFC.
The perception of airways irritation is represented in a distributed brain network. However, the functional roles of sub-regions of this network are yet to be determined. The aim of this study was to measure brain activation in healthy participants as they inhaled two doses of capsaicin to identify dose-dependent and dose-independent responses. Blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measures of brain responses during inhalation of saline, and a low and high dose of capsaicin were made from 16 healthy participants. Subjective ratings of the urge-to-cough were also made during capsaicin challenges. The majority of brain regions that were activated during capsaicin inhalation, including insula and mid cingulate cortex, showed graduated responses to the two doses of capsaicin. Prefrontal and parietal regions had dose-independent activation, whereas premotor regions and the cerebellum activated exclusively at the high dose of capsaicin. Activation in the somatosensory and mid-cingulate cortices correlated with ratings of urge-to-cough. In the brainstem, capsaicin produced dose-dependent activations in respiratory-related regions of the dorsal pons and lateral medulla. These data show dissociable response patterns to capsaicin inhalation that may represent different regional processes involved in monitoring and assessing stimulus intensity, determining the spatial localization of the stimulus and suppressing motor responses.
Empirical evidence increasingly supports the hypothesis that patterns of intrinsic functional connectivity (iFC) are sculpted by a history of evoked coactivation within distinct neuronal networks. This, together with evidence of strong correspondence among the networks defined by iFC and those delineated using a variety of other neuroimaging techniques, suggests a fundamental brain architecture detectable across multiple functional and structural imaging modalities. Here, we leverage this insight to examine the functional organization of the human insula. We parcellated the insula on the basis of three distinct neuroimaging modalities - task-evoked coactivation, intrinsic (i.e., task-independent) functional connectivity, and gray matter structural covariance. Clustering of these three different covariance-based measures revealed a convergent elemental organization of the insula that likely reflects a fundamental brain architecture governing both brain structure and function at multiple spatial scales. While not constrained to be hierarchical, our parcellation revealed a pseudo-hierarchical, multiscale organization that was consistent with previous clustering and meta-analytic studies of the insula. Finally, meta-analytic examination of the cognitive and behavioral domains associated with each of the insular clusters obtained elucidated the broad functional dissociations likely underlying the topography observed. To facilitate future investigations of insula function across healthy and pathological states, the insular parcels have been made freely available for download via http://fcon_1000.projects.nitrc.org, along with the analytic scripts used to perform the parcellations.
There has been increasing interest in how the human brain responds to natural stimulus such as video watching in the neuroimaging field. Along this direction, this paper presents our effort in inferring consistent and reproducible functional interaction patterns under natural stimulus of video watching among known functional brain regions identified by task-based fMRI. Then, we applied and compared four statistical approaches, including Bayesian network modeling with searching algorithms: greedy equivalence search (GES), Peter and Clark (PC) analysis, independent multiple greedy equivalence search (IMaGES), and the commonly used Granger causality analysis (GCA), to infer consistent and reproducible functional interaction patterns among these brain regions. It is interesting that a number of reliable and consistent functional interaction patterns were identified by the GES, PC and IMaGES algorithms in different participating subjects when they watched multiple video shots of the same semantic category. These interaction patterns are meaningful given current neuroscience knowledge and are reasonably reproducible across different brains and video shots. In particular, these consistent functional interaction patterns are supported by structural connections derived from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) data, suggesting the structural underpinnings of consistent functional interactions. Our work demonstrates that specific consistent patterns of functional interactions among relevant brain regions might reflect the brain's fundamental mechanisms of online processing and comprehension of video messages.
Functional neuroimaging commands a dominant role in current neuroscience research. However its use in bedside clinical and certain neuro-scientific studies has been limited because the current tools lack the combination of being non-invasive, non-ionizing and portable while maintaining moderate resolution and localization accuracy. Optical neuroimaging satisfies many of these requirements, but, until recent advances in high-density diffuse optical tomography (HD-DOT), has been hampered by limited resolution. While early results of HD-DOT have been promising, a quantitative voxel-wise comparison and validation of HD-DOT against the gold standard of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been lacking. Herein, we provide such an analysis within the visual cortex using matched visual stimulation protocols in a single group of subjects (n=5) during separate HD-DOT and fMRI scanning sessions. To attain the needed voxel-to-voxel co-registration between HD-DOT and fMRI image spaces, we implemented subject-specific head modeling that incorporated MRI anatomy, detailed segmentation, and alignment of source and detector positions. Comparisons of the visual responses found an average localization error between HD-DOT and fMRI of 4.4+/-1mm, significantly less than the average distance between cortical gyri. This specificity demonstrates that HD-DOT has sufficient image quality to be useful as a surrogate for fMRI.
Central manipulation of neuromodulators is critical to establishing causal links between brain function and behavioral output. The absence of a rigorous method of evaluating intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection efficacy in small model organisms is one reason why peripheral administration of neuroactive substances is more common. We use the bluebanded goby (Lythrypnus dalli), a small, highly social fish, to 1) validate our method of i.c.v. injection by testing the hypothesis that corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) elevates ventilation rate (VR) and 2) propose a novel bioassay using basal physiology and behavior during recovery from anesthesia/i.c.v. administration to assess injection efficacy, neuromodulator activity, and procedural confounds. Central CRF administration significantly increased ventilation rate, demonstrating successful delivery of CRF to the brain. There were no significant differences in cortisol among treatments. The injection procedure did, however, decouple the temporal relationship between the initiation of ventilation and time to regain equilibrium present in control fish. Importantly, neither i.c.v. vehicle nor CRF injection affected the initiation of ventilation, disrupted the stereotyped recovery pattern following anesthesia, or initiated an endocrine stress response. Taken together, we suggest that 1) i.c.v. injection can be effectively used to manipulate central levels of CRF in L. dalli and 2) physiological and behavioral recovery from anesthesia may be used to evaluate injection/technique efficacy. We will use these data in future studies as a measure of effective CRF delivery, to allow for appropriate recovery from i.c.v. injection, and to better evaluate independent effects of CRF on social and/or sexual behavior.

Evidence in the literature supports the hypothesis that the T1R2+3 heterodimer binds to compounds that humans describe as sweet. Here, we assessed the necessity of the T1R2 and T1R3 subunits in the maintenance of normal taste sensitivity to carbohydrate stimuli. We trained and tested water-restricted T1R2 knockout (KO), T1R3 KO and their wild-type (WT) same-sex littermate controls in a two-response operant procedure to sample a fluid and differentially respond on the basis of whether the stimulus was water or a tastant. Correct responses were reinforced with water and incorrect responses were punished with a time-out. Testing was conducted with a modified descending method of limits procedure across daily 25-min sessions. Both KO groups displayed severely impaired performance and markedly decreased sensitivity when required to discriminate water from sucrose, glucose, or maltose. In contrast, when Polycose was tested, KO mice had normal EC(50) values for their psychometric functions, with some slight, but significant, impairment in performance. Sensitivity to NaCl did not differ between these mice and their WT controls. Our findings support the view that the T1R2+3 heterodimer is the principal receptor that mediates taste detection of natural sweeteners, but not of all carbohydrate stimuli. The combined presence of T1R2 and T1R3 appears unnecessary for the maintenance of relatively normal sensitivity to Polycose, at least in this task. Some detectability of sugars at high concentrations might be mediated by the putative polysaccharide taste receptor, the remaining T1R subunit forming either a homodimer or heteromer with another protein(s), or nontaste orosensory cues.
Although exercise improves anxiety in humans, it is controversial whether exercise is anxiolytic in rodents. We tested the hypothesis that stress influences the effect of exercise on anxiety-like and defensive behaviors. To explore the neurobiological mechanisms of exercise, we also examined whether exercise alters gene expression for the stress-related peptide galanin. Rats were housed in the presence or absence of a running wheel for 21 d. A subset of these rats were (1) not injected or received a single high, dose of the -carboline FG7142 (inverse agonist at the benzodiazepine receptor site) immediately prior to testing or (2) were injected repeatedly with vehicle or FG7142 during the last 10d of exercise. On day 22, anxiety-like and defensive behaviors were measured in the elevated plus maze, shock probe defensive burying, and defensive withdrawal tests. Locus coeruleus prepro-galanin mRNA was measured by in situ hybridization. Exercise and sedentary rats that were not injected exhibited similar behavior in all tests, whereas FG7142 injected immediately prior to the test battery produced intense avoidance and immobility consistent with an anxiety-like response. However, exercise produced anxiolytic-like and active defensive behaviors in the test battery relative to the sedentary condition in rats injected repeatedly with vehicle or FG7142. Exercise also increased prepro-galanin mRNA in the locus coeruleus relative to sedentary controls. These data suggest that the emergence of enhanced adaptive behavior after chronic voluntary exercise is influenced by stress. Our data support a role for galanin in the beneficial consequences of wheel running.
Alterations in N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function have been linked to numerous behavioral deficits and neurochemical alterations. Recent investigations have begun to explore the role of NMDA receptor function on principally inhibitory neurons and their role in network function. One of the prevailing models of schizophrenia proposes a reduction in NMDA receptor function on inhibitory interneurons and the resulting disinhibition may give rise to aspects of the disorder. Studies using NMDA receptor antagonists such as PCP and ketamine have induced schizophrenia-like behavioral deficits in animal model systems as well as changes in inhibitory circuits. The current study investigated whether the administration of a subanesthetic dose of ketamine (8 mg/kg subcutaneously), that disrupts sensorimotor gating, also produces impairments in a Pavlovian emotional learning and memory task. We utilized both standard delay and trace cued and contextual fear conditioning (CCF) paradigms to examine if ketamine produces differential effects when the task is more difficult and relies on connectivity between specific brain regions. Rats administered ketamine displayed no significant deficits in cued or contextual fear following the delay conditioning protocol. However, ketamine did produce a significant impairment in the more difficult trace conditioning protocol. Analyses of tissue from the hippocampus and amygdala indicated that the administration of ketamine produced an alteration in GABA receptor protein levels differentially depending on the task. These data indicate that 8 mg/kg of ketamine impairs learning in the more difficult emotional classical conditioning task and may be related to altered signaling in GABAergic systems.
Antagonists of growth hormone-releasing hormone (GH-RH), such as MZ-4-71 suppress the secretion of GH. These findings suggest that GH-RH antagonists could be used for the therapy of disorders characterized by excessive GH secretion. It has been also demonstrated that MZ-4-71 displays antidepressant effects in a modified forced swimming test in mice, exerts anxiolytic effects in an elevated plus maze test, improves memory consolidation in passive avoidance learning, and corrects the impairment of memory consolidation caused by -amyloid (25-35) in mice. However, little is known about the mechanisms of action of MZ-4-71 on brain functions. In the present work, the involvement of the adrenergic, serotonergic and GABA-ergic receptors in the anxiolytic action of MZ-4-71 was studied in an elevated plus maze. Mice were pretreated with a nonselective -adrenergic receptor antagonist, phenoxybenzamine, an 1/2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, prazosin, an 2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, yohimbine, a mixed 5-HT1/5-HT2 serotonergic receptor antagonist, methysergide, a non-selective 5-HT2 serotonergic receptor antagonist, cyproheptadine, and a -aminobutyric acid subunit (GABA-A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline. Phenoxybenzamine, prazosin, yohimbine, methysergide, cyproheptadine and bicuculline prevented the effects of MZ-4-71 on the elevated plus maze revealing that the anxiolytic actions of MZ-4-71 in this test are mediated, at least in part, by the an interaction of the 1/2-adrenergic, 5-HT1/5-HT2 serotonergic and GABA-A-ergic receptors.
Tauopathy in the hippocampus is one of the earliest cardinal features of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a condition characterized by progressive memory impairments. In fact, density of tau neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in the hippocampus strongly correlates with severity of cognitive impairments in AD. In the present study, we employed a somatic cell gene transfer technique to create a rodent model of tauopathy by injecting a recombinant adeno-associated viral vector with a mutated human tau gene (P301L) into the hippocampus of adult rats. The P301L mutation is causal for frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism-17 (FTDP-17), but it has been used for studying memory effects characteristic of AD in transgenic mice. To ascertain if P301L-induced mnemonic deficits are persistent, animals were tested for 6 months. It was hypothesized that adult-onset, spatially restricted tau expression in the hippocampus would produce progressive spatial working memory deficits on a learned alternation task. Rats injected with the tau vector exhibited persistent impairments on the hippocampal-dependent task beginning at about 6 weeks post-transduction compared to rats injected with a green fluorescent protein vector. Histological analysis of brains for expression of human tau revealed hyperphosphorylated human tau and NFTs in the hippocampus in experimental animals only. Thus, adult-onset, vector-induced tauopathy spatially restricted to the hippocampus progressively impaired spatial working memory in rats. We conclude that the model faithfully reproduces histological and behavioral findings characteristic of dementing tauopathies. The rapid onset of sustained memory impairment establishes a preclinical model particularly suited to the development of potential tauopathy therapeutics.
Clinical studies have suggested that estrogens may affect the symptoms of schizophrenia. The novel object recognition task (NORT) in female rats treated with sub-chronic phencyclidine (PCP) was used as an animal model of the cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. The current studies investigated whether chronic estradiol (E) could alleviate sub-chronic PCP-induced cognitive deficits in the NORT. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomized (ovx) and treated with either sub-chronic PCP (2 mg/kg bidaily i.p. for seven days), or with 0.9% saline and their object recognition memory was tested with the NORT using an acquisition trial, 1 min inter-trial interval, and retention trial. Sub-chronic PCP administration did not reliably affect behavior in the acquisition trial but significantly impaired object recognition in the retention trial for 1-2 and 27-29 weeks. Ovx females spent significantly (p&lt;0.05) more time exploring the novel compared to the familiar object, whereas PCP-treated ovx females did not. This effect of PCP was attenuated by long-lasting E capsules implanted prior to PCP treatment. PCP-treated females implanted with E again spent significantly more time exploring the novel compared to the familiar object (p&lt;0.01). When ovx rats were treated with sub-chronic PCP and a long-lasting E capsule was implanted either before or after PCP treatment, estradiol alleviated the PCP-induced deficits when administered in either regimen (p=0.01 and p=0.047 respectively). These data suggest that further exploration of estradiol as a possible therapeutic compound to treat the cognitive deficits of schizophrenia is warranted.
We tested whether a system coupling hand postures related to gestures to the control of internal mouth articulators during production of vowels exists and it can be precursor of a system relating hand/arm gestures to words. Participants produced unimanual and bimanual representational gestures expressing the meaning of LARGE or SMALL. Once the gesture was produced, in experiment 1 they pronounced the vowels &quot;A&quot; or &quot;I&quot;, in experiment 2 the word &quot;GRNDE&quot; (large) or &quot;PCCOLO&quot; (small), and in experiment 3 the pseudo-words &quot;SCRNTA&quot; or &quot;SBCCARA&quot;. Mouth, hand kinematics and voice spectra were recorded and analyzed. Unimanual gestures affected voice spectra of the two vowels pronounced alone (experiment 1). Bimanual and both unimanual and bimanual gestures affected voice spectra of /a/ and /i/ included in the words (experiment 2) and pseudo-words (experiment 3), respectively. The results support the hypothesis that a system coupling hand gestures to vowel production exists. Moreover, they suggest the existence of a more general system relating gestures to words.
Post-weaning social isolation in rats is believed to model symptoms of early social neglect-induced externalizing problems including aggression-related problems. We showed earlier that rats reared in social isolation were hyper-aroused during aggressive contacts, delivered substantially more attacks that were poorly signaled and were preferentially aimed at vulnerable body parts of opponents (head, throat and belly). Here we studied the neural background of this type of aggression by assessing the expression of the activation marker c-Fos in 22 brain areas of male Wistar rats submitted to resident-intruder conflicts. Post-weaning social isolation readily produced the behavioral alterations noticed earlier. Social isolation significantly increased the activation of brain areas that are known to directly or indirectly control inter-male aggression. Particularly, the medial and lateral orbitofrontal cortices, anterior cingulate cortex, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial and basolateral amygdala, hypothalamic attack area, hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and locus coeruleus showed increased activations. This contrasts our earlier findings obtained in rats with experimentally induced hypoarousal, where abnormal attack patterns were associated with over-activated central amygdala, lateral hypothalamus, and ventrolateral periaqueductal gray that are believed to control predatory attacks. We have observed no similar activation patterns in rats socially isolated from weaning. In summary, these findings suggest that despite some phenotypic similarities, the neuronal background of hypo and hyperarousal-associated abnormal forms of aggression are markedly different. While the neuronal activation patterns induced by normal rivalry and hypoarousal-driven aggression are qualitative different, hyperarousal-associated aggression appears to be an exaggerated form of rivalry aggression.
2SC [S-(2-succino)-cysteine] is a chemical modification formed by a Michael addition reaction of fumarate with cysteine residues in proteins. Formation of 2SC, termed 'succination' of proteins, increases in adipocytes grown in high-glucose medium and in adipose tissues of Type2 diabetic mice. However, the metabolic mechanisms leading to increased fumarate and succination of protein in the adipocyte are unknown. Treatment of 3T3 cells with high glucose (30mM compared with 5mM) caused a significant increase in cellular ATP/ADP, NADH/NAD+ and m (mitochondrial membrane potential). There was also a significant increase in the cellular fumarate concentration and succination of proteins, which may be attributed to the increase in NADH/NAD+ and subsequent inhibition of tricarboxylic acid cycle NAD+-dependent dehydrogenases. Chemical uncouplers, which dissipated m and reduced the NADH/NAD+ ratio, also decreased the fumarate concentration and protein succination. High glucose plus metformin, an inhibitor of complex I in the electron transport chain, caused an increase in fumarate and succination of protein. Thus excess fuel supply (glucotoxicity) appears to create a pseudohypoxic environment (high NADH/NAD+ without hypoxia), which drives the increase in succination of protein. We propose that increased succination of proteins is an early marker of glucotoxicity and mitochondrial stress in adipose tissue in diabetes.
Neuroeconomic methods combine behavioral economic experiments to parameterize aspects of reward-related decision-making with neuroimaging techniques to record corresponding brain activity. In this introductory article to the current special issue, we propose that neuroeconomics is a potential bridge for translational research in psychiatry for several reasons. First, neuroeconomics-derived theoretical predictions about optimal adaptation in a changing environment provide an objective metric to examine psychopathology. Second, neuroeconomics provides a &quot;multilevel&quot; research approach that combines performance (behavioral) measures with intermediate measures between behavior and neurobiology (e.g., neuroimaging) and uses a common metaphor to describe decision-making across multiple levels of explanation. As such, ecologically valid behavioral paradigms closely mirror the physical mechanisms of reward processing. Third, neuroeconomics provides a platform for investigators from neuroscience, economics, psychiatry, and social and clinical psychology to develop a common language for studying reward-related decision making in psychiatric disorders. Therefore, neuroeconomics can provide promising candidate endophenotypes that might help clarify the basis of high heritability associated with psychiatric disorders and that might, in turn, inform treatment.



Psychiatric neuroeconomics offers an alternative approach to understanding mental disorders by studying the way disorder-related neurobiological alterations constrain economic agency, as revealed through decisions about choices between future goods. In this article, we apply this perspective to understand suboptimal decision making in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) by integrating recent advances in the neuroscience of decision making and studies of the pathophysiology of ADHD. We identify three brain networks as candidates for further study and develop specific hypotheses about how these could be implicated in ADHD. First, we postulate that altered patterns of connectivity within a network linking medial prefrontal cortex and posterior cingulate cortex (i.e., the default mode network) disrupts ordering of utilities, prospection about desired future states, setting of future goals, and implementation of aims. Second, we hypothesize that deficits in dorsal frontostriatal networks, including the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and dorsal striatum, produce executive dysfunction-mediated impairments in the ability to compare outcome options and make choices. Third, we propose that dopaminergic dysregulation in a ventral frontostriatal network encompassing the orbitofrontal cortex, ventral striatum, and amygdala disrupts processing of cues of future utility, evaluation of experienced outcomes (feedback), and learning of associations between cues and outcomes. Finally, we extend this perspective to consider three contemporary themes in ADHD research.

We review the key findings in the application of neuroeconomics to the study of addiction. Although there are not &quot;bright line&quot; boundaries between neuroeconomics and other areas of behavioral science, neuroeconomics coheres around the topic of the neural representations of &quot;Value&quot; (synonymous with the &quot;decision utility&quot; of behavioral economics). Neuroeconomics parameterizes distinct features of Valuation, going beyond the general construct of &quot;reward sensitivity&quot; widely used in addiction research. We argue that its modeling refinements might facilitate the identification of neural substrates that contribute to addiction. We highlight two areas of neuroeconomics that have been particularly productive. The first is research on neural correlates of delay discounting (reduced Valuation of rewards as a function of their delay). The second is work that models how Value is learned as a function of &quot;prediction-error&quot; signaling. Although both areas are part of the neuroeconomic program, delay discounting research grows directly out of behavioral economics, whereas prediction-error work is grounded in models of learning. We also consider efforts to apply neuroeconomics to the study of self-control and discuss challenges for this area. We argue that neuroeconomic work has the potential to generate breakthrough research in addiction science.
The application of a neuroeconomic approach to the study of reward-related processes has provided significant insights in our understanding of human learning and decision making. Much of this research has focused primarily on the contributions of the corticostriatal circuitry, involved in trial-and-error reward learning. As a result, less consideration has been allotted to the potential influence of different neural mechanisms such as the hippocampus or to more common ways in human society in which information is acquired and utilized to reach a decision, such as through explicit instruction rather than trial-and-error learning. This review examines the individual contributions of multiple learning and memory neural systems and their interactions during human decision making in both normal and neuropsychiatric populations. Specifically, the anatomical and functional connectivity across multiple memory systems are highlighted to suggest that probing the role of the hippocampus and its interactions with the corticostriatal circuitry via the application of model-based neuroeconomic approaches may provide novel insights into neuropsychiatric populations that suffer from damage to one of these structures and as a consequence have deficits in learning, memory, or decision making.
Bone Morphogenetic Proteins (BMPs) have multiple activities in the developing spinal cord: they specify the identity of the dorsal-most neuronal populations and then direct the trajectories of dorsal interneuron (dI) 1 commissural axons. How are these activities decoded by dorsal neurons to result in different cellular outcomes? Our previous studies have shown that the diverse functions of the BMPs are mediated by the canonical family of BMP receptors and then regulated by specific inhibitory (I) Smads, which block the activity of a complex of Smad second messengers. However, the extent to which this complex translates the different activities of the BMPs in the spinal cord has remained unresolved. Here, we demonstrate that the receptor-activated (R) Smads, Smad1 and Smad5 play distinct roles mediating the abilities of the BMPs to direct cell fate specification and axon outgrowth. Smad1 and Smad5 occupy spatially distinct compartments within the spinal cord, with Smad5 primarily associated with neural progenitors and Smad1 with differentiated neurons. Consistent with this expression profile, loss of function experiments in mouse embryos reveal that Smad5 is required for the acquisition of dorsal spinal neuron identities whereas Smad1 is critical for the regulation of dI1 axon outgrowth. Thus the R-Smads, like the I-Smads, have discrete roles mediating BMP-dependent cellular processes during spinal interneuron development.
Diabetes mellitus is a heterogeneous disease and nutritional therapy forms a necessary dimension for its long-term management. Traditional medicinal plants and vitamins are the potentially useful natural products for diabetes control. Diabetes causes atrophy and wasting of skeletal muscles resulting in major peripheral damage. The current study was designed to investigate the therapeutic effect of vitamin D and curcumin treatment on -adrenoceptors, transcription factor CREB, insulin receptors, protein kinase B (Akt) and malate dehydrogenase activity in the skeletal muscle of diabetic rats. Radioreceptor binding assay was done for -adrenoceptors using specific ligand, [H] propranolol and gene expression studies of -adrenoceptors, transcription factor CREB, insulin receptors and Akt were also done using specific probes. The results of the -adrenoceptor assay showed significant increase in binding parameters, receptor number (B(max)) and equilibrium dissociation constant (K(d)) in the diabetic group in comparison to control. Similarly, an up regulation of -adrenoceptor and CREB gene expression was observed in the diabetic group whereas the insulin receptor expression was down regulated which signifies the increased glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis and decreased glycogenesis in the muscles. Expression of Akt was found to be up regulated in the diabetic group. Malate dehydrogenase activity was significantly decreased in both cytosolic and mitochondrial fractions of the diabetic group. All these molecular aspects were reversed to near control with vitamin D and curcumin treatment. Our results suggest the rising potential of both vitamin D and curcumin in the management of peripheral complications associated with diabetes.
Oxidative stress and inflammation both play major roles in the development of the acute pancreatitis. Currently, a pancreatic enzyme inhibitor with limited efficacy is only clinically available in a few countries, and antioxidants or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) provide only partial tissue protection in acute pancreatitis animal models. Here, we introduce a new drug candidate for treating acute pancreatitis named ND-07 [chemical name: 2-acetoxy-5-(2-4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenethylamino)-benzoic acid] that exhibits both potent antioxidative and anti-inflammatory activities. In an electron spin resonance (ESR) study, ND-07 almost blocked hydroxyl radical generation as low as 0.05 M and significantly suppressed DNA oxidation and cell death in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated pancreatic cell line. In a cerulein plus LPS-induced acute pancreatitis model, ND-07 pretreatment showed significant tissue protective effects, with reductions of serum amylase and lipase levels and pancreatic wet weights. ND-07 not only diminished the plasma levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and nitric oxide but also significantly decreased prostaglandin E (PGE) and expression of tumor necrotizing factor-alpha (TNF-) in the pancreatic tissue. In a severe acute necrotizing pancreatitis model induced by a choline deficient, ethionine-supplemented (CDE) diet, ND-07 dramatically protected the mortality even without any death, providing attenuation of pancreas, lung, and liver damages as well as the reductions in serum levels of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), amylase and lipase, MDA levels in the plasma and pancreatic tissues, plasma levels of TNF-, and interleukin-1 (IL-1). These findings suggest that current dual synergistic action mechanisms of ND-07 might provide a superior protection for acute pancreatitis than conventional drug treatments.
The terminal cisternae represent one of the functional domains of the skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). They are closely apposed to plasma membrane invaginations, the T-tubules, with which they form structures called triads. In triads, the physical interaction between the T-tubule-anchored voltage-sensing channel DHPR and the SR calcium channel RyR1 is essential because it allows the depolarization-induced calcium release that triggers muscle contraction. This interaction between DHPR and RyR1 is based on the peculiar membrane structures of both T-tubules and SR terminal cisternae. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms governing the formation of SR terminal cisternae. We have previously shown that ablation of triadins, a family of SR transmembrane proteins that interact with RyR1, induced skeletal muscle weakness in knockout mice as well as a modification of the shape of triads. Here we explore the intrinsic molecular properties of the longest triadin isoform Trisk 95. We show that when ectopically expressed, Trisk 95 can modulate reticulum membrane morphology. The membrane deformations induced by Trisk 95 are accompanied by modifications of the microtubule network organization. We show that multimerization of Trisk 95 by disulfide bridges, together with interaction with microtubules, are responsible for the ability of Trisk 95 to structure reticulum membrane. When domains responsible for these molecular properties are deleted, anchoring of Trisk 95 to the triads in muscle cells is strongly decreased, suggesting that oligomers of Trisk 95 and microtubules contribute to the organization of the SR terminal cisternae in a triad.
Exosomes and microvesicles (MV) are cell membranous sacs originating from multivesicular bodies and plasma membranes that facilitate long-distance intercellular communications. Their functional biology, however, remains incompletely understood. Macrophage exosomes and MV isolated by immunoaffinity and sucrose cushion centrifugation were characterized by morphologic, biochemical, and molecular assays. Lipidomic, proteomic, and cell biologic approaches uncovered novel processes by which exosomes and MV facilitate HIV-1 infection and dissemination. HIV-1 was &quot;entrapped&quot; in exosome aggregates. Robust HIV-1 replication followed infection with exosome-enhanced fractions isolated from infected cell supernatants. MV- and exosome-facilitated viral infections are affected by a range of cell surface receptors and adhesion proteins. HIV-1 containing exosomes readily completed its life cycle in human monocyte-derived macrophages but not in CD4(-) cells. The data support a significant role for exosomes as facilitators of viral infection.
The relative frequency of different autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias, commonly referred to as spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs), varies considerably among populations of different ethnic origin. No data exist at present on the frequency of different SCAs in the Greek population. In the present study we investigated the presence of triplet repeat expansion SCAs (SCA1, SCA2, SCA3, SCA6, SCA7, SCA8, SCA12, SCA17 and DRPLA) in a cohort of 83 Greek patients with slowly progressive cerebellar ataxia. Twenty patients came from autosomal dominant (AD) pedigrees, seven displayed recessive or unclear inheritance and 56 were sporadic. We found four patients with pathological SCA expansions, all from AD pedigrees. Two patients had SCA1, one SCA2 and one SCA7 (10.0, 5.0 and 5.0% of the AD group, respectively). The clinical features of these patients were within the expected spectrum. In total, a pathological expansion was detected in 20% of patients from AD pedigrees. Interestingly, no cases of SCA3 or SCA6 were detected in the AD group. No expansions were found in other familial cases or in sporadic patients. Overall, no cases of SCA3, SCA6, SCA12, SCA17 or DRPLA were identified in the Greek population. In conclusion, SCA1, SCA2 and SCA7 are present in Greek patients with AD cerebellar ataxia in frequencies similar to those observed in other populations. SCA3 and SCA6 appear however to be rare in Greece. The genetic cause for the majority of AD ataxias remains to be identified.
Pyramidal cells of CA3 area receive glutamatergic signals from the mossy fibers (MFs), perforant path and collaterals of other pyramidal cells, as well as GABAergic inputs from interneurons. In hippocampal slices, an extracellular stimulation electrode is often used to activate the MFs, with the disadvantage of possibly activating fibers other than MFs. We set-up a preparation that allows the analysis of the glutamatergic input from identified, giant MF boutons as well as of GABAergic inputs from boutons of interneurons on single CA3 pyramidal cells. Mossy fiber boutons were labeled by exposing hippocampal slices to a zinc-reactive fluorescent dye, or by injecting a fluorescent dye in the granule cell layer and allowing its transport along the MFs to their terminals in CA3 area. After conducting an enzyme-free, mechanical dissociation of CA3 area, we obtained pyramidal cells containing fluorescent, giant MF boutons attached to their apical dendrites, as well as boutons of interneuronal origin. Whole cell recordings were then performed, whereby synaptic responses could be evoked by selective stimulation of the identified boutons. The synaptic currents evoked by stimulation of MF boutons, unlike those evoked by stimulation of interneuronal boutons, underwent strong frequency potentiation and were depressed by activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors, which are characteristics of transmission of MF origin. Combination of fluorophores can be used to label different tracts/boutons allowing the study of the different characteristics of neurotransmitter release from a variety of sources on single target cells.
Isolating individual populations of cells from post-mortem (PM) central nervous system (CNS) tissue for transcriptomic analysis will provide important insights into the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. To date, research on individual CNS cell populations has been hindered by the availability of suitable PM material, unreliable sample preparation and difficulties obtaining individual cell populations. In this paper we report how rapid immunohistochemistry combined with laser capture microdissection (immuno-LCM) enables the isolation of specific cell populations from PM CNS tissue, thereby enabling the RNA profile of these individual cell types to be investigated. Specifically, we detail methods for isolating enriched glial populations (astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglia) and confirm this cell enrichment by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). In addition, the study details the numbers of each glial population required to obtain 50ng RNA, a suitable amount of starting material required to carry out microarray analysis that potentially may identify alterations of cell-specific genes and pathways associated with a range of neurodegenerative disorders.
It has been suggested that changes in intracellular calcium mediate the induction of a number of important forms of synaptic plasticity (e.g., homosynaptic facilitation). These hypotheses can be tested by simultaneously monitoring changes in intracellular calcium and alterations in synaptic efficacy. We demonstrate how this can be accomplished by combining calcium imaging with intracellular recording techniques. Our experiments are conducted in a buccal ganglion of the mollusc Aplysia californica. This preparation has a number of experimentally advantageous features: Ganglia can be easily removed from Aplysia and experiments use adult neurons that make normal synaptic connections and have a normal ion channel distribution. Due to the low metabolic rate of the animal and the relatively low temperatures (14-16 C) that are natural for Aplysia, preparations are stable for long periods of time. To detect changes in intracellular free calcium we will use the cell impermeant version of Calcium Orange which is easily 'loaded' into a neuron via iontophoresis. When this long wavelength fluorescent dye binds to calcium, fluorescence intensity increases. Calcium Orange has fast kinetic properties and, unlike ratiometric dyes (e.g., Fura 2), requires no filter wheel for imaging. It is fairly photo stable and less phototoxic than other dyes (e.g., fluo-3). Like all non-ratiometric dyes, Calcium Orange indicates relative changes in calcium concentration. But, because it is not possible to account for changes in dye concentration due to loading and diffusion, it can not be calibrated to provide absolute calcium concentrations. An upright, fixed stage, compound microscope was used to image neurons with a CCD camera capable of recording around 30 frames per second. In Aplysia this temporal resolution is more than adequate to detect even a single spike induced alteration in the intracellular calcium concentration. Sharp electrodes are simultaneously used to induce and record synaptic transmission in identified pre- and postsynaptic neurons. At the conclusion of each trial, a custom script combines electrophysiology and imaging data. To ensure proper synchronization we use a light pulse from a LED mounted in the camera port of the microscope. Manipulation of presynaptic calcium levels (e.g. via intracellular EGTA injection) allows us to test specific hypotheses, concerning the role of intracellular calcium in mediating various forms of plasticity.
Current medical countermeasures against organophosphate (OP) nerve agents are effective in reducing mortality, but do not sufficiently protect the CNS from delayed brain damage and persistent neurological symptoms. In this study, we examined the efficacy of neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) in protecting against delayed neuronal cell death following acute intoxication with the OP diisopropylflurophosphate (DFP). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were pretreated with pyridostigmine (0.1 mg/kg BW, i.m.) and atropine methylnitrate (20 mg/kg BW, i.m.) prior to DFP (9 mg/kg BW, i.p.) intoxication to increase survival and reduce peripheral signs of cholinergic toxicity but not prevent DFP-induced seizures or delayed neuronal injury. Pretreatment with NRG-1 did not protect against seizures in rats exposed to DFP. However, neuronal injury was significantly reduced in most brain regions by pretreatment with NRG-1 isoforms NRG-EGF (3.2 g/kg BW, i.a) or NRG-GGF2 (48 g/kg BW, i.a.) as determined by FluroJade-B labeling in multiple brain regions at 24 h post-DFP injection. NRG-1 also blocked apoptosis and oxidative stress-mediated protein damage in the brains of DFP-intoxicated rats. Administration of NRG-1 at 1h after DFP injection similarly provided significant neuroprotection against delayed neuronal injury. These findings identify NRG-1 as a promising adjuvant therapy to current medical countermeasures for enhancing neuroprotection against acute OP intoxication.
In conversation, women have a small advantage in decoding non-verbal communication compared to men. In light of these findings, we sought to determine whether sex differences also existed in visual attention during a related listening task, and if so, if the differences existed among attention to high-level aspects of the scene or to conspicuous visual features. Using eye-tracking and computational techniques, we present direct evidence that men and women orient attention differently during conversational listening. We tracked the eyes of 15 men and 19 women who watched and listened to 84 clips featuring 12 different speakers in various outdoor settings. At the fixation following each saccadic eye movement, we analyzed the type of object that was fixated. Men gazed more often at the mouth and women at the eyes of the speaker. Women more often exhibited &quot;distracted&quot; saccades directed away from the speaker and towards a background scene element. Examining the multi-scale center-surround variation in low-level visual features (static: color, intensity, orientation, and dynamic: motion energy), we found that men consistently selected regions which expressed more variation in dynamic features, which can be attributed to a male preference for motion and a female preference for areas that may contain nonverbal information about the speaker. In sum, significant differences were observed, which we speculate arise from different integration strategies of visual cues in selecting the final target of attention. Our findings have implications for studies of sex in nonverbal communication, as well as for more predictive models of visual attention.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes are a heterogeneous group of inherited disorders that arise from impaired signal transmission at the neuromuscular synapse. They are characterized by fatigable muscle weakness. We performed whole-exome sequencing to determine the underlying defect in a group of individuals with an inherited limb-girdle pattern of myasthenic weakness. We identify DPAGT1 as a gene in which mutations cause a congenital myasthenic syndrome. We describe seven different mutations found in five individuals with DPAGT1 mutations. The affected individuals share a number of common clinical features, including involvement of proximal limb muscles, response to treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors and 3,4-diaminopyridine, and the presence of tubular aggregates in muscle biopsies. Analyses of motor endplates from two of the individuals demonstrate a severe reduction of endplate acetylcholine receptors. DPAGT1 is an essential enzyme catalyzing the first committed step of N-linked protein glycosylation. Our findings underscore the importance of N-linked protein glycosylation for proper functioning of the neuromuscular junction. Using the DPAGT1-specific inhibitor tunicamycin, we show that DPAGT1 is required for efficient glycosylation of acetylcholine-receptor subunits and for efficient export of acetylcholine receptors to the cell surface. We suggest that the primary pathogenic mechanism of DPAGT1 mutations is reduced levels of acetylcholine receptors at the endplate region. These individuals share clinical features similar to those of congenital myasthenic syndrome due to GFPT1 mutations, and their disorder might be part of a larger subgroup comprising the congenital myasthenic syndromes that result from defects in the N-linked glycosylation pathway and that manifest through impaired neuromuscular transmission.
Embryonic neural stem cells (NSCs) exhibit self-renewal and multipotency as intrinsic characteristics that are key parameters for proper brain development. When cells are challenged by oxidative stress agents the resulting DNA lesions are repaired by DNA glycosylases through the base excision repair (BER) pathway as a means to maintain the fidelity of the genome, and thus, proper cellular characteristics. The functional roles for DNA glycosylases in NSCs have however remained largely unexplored. Here we demonstrate that RNA knockdown of the DNA glycosylases OGG1 and NEIL3 decreased NSC differentiation ability and resulted in decreased expression of both neuronal and astrocytic genes after mitogen withdrawal, as well as the stem cell marker Musashi-1. Furthermore, while cell survival remained unaffected, NEIL3 deficient cells displayed decreased cell proliferation rates along with an increase in HP1 immunoreactivity, a sign of premature senescence. Our results suggest that DNA glycosylases play multiple roles in governing essential neural stem cell characteristics.
The amino acid leucine is a potent secretagogue, capable of inducing insulin secretion. It also plays an important role in the regulation of mTOR activity, therefore, providing impetus to investigate if a leucine-sensing mechanism in the mTOR pathway is involved in insulin secretion. We found that leucine-induced insulin secretion was inhibited by both the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin as well as the adrenergic 2 receptor agonist clonidine. We also demonstrated that leucine down-regulated the surface expression of adrenergic 2A receptor via activation of the mTOR pathway. The leucine stimulatory effect on insulin secretion was attenuated in diabetic Goto-Kakizaki rats that overexpress adrenergic 2A receptors, confirming the role of leucine in insulin secretion. Thus, our data demonstrate that leucine regulates insulin secretion by modulating adrenergic 2 receptors through the mTOR pathway. The role of the mTOR pathway in metabolic homeostasis led us to a second important finding in this study; retrospective analysis of clinical data showed that co-administration of rapamycin and clonidine was associated with an increased incidence of new-onset diabetes in renal transplantation patients over those receiving rapamycin alone. We believe that inhibition of mTOR by rapamycin along with activation of adrenergic 2 receptors by clonidine represents a double-hit to pancreatic islets that synergistically disturbs glucose homeostasis. This new insight may have important implications for the clinical management of renal transplant patients.
There is growing recognition of the importance of data sharing in the neurosciences, and in particular in the field of neuroimaging research, in order to best make use of the volumes of human subject data that have been acquired to date. However, a number of barriers, both practical and cultural, continue to impede the widespread practice of data sharing; these include: lack of standard infrastructure and tools for data sharing, uncertainty about how to organize and prepare the data for sharing, and researchers' fears about unattributed data use or missed opportunities for publication. A further challenge is how the scientific community should best describe and/or reference shared data that is used in secondary analyses. Finally, issues of human research subject protections and the ethical use of such data are an ongoing source of concern for neuroimaging researchers.One crucial issue is how producers of shared data can and should be acknowledged and how this important component of science will benefit individuals in their academic careers. While we encourage the field to make use of these opportunities for data publishing, it is critical that standards for metadata, provenance, and other descriptors are used. This commentary outlines the efforts of the International Neuroinformatics Coordinating Facility Task Force on Neuroimaging Datasharing to coordinate and establish such standards, as well as potential ways forward to relieve the issues that researchers who produce these massive, reusable community resources face when making the data rapidly and freely available to the public. Both the technical and human aspects of data sharing must be addressed if we are to go forward.

Autophagy is a cytoplasmic catabolic process that protects the cell against stressful conditions. Damaged cellular components are funneled by autophagy into the lysosomes, where they are degraded and can be re-used as alternative building blocks for protein synthesis and cellular repair. In contrast, aging is the gradual failure over time of cellular repair mechanisms that leads to the accumulation of molecular and cellular damage and loss of function. The cell's capacity for autophagic degradation also declines with age, and this in itself may contribute to the aging process. Studies in model organisms ranging from yeast to mice have shown that single-gene mutations can extend lifespan in an evolutionarily conserved fashion, and provide evidence that the aging process can be modulated. Interestingly, autophagy is induced in a seemingly beneficial manner by many of the same perturbations that extend lifespan, including mutations in key signaling pathways such as the insulin/IGF-1 and TOR pathways. Here, we review recent progress, primarily derived from genetic studies with model organisms, in understanding the role of autophagy in aging and age-related diseases.
Although mice are the dominant model system for studying the genetic and molecular underpinnings of neuroscience, functional neuroimaging in mice remains technically challenging. One approach, Activation-Induced Manganese-enhanced MRI (AIM MRI), has been used successfully to map neuronal activity in rodents. In AIM MRI, Mn(2+) acts a calcium analog and accumulates in depolarized neurons. Because Mn(2+) shortens the T1 tissue property, regions of elevated neuronal activity will enhance in MRI. Furthermore, Mn(2+) clears slowly from the activated regions; therefore, stimulation can be performed outside the magnet prior to imaging, enabling greater experimental flexibility. However, because Mn(2+) does not readily cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), the need to open the BBB has limited the use of AIM MRI, especially in mice. One tool for opening the BBB is ultrasound. Though potentially damaging, if ultrasound is administered in combination with gas-filled microbubbles (i.e., ultrasound contrast agents), the acoustic pressure required for BBB opening is considerably lower. This combination of ultrasound and microbubbles can be used to reliably open the BBB without causing tissue damage. Here, a method is presented for performing AIM MRI by using microbubbles and ultrasound to open the BBB. After an intravenous injection of perflutren microbubbles, an unfocused pulsed ultrasound beam is applied to the shaved mouse head for 3 minutes. For simplicity, we refer to this technique of BBB Opening with Microbubbles and UltraSound as BOMUS. Using BOMUS to open the BBB throughout both cerebral hemispheres, manganese is administered to the whole mouse brain. After experimental stimulation of the lightly sedated mice, AIM MRI is used to map the neuronal response. To demonstrate this approach, herein BOMUS and AIM MRI are used to map unilateral mechanical stimulation of the vibrissae in lightly sedated mice. Because BOMUS can open the BBB throughout both hemispheres, the unstimulated side of the brain is used to control for nonspecific background stimulation. The resultant 3D activation map agrees well with published representations of the vibrissae regions of the barrel field cortex. The ultrasonic opening of the BBB is fast, noninvasive, and reversible; and thus this approach is suitable for high-throughput and/or longitudinal studies in awake mice.
It is generally accepted that the direct connection from the motor cortex to spinal motor neurons is responsible for dexterous hand movements in primates. However, the role of the 'phylogenetically older' indirect pathways from the motor cortex to motor neurons, mediated by spinal interneurons, remains elusive. Here we used a novel double-infection technique to interrupt the transmission through the propriospinal neurons (PNs), which act as a relay of the indirect pathway in macaque monkeys (Macaca fuscata and Macaca mulatta). The PNs were double infected by injection of a highly efficient retrograde gene-transfer vector into their target area and subsequent injection of adeno-associated viral vector at the location of cell somata. This method enabled reversible expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged tetanus neurotoxin, thereby permitting the selective and temporal blockade of the motor cortexPNmotor neuron pathway. This treatment impaired reach and grasp movements, revealing a critical role for the PN-mediated pathway in the control of hand dexterity. Anti-GFP immunohistochemistry visualized the cell bodies and axonal trajectories of the blocked PNs, which confirmed their anatomical connection to motor neurons. This pathway-selective and reversible technique for blocking neural transmission does not depend on cell-specific promoters or transgenic techniques, and is a new and powerful tool for functional dissection in system-level neuroscience studies.
Our visual system segments images into objects and background. Figure-ground segregation relies on the detection of feature discontinuities that signal boundaries between the figures and the background and on a complementary region-filling process that groups together image regions with similar features. The neuronal mechanisms for these processes are not well understood and it is unknown how they depend on visual attention. We measured neuronal activity in V1 and V4 in a task where monkeys either made an eye movement to texture-defined figures or ignored them. V1 activity predicted the timing and the direction of the saccade if the figures were task relevant. We found that boundary detection is an early process that depends little on attention, whereas region filling occurs later and is facilitated by visual attention, which acts in an object-based manner. Our findings are explained by a model with local, bottom-up computations for boundary detection and feedback processing for region filling.
We used affinity-purification mass spectrometry to identify 747 candidate proteins that are complexed with Huntingtin (Htt) in distinct brain regions and ages in Huntington's disease (HD) and wild-type mouse brains. To gain a systems-level view of the Htt interactome, we applied Weighted Correlation Network Analysis to the entire proteomic data set to unveil a verifiable rank of Htt-correlated proteins and a network of Htt-interacting protein modules, with each module highlighting distinct aspects of Htt biology. Importantly, the Htt-containing module is highly enriched with proteins involved in 14-3-3 signaling, microtubule-based transport, and proteostasis. Top-ranked proteins in this module were validated as Htt interactors and genetic modifiers in an HD Drosophila model. Our study provides a compendium of spatiotemporal Htt-interacting proteins in the mammalian brain and presents an approach for analyzing proteomic interactome data sets to build in vivo protein networks in complex tissues, such as the brain.
Medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures may constitute a representational hierarchy, rather than a dedicated system for memory. Barense et al. (2012) show that intact memory for object features can interfere with perception of complex objects in individuals with MTL amnesia.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder whose etiology is thought to have environmental (toxin) and genetic contributions. The neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyrimidine (MPTP) induces pathological features of PD including loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and striatal dopamine (DA) depletion. We previously described the striatal transcriptional response following acute MPTP administration in MPTP-sensitive C57BL/6J mice. We identified three distinct phases: early (5h), intermediate (24h) and late (72h) and reported that the intermediate and late responses were absent in MPTP-resistant Swiss-Webster (SWR) mice. Here we show that C57BL/6J mice pre-treated with a single 40 mg/kg dose of MPTP and treated 9 days later with 420 mg/kg MPTP, display a striatal transcriptional response similar to that of MPTP-resistant SWR mice, i.e. a robust acute response but no intermediate or late response. Transcriptional refractoriness is dependent upon the dose of the priming challenge with as little as 10mg/kg MPTP being effective and can persist for more than 28 days. Priming of SWR mice has no effect on their response to subsequent challenge with MPTP. We also report that paraquat, another free radical producer, also elicits striatal transcriptional alterations but these are largely distinct from those triggered by MPTP. Paraquat-induced changes are also refractory to priming with paraquat. However neither paraquat nor MPTP elicits cross-attenuation. Thus exposure to specific toxins triggers distinct transcriptional responses in striatum that are influenced by prior exposure to the same toxin. The prolonged refractory period described here for MPTP could explain at the molecular level the reported discrepancies between different MPTP administration regimens and may have implications for our understanding of the relationship between environmental toxin exposure and PD.
The NMDA receptor plays a large role in opioid-induced plastic changes in the nervous system. The expression levels of its NR1 subunit are altered dramatically by morphine but no changes in its alternative splicing have been reported. Changes in the splicing of the N1, C1, C2, and C2' cassettes can alter the pharmacology and regulation of this receptor. Western Blots run on brain tissue from rats made tolerant to morphine revealed altered splicing of the N1 cassettes in the accumbens and amygdala (AMY), and the C1 cassette in the AMY and the dorsal hippocampus (HIPP). After 3days of withdrawal C2'-containing NR1 subunits were down-regulated in each of these areas. These were not due to acute doses of morphine and may represent long-term alterations in drug-induced neuroplasticity. We also examined the effects of morphine tolerance on an operant orofacial nociception assay which forces an animal to endure an aversive heat stimulus in order to receive a sweet milk reward. Morphine decreased pain sensitivity as expected but also increased motivational reward seeking in this task. NMDAR antagonism potentiated this reward seeking behavior suggesting that instead of attenuating tolerance, MK-801 may actually alter the rewarding and/or motivational properties of morphine. When combined, MK-801 and morphine had an additive effect which led to altered splicing in the accumbens, AMY, and the HIPP. In conclusion, NR1 splicing may play a major role in the cognitive behavioral aspects especially in motivational reward-seeking behaviors.
KIAA2022 has been implicated as a gene responsible for expressing X-linked mental retardation (XLMR) proteins in humans. However, the functional role of KIAA2022 in the human brain remains unclear. Here, we revealed that depletion of Kiaa2022 inhibits neurite outgrowth of PC12 cells, indicating that the gene participates in neurite extension. Thus, we termed Kiaa2022 as an XLMR protein related to neurite extension (Xpn). Using the mouse brain as a model and ontogenetic analysis of Xpn by real-time PCR, we clearly demonstrated that Xpn is expressed transiently during the late embryonic and perinatal stages. In situ hybridization histochemistry further revealed that Xpn-expressing neurons could be categorized ontogenetically into three types. The first type showed transient expression of Xpn during development. The second type maximally expressed Xpn during the late embryonic or perinatal stage. Thereafter, Xpn expression in this type of neuron decreased gradually throughout development. Nevertheless, a significant level of Xpn expression was detected even into adulthood. The third type of neurons initiated expression of Xpn during the embryonic stage, and continued to express the gene throughout the remaining developmental stages. Subsequent immunohistochemical analysis revealed that Xpn was localized to the nucleus and cytoplasm throughout brain development. Our findings indicate that Xpn may participate in neural circuit formation during developmental stages via nuclear and cytoplasmic Xpn. Moreover, disturbances of this neuronal circuit formation may play a role in the pathogenesis of mental retardation.
Tuning of cortical neurons is often measured as a static property, or during a steady-state regime, despite a number of studies suggesting that tuning depends on when it is measured during a neuron's response (e.g., onset vs. sustained vs. offset). We have previously shown that phase-locked tuning to feature transients evolves as a dynamic quantity from the onset of the sound. In this follow-up study, we examined the phase-independent tuning during feature transients. Based on previous results, we hypothesized phase-independent tuning should evolve on the same timescale as phase-locked tuning. We used stimuli of constant level, but alternating between flat spectro-temporal envelope and a modulated envelope with well-defined spectral density and temporal periodicity. This allowed the measure of changes in tuning to novel spectro-temporal content, as happens during running speech and other sounds with rapid transitions without a confounding change in sound level. For 95% of neurons, tuning changed significantly from the onset, over the course of the response. For a majority of these cells, the change occurred within the first 40ms following a feature onset, often even around 10-20ms. This solidifies the idea that tuning can change rapidly from onset tuning to the sustained, steady-state tuning.
Inhibition of substance P (SP) activity through the use of NK1 receptor antagonists has been shown to be a promising neuroprotective therapy following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Conversely, recent research has implicated SP in the stimulation of neurogenesis, suggesting that the neuropeptide has the potential to promote recovery following TBI. This study characterised the effects of SP and the NK1 antagonist, n-acetyl tryptophan (NAT), on cell proliferation following diffuse TBI. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were injured using the impact acceleration model of TBI and randomly assigned to one of five treatment groups: sham, vehicle control, NAT alone, SP alone or SP with NAT. Cellular proliferation was assessed with immunostaining for bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and cell-specific markers. Infusion of SP (NAT) promoted cellular proliferation in the subventricular zone and dentate gyrus following TBI. This increase was largely associated with microglial proliferation and did not correspond with functional improvements. These results suggest that NAT treatment results in neuroprotection following TBI, mediated in part via inhibition of microglia.
Xenon (Xe) and other inert gases produce anesthesia via an inhibitory mechanism in neuronal networks. To better understand this mechanism, we measured the electrical signals from cultured rat cortical neuronal networks in a multi-electrode array (MEA) under an applied Xe pressure. We used the MEA to measure the firing of the neuronal network with and without Xe gas pressurized to 0.3MPa. The MEA system monitored neuronal spikes on 16 electrodes (each 5050m(2)) at a sampling rate of 20kHz. The embryo rat cortical cells were first cultured on MEAs without Xe for approximately 3weeks, at which time they produced synchronized bursts that indicate maturity. Then, with an applied Xe pressure, the synchronized bursts quickly ceased, whereas single spikes continued. The Xe-induced inhibition-recovery of neuronal network firing was reversible: after purging Xe from the system, the synchronized bursts gradually resumed. Thus, Xe did not inhibit single neuron firing, yet reversibly inhibited the synaptic transmission. This finding agrees with the channel-blocker and a modified-hydrate hypothesis of anesthesia, but not the lipid-solubility hypothesis.
Caspases are implicated in neuronal death in neurodegenerative and other central nervous system (CNS) diseases. In a rat model of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND), we previously characterized HIV-1 envelope gp120-induced neuronal apoptosis by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay. In this model, neuronal apoptosis occurred probably via gp120-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS). Antioxidant gene delivery blunted gp120-related apoptosis. Here, we studied the effect of gp120 on different caspases (3, 6, 8, 9) expression. Caspases production increased in the rat caudate-putamen (CP) 6h after gp120 injection into the same structure. The expression of caspases peaked by 24h. Caspases colocalized mainly with neurons. Prior gene delivery of the antioxidant enzymes Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) or glutathione peroxidase (GPx1) into the CP before injecting gp120 there reduced levels of gp120-induced caspases, recapitulating the effect of antioxidant enzymes on gp120-induced apoptosis observed by TUNEL. Thus, HIV-1 gp120 increased caspases expression in the CP. Prior antioxidant enzyme treatment mitigated production of these caspases, probably by reducing ROS levels.
The effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on depressive-like behavior and serotonin (5-HT) system in the brain of antidepressant sensitive cataleptics (ASC)/Icg mouse strain, characterized by depressive-like behavior, in comparison with the parental nondepressive CBA/Lac mouse strain was examined. Significant decrease of catalepsy and tail suspension test (TST) immobility was shown 17days after acute central BDNF administration (300ng i.c.v.) in ASC mice. In CBA mouse strain, BDNF moderately decreased catalepsy without any effect on TST immobility time. Significant difference between ASC and CBA mice in the effect of BDNF on 5-HT system was revealed. It was shown that central administration of BDNF led to increase of 5-HT(1A) receptor gene expression but not 5-HT(1A) functional activity in ASC mice. Increased tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (Tph-2) and 5-HT(2A) receptor genes expression accompanied by 5-HT(2A) receptor sensitization was shown in BDNF-treated ASC but not in CBA mouse strain, suggesting BDNF-induced increase of the brain 5-HT system functional activity and activation of neurogenesis in &quot;depressive&quot; ASC mice. There were no changes found in the 5-HT transporter mRNA level in BDNF-treated ASC and CBA mice. In conclusion, central administration of BDNF produced prolonged ameliorative effect on depressive-like behavior accompanied by increase of the Tph-2, 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) genes expression and 5-HT(2A) receptor functional activity in animal model of hereditary behavior disorders.
Stroke-induced neurogenesis originates from a neural stem cell (NSC) niche in subventricular zone (SVZ). In mice, NSCs are concentrated in a so-called &quot;neurogenic spot&quot; in the lateral angle area of SVZ. We aimed to identify the &quot;neurogenic spot&quot; in the rat SVZ and to characterize the cellular changes in the ependymal cell compartment in this area at different time points after middle cerebral artery occlusion. The majority of ependymal cells outlining the ventricular wall did not proliferate, and their numbers in the &quot;neurogenic spot&quot; declined at 6 and 16weeks after stroke. Cells with the ultrastructural properties of ependymal cells were detected in the adjacent striatum. The number of these ectopic ependymal cells (EE cells) correlated positively with the magnitude of lateral ventricular enlargement and negatively with the ependymal cell number in the &quot;neurogenic spot&quot;. EE cells were found along blood vessels, accumulated in the pericyst regions, and participated in scar formation but did not incorporate BrdU. We provide the first evidence for the occurrence of EE cells in the ischemic striatum following stroke.
Previous studies have indicated that Mller glia in chick and fish retinas can re-enter the cell cycle, express progenitor genes, and regenerate neurons via the Notch signaling pathway in response to retinal damage or growth factors. Here, we investigated the role of Notch signaling and the effect of hypoxia, as a means to induce retinal damage, on the proliferation of an immortalized Mller cell line (rMC-1 cells). Our data showed that rMC-1 cells expressed Mller glia and neural and retinal progenitor markers but did not express neuronal or retinal markers. Hypoxia increased rMC-1 cell proliferation by activating the positive cell-cycle regulators, cyclins A and D1, as well as the neural and retinal progenitor markers, Notch1, Hes1, nestin, Sox2, Msi1, Pax6, and NeuroD1. However, hypoxia did not significantly influence the expression of Mller glial markers GS, CRALBP, and cyclin D3 or the death of the rMC-1 cells. The increase in cell proliferation induced by hypoxia was greatly attenuated by blocking Notch signaling with the inhibitor DAPT, resulting in the reduced expression of positive cell-cycle regulators (cyclins A and D1) and neural and retinal progenitor markers (Notch1, Hes1, Sox2, Pax6, and NeuroD1). Blockade of the Notch signaling pathway by DAPT after hypoxia promoted the differentiation of rMC-1 cells to neurons, as demonstrated by the induction of neural marker (Tuj1), retinal amacrine (Syntaxin1), and retinal ganglion cell (Brn3b) markers, although the expression of the latter marker was low. Taken together, our data indicate that Notch signaling is required for proliferation under hypoxic conditions either by activating the positive cell-cycle regulators or by skewing their de-differentiation towards a neural progenitor lineage. These findings indicate that the Notch signaling pathway regulates hypoxia-induced proliferation and differentiation of Mller glia.
Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) inhibits substance P (SP) release and decreases the expression of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) in the spinal cord at thoracic 4 (T4) during cardiac ischemia in rat models (Ding et al., 2007). We hypothesized that activation of TRPV1 in the T4 spinal cord segment by intermittent occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery (CoAO) mediates spinal cord SP release. Experiments were conducted in urethane-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley male rats using SP antibody-coated microprobes to measure SP release at the central terminal endings of cardiac ischemic-sensitive afferent neurons (CISAN) in the spinal T4 dorsal horns. Vehicle, capsaicin (CAP; TRPV1 agonist) and capsazepine (CZP; TRPV1 antagonist) were injected into the left T4 prior to stimulation of CISAN by intermittent CoAO (with or without upper cervical SCS). CAP induced endogenous SP release from laminae I and II in the T4 spinal cord above baseline. Conversely, CZP injections significantly inhibited SP release from laminae I-VII in the T4 spinal cord segment below baseline. CZP also attenuated CoAO-induced SP release, while T4 injections of CZP with SCS completely restored SP release to basal levels during CoAO activation. CAP increased the number of c-Fos (a marker for CISAN activation) positive T4 dorsal horn neurons compared to sham-operated animals, while CZP (alone or during CoAO and SCS+CoAO) significantly reduced the number of c-Fos positive neurons. These results suggest that spinal release of the putative nociceptive transmitter SP occurs, at least in part, via a TRPV1 mechanism.
Despite an extremely rich and complex auditory environment, human beings categorize sounds effortlessly. While it is now well-known that this ability is a result of complex interaction of bottom-up processing of low-level acoustic features and top-down influences like evolutionary relevance, it is yet unclear how these processes drive categorization. The objective of the current study was to use functional neuroimaging to investigate the contribution of these two processes for category selectivity in the cortex. We used a set of ecologically valid sounds that belonged to three different categories: animal vocalizations, environmental sounds and human non-speech sounds, all matched on acoustic structure attributes like harmonic-to-noise ratio to minimize differences in bottom-up processing as well as matched for familiarity to rule out other top-down influences. Participants performed a loudness judgment task in the scanner and data were acquired using a sparse-temporal sampling paradigm. Our functional imaging results show that there is category selectivity in the cortex only for species-specific vocalizations and this is revealed in six clusters in the right and left STG/STS. Category selectivity was not observed for any other category of sounds. Our findings suggest a potential role of evolutionary relevance for cortical processing of sounds. While this seems to be an appealing proposition, further studies are required to explore the role of top-down mechanisms arising from such features to drive category selectivity in the brain.
Chronaxie, a historically introduced excitability time parameter for electrical stimulation, has been assumed to be closely related to the time constant of the cell membrane. Therefore, it is perplexing that significantly larger chronaxies have been found for intracellular than for extracellular stimulation. Using compartmental model analysis, this controversy is explained on the basis that extracellular stimulation also generates hyperpolarized regions of the cell membrane hindering a steady excitation as seen in the intracellular case. The largest inside/outside chronaxie ratio for microelectrode stimulation is found in close vicinity of the cell. In the case of monophasic cathodic stimulation, the length of the primarily excited zone which is situated between the hyperpolarized regions increases with electrode-cell distance. For distant electrodes this results in an excitation process comparable to the temporal behavior of intracellular stimulation. Chronaxie also varies along the neural axis, being small for electrode positions at the nodes of Ranvier and axon initial segment and larger at the soma and dendrites. As spike initiation site can change for short and long pulses, in some cases strength-duration curves have a bimodal shape, and thus, they deviate from a classical monotonic curve as described by the formulas of Lapicque or Weiss.
The unique, unmyelinated perikarya of spiral ganglion cells (SGCs) in the human cochlea are often arranged in functional units covered by common satellite glial cells. This micro anatomical peculiarity presents a crucial barrier for an action potential (AP) travelling from the sensory receptors to the brain. Confocal microscopy was used to acquire systematically volumetric data on perikarya and corresponding nuclei in their full dimension along the cochlea of two individuals. Four populations of SGCs within the human inner ear of two different specimens were identified using agglomerative hierarchical clustering, contrary to the present distinction of two groups of SGCs. Furthermore, we found evidence of a spatial arrangement of perikarya and their accordant nuclei along the cochlea spiral. In this arrangement, the most uniform sizes of cell bodies are located in the middle turn, which represents the majority of phonational frequencies. Since single-cell recordings from other mammalians may not be representative to humans and human SGCs are not accessible for physiological measurements, computer simulation has been used to quantify the effect of varying soma size on single neuron response to electrical micro stimulation. Results show that temporal parameters of the spiking pattern are affected by the size of the cell body. Cathodic stimulation was found to induce stronger variations of spikes while also leading to the lowest thresholds and longest latencies. Therefore, anodic stimulation leads to a more uniform excitation profile among SGCs with different cell body size.
Until now, cortical crossmodal plasticity has largely been regarded as the effect of early and complete sensory loss. Recently, massive crossmodal cortical reorganization was demonstrated to result from profound hearing loss in adult ferrets (Allman et al., 2009a). Moderate adult hearing loss, on the other hand, induced not just crossmodal reorganization, but also merged new crossmodal inputs with residual auditory function to generate multisensory neurons. Because multisensory convergence can lead to dramatic levels of response integration when stimuli from more than one modality are present (and thereby potentially interfere with residual auditory processing), the present investigation sought to evaluate the multisensory properties of auditory cortical neurons in partially deafened adult ferrets. When compared with hearing controls, partially-deaf animals revealed elevated spontaneous levels and a dramatic increase (2 times) in the proportion of multisensory cortical neurons, but few of which showed multisensory integration. Moreover, a large proportion (68%) of neurons with somatosensory and/or visual inputs was vigorously active in core auditory cortex in the absence of auditory stimulation. Collectively, these results not only demonstrate multisensory dysfunction in core auditory cortical neurons from hearing impaired adults but also reveal a potential cortical substrate for maladaptive perceptual effects such as tinnitus.
A number of studies have demonstrated that the relative timing of audiovisual stimuli is especially important for multisensory integration of speech signals although the neuronal mechanisms underlying this complex behavior are unknown. Temporal coincidence and congruency are thought to underlie the successful merging of two intermodal stimuli into a coherent perceptual representation. It has been previously shown that single neurons in the non-human primate prefrontal cortex integrate face and vocalization information. However, these multisensory responses and the degree to which they depend on temporal coincidence have yet to be determined. In this study we analyzed the response latency of ventrolateral prefrontal (VLPFC) neurons to face, vocalization and combined face-vocalization stimuli and an offset (asynchronous) version of the face-vocalization stimulus. Our results indicate that for most prefrontal multisensory neurons, the response latency for the vocalization was the shortest, followed by the combined face-vocalization stimuli. The face stimulus had the longest onset response latency. When tested with a dynamic face-vocalization stimulus that had been temporally offset (asynchronous) one-third of multisensory cells in VLPFC demonstrated a change in response compared to the response to the natural, synchronous face-vocalization movie. Our results indicate that prefrontal neurons are sensitive to the temporal properties of audiovisual stimuli. A disruption in the temporal synchrony of an audiovisual signal which results in a change in the firing of communication related prefrontal neurons could underlie the loss in intelligibility which occurs with asynchronous speech stimuli.
It is often assumed that similar behavior is generated by the same brain activity. However, this does not take into account the brain state or recent behavioral history and movement initiation or continuation may not be similarly generated in the brain. To study whether similar movements are generated by the same brain activity, we measured neuronal population activity during repeated movements. Three human subjects performed a motor repetition task in which they moved their hand at four different rates (0.3, 0.5, 1, and 2 Hz). From high-resolution electrocorticography arrays implanted on motor and sensory cortex, high-frequency power (65-95 Hz) was extracted as a measure of neuronal population activity. During the two faster movement rates, high-frequency power was significantly suppressed, whereas movement parameters remained highly similar. This suppression was nonlinear: after the initial movement, neuronal population activity was reduced most strongly, and the data fit a model in which a fast decline rapidly converged to saturation. The amplitude of the beta-band suppression did not change with different rates. However, at the faster rates, beta power did not return to baseline between movements but remained suppressed. We take these findings to indicate that the extended beta suppression at the faster rates, which may suggest a release of inhibition in motor cortex, facilitates movement initiation. These results show that the relationship between behavior and neuronal activity is not consistent: recent movement influences the state of motor cortex and facilitates next movements by reducing the required level of neuronal activity.
The developing brain responds to the environment by using statistical correlations in input to guide functional and structural changes-that is, the brain displays neuroplasticity. Experience shapes brain development throughout life, but neuroplasticity is variable from one brain system to another. How does the early loss of a sensory modality affect this complex process? We examined cross-modal neuroplasticity in anatomically defined subregions of Heschl's gyrus, the site of human primary auditory cortex, in congenitally deaf humans by measuring the fMRI signal change in response to spatially coregistered visual, somatosensory, and bimodal stimuli. In the deaf Heschl's gyrus, signal change was greater for somatosensory and bimodal stimuli than that of hearing participants. Visual responses in Heschl's gyrus, larger in deaf than hearing, were smaller than those elicited by somatosensory stimulation. In contrast to Heschl's gyrus, in the superior-temporal cortex visual signal was comparable to somatosensory signal. In addition, deaf adults perceived bimodal stimuli differently; in contrast to hearing adults, they were susceptible to a double-flash visual illusion induced by two touches to the face. Somatosensory and bimodal signal change in rostrolateral Heschl's gyrus predicted the strength of the visual illusion in the deaf adults in line with the interpretation that the illusion is a functional consequence of the altered cross-modal organization observed in deaf auditory cortex. Our results demonstrate that congenital and profound deafness alters how vision and somatosensation are processed in primary auditory cortex.
Attentional processing has been associated with the dorsal attention, default mode, and frontoparietal control networks. The dorsal attention network is involved in externally focused attention whereas the default mode network is involved in internally directed attention. The frontoparietal control network has been proposed to mediate the transition between external and internal attention by coupling its activity to either the dorsal attention network or the default mode network, depending on the attentional demand. Dopamine is hypothesized to modulate attention and has been linked to the integrity of these three attention-related networks. We used PET with 6-[(18)F]fluoro-L-m-tyrosine to quantify dopamine synthesis capacity in vivo and fMRI to acquire stimulus-independent brain activity in cognitively healthy human subjects. We found that in the resting state where internal cognition dominates, dopamine enhances the coupling between the frontoparietal control network and the default mode network while reducing the coupling between the frontoparietal control network and the dorsal attention network. These results add a neurochemical perspective to the role of network interaction in modulating attention.
The molecular mechanisms leading to synaptic simplification and neuronal apoptosis in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-positive subjects are unknown. The HIV protein gp120 reduced the length of neuronal processes similarly to the proneurotrophin pro-brain-derived neurotrophic factor (proBDNF). Intriguingly, the effects of both proBDNF and gp120 were blocked by inhibitors of the p75 neurotrophin receptor, suggesting that proBDNF and gp120 share a similar mechanism of neurotoxicity. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that gp120 affects the release of proBDNF. Using rat primary neurons, we observed that gp120 promotes a time-dependent intracellular and extracellular accumulation of proBDNF concomitantly with a decrease in mature BDNF. A similar imbalance in the ratio proBDNF/mature BDNF was confirmed in postmortem brains of HIV-positive subjects cognitively impaired and motor impaired. Therefore, it is conceivable to formulate the hypothesis that HIV neurotoxicity includes a gp120-mediated alteration of BDNF processing. To determine the cellular mechanism whereby gp120 produces an accumulation of proBDNF, we examined the levels of intracellular and extracellular enzymes that proteolytically cleave proBDNF furin and tissue plasminogen, respectively. In rat neurons exposed to gp120, intracellular furin levels decreased before cell death, whereas tissue plasminogen changed only during apoptosis. Our data suggest that HIV, through gp120, reduces proBDNF processing by affecting furin levels, and therefore causes an altered balance between antiapoptotic and proapoptotic neurotrophins. Our studies identify a new mechanism that may explain how HIV promotes neuronal injury.
Acute stress reduces pain sensitivity by engaging an endocannabinoid signaling circuit in the midbrain. The neural mechanisms governing this process and molecular identity of the endocannabinoid substance(s) involved are unknown. We combined behavior, pharmacology, immunohistochemistry, RNA interference, quantitative RT-PCR, enzyme assays, and lipidomic analyses of endocannabinoid content to uncover the role of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoyl-sn-glycerol (2-AG) in controlling pain sensitivity in vivo. Here, we show that footshock stress produces antinociception in rats by activating type 5 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlu(5)) in the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray (dlPAG) and mobilizing 2-AG. Stimulation of mGlu(5) in the dlPAG with DHPG [(S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine] triggered 2-AG formation and enhanced stress-dependent antinociception through a mechanism dependent upon both postsynaptic diacylglycerol lipase (DGL) activity, which releases 2-AG, and presynaptic CB(1) cannabinoid receptors. Pharmacological blockade of DGL activity in the dlPAG with RHC80267 [1,6-bis(cyclohexyloximinocarbonylamino)hexane] and (-)-tetrahydrolipstatin (THL), which inhibit activity of DGL- and DGL- isoforms, suppressed stress-induced antinociception. Inhibition of DGL activity in the dlPAG with THL selectively decreased accumulation of 2-AG without altering levels of anandamide. The putative 2-AG-synthesizing enzyme DGL- colocalized with mGlu(5) at postsynaptic sites of the dlPAG, whereas CB(1) was confined to presynaptic terminals, consistent with a role for 2-AG as a retrograde signaling messenger. Finally, virally mediated silencing of DGL-, but not DGL-, transcription in the dlPAG mimicked effects of DGL inhibition in suppressing both endocannabinoid-mediated stress antinociception and 2-AG formation. The results indicate that activation of the postsynaptic mGlu(5)-DGL- cascade triggers retrograde 2-AG signaling in vivo. This pathway is required for endocannabinoid-mediated stress-induced analgesia.

Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) has recently emerged as a mammalian gaseous messenger molecule, akin to nitric oxide and carbon monoxide. H(2)S is predominantly formed from Cys or its derivatives by the enzymes cystathionine -synthase and cystathionine -lyase. One of the mechanisms by which H(2)S signals is by sulfhydration of reactive Cys residues in target proteins. Although analogous to protein nitrosylation, sulfhydration is substantially more prevalent and usually increases the catalytic activity of targeted proteins. Physiological actions of sulfhydration include the regulation of inflammation and endoplasmic reticulum stress signalling as well as of vascular tension.

How we estimate uncertainty is important in decision neuroscience and has wide-ranging implications in basic and clinical neuroscience, from computational models of optimality to ideas on psychopathological disorders including anxiety, depression and schizophrenia. Empirical research in neuroscience, which has been based on divergent theoretical assumptions, has focused on the fundamental question of how uncertainty is encoded in the brain and how it influences behaviour. Here, we integrate several theoretical concepts about uncertainty into a decision-making framework. We conclude that the currently available evidence indicates that distinct neural encoding (including summary statistic-type representations) of uncertainty occurs in distinct neural systems.
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive, neurodegenerative disorder that develops within the limbic system, spreading radially into anatomically linked brain association areas as the disease progresses. Analysis of temporal-lobe association of neocortex-derived extracellular fluid and cerebrospinal fluid from Alzheimer's disease patients shows an abundant presence of micro-RNA (miRNA), including the proinflammatory miRNA-146a and miRNA-155. Using a novel and highly sensitive LED-Northern dot-blot focusing technique, we detected the secretion of potentially pathogenic amounts of miRNA-146a and miRNA-155 from stressed human primary neural cells. A conditioned medium containing miRNA-146a and miRNA-155 was found to induce Alzheimer-type gene expression changes in control brain cells. These included downregulation in the expression of an important repressor of the innate immune response, complement factor H (CFH). These effects were neutralized using anti-miRNA strategies. Anti-miRNA-based therapeutics may provide a novel and efficacious treatment to stem the miRNA-mediated spreading of inflammatory signaling involved in Alzheimer's disease.
Brain arteriovenous malformation (BAVM), a rare but important cause of intracranial hemorrhage, has increased angiogenesis and inflammation as key components of the nidus of abnormal vessels and stroma that form the resected surgical specimen. Accordingly, both vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and transforming growth factor- have been implicated in the pathology of BAVM for their proangiogenic and vascular-regulating roles. The C-terminal fragment of the extracellular matrix component perlecan (domain V, DV) has been shown to be increased and through the 51 integrin, to increase VEGF levels in and around areas of cerebral ischemic injury, another proangiogenic condition. We aimed to determine whether the concentrations of DV, DV's proangiogenic receptor 51 integrin, or DV's antiangiogenic receptor 21 integrin are elevated in human BAVM tissue. DV levels were increased in BAVM compared with control brain tissue from epileptic resection, as was 51 integrin. In addition, 51 integrin was preferentially increased and localized to endothelial cells compared with 21 integrin. VEGF and transforming growth factor- levels were also increased in BAVM compared with control tissue. Furthermore, increases in all components were strongly correlated. Excessive generation of proangiogenic DV in BAVM suggests that DV may participate in its pathology and may represent a future therapeutic target.


A key feature of speech is its stereotypical 5 Hz rhythm. One theory posits that this rhythm evolved through the modification of rhythmic facial movements in ancestral primates. If the hypothesis has any validity, then a comparative approach may shed some light. We tested this idea by using cineradiography (X-ray movies) to characterize and quantify the internal dynamics of the macaque monkey vocal tract during lip-smacking (a rhythmic facial expression) versus chewing. Previous human studies showed that speech movements are faster than chewing movements, and the functional coordination between vocal tract structures is different between the two behaviors. If rhythmic speech evolved through a rhythmic ancestral facial movement, then one hypothesis is that monkey lip-smacking versus chewing should also exhibit these differences. We found that the lips, tongue, and hyoid move with a speech-like 5 Hz rhythm during lip-smacking, but not during chewing. Most importantly, the functional coordination between these structures was distinct for each behavior. These data provide empirical support for the idea that the human speech rhythm evolved from the rhythmic facial expressions of ancestral primates.
The global logic used by the brain for differentially encoding positive and negative experiences remains unknown along with how such experiences are represented by collections of memory traces at the cellular level. Here we contrast the cellular memory traces that form in the dorsal paired medial (DPM) neurons of Drosophila after conditioning flies with odors associated with aversive or appetitive unconditioned stimuli (US). Our results show that the appetitive DPM neuron trace is distinguished from the aversive in three fundamental ways: (1) The DPM neurons do not respond to an appetitive US of sucrose by itself, in contrast to their robust response to an aversive US. (2) The appetitive trace persists for twice as long as the aversive trace. (3) The appetitive trace is expressed in both neurite branches of the neuron, rather than being confined to a single branch like the aversive trace. In addition, we demonstrate that training flies with nonnutritive sugars that elicit a behavioral memory that decays within 24 hr generates, like aversive conditioning, a short-lived and branch-restricted memory trace. These results indicate that the persistence and breadth of the DPM neuron memory trace influences the duration of behavioral memory.


Multiletter identification studies often find correctly identified letters being reported in wrong positions. However, how position uncertainty impacts crowding in peripheral vision is not fully understood. The observation of a flanker being reported as the central target cannot be taken as unequivocal evidence for position misperception because the observers could be biased to report a more identifiable flanker when failing to identify the central target. In addition, it has never been reported whether a correctly identified central target can be perceived at a flanker position under crowding. Empirical investigation into this possibility holds the key to demonstrating letter-level position uncertainty in crowding, because the position errors of the least identifiable central target cannot be attributed to response bias. We asked normally-sighted observers to report either the central target of a trigram (partial report) or all three characters (whole report). The results showed that, for radially arranged trigrams, the rate of reporting the central target regardless of the reported position in the whole report was significantly higher than the partial report rate, and the extra target reports mostly ended up in flanker positions. Error analysis indicated that target-flanker position swapping and misalignment (lateral shift of the target and one flanker) underlay this target misplacement. Our results thus establish target misplacement as a source of crowding errors and ascertain the role of letter-level position uncertainty in crowding.





A large number of studies have demonstrated that the nucleus accumbens (NAC) is a critical site in the neuronal circuits controlling reward responses, motivation, and mood, but the neuronal cell type(s) underlying these processes are not yet known. Identification of the neuronal cell types that regulate depression-like states will guide us in understanding the biological basis of mood and its regulation by diseases like major depressive disorder. Taking advantage of recent findings demonstrating that the serotonin receptor chaperone, p11, is an important molecular regulator of depression-like states, here we identify cholinergic interneurons (CINs) as a primary site of action for p11 in the NAC. Depression-like behavior is observed in mice after decrease of p11 levels in NAC CINs. This phenotype is recapitulated by silencing neuronal transmission in these cells, demonstrating that accumbal cholinergic neuronal activity regulates depression-like behaviors and suggesting that accumbal CIN activity is crucial for the regulation of mood and motivation.
Network studies of human brain structural connectivity have identified a specific set of brain regions that are both highly connected and highly central. Recent analyses have shown that these putative hub regions are mutually and densely interconnected, forming a &quot;rich club&quot; within the human brain. Here we show that the set of pathways linking rich club regions forms a central high-cost, high-capacity backbone for global brain communication. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) data of two sets of 40 healthy subjects were used to map structural brain networks. The contributions to network cost and communication capacity of global cortico-cortical connections were assessed through measures of their topology and spatial embedding. Rich club connections were found to be more costly than predicted by their density alone and accounted for 40% of the total communication cost. Furthermore, 69% of all minimally short paths between node pairs were found to travel through the rich club and a large proportion of these communication paths consisted of ordered sequences of edges (&quot;path motifs&quot;) that first fed into, then traversed, and finally exited the rich club, while passing through nodes of increasing and then decreasing degree. The prevalence of short paths that follow such ordered degree sequences suggests that neural communication might take advantage of strategies for dynamic routing of information between brain regions, with an important role for a highly central rich club. Taken together, our results show that rich club connections make an important contribution to interregional signal traffic, forming a central high-cost, high-capacity backbone for global brain communication.






Detecting recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) abuse in sport remains one of the major challenges in doping control. We have compared two different approaches to detect the hGH (human growth hormone) abuse. The first measures the concentrations of the 22 kDa hGH isoform (rec assay) and pituitary derived isoforms (pit assay) and a ratio rec/pit is obtained. The second measures the concentrations of 22 and 20 kDa hGH isoforms and also a ratio 22/20 kDa is derived. Using a single set (nine healthy male subjects, 7 days, 0.026 mg/kg/day of rhGH, 2 week wash out period) both approaches were compared. To quantify the agreement between the immunoassays, B.A. (Bland-Altman) analysis and P.r. (Pearson correlation) were used. To fully understand the assay readings, all relevant antibodies were characterised by surface plasmon resonance (SPR). In either approach the ratio numerator produces similar results and the denominator determines both signal-amplitude and time-frame of possible application. The rec vs pit approach displays a higher distinctive capacity to detect hGH abuse but the complex binding properties of the capture antibodies make it very difficult to evaluate the precise contributions of the individual hGH variants to the assay result. In the 22 vs 20 approach, the 20 kDa hGH concentration measures determine its applicability. Both approaches are based on a different principle, should be preferably applied within 24 h after rhGH administration, and are perfectly comparable given the results obtained. The reduced time frame of application indicates that their principle application should be preferably in an out-of-competition setting.
In Drosophila, dopamine plays important roles in many biological processes as a neuromodulator. Previous studies showed that dopamine level could affect fly courtship behaviors. Disturbed dopamine level leads to abnormal courtship behavior in two different ways. Dopamine up-regulation induces male-male courtship behavior, while down-regulation of dopamine level results in increased sexual attractiveness of males towards other male flies. Until now, the identity of the dopamine receptor involved in this abnormal male-male courtship behavior remains unknown. Here we used genetic approaches to investigate the role of dopamine receptors in fly courtship behavior. We found that a dopamine D1-like receptor, DopR, was involved in fly courtship behavior. DopR mutant male flies display male-male courtship behavior. This behavior is mainly due to the male's increased propensity to court other males. Expression of functional DopR successfully rescued this mutant phenotype. Knock-down of D2-like receptor D2R and another D1-like receptor, DAMB, did not induce male-male courtship behavior, indicating the receptor-type specificity of this phenomenon. Our findings provide insight into a possible link between dopamine level disturbance and the induced male-male courtship behavior.


Fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS) and photon counting histogram (PCH) are techniques with single molecule sensitivity that are well suited for examining the biophysical properties of protein complexes in living cells. In the present study, FCS and PCH were applied to determine the diffusion coefficient and oligomeric size of G-protein-coupled receptors. FCS was used to record fluctuations in fluorescence intensity arising from fluorescence-tagged 5-hydroxytryptamine 2C (5-HT(2C)) receptors diffusing within the plasma membrane of HEK293 cells and rat hippocampal neurons. Autocorrelation analysis yielded diffusion coefficients ranging from 0.8 to 1.2 m(2)/s for fluorescence-tagged receptors. Because the molecular brightness of a fluorescent protein is directly proportional to the number of fluorescent proteins traveling together within a protein complex, it can be used to determine the oligomeric size of the protein complex. FCS and PCH analysis of fluorescence-tagged 5-HT(2C) receptors provided molecular brightness values that were twice that of GFP and YFP monomeric controls, similar to a dimeric GFP control, and unaltered by 5-HT. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation of the N- and C-terminal halves of YFP attached to 5-HT(2C) receptors was observed in endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi and plasma membranes with a brightness equal to monomeric YFP. When GFP-tagged 5-HT(2C) receptors were co-expressed with a large excess of untagged, non-fluorescent 5-HT(2C) receptors, the molecular brightness was reduced by half. PCH analysis of the FCS data were best described by a one-component dimer model without monomers or tetramers. Therefore, it is concluded that 5-HT(2C) receptors freely diffusing within the plasma membrane are dimeric.
Neurodegenerative diseases share two common features: enhanced oxidative stress and cellular inability to scavenge structurally damaged abnormal proteins. Pathogenesis of polyglutamine (poly(Q)) diseases involves increased protein misfolding, along with ubiquitin and chaperon protein-containing nuclear aggregates. In spinocerebellar ataxia, the brain and retina undergo degeneration. Neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1) is made on-demand in the nervous system and retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells in response to oxidative stress, which activates prosurvival signaling via regulation of gene expression and other processes. We hypothesized that protein misfolding-induced proteotoxic stress triggers NPD1 synthesis. We used ARPE-19 cells as a cellular model to assess stress due to ataxin-1 82Q protein expression and determine whether NPD1 prevents apoptosis. Ectopic ataxin-1 expression induced RPE cell apoptosis, which was abrogated by 100 nm docosahexaenoic acid, 10 ng/ml pigment epithelium-derived factor, or NPD1. Similarly, NPD1 was protective in neurons and primary human RPE cells. Furthermore, when ataxin-1 82Q was expressed in 15-lipoxygenase-1-deficient cells, apoptosis was greatly enhanced, and only NPD1 (50 nm) rescued cells from death. NPD1 reduced misfolded ataxin-1-induced accumulation of proapoptotic Bax in the cytoplasm, suggesting that NPD1 acts by preventing proapoptotic signaling pathways from occurring. Finally, NPD1 signaling interfered with ataxin-1/capicua repression of gene expression and decreased phosphorylated ataxin-1 in an Akt-independent manner, suggesting that NPD1 signaling modulates formation or stabilization of ataxin-1 complexes. These data suggest that 1) NPD1 synthesis is an early response induced by proteotoxic stress due to abnormally folded ataxin-1, and 2) NPD1 promotes cell survival through modulating stabilization of ataxin-1 functional complexes and pro-/antiapoptotic and inflammatory pathways.
Methods for isobaric tagging of peptides, iTRAQ or TMT, are commonly used platforms in mass spectrometry based quantitative proteomics. These two methods are very often used to quantitate proteins in complex samples, e.g., serum/plasma or CSF supporting biomarker discovery studies. The success of these studies depends on multiple factors, including the accuracy of ratios of reporter ions reflecting quantitative changes of proteins. Because reporter ions are generated during peptide fragmentation, the differences of chemical structure of iTRAQ balance groups may have an effect on how efficiently these groups are fragmented and thus how differences in protein expression will be measured. Because 4-plex and 8-plex iTRAQ reagents do have different structures of balanced groups, it has been postulated that indeed differences in protein identification and quantitation exist between these two reagents. In this study we controlled the ratios of tagged samples and compared quantitation of proteins using 4-plex versus 8-plex reagents in the context of a highly complex sample of human plasma using ABSciex 4800 MALDI-TOF/TOF mass spectrometer and ProteinPilot 4.0 software. We observed that 8-plex tagging provides more consistent ratios than 4-plex without compromising protein identification, thus allowing investigation of eight experimental conditions in one analytical experiment.
Complex networks of dynamically connected saddle states persistently emerge in a broad range of high-dimensional systems and may reliably encode inputs as specific switching trajectories. Their computational capabilities, however, are far from being understood. Here, we analyze how symmetry-breaking inhomogeneities naturally induce predictable persistent switching dynamics across such networks. We show that such systems are capable of computing arbitrary logic operations by entering into switching sequences in a controlled way. This dynamics thus offers a highly flexible new kind of computation based on switching along complex networks of states.
Collective computation is typically polynomial in the number of computational elements, such as transistors or neurons, whether one considers the storage capacity of a memory device or the number of floating-point operations per second of a CPU. However, we show here that the capacity of a computational network to resolve real-valued signals of arbitrary dimensions can be exponential in N, even if the individual elements are noisy and unreliable. Nested, modular codes that achieve such high resolutions mirror the properties of grid cells in vertebrates, which underlie spatial navigation.
To make adaptive decisions in a social context, humans must identify relevant agents in the environment, infer their underlying strategies and motivations, and predict their upcoming actions. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging, in conjunction with combinatorial multivariate pattern analysis, to predict human participants' subsequent decisions in an incentive-compatible poker game. We found that signals from the temporal-parietal junction provided unique information about the nature of the upcoming decision, and that information was specific to decisions against agents who were both social and relevant for future behavior.

Most theories of motor cortex have assumed that neural activity represents movement parameters. This view derives from what is known about primary visual cortex, where neural activity represents patterns of light. Yet it is unclear how well the analogy between motor and visual cortex holds. Single-neuron responses in motor cortex are complex, and there is marked disagreement regarding which movement parameters are represented. A better analogy might be with other motor systems, where a common principle is rhythmic neural activity. Here we find that motor cortex responses during reaching contain a brief but strong oscillatory component, something quite unexpected for a non-periodic behaviour. Oscillation amplitude and phase followed naturally from the preparatory state, suggesting a mechanistic role for preparatory neural activity. These results demonstrate an unexpected yet surprisingly simple structure in the population response. This underlying structure explains many of the confusing features of individual neural responses.
The complexity of different components of the grammars of human languages can be quantified. For example, languages vary greatly in the size of their phonological inventories, and in the degree to which they make use of inflectional morphology. Recent studies have shown that there are relationships between these types of grammatical complexity and the number of speakers a language has. Languages spoken by large populations have been found to have larger phonological inventories, but simpler morphology, than languages spoken by small populations. The results require further investigation, and, most importantly, the mechanism whereby the social context of learning and use affects the grammatical evolution of a language needs elucidation.
Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) plays numerous important roles in the CNS and the elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) is critical for these functions of NT-3. However, the mechanism by which NT-3 induces [Ca(2+)](i) elevation remains largely unknown. Here, we found that transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC) 5 protein and TrkC, the NT-3 receptor, exhibited a similar temporal expression in rat hippocampus and cellular colocalization in hippocampal neurons. Stimulation of the neurons by NT-3 induced a nonselective cation conductance and PLC-dependent [Ca(2+)](i) elevation, which were both blocked when TRPC5, but not TRPC6 channels, were inhibited. Moreover, the Ca(2+) influx through TRPC5 induced by NT-3 inhibited the neuronal dendritic growth through activation of calmodulin-dependent kinase (CaMK) II. In contrast, the Ca(2+) influx through TRPC6 induced by NT-4 promoted the dendritic growth. Thus, TRPC5 acts as a novel and specific mediator for NT-3 to regulate dendrite development through CaMKII.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is the most common inherited ataxia caused primarily by an intronic GAA.TTC triplet repeat expansion in the frataxin (FXN) gene. FXN RNA and protein levels are reduced in patients leading to progressive gait and limb ataxia, sensory loss, reduced tendon reflexes, dysarthria, absent lower limb reflexes, and loss of position and vibration sense. Neurological manifestations ensue from primary loss of dorsal root ganglia neurons and their associated axons ascending centrally in the spinal cord and peripherally in large myelinated nerves. Small noncoding RNAs such as microRNAs have been shown to be dysregulated in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Huntington's disease. Here we report that hsa-miR-886-3p (miR-886-3p) was increased in patient cells as well as peripheral patient blood samples. Selective reduction in miR-886-3p by an anti-miR led to elevation of FXN message and protein levels without associated changes in histone marks at the FXN locus. Nevertheless, derepression of frataxin by a histone deacetylase inhibitor leads to a decrease in miR-886-3p. These results outline involvement of a small RNA, miR-886-3p in FRDA and a novel therapeutic approach to this disease using an anti-miR-886-3p.
Mesoaccumbal and nigrostriatal projections are sensitive to stress, and heightened stress sensitivity is thought to confer risk for neuropsychiatric disorders. Serotonin 2C (5-HT(2C)) receptors mediate the inhibitory effects of serotonin on dopaminergic circuitry in experimental animals, and preclinical findings have implicated 5-HT(2C) receptors in motivated behaviors and psychotropic drug mechanisms. In humans, a common missense single-nucleotide change (rs6318, Cys23Ser) in the 5-HT(2C) receptor gene (HTR2C) has been associated with altered activity in vitro and with clinical mood disorders. We hypothesized that dopaminergic circuitry would be more sensitive to stress in humans carrying the Ser23 variant. To test this hypothesis, we studied 54 healthy humans using positron emission tomography and the displaceable D(2)/D(3) receptor radiotracer [(11)C]raclopride. Binding potential (BP(ND)) was quantified before and after a standardized stress challenge consisting of 20 min of moderate deep muscular pain, and reduction in BP(ND) served as an index of dopamine release. The Cys23Ser variant was genotyped on a custom array, and ancestry informative markers were used to control for population stratification. We found greater dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens, caudate nucleus, and putamen among Ser23 carriers, after controlling for sex, age, and ancestry. Genotype accounted for 12% of the variance in dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens. There was no association of Cys23Ser with baseline BP(ND). These findings indicate that a putatively functional HTR2C variant (Ser23) is associated with greater striatal dopamine release during pain in healthy humans. Mesoaccumbal stress sensitivity may mediate the effects of HTR2C variation on risk of neuropsychiatric disorders.
The effect of attention on single neuron responses in the auditory system is unresolved. We found that when monkeys discriminated temporally amplitude modulated (AM) from unmodulated sounds, primary auditory cortical (A1) neurons better discriminated those sounds than when the monkeys were not discriminating them. This was observed for both average firing rate and vector strength (VS), a measure of how well neurons temporally follow the stimulus' temporal modulation. When data were separated by nonsynchronized and synchronized responses, the firing rate of nonsynchronized responses best distinguished AM- noise from unmodulated noise, followed by VS for synchronized responses, with firing rate for synchronized neurons providing the poorest AM discrimination. Firing rate-based AM discrimination for synchronized neurons, however, improved most with task engagement, showing that the least sensitive code in the passive condition improves the most with task engagement. Rate coding improved due to larger increases in absolute firing rate at higher modulation depths than for lower depths and unmodulated sounds. Relative to spontaneous activity (which increased with engagement), the response to unmodulated sounds decreased substantially. The temporal coding improvement--responses more precisely temporally following a stimulus when animals were required to attend to it--expands the framework of possible mechanisms of attention to include increasing temporal precision of stimulus following. These findings provide a crucial step to understanding the coding of temporal modulation and support a model in which rate and temporal coding work in parallel, permitting a multiplexed code for temporal modulation, and for a complementary representation of rate and temporal coding.
Neural activity within HVC (proper name), a premotor nucleus of the songbird telencephalon analogous to premotor cortical regions in mammals, controls the temporal structure of learned song in male zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata). HVC is composed of a superficially isomorphic neuronal mosaic, implying that song is encoded in a distributed network within HVC. Here, we combined HVC microlesions (10% focal ablation) with singing-driven immediate-early gene (IEG) labeling to explore the network architecture of HVC during singing. Microlesions produce a transient disruption of HVC activity that results in a temporary ( 1 week) loss of vocal patterning. Results showed an asymmetrical reduction in the density of IEG-labeled cells 3-5 d after microlesions: swaths of unlabeled cells extended rostrally and/or caudally depending on the position of the HVC microlesion. Labeling returned once birds recovered their songs. Axial swaths of unlabeled cells occurred whether microlesions were located at rostral or caudal poles of HVC, indicating that the localized reduction in IEG labeling could not be attributable solely to transection of afferents that enter HVC rostrally. The asymmetrical pattern of reduced IEG labeling could be explained if synaptic connectivity within HVC is organized preferentially within the rostrocaudal axis. In vivo retrograde tracer injections and in vitro stimulation and recording experiments in horizontal slices of HVC confirmed a rostrocaudal organization of HVC neural connectivity. Our findings suggest that HVC contains an axially organized network architecture that may encode the temporal structure of song.
Broadband transient sounds, such as clicks and consonants, activate a traveling wave in the cochlea. This wave evokes firing in auditory nerve fibers that are tuned to high frequencies several milliseconds earlier than in fibers tuned to low frequencies. Despite this substantial traveling wave delay, octopus cells in the brainstem receive broadband input and respond to clicks with submillisecond temporal precision. The dendrites of octopus cells lie perpendicular to the tonotopically organized array of auditory nerve fibers, placing the earliest arriving inputs most distally and the latest arriving closest to the soma. Here, we test the hypothesis that the topographic arrangement of synaptic inputs on dendrites of octopus cells allows octopus cells to compensate the traveling wave delay. We show that in mice the full cochlear traveling wave delay is 1.6 ms. Because the dendrites of each octopus cell spread across approximately one-third of the tonotopic axis, a click evokes a soma-directed sweep of synaptic input lasting 0.5 ms in individual octopus cells. Morphologically and biophysically realistic, computational models of octopus cells show that soma-directed sweeps with durations matching in vivo measurements result in the largest and sharpest somatic EPSPs. A low input resistance and activation of a low-voltage-activated potassium conductance that are characteristic of octopus cells are important determinants of sweep sensitivity. We conclude that octopus cells have dendritic morphologies and biophysics tailored to accomplish the precise encoding of broadband transient sounds.
Many cellular processes involve a small number of molecules and undergo stochastic fluctuations in their levels of activity. Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) is a form of synaptic plasticity expressed as a reduction in the number of synaptic AMPA receptors (AMPARs) in Purkinje cells. We developed a stochastic model of the LTD signaling network, including a PKC-ERK-cPLA(2) positive feedback loop and mechanisms of AMPAR trafficking, and tuned the model to replicate calcium uncaging experiments. The signaling network activity in single synapses switches between two discrete stable states (LTD and non-LTD) in a probabilistic manner. The stochasticity of the signaling network causes threshold dithering and allows at the macroscopic level for many different and stable mean magnitudes of depression. The probability of LTD occurrence in a single spine is only modulated by the concentration and duration of the signal used to trigger it, and inputs with the same magnitude can give rise to two different responses; there is no threshold for the input signal. The stochasticity is intrinsic to the signaling network and not mostly dependent on noise in the calcium input signal, as has been suggested previously. The activities of the ultrasensitive ERK and of cPLA(2) undergo strong stochastic fluctuations. Conversely, PKC, which acts as a noise filter, is more constantly activated. Systematic variation of the biochemical population size demonstrates that threshold dithering and the absence of spontaneous LTD depend critically on the number of molecules in a spine, indicating constraints on spine size in Purkinje cells.
The potassium channel Kv1.2 -subunit is expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cell (PC) dendrites where its pharmacological inhibition increases excitability (Khavandgar et al., 2005). Kv1.2 is also expressed in cerebellar basket cell (BC) axon terminals (Sheng et al., 1994), where its blockade increases BC inhibition of PCs (Southan and Robertson, 1998a). Secretin receptors are also expressed both in PC dendrites and BC axon terminals (for review, see (Yuan et al., 2011). The effect of secretin on PC excitability is not yet known, but, like Kv1.2 inhibitors, secretin potently increases inhibitory input to PCs (Yung et al., 2001). This suggests secretin may act in part by suppressing Kv1.2. Receptor-mediated endocytosis is a mechanism of Kv1.2 suppression (Nesti et al., 2004). This process can be regulated by protein kinase A (PKA) (Connors et al., 2008). Since secretin receptors activate PKA (Wessels-Reiker et al., 1993), we tested the hypothesis that secretin regulates Kv1.2 trafficking in the cerebellum. Using cell-surface protein biotinylation of rat cerebellar slices, we found secretin decreased cell-surface Kv1.2 levels by modulating Kv1.2 endocytic trafficking. This effect was mimicked by activating adenylate cyclase (AC) with forskolin, and was blocked by pharmacological inhibitors of AC or PKA. Imaging studies identified the BC axon terminal and PC dendrites as loci of AC-dependent Kv1.2 trafficking. The physiological significance of secretin-regulated Kv1.2 endocytosis is supported by our finding that infusion into the cerebellar cortex of either the Kv1.2 inhibitor tityustoxin-K, or of the Kv1.2 regulator secretin, significantly enhances acquisition of eyeblink conditioning in rats.
Cognitive impairment in Down syndrome (DS) is characterized by deficient learning and memory. Mouse genetic models of DS exhibit impaired cognition in hippocampally mediated behavioral tasks and reduced synaptic plasticity of hippocampal pathways. Enhanced efficiency of GABAergic neurotransmission was implicated in those changes. We have recently shown that signaling through postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors is significantly increased in the dentate gyrus of Ts65Dn mice, a genetic model of DS. Here we examined a role for GABA(B) receptors in cognitive deficits in DS by defining the effect of selective GABA(B) receptor antagonists on behavior and synaptic plasticity of adult Ts65Dn mice. Treatment with the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP55845 restored memory of Ts65Dn mice in the novel place recognition, novel object recognition, and contextual fear conditioning tasks, but did not affect locomotion and performance in T-maze. The treatment increased hippocampal levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, equally in 2N and Ts65Dn mice. In hippocampal slices, treatment with the GABA(B) receptor antagonists CGP55845 or CGP52432 enhanced long-term potentiation (LTP) in the Ts65Dn DG. The enhancement of LTP was accompanied by an increase in the NMDA receptor-mediated component of the tetanus-evoked responses. These findings are evidence for a contribution of GABA(B) receptors to changes in hippocampal-based cognition in the Ts65Dn mouse. The ability to rescue cognitive performance through treatment with selective GABA(B) receptor antagonists motivates studies to further explore the therapeutic potential of these compounds in people with DS.
Upon illumination several phototransduction proteins translocate between cell body and photosensory compartments. In Drosophila photoreceptors arrestin (Arr2) translocates from cell body to the microvillar rhabdomere down a diffusion gradient created by binding of Arr2 to photo-isomerized metarhodopsin. Translocation is profoundly slowed in mutants of key phototransduction proteins including phospholipase C (PLC) and the Ca(2+)-permeable transient receptor potential channel (TRP), but how the phototransduction cascade accelerates Arr2 translocation is unknown. Using real-time fluorescent imaging of Arr2-green fluorescent protein translocation in dissociated ommatidia, we show that translocation is profoundly slowed in Ca(2+)-free solutions. Conversely, in a blind PLC mutant with 100-fold slower translocation, rapid translocation was rescued by the Ca(2+) ionophore, ionomycin. In mutants lacking NINAC (calmodulin [CaM] binding myosin III) in the cell body, translocation remained rapid even in Ca(2+)-free solutions. Immunolabeling revealed that Arr2 in the cell body colocalized with NINAC in the dark. In intact eyes, the impaired translocation found in trp mutants was rescued in ninaC;trp double mutants. Nevertheless, translocation following prolonged dark adaptation was significantly slower in ninaC mutants, than in wild type: a difference that was reflected in the slow decay of the electroretinogram. The results suggest that cytosolic NINAC is a Ca(2+)-dependent binding target for Arr2, which protects Arr2 from immobilization by a second potential sink that sequesters and releases arrestin on a much slower timescale. We propose that rapid Ca(2+)/CaM-dependent release of Arr2 from NINAC upon Ca(2+) influx accounts for the acceleration of translocation by phototransduction.
Our eyes move constantly, even when we try to fixate our gaze. Fixational eye movements prevent and restore visual loss during fixation, yet the relative impact of each type of fixational eye movement remains controversial. For over five decades, the debate has focused on microsaccades, the fastest and largest fixational eye movements. Some recent studies have concluded that microsaccades counteract visual fading during fixation. Other studies have disputed this idea, contending that microsaccades play no significant role in vision. The disagreement stems from the lack of methods to determine the precise effects of microsaccades on vision versus those of other eye movements, as well as a lack of evidence that microsaccades are relevant to foveal vision. Here we developed a novel generalized method to determine the precise quantified contribution and efficacy of human microsaccades to restoring visibility compared with other eye movements. Our results indicate that microsaccades are the greatest eye movement contributor to the restoration of both foveal and peripheral vision during fixation. Our method to calculate the efficacy and contribution of microsaccades to perception can determine the strength of connection between any two physiological and/or perceptual events, providing a novel and powerful estimate of causal influence; thus, we anticipate wide-ranging applications in neuroscience and beyond.
Bidirectional communication (i.e., feedforward and feedback pathways) between functional levels is common in neural systems, but in most systems little is known regarding the function and modifiability of the feedback pathway. We are exploring this issue in the crab (Cancer borealis) stomatogastric nervous system by examining bidirectional communication between projection neurons and their target central pattern generator (CPG) circuit neurons. Specifically, we addressed the question of whether the peptidergic post-oesophageal commissure (POC) neurons trigger a specific gastric mill (chewing) motor pattern in the stomatogastric ganglion solely by activating projection neurons, or by additionally altering the strength of CPG feedback to these projection neurons. The POC-triggered gastric mill rhythm is shaped by feedback inhibition onto projection neurons from a CPG neuron. Here, we establish that POC stimulation triggers a long-lasting enhancement of feedback-mediated IPSC/Ps in the projection neurons, which persists for the same duration as POC-gastric mill rhythms. This strengthened CPG feedback appears to result from presynaptic modulation, because it also occurs in other projection neurons whose activity does not change after POC stimulation. To determine the function of this strengthened feedback synapse, we compared the influence of dynamic-clamp-injected feedback IPSPs of pre- and post-POC amplitude into a pivotal projection neuron after POC stimulation. Only the post-POC amplitude IPSPs elicited the POC-triggered activity pattern in this projection neuron and enabled full expression of the POC-gastric mill rhythm. Thus, the strength of CPG feedback to projection neurons is modifiable and can be instrumental to motor pattern selection.


Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) is a syndrome characterised clinically by headache, confusion, seizures, vomiting and visual disturbances with radiographic vasogenic oedema. CT imaging is typically normal, non-specific or suggestive of PRES or stroke. MRI usually shows symmetrical parietal and occipital lobe vasogenic oedema. The authors discuss a 58-year-old man presenting with right homonymous haemianopia, hypertension and ataxia. CT imaging suggested a left occipital lobe space occupying lesion (SOL). Surprisingly, subsequent contrast enhanced MRI showed characteristic bilateral vasogenic oedema in occipital and temporal lobes indicative of PRES. Hypertension, an associated predisposing factor, was present in this case and symptoms improved with antihypertensive therapy. This case highlights PRES may present with asymmetrical CT imaging findings mimicking a SOL. PRES is a potentially reversible condition with prompt treatment. MRI is essential in diagnosing both PRES and the cause of acute visual loss.
Congenital trigeminal anaesthesia (CTA) is a rare condition characterised by a congenital deficit involving all or part of the sensory component of the trigeminal nerve in children. It is a heterogeneous condition that can present in isolation or is associated with congenital abnormalities affecting the mesoderm, ectoderm and/or brainstem. The authors report a case of a 4-year-old girl who presented with reduced visual acuity, painless bilateral keratitis and painless non-healing lesions on the face, who was confirmed to have CTA on detailed neurophysiological investigations. She also had associated unilateral renal dysplasia and Duane syndrome. The authors also discuss an up-to-date review of the published cases of CTA in literature, the first of which was reported as early as 1984.


The wide diversity of dendritic trees is one of the most striking features of neural circuits. Here we develop a general quantitative theory relating the total length of dendritic wiring to the number of branch points and synapses. We show that optimal wiring predicts a 2/3 power law between these measures. We demonstrate that the theory is consistent with data from a wide variety of neurons across many different species and helps define the computational compartments in dendritic trees. Our results imply fundamentally distinct design principles for dendritic arbors compared with vascular, bronchial, and botanical trees.
Although there is a great deal of knowledge regarding the phylo- and ontogenetic plasticity of the neocortex, the precise nature of environmental impact on the newborn human brain is still one of the most controversial issues of neuroscience. The leading model-system of experience-dependent brain development is binocular vision, also called stereopsis. Here, we show that extra postnatal visual experience in preterm human neonates leads to a change in the developmental timing of binocular vision. The onset age of binocular function, as measured by the visual evoked response to dynamic random dot correlograms (DRDC-VEP), appears to be at around the same time after birth in preterm (4.07 mo) and full-term (3.78 mo) infants. To assess the integrity of the visual pathway in the studied infants, we also measured the latency of the visual-evoked response to pattern reversal stimuli (PR-VEP). PR-VEP latency is not affected by premature birth, demonstrating that the maturation of the visual pathway follows a preprogrammed developmental course. Despite the immaturity of the visual pathway, clearly demonstrated by the PR-VEP latencies, our DRCD-VEP data show that the visual cortex is remarkably ready to accept environmental stimulation right after birth. This early plasticity makes full use of the available extra stimulation time in preterm human infants and results in an early onset of cortical binocularity. According to our data, the developmental processes preceding the onset of binocular function are not preprogrammed, and the mechanisms turning on stereopsis are extremely experience-dependent in humans.
Neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) receive feedforward input from the thalamus, which shapes receptive-field properties. They additionally receive recurrent inputs via horizontal connections within V1 and feedback from higher visual areas that are thought to be important for conscious visual perception. Here, we investigated what roles different glutamate receptors play in conveying feedforward and recurrent inputs in macaque V1. As a measure of recurrent processing, we used figure-ground modulation (FGM), the increased activity of neurons representing figures compared with background, which depends on feedback from higher areas. We found that feedforward-driven activity was strongly reduced by the AMPA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), whereas this drug had no effect on FGM. In contrast, blockers of the NMDA receptor reduced FGM, whereas their effect on visually driven activity varied with the subunit specificity of the drug. The NMDA receptor blocker 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV) caused a slight reduction of the visual response, whereas ifenprodil, which targets NMDA receptors containing the NMDA receptor NR2B subunit, increased the visual response. These findings demonstrate that glutamate receptors contribute differently to feedforward and recurrent processing in V1 and suggest ways to selectively disrupt recurrent processing so that its role in visual perception can be elucidated.
Huntington's disease (HD) has long been regarded as a disease of the central nervous system, partly due to typical disease symptoms that include loss of motor control, cognitive deficits and neuropsychiatric disturbances. However, the huntingtin gene is ubiquitously expressed throughout the body. We had previously reported a female-specific depression-related behavioural phenotype in the R6/1 transgenic mouse model of HD. One hypothesis suggests that pathology of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, the key physiological stress-response system that links central and peripheral organs, is a cause of depression. There is evidence of HPA axis pathology in HD, but whether it contributes to the female R6/1 behavioural phenotype is unclear. We have examined HPA axis response of R6/1 mice following acute stress and found evidence of a female-specific dysregulation of the HPA axis in R6/1 mice, which we further isolated to a hyper-response of adrenal cortical cells to stimulation by adrenocorticotrophin hormone. Interestingly, the adrenal pathophysiology was not detected in mice that had been housed in environmentally enriching conditions, an effect of enrichment that was also reproduced in vitro. This constitutes the first evidence that environmental enrichment can in fact exert a lasting influence on peripheral organ function. Cognitive stimulation may therefore not only have benefits for mental function, but also for overall physiological wellbeing.


Recent studies of the primary cilium have begun to provide further insights into ciliary ultrastructure, with an emerging picture of complex compartmentalization and molecular components that combine in functional modules. Many proteins that are mutated in ciliopathies are localized to the transition zone, a compartment of the proximal region of the cilium. The loss of these components can disrupt ciliary functions such as the control of protein entry and exit from the cilium, the possible trafficking of essential ciliary components, and the regulation of signaling cascades and control of the cell cycle. The discovery of functional modules within the primary cilium may help in understanding the variable phenotypes and pleiotropy in ciliopathies.
The central nervous system (CNS) is now known to actively communicate with the immune system to control immune responses both centrally and peripherally. Within the CNS, while studies on glial cells, especially microglia, have highlighted the importance of this cell type in innate immune responses of the CNS, the immune regulatory functions of other cell types, especially neurons, are largely unknown. How neuroimmune cross-talk is homeostatically maintained in neurodevelopment and adult plasticity is even more elusive. Inspiringly, accumulating evidence suggests that neurons may also actively participate in immune responses by controlling glial cells and infiltrated T cells. The potential clinical application of this knowledge warrants a deeper understanding of the mutual interactions between neurons and other types of cells during neurological and immunological processes within the CNS, which will help advance diagnosis, prevention, and intervention of various neurological diseases. The aim of this review is to address the immune function of both glial cells and neurons, and the roles they play in regulating inflammatory processes and maintaining homeostasis of the CNS.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is characterized by altered emotional and cognitive functioning. We performed a voxel-based whole-brain meta-analysis of functional neuroimaging data on altered emotion and cognition in MDD. Forty peer-reviewed studies in English-language published between 1998 and 2010 were included, which used functional neuroimaging during cognitive-emotional challenge in adult individuals with MDD and healthy controls. All studies reported between-groups differences for whole-brain analyses in standardized neuroanatomical space and were subjected to Activation Likelihood Estimation (ALE) of brain cluster showing altered responsivity in MDD. ALE resulted in thresholded and false discovery rate corrected hypo- and hyperactive brain regions. Against the background of a complex neural activation pattern, studies converged in predominantly hypoactive cluster in the anterior insular and rostral anterior cingulate cortex linked to affectively biased information processing and poor cognitive control. Frontal areas showed not only similar under- but also over-activation during cognitive-emotional challenge. On the subcortical level, we identified activation alterations in the thalamus and striatum which were involved in biased valence processing of emotional stimuli in MDD. These results for active conditions extend findings from ALE meta-analyses of resting state and antidepressant treatment studies and emphasize the key role of the anterior insular and rostral anterior cingulate cortex for altered emotion and cognition in MDD.
Somatosensory evoked responses are known to be modulated by previous interfering stimuli. Here, we first investigated the modulatory effects of interfering stimuli with different intensities on somatosensory evoked magnetic field in human primary (S1) and secondary (S2) somatosensory cortices. In the control condition of the study, test stimulus, set to strong intensity, was delivered to the left median nerve. Interfering stimuli with three different levels of intensity from weak (WI) through moderate (MI) and finally to strong (SI) were interspersed to the left median nerve between the test stimuli in each interfering condition. The cortical responses to the test stimulus were modeled with equivalent current dipoles in the contralateral S1 and bilateral S2 cortices from 17 subjects. The amplitude of the N20m deflection from the S1 was not changed by any interfering stimuli, whereas the amplitude of later P35m deflection was reduced by MI stimulus. The amplitude of P60m deflection was reduced by MI and SI stimuli. The extent of amplitude reduction of the bilateral S2 response was markedly increased as intensity of interfering stimuli increased from weak to moderate, but further reduction by the SI stimuli compared to MI stimuli was not observed. Those results indicated that somatosensory cortical activation in the S1 (P35m and P60m) and S2 were modulated by intensity of interfering stimuli. Our findings of a greater gating effect on the bilateral S2 compared to the contralateral S1 indicate that S2 may play an important role in temporal integration of different intensity levels of somatosensory inputs.
Fractal measures such as fractal dimension (FD) can quantify the structural complexity of the brain. These have been used in clinical neuroscience to investigate brain development, ageing and in studies of psychiatric and neurological disorders. Here, we examined associations between the FD of white matter and cognitive changes across the life course in the absence of detectable brain disease. The FD was calculated from segmented cerebral white matter MR images in 217 subjects aged about 68years, in whom archived intelligence scores from age 11years were available. Cognitive test scores of fluid and crystallised intelligence were obtained at the time of MR imaging. Significant differences were found (intracranial volume, brain volume, white matter volume and Raven's Progressive Matrices score) between men and women at age 68years and novel associations were found between FD and measures of cognitive change over the life course from age 11 to 68years. Those with greater FD were found to have greater than expected fluid abilities at age 68years than predicted by their childhood intelligence and less cognitive decline from age 11 to 68years. These results are consistent with other reports that FD measures of cortical structural complexity increase across the early life course during maturation of the cerebral cortex and add new data to support an association between FD and cognitive ageing.
The purpose of this study is to create a model that can classify schizophrenia patients and healthy controls based on whole brain gray matter densities (voxel-based morphometry, VBM) from structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. In addition, we investigated the stability of the accuracy of the models, when built with different sample sizes. Using a support vector machine, we built a model from 239 subjects (128 patients and 111 healthy controls) and classified 71.4% correct (leave-one-out). We replicated and validated this result by testing the unaltered model on a completely independent sample of 277 subjects (155 patients and 122 healthy controls), scanned with a different scanner. The classification rate of the validation sample was 70.4%. The model's discriminative pattern showed, amongst other differences, gray matter density decreases in frontal and superior temporal lobes and hippocampus in schizophrenia patients with respect to healthy controls and increases in gray matter density in basal ganglia and left occipital lobe and. Larger training samples gave more reliable models: Models based on sample sizes smaller than N=130 should be considered unstable and can even score below chance.
Functional and neuroanatomical asymmetries are an important characteristic of the human brain. The evolution of such specializations in the human cortex has provoked great interest in primate brain evolution. Most research on cortical sulci has revolved around linear measurements, which represent only one dimension of sulci organization. Here, we used a software program (BrainVISA) to quantify asymmetries in cortical depth and surface area from magnetic resonance images in a sample of 127 chimpanzees and 49 macaques. Population brain asymmetries were determined from 11 sulci in chimpanzees and seven sulci in macaques. Sulci were taken from the frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes. Population-level asymmetries were evident in chimpanzees for several sulci, including the fronto-orbital, superior precentral, and sylvian fissure sulci. The macaque population did not reveal significant population-level asymmetries, except for surface area of the superior temporal sulcus. The overall results are discussed within the context of the evolution of higher order cognition and motor functions.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can be applied to occipital cortex to abolish (conscious) perception of visual stimuli. TMS research has revealed several time windows of masking relative to visual stimulus onset, most consistently a time window around 100ms post-stimulus. However, the exact nature of visual processing in this 'classical' time window, e.g. whether it represents the feedforward processing of the visual information, or rather a feedback projection from higher visual areas, remains unclear. Here, we used TMS to mask in the same participants two types of stimuli of different complexities (orientation Gratings and Faces) over different time windows. Interestingly, the masking functions were not the same for both stimulus types. We found an earlier peak masking latency for orientation stimuli, and a slower recovery for Faces. In a second, follow-up experiment, we superimposed both types of stimuli to create one composite stimulus set. Depending on the instruction, participants could then perform orientation or face discrimination tasks on the exact same stimuli. In addition, for each participant, stimuli were calibrated to equate task difficulties. The peak masking latency was now identical for both tasks, but the masking function revealed again a slower recovery during the face discrimination task, suggesting top-down (recurrent) effects in the second half of the masking function. Hence, rather than this masking window reflecting either feedforward or feedback processing, the early part of what is traditionally considered one masking window may reflect feedforward processing, while the latter part may already reflect recurrent processing. These findings shed new light on recurrent models of vision and related theoretical accounts of visual awareness.
The interaction between the endocannabinoid system and catecholaminergic circuits has gained increasing attention as it is recognized that the development of synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonists/antagonists or compounds targeting endocannabinoid synthesis/metabolism may hold some therapeutic potential for the treatment of psychiatric disorders. The noradrenergic system plays a critical role in the modulation of emotional state, primarily related to anxiety, arousal, and stress. Recent evidence suggests that the endocannabinoid system mediates stress responses and emotional homeostasis, in part, by targeting noradrenergic circuits. This review summarizes our current knowledge regarding the anatomical substrates underlying regulation of noradrenergic circuitry by the endocannabinoid system. It then presents biochemical evidence showing an important effect of cannabinoid modulation on adrenergic receptor signaling. Finally, new evidence from behavioral pharmacology studies is provided demonstrating that norepinephrine is a critical determinant of cannabinoid-induced aversion, adding another dimension to how central noradrenergic circuitry is regulated by the cannabinoid system.
Cannabinoid modulation of dopaminergic transmission is suggested by the ability of delta9-tetrahydrocanabinoid to affect motor and motivated behaviors in a manner similar to that produced by pharmacological manipulation of the nigrostriatal and mesocorticolimbic dopamine systems. These behavioral effects as well as analogous effects of endocannabinoids are largely mediated through the cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB1R). This receptor is located within the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area, which respectively house the somata of nigrostriatal and mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic neurons. The CB1R is also abundantly expressed in brain regions targeted by the efferent terminals of these dopaminergic neurons. In this review we present the accumulating anatomical and electrophysiological evidence indicating that in each of these systems cannabinoids modulate dopamine transmission largely if not exclusively through indirect mechanisms. The summarized mechanisms include presynaptic release of amino acid transmitters onto midbrain dopamine neurons and onto both cortical and striatal neurons that express dopamine D1-like or D2-like receptors functionally affiliated with the CB1 receptor. The review concludes with a consideration of the psychiatric and neurological implications of cannabinoid modulation of dopamine transmission within these networks.
CB cannabinoid receptor agonists hold promise as a new class of therapeutics for indications as diverse as pain, neuroinflammation, immune suppression and osteoporosis. These potential indications are supported by strong preliminary data from multiple investigators using diverse preclinical models. However, clinical trials for CB agonists, when they have been reported have generally been disappointing. This review considers possible explanations for the mismatch between promising preclinical data and disappointing clinical data. We propose that a more careful consideration of CB receptor pharmacology may help move CB agonists from &quot;promising&quot; to &quot;effective&quot; therapeutics.
International Medical Graduates (IMGs) make up a significant portion of the United States and Canadian workforce, and are well represented in psychiatry residency training programs. A review of the literature indicates that before entering residency training, many IMGs have minimal exposure to the behavioral sciences and poor communication skills-training; significant issues for learning psychotherapy. Given the lack of clear direction in the literature, this article presents empirically-informed guidelines relevant to the training of International Medical Graduates in psychotherapy.



Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by deficits in social interaction and social communication, as well as by the presence of repetitive and stereotyped behaviors and interests. Brodmann areas 44 and 45 in the inferior frontal cortex, which are involved in language processing, imitation function, and sociality processing networks, have been implicated in this complex disorder. Using a stereologic approach, this study aims to explore the presence of neuropathological differences in areas 44 and 45 in patients with autism compared to age- and hemisphere-matched controls. Based on previous evidence in the fusiform gyrus, we expected to find a decrease in the number and size of pyramidal neurons as well as an increase in volume of layers III, V, and VI in patients with autism. We observed significantly smaller pyramidal neurons in patients with autism compared to controls, although there was no difference in pyramidal neuron numbers or layer volumes. The reduced pyramidal neuron size suggests that a certain degree of dysfunction of areas 44 and 45 plays a role in the pathology of autism. Our results also support previous studies that have shown specific cellular neuropathology in autism with regionally specific reduction in neuron size, and provide further evidence for the possible involvement of the mirror neuron system, as well as impairment of neuronal networks relevant to communication and social behaviors, in this disorder.



Over- and under-estimation have been observed in numerosity estimation and approximate arithmetic tasks. Two different models have been proposed to account for these reverse patterns of performance: 1) the bi-directional mapping account (Crollen, Castronovo, &amp; Seron, 2011); 2) the operational momentum hypothesis (McCrink, Dehaene, &amp; Dehaene-Lambertz, 2007). Our study was designed to examine whether the operational momentum could account for the over-estimation found in numerosity estimation tasks. To this aim, a series of 3 experiments involving a symbolic to non-symbolic numerical mapping and a rightward or leftward displacement along the mental number line were designed. Over-estimation was observed in these three tasks irrespective of the direction and size of the displacement to be done on the mental number line. These results thus clearly demonstrated that overestimation was not merely due to an attentional bias, but rather relied on the cognitive operation of mapping two differently scaled numerical representations.
Although the effects of attention on movement execution are well documented behaviorally, much less research has been done on the neurophysiological changes that underlie attentional focus effects. This study presents two experiments exploring effects of attention during an isometric plantar-flexion task using surface electromyography (sEMG). Participants' attention was directed either externally (towards the force plate they were pushing against) or internally (towards their own leg, specifically the agonist muscle). Experiment 1 tested the effects of attention on accuracy and efficiency of force produced at three target forces (30, 60, and 100% of the maximum voluntary contraction; MVC). An internal focus of attention reduced the accuracy of force being produced and increased cocontraction of the antagonist muscle. Error on a given trial was positively correlated with the magnitude of cocontraction on that trial. Experiment 2 tested the effects of attention on muscular fatigue at 30, 60 and 100%MVC. An internal focus of attention led to less efficient intermuscular coordination, especially early in the contraction. These results suggest that an internal focus of attention disrupts efficient motor control in force production resulting in increased cocontraction, which potentially explains other neuromechanical findings (e.g. reduced functional variability with an internal focus).
While previous research has investigated the relationship either between language and music processing or between language and arithmetic processing, the present study investigated the relationship between music and arithmetic processing. Rule-governed number series, with the final number being a correct or incorrect series ending, were visually presented in synchrony with musical sequences, with the final chord functioning as the expected tonic or the less-expected subdominant chord (i.e., tonal function manipulation). Participants were asked to judge the correctness of the final number as quickly and accurately as possible. The results revealed an interaction between the processing of series ending and the processing of the task-irrelevant chords' tonal function, thus suggesting that music and arithmetic processing share cognitive resources. These findings are discussed in terms of general temporal and structural integration resources for linguistic and non-linguistic rule-governed sequences.
The neuropeptide galanin and its three receptor subtypes (GalR1-3) are expressed in the central amygdala (CeA), a brain region involved in stress- and anxiety-related behaviors, as well as alcohol dependence. Galanin also has been suggested to play a role in alcohol intake and alcohol dependence. We examined the effects of galanin in CeA slices from wild-type and knockout (KO) mice deficient of GalR2 and both GalR1 and GalR2 receptors. Galanin had dual effects on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic transmission, decreasing the amplitudes of pharmacologically isolated GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in over half of CeA neurons but augmenting IPSPs in the others. The increase in IPSP size was absent after superfusion of the GalR3 antagonist SNAP 37889, whereas the IPSP depression was absent in CeA neurons of GalR1  GalR2 double KO and GalR2 KO mice. Paired-pulse facilitation studies showed weak or infrequent effects of galanin on GABA release. Thus, galanin may act postsynaptically through GalR3 to augment GABAergic transmission in some CeA neurons, whereas GalR2 receptors likely are involved in the depression of IPSPs. Co-superfusion of ethanol, which augments IPSPs presynaptically, together with galanin caused summated effects of ethanol and galanin in those CeA neurons showing galanin-augmented IPSPs, suggesting the two agents act via different mechanisms in this population. However, in neurons showing IPSP-diminishing galanin effects, galanin blunted the ethanol effects, suggesting a preemptive effect of galanin. These findings may increase understanding of the complex cellular mechanisms that underlie the anxiety-related behavioral effects of galanin and ethanol in CeA.






The Research Institute on Addictions (RIA) was established in 1970 as a research component of the New York State Department of Mental Hygiene. After three decades of serving as a research component of New York State agencies concerned with alcohol and substance abuse, RIA was legislatively transferred to the University at Buffalo in 1999. Today, RIA's cadre of senior research scientists are engaged individually and collaboratively on a multitude of addictions-related studies. The majority of the Institute's ongoing research studies relate to one or more of the following seven broad research domains: causes and consequences of alcohol, marijuana and other drug use; biological and neuroscience; gambling behavior; gender-related studies; dissemination and professional training; treatment; and youth, families and relationships. In this paper, an overview of the structure of the Institute is provided, along with a description of the organizational and scientific culture at RIA. Further information about the Institute, its scientists and its activities can be found at http://www.ria.buffalo.edu.
This article is intended to raise awareness of the adaptive value of endurance exercise (particularly running) in the evolutionary history of humans, and the implications of the genetic disposition to exercise for the aging populations of modern technology-driven societies. The genome of Homo sapiens has evolved to support the svelte phenotype of an endurance runner, setting him/her apart from all other primates. The cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the competitive advantages conferred by exercise capacity in youth can also provide a survival benefit beyond the reproductive period. These mechanisms include up-regulation of genes encoding proteins involved in protecting cells against oxidative stress, disposing of damaged proteins and organelles, and enhancing bioenergetics. Particularly fascinating are the signaling mechanisms by which endurance running changes the structure and functional capabilities of the brain and, conversely, the mechanisms by which the brain integrates metabolic, cardiovascular and behavioral responses to exercise. As an emerging example, I highlight the roles of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) as a mediator of the effects of exercise on the brain, and BDNF's critical role in regulating metabolic and cardiovascular responses to endurance running. A better understanding of such 'healthspan-extending' actions of endurance exercise may lead to new approaches for improving quality of life as we advance in the coming decades and centuries.
This study evaluates the efficacy of an intervention for persons living with HIV (PLH) and their family members in Thailand. A randomized controlled trial of 813 PLH and family members was carried out at four district hospitals in Thailand. Participants completed Computer Assisted Personal Interview assessments at baseline, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. The primary outcome was quality of life (QoL); other measures included depressive symptoms and family functioning. Relative to the standard care condition, the intervention group reported significantly improved QoL at 6 months (P = 0.0014). When the intervention efficacy was stratified by baseline depressive symptoms (low vs. high), intervention efficacy was observed only among those with low depressive symptoms. Study findings suggest that the intervention was more efficacious for participants with less depressive symptoms and better family functioning. Extensive interventions may be optimal for those who have the capacity to learn the tools and skills.
We evaluate the efficacy of a family-based intervention over time among HIV-affected families. Mothers living with HIV (MLH; n = 339) in Los Angeles and their school-aged children were randomized to either an intervention or control condition and followed for 18 months. MLH and their children in the intervention received 16 cognitive-behavioral, small-group sessions designed to help them maintain physical and mental health, parent while ill, address HIV-related stressors, and reduce HIV-transmission behaviors. At recruitment, MLH reported few problem behaviors related to physical health, mental health, or sexual or drug transmission acts. Compared to MLH in the control condition, intervention MLH were significantly more likely to monitor their own CD4 cell counts and their children were more likely to decrease alcohol and drug use. Most MLH and their children had relatively healthy family relationships. Family-based HIV interventions should be limited to MLH who are experiencing substantial problems.
In a pilot study, young people in slums in Kampala, Uganda received an HIV prevention program (Street Smart) and were randomized to receive vocational training immediately (Immediate) or four months later (Delayed). Youth were monitored at recruitment, 4 months (85% retention), and 24 months (74% retention). Employment increased dramatically: Only 48% had ever been employed at recruitment, 86% were employed from months 21 to 24 post recruitment. Over two years, decreases were recorded in the number of sexual partners, mental health symptoms, delinquent acts, and drug use; condom use increased. Providing employment in low income countries, in conjunction with HIV prevention, may provide sustained support to young people to prevent HIV acquisition.



Increased susceptibility of the aging brain to both chronic stress and incipient dementia-related neuropathology may accelerate cognitive decline. We investigated associations between chronic stress and diagnostic change in 62 individuals (mean age, 78.7 y) participating in an Alzheimer disease research center longitudinal study. The subjects, diagnosed at baseline as cognitively normal (CN) or with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), were followed for an average of 2.5 years. Senior neurologists, blind to detailed measures of stress and cognition, assigned diagnoses annually. Logistic regression analyses assessed the accuracy with which measures of stress (event-based ratings, cortisol levels) predicted the conversion to MCI and dementia. Eleven individuals with MCI at baseline received a dementia diagnosis during follow-up. Sixteen converted from cognitively normal to MCI. Prolonged, highly stressful experiences were associated with conversion from MCI to dementia. The cortisol awakening response, with age and education, was associated with a diagnostic change to MCI. Cortisol measures were not associated with the progression from MCI to dementia, and there was no association between stressful experiences and the change to MCI. Mechanisms associated with the transition from normal cognition to MCI may differ from those associated with a diagnostic change to dementia. These findings could facilitate the identification of interventional strategies to reduce the risk of decline at different stages of susceptibility.
Alzheimer's disease is recognized as a public health crisis worldwide. As public and private funding agencies around the world enhance and expand their support of Alzheimer's disease research, there is an urgent need to coordinate funding strategies and leverage resources to maximize the impact on public health and avoid duplication of effort and inefficiency. Such coordination requires a comprehensive assessment of the current landscape of Alzheimer's disease research in the United States and internationally. To this end, the National Institute on Aging at the National Institutes of Health and the Alzheimer's Association developed the Common Alzheimer's Disease Research Ontology (CADRO) as a dynamic portfolio analysis tool that can be used by funding agencies worldwide for strategic planning and coordination.


Experimental studies support a neurotrophic hypothesis of major depressive disorder (MDD). The aim of this study was to determine the effect of Val66Met brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) polymorphism on the white matter fiber tracts connecting hippocampus and amygdala with the prefrontal lobe in a sample of patients with MDD and healthy controls. Thirty-seven patients with MDD and 42 healthy volunteers were recruited. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) data with 61 diffusion directions were obtained with MRI 3 Tesla scanner. Deterministic tractography was applied with ExploreDTI and Val66Met BDNF SNP (rs6265) was genotyped. Fiber tracts connecting the hippocampus and amygdala with the prefrontal lobe, namely uncinate fasciculus (UF), fornix, and cingulum were analyzed. A significant interaction was found in the UF between BDNF alleles and diagnosis. Patients carrying the BDNF met-allele had smaller fractional anisotropy (FA) in the UF compared to those patients homozygous for val-allele and compared to healthy subjects carrying the met-allele. A significant three-way interaction was detected between region of the cingulum (dorsal, rostral, and parahippocampal regions), brain hemisphere and BDNF genotype. Larger FA was detectable in the left rostral cingulum for met-allele carriers when compared to val/val alelle carriers. We provide evidence for the importance of the neurotrophic involvement in limbic and prefrontal connections. The met-allele of the BDNF polymorphism seems to render subjects more vulnerable for dysfunctions associated with the UF, a tract known to be related to negative emotional-cognitive processing bias, declarative memory problems, and autonoetic self awareness.


Synaptopodin (SP) is an actin-binding molecule, which is closely linked with the spine apparatus organelle (SA). Recent experimental evidence suggests that SP containing spines differ in their functional and structural properties from neighboring spines, which do not contain SP. These studies revealed for the first time that SP clusters colocalize with a functional internal source of calcium, which affects synaptic plasticity. Strikingly, SP-cluster associated calcium surges were shown to control synaptic strength in two ways: a ryanodine receptor (RyR) dependent potentiation of synaptic strength was reported, as well as inositol-triphosphate-receptor (IP3R) dependent depression. These results suggested that the SA is an important component of the molecular machinery controlling the calcium-dependent accumulation of AMPA-receptors (AMPA-R) at excitatory synapses. They raise the intriguing possibility that SP/SA could play a role in different forms of synaptic plasticity.

We report a case of rabies viral encephalitis in a 48-year-old male with an unusually long incubation period, historically suspected to be more than 20 years. The case was referred for histological diagnosis following alleged medical negligence to the forensic department. The histology and immunocytochemical demonstration of rabies viral antigen established the diagnosis unequivocally. The case manifested initially with hydrophobia and aggressive behavior, although he suddenly went to the bathroom and drank a small amount of water. History of dog bite 25 years back was elicited retrospectively following clinical suspicion. There was no subsequent history to suggest nonbite exposure to a rabid dog to consider recent event causing the disease, although this cannot be totally excluded.
Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be understood in the context of the aging of neuroimmune communication. Although the contribution to AD of the immune cells present in the brain is accepted, the role of the peripheral immune system is less well known. The present review examines the behavior and the function and redox state of peripheral immune cells in a triple-transgenic mouse model (3Tg-AD). These animals develop both beta-amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles with a temporal- and regional-specific profile that closely mimics their development in the human AD brain. We have observed age and sex-related changes in several aspects of behavior and immune cell functions, which demonstrate premature aging. Lifestyle strategies such as physical exercise and environmental enrichment can improve these aspects. We propose that the analysis of the function and redox state of peripheral immune cells can be a useful tool for measuring the progression of AD.
The understanding of the unorthodox actions of neuronal-derived nitric oxide (()NO) in the brain has been constrained by uncertainties regarding its quantitative profile of change in time and space. As a diffusible intercellular messenger, conveying information associated with its concentration dynamics, both the synthesis via glutamate stimulus and inactivation pathways determine the profile of ()NO concentration change. In vivo studies, encompassing the real-time measurement of ()NO concentration dynamics have allowed us to gain quantitative insights into the mechanisms inherent to ()NO-mediated signaling pathways. It has been of particular interest to study the diffusion properties and half-life, the interplay between ()NO and O(2) and the ensuing functional consequences for regulation of O(2) consumption, the role of vasculature in shaping ()NO signals in vivo, and the mechanisms that are responsible for ()NO to achieve the coupling between glutamatergic neuronal activation and local microcirculation.
One of the greatest wonders in biology is the high degree of molecular organization and complexity achieved by multicellular life forms, which are typically composed by hundreds of cell types, each with a unique identity and function and all sharing the same genome. Long-term maintenance of these distinct cell identities requires epigenetic signals, molecular signatures that regulate gene expression and can be inherited during cell division. Some epigenetic signals also appear to have an intimate connection with brain function, with important implications for neuroscience and medicine. To better understand these phenomena, new technologies must be developed and nonconventional model organisms should be studied. For example, the genomes of eusocial insects, such as ants and honeybees, specify drastically different morphologies (polyphenism) and behaviors (polyethism) that yield adult individuals belonging to different castes, which carry out separate functions inside the colony. These sharp epigenetic differences present unique opportunities for the experimental dissection of molecular pathways that may be conserved in other organisms, including humans.

There is little agreement among neuropathologists regarding the timing and nature of oligodendrocyte loss in multiple sclerosis (MS). This review describes changes that accompany acute oligodendrocyte loss in new lesions. Included is a description of the immunopathology of new lesions in 23 severe early cases selected from a bank of 300 MS autopsies. Oligodendrocytes in prephagocytic lesions exhibit cytopathic changes that include apoptosis of oligodendrocytes immunoreactive for caspase 3, phagocytosis of apoptotic oligodendrocytes, swelling of cells with abnormal nuclei, complement deposition, and lysis. These are nonspecific changes that provide no clue as to the cause of oligodendrocyte injury. Associated changes include the presence of enlarged immunoglobulin (IgG)(+) microglia and early macrophages, the presence nearby of a focus of inflammatory demyelination, an open blood-brain barrier, and the presence of rare CD8 T cells. Myelin contacted by IgG(+) macrophages is immunoreactive for complement but not for IgG. It is likely that macrophage activity in evolving white and gray matter plaques is scavenging activity directed at nonvital myelin secondary to oligodendrocytes loss. One feature of MS that is not understood is the extraordinarily close resemblance the disease shows pathologically to neuromyelitis optica (NMO), including that demyelination in both is secondary to a loss of caspase 3-positive apoptotic oligodendrocytes. These similarities raise the possibility that like NMO, MS is an autoimmune disease in which oligodendrocyte apoptosis is determined by injury to some other glial or mesenchymal component.

It is well established that permanent childhood hearing impairment (PCHI) has a detrimental impact on speech and language development. The past two decades have seen the gradual introduction of universal newborn hearing screening (UNHS) programmes coupled with early intervention programmes. We review studies that have capitalised on the advent of newborn hearing screening to assess the impact of early identification of PCHI on language outcomes in deaf children. The research supports the conclusion that, in children with PCHI, newborn hearing screening and early identification lead to beneficial effects on language development, with the most consistent evidence provided for links between early identification of PCHI and positive language outcomes. Future research needs to encompass a wider range of outcomes and to assess the impact of UNHS in adolescents and young adults.

The unexpected return of mental clarity and memory shortly before death in patients suffering from severe psychiatric and neurologic disorders, which we have called &quot;terminal lucidity&quot;, has been reported in the medical literature over the past 250 years, but has received little attention. We review a range of terminal lucidity cases in order to encourage investigation of the mechanisms involved and possible insights into both the neuroscience of memory and cognition at the end of life and treatment of terminal illness. These examples include case reports of patients suffering from brain abscesses, tumors, strokes, meningitis, dementia or Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, and affective disorders. Several of these accounts suggest that during terminal lucidity, memory and cognitive abilities may function by neurologic processes different from those of the normal brain. We expect that significant contributions to better understanding the processes involved in memory and cognition processing might be gained through in-depth studies of terminal lucidity. Studying terminal lucidity might also facilitate the development of novel therapies. In addition, increased awareness of unusual end-of-life experiences could help physicians, caregivers, and bereaved family members be prepared for encountering such experiences, and help those individuals cope with them.



Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome (KTS) is characterized by a cutaneous vascular nevus of the involved extremity, as well as bone and soft tissue hypertrophy of the extremity and venous malformations. We present the case of a 52-year-old man with a femoral fracture and a history of haemangiomas, limb bone hypertrophy and varicosity. The patient was finally diagnosed with KTS and treated in mini-invasive surgery by endomedullary fracture nailing in general anaesthesia. Clinical management was particularly demanding, not only because of the need to monitor the risk of haemorrhage and thrombosis but also because of the onset of a rare picture of neuropathic pain with hyperalgesia and allodynia, never previously reported in patients affected by KTS, that required the administration of major opioid drugs. According to our knowledge, this is the second case of KTS managed for femoral fracture. Unlike the previous report in literature, in this case a severe disabling neuropathic pain complicated the clinical management.



Mobus is a cognitive orthotic designed for people with difficulties managing Activities of Daily Living (ADL), as encountered in schizophrenia. It provides a schedule manager as well as the possibility to report occurrences of symptomatic experiences. Receiving this information by Internet, caregivers can assist the patient rehabilitation process. Our aim was to explore the use and satisfaction of Mobus by people with schizophrenia. Nine outpatients tested Mobus for 6 weeks. Indicators of cognitive functioning and autonomy were measured with the CAmbridge Neuropsychological Tests Automated Battery (CANTAB) and the Independant Living Skills Scale (ILSS). On average, 42.6% of the planned ADL were validated and more than 1 symptom per week were reported. Mainly because of technical breakdown, more than 50% of the outpatients evaluated the Mobus satisfaction below 1.7/5, nevertheless 3 participants appreciated it greatly. Some enhancements were found on subscales of CANTAB and ILSS and some participants reported that they acquired planning skills by using Mobus. To ensure ease of use, refinements are needed from rehabilitation and technical approaches, especially to personalize the device. Discussions on ethical and methodological issues lead to an improved version of Mobus that will be tested with a larger sample size.

With modern technological advances, we often find ourselves dividing our attention between multiple tasks. While this may seem a productive way to live, our attentional capacity is limited, and this yields costs in one or more of the many tasks that we try to do. Some people believe that they are immune to the costs of multitasking and commonly engage in potentially dangerous behavior, such as driving while talking on the phone. But are some groups of individuals indeed immune to dual-task costs? This study examines whether avid action videogame players, who have been shown to have heightened attentional capacities, are particularly adept multitaskers. Participants completed three visually demanding experimental paradigms (a driving videogame, a multiple-object-tracking task, and a visual search), with and without answering unrelated questions via a speakerphone (i.e., with and without a dual-task component). All of the participants, videogame players and nonvideogame players alike, performed worse while engaging in the additional dual task for all three paradigms. This suggests that extensive videogame experience may not offer immunity from dual-task costs.
Previous studies investigating transfer of perceptual learning between luminance-defined (LD) motion and texture-contrast-defined (CD) motion tasks have found little or no transfer from LD to CD motion tasks but nearly perfect transfer from CD to LD motion tasks. Here, we introduce a paradigm that yields a clean double dissociation: LD training yields no transfer to the CD task, but more interestingly, CD training yields no transfer to the LD task. Participants were trained in two variants of a global motion task. In one (LD) variant, motion was defined by tokens that differed from the background in mean luminance. In the other (CD) variant, motion was defined by tokens that had mean luminance equal to the background but differed from the background in texture contrast. The task was to judge whether the signal tokens were moving to the right or to the left. Task difficulty was varied by manipulating the proportion of tokens that moved coherently across the four frames of the stimulus display. Performance in each of the LD and CD variants of the task was measured as training proceeded. In each task, training produced substantial improvement in performance in the trained task; however, in neither case did this improvement show any significant transfer to the nontrained task.
Face and symmetry processing have common characteristics, and several lines of evidence suggest they interact. To characterize their relationship and possible interactions, in the present study we created a novel library of images in which symmetry and face-likeness were manipulated independently. Participants identified the target that was most symmetric among distractors of equal face-likeness (Experiment 1) and identified the target that was most face-like among distractors of equal symmetry (Experiment 2). In Experiment 1, we found that symmetry judgments improved when the stimuli were more face-like. In Experiment 2, we found a more complex interaction: Image symmetry had no effect on detecting frontally viewed faces, but worsened performance for nonfrontally viewed faces. There was no difference in performance for upright versus inverted images, suggesting that these interactions occurred on the parts-based level. In sum, when symmetry and face-likeness are independently manipulated, we find that each influences the perception of the other, but the nature of the interactions differs.


Huntington's Disease (HD) is a fatally inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by an expanded glutamine repeat in the N-terminal region of the huntingtin (HTT) protein. The result is a progressively worsening triad of cognitive, emotional, and motor alterations that typically begin in adulthood and end in death 10-20 years later. Autopsy of HD patients indicates massive cell loss in the striatum and its main source of input, the cerebral cortex. Further studies of HD patients and transgenic animal models of HD indicate that corticostriatal neuronal processing is altered long before neuronal death takes place. In fact, altered neuronal function appears to be the primary driver of the HD behavioral phenotype, and dysregulation of glutamate, the excitatory amino acid released by corticostriatal afferents, is believed to play a critical role. Although mutant HTT interferes with the operation of multiple proteins related to glutamate transmission, consistent evidence links the expression of mutant HTT with reduced activity of glutamate transporter 1 (rodent GLT1 or human EAAT2), the astrocytic protein responsible for the bulk of glutamate uptake. Here, we review corticostriatal dysfunction in HD and focus on GLT1 and its expression in astrocytes as a possible therapeutic target.
Previous studies have demonstrated a strong association between carbamazepine-induced Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis (CBZ-induced SJS/TEN) and HLA-B*1502 in Chinese, and HLA-A*3101 but not HLA-B*1502 in Caucasians and Japanese. Cases with CBZ-induced SJS/TEN negative for HLA-B*1502 were reported recently in Southeast Asia. Negative correlations between CBZ-induced SJS/TEN and B*0702 or B*4001 have also been reported, suggesting a possible protective role. Here, we genotyped HLA-B and HLA-A in 18 cases with CBZ-induced SJS/TEN, in comparison with CBZ-tolerant and normal controls in Southern Han Chinese. A strong association between HLA-B*1502 and CBZ-induced SJS/TEN was found, with 72.2% sensitivity and 87.1% specificity. However, we also found five patients with SJS (5/18, 27.78%) who were negative for HLA-B*1502. HLA-A*2402 was present in nine of 16 cases with SJS (56.25%, including three of five cases negative for HLA-B*1502), which was significantly more frequent than that of CBZ-tolerant controls or the general southern population. Only one case with SJS carried HLA-A*3101. No statistical difference in the mean age, sex ratio and CBZ usage was found between the CBZ-induced SJS/TEN group and the CBZ-tolerant group. In search for possible protective genetic markers in HLA-B*1502-positive but CBZ-tolerant patients, we failed to find any significant factors in the HLA alleles observed. Given the association between HLA-B*1502 and CBZ-induced SJS/TEN, genetic testing before initiating CBZ therapy is suggested in Han Chinese population. However, physicians should also be vigilant about SJS/TEN in those negative for HLA-B*1502. Other factors for the development of CBZ-induced SJS/TEN in HLA-B*1502-negative patients and protective factors in CBZ-tolerant patients should be investigated further.
The object recognition task (ORT) is a popular one-trial learning test for animals. In the current study, we investigated several methodological issues concerning the task. Data was pooled from 28 ORT studies, containing 731 male Wistar rats. We investigated the relationship between 3 common absolute- and relative discrimination measures, as well as their relation to exploratory activity. In this context, the effects of pre-experimental habituation, object familiarity, trial duration, retention interval and the amnesic drugs MK-801 and scopolamine were investigated. Our analyses showed that the ORT is very sensitive, capable of detecting subtle differences in memory (discrimination) and exploratory performance. As a consequence, it is susceptible to potential biases due to (injection) stress and side effects of drugs. Our data indicated that a minimum amount of exploration is required in the sample and test trial for stable significant discrimination performance. However, there was no relationship between the level of exploration in the sample trial and discrimination performance. In addition, the level of exploration in the test trial was positively related to the absolute discrimination measure, whereas this was not the case for relative discrimination measures, which correct for exploratory differences, making them more resistant to exploration biases. Animals appeared to remember object information over multiple test sessions. Therefore, when animals have encountered both objects in prior test sessions, the object preference observed in the test trial of 1h retention intervals is probably due to a relative difference in familiarity between the objects in the test trial, rather than true novelty per se. Taken together, our findings suggest to take into consideration pre-experimental exposure (familiarization) to objects, habituation to treatment procedures, and the use of relative discrimination measures when using the ORT.
The object recognition task (ORT) allows assessing learning and memory processes in rodents. In this study, two areas in which knowledge about the ORT could be extended were addressed; i.e. generality to species and strains, and intervening variables including housing and estrous cycle. Regarding generality to species and strains, the ORT performance of golden hamsters was assessed. The hamsters showed sufficient exploration times, object recognition performance, and a retention-interval dependent decline similar to rats and mice. Subsequently, we tested three mouse strains which have not been described before in the ORT; i.e. OF1, NMRI, and SJL mice. OF1 and NMRI strains performed equally well, whereas the SJL strain showed low exploration times and no memory retention. Therefore, the SJL strain is unsuited for ORT experiments using a 1h retention interval and a fixed (3 min) trial duration. Furthermore, the sensitivity to a pharmacological memory deficit model (scopolamine) was tested in three rat strains. Each strain showed a dose dependent relationship, but the least effective dose of scopolamine differed among the three strains, the effect being greater in the order of Wistar, Long-Evans, Hooded Lister rats. Finally, to investigate potential intervening variables in the ORT, the effects of housing conditions and estrous cycle were investigated with rats. Single housing resulted in absolute higher performance than social housing. Furthermore, females in pro-estrus/estrus showed better performance compared to females in met-estrus/di-estrus. Taken together, object recognition appears to be a common ability of rodent species, but different strains have different memory capacities and sensitivities to scopolamine, individual housing leads to higher performance, and performance of females is dependent on the estrous cycle phase. Thus, rodent species, strain, housing, and estrous cycle should be taken into consideration in ORT studies.
The object recognition task is a commonly used test for the assessment of memory functions in rodents. In this paper different aspects concerning the analysis of object recognition data are discussed. Using a set of experimental studies and fictive data sets, it was shown that the absolute discrimination measure (d1) behaves different from the ratio measures (d2 and d3). Furthermore, it is suggested that, besides group differences, one should also examine whether each individual group actually discriminates between the novel and the familiar object. For this purpose, the use of a fictive group showing no discrimination is advisable. Furthermore, on basis of 48 object recognition task studies it is shown that discrimination performance does not fall significantly below zero. Therefore one-sided testing is allowed, provided that place- or object biases can be ruled out. Finally, it was shown that differences in exploration levels may affect the statistical evaluation of group differences. Several suggestions for statistical analysis are given.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a chronic, debilitating disorder with recurrent manic and depressive episodes. More than 75% of bipolar patients have a current or lifetime diagnosis of a comorbid anxiety disorder. Comorbid anxiety in BD is associated with greater illness severity, greater functional impairment, and poorer illness-related outcomes. Effectively treating comorbid anxiety in individuals with BD has been recognized as one of the biggest unmet needs in the field of BD. Recently, the Unified Protocol for Transdiagnostic Treatment of Emotional Disorders (UP) was developed to be applicable to the full range of anxiety and mood disorders, based on converging evidence from genetics, cognitive and affective neuroscience, and behavioral research suggesting common, core emotion-related pathology. Here, the authors present a preliminary evaluation of the efficacy of the UP for the treatment of BD with comorbid anxiety, in a clinical replication series consisting of three cases.
The S4 transmembrane segment in voltage-gated ion channels, a highly basic alpha helix, responds to changes in membrane potential and induces channel opening. Earlier work by others indicates that the S4 segment interacts with lipids in plasma membrane, but its mechanism is unclear. Working with synthetic tryptophan-labeled S4 peptides, we characterized binding of autonomous S4 to lipid membranes. The binding free energy (5.2 +/- 0.2 kcal/mol) of the peptide-lipid interaction was estimated from the apparent dissociation constants, determined from the changes in anisotropy of tryptophan fluorescence induced by addition of lipid vesicles with 30 mol% phosphatidylglycerol. The results are in good agreement with the prediction based on the Wimley-White hydrophobicity scale for interfacial (IF) binding of an alpha-helical peptide to the lipid bilayer (6.98 kcal/mol). High salt inhibited the interaction, thus indicating that the peptide/membrane interaction has both electrostatic and non-electrostatic components. Furthermore, the synthetic S4 corresponding to the Shaker potassium channel was found to spontaneously penetrate into the negatively charged lipid membrane to a depth of about 9 A. Our results revealed important biophysical parameters that influence the interaction of S4 with the membrane: they include fluidity, surface charge, and surface pressure of the membrane, and the at helicity and regular spacing of basic amino-acid residues in the S4 sequence.

The postsynaptic density (PSD) is a massive multi-protein complex whose functions include positioning signalling molecules for induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) of synaptic strength. These processes are thought to underlie memory formation. To understand how the PSD coordinates bidirectional synaptic plasticity with different synaptic activation patterns, it is necessary to determine its three-dimensional structure. A structural model of the PSD is emerging from investigation of its molecular composition and connectivity, in addition to structural studies at different levels of resolution. Technical innovations including mass spectrometry of cross-linked proteins and super-resolution light microscopy can drive progress. Integrating different information relating to PSD structure is challenging since the structure is so large and complex. The reconstruction of a PSD subcomplex anchored by AKAP79 exemplifies on a small scale how integration can be achieved. With its entire molecular structure coming into focus, this is a unique opportunity to study the PSD.

From the earliest stages of embryogenesis and throughout life, transcriptional regulation is carefully orchestrated in order to generate, shape, and reshape the central nervous system (CNS). TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) is identified as a regulator of essential transcriptional events in the CNS. Evidence for its importance comes from the identification of TDP-43 protein aggregates and genetic mutations in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Efforts are being made to learn more about the biological function of TDP-43 and gain a better understanding of its role in neurodegeneration. TDP-43 RNA targets and protein interactions have now been identified, and in vivo evidence shows that TDP-43 is essential in CNS development and function. This review will highlight aspects of these findings.
Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are widely used in computational neuroscience and machine learning applications. In an RNN, each neuron computes its output as a nonlinear function of its integrated input. While the importance of RNNs, especially as models of brain processing, is undisputed, it is also widely acknowledged that the computations in standard RNN models may be an over-simplification of what real neuronal networks compute. Here, we suggest that the RNN approach may be made computationally more powerful by its fusion with Bayesian inference techniques for nonlinear dynamical systems. In this scheme, we use an RNN as a generative model of dynamic input caused by the environment, e.g. of speech or kinematics. Given this generative RNN model, we derive Bayesian update equations that can decode its output. Critically, these updates define a 'recognizing RNN' (rRNN), in which neurons compute and exchange prediction and prediction error messages. The rRNN has several desirable features that a conventional RNN does not have, e.g. fast decoding of dynamic stimuli and robustness to initial conditions and noise. Furthermore, it implements a predictive coding scheme for dynamic inputs. We suggest that the Bayesian inversion of RNNs may be useful both as a model of brain function and as a machine learning tool. We illustrate the use of the rRNN by an application to the online decoding (i.e. recognition) of human kinematics.


Repeated stress induces corticosterone release. However, it is not clear that stress results in further elevation of corticosterone levels, and the roles of released corticosterone to aggravate stress-related symptoms are also not clear. This study investigated whether neuronal modulation was induced in the amygdala after two kinds of stress, that is, such as electric shock and corticosterone injection. It was found that stress by electric shock decreased the expression of tyrosine hydoroxylase (TH) in the amygdala while the expression of pERK was increased. However, there is no difference in the expressions of TH and pERK in the frontal cortex compared with those of the control group. The level of corticosterone was significantly increased in the serum after stress. To determine the effect of corticosterone on the induction of anxiety and the expression of TH, the rats received corticosterone (20 mg or 40 mg/kg i.p.) for 1 day, 1 week, 2 weeks and 3 weeks, respectively. The spent time in open arms of the EPM (elevated plus maze) test was significantly decreased after 1 week, 2 weeks and 3 weeks. The time spent in open arms of the EPM test after repeated injections of corticosterone was significantly decreased in a dose-dependent manner. The expression of TH in the amygdala was reduced after following repeated corticosterone treatment for 2 weeks and 3 weeks. Collectively, this study suggests that corticosterone has a major role in the induction of anxiety and the modulation of TH expression, at least, in the amygdala.
A novel 4-aminocyclopentapyrrolidine series of N-type Ca(2+) channel blockers have been discovered. Enantioselective synthesis of the 4-aminocyclopentapyrrolidines was enabled using N-tert-butyl sulfinamide chemistry. SAR studies demonstrate selectivity over L-type Ca(2+) channels. N-type Ca(2+) channel blockade was confirmed using electrophysiological recording techniques. Compound 25 is an N-type Ca(2+) channel blocker that produces antinociception in inflammatory and nociceptive pain models without exhibiting cardiovascular or motor liabilities.
The purpose of the study was to determine the long-term safety and effectiveness of high-dose immunosuppressive therapy (HDIT) followed by autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (AHCT) in advanced multiple sclerosis (MS). TBI, CY and antithymocyte globulin were followed by transplantation of autologous, CD34-selected PBSCs. Neurological examinations, brain magnetic resonance imaging and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for oligoclonal bands (OCB) were serially evaluated. Patients (n=26, mean Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS)=7.0, 17 secondary progressive, 8 primary progressive, 1 relapsing/remitting) were followed for a median of 48 months after HDIT followed by AHCT. The 72-month probability of worsening 1.0 EDSS point was 0.52 (95% confidence interval, 0.30-0.75). Five patients had an EDSS at baseline of 6.0; four of them had not failed treatment at last study visit. OCB in CSF persisted with minor changes in the banding pattern. Four new or enhancing lesions were seen on MRI, all within 13 months of treatment. In this population with high baseline EDSS, a significant proportion of patients with advanced MS remained stable for as long as 7 years after transplant. Non-inflammatory events may have contributed to neurological worsening after treatment. HDIT/AHCT may be more effective in patients with less advanced relapsing/remitting MS.




Like type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), neurodegenerative disorders and stroke are an ever increasing, health, social and economic burden for developed Westernized countries. Age is an important risk factor in all of these; due to the rapidly increasing rise in the elderly population T2DM and neurodegenerative disorders, both represent a looming threat to healthcare systems. Whereas several efficacious drugs are currently available to ameliorate T2DM, effective treatments to counteract pathogenic processes of neurodegenerative disorders are lacking and represent a major scientific and pharmaceutical challenge. Epidemiological data indicate an association between T2DM and most major neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Likewise, there is an association between T2DM and stroke incidence. Studies have revealed that common pathophysiological features, including oxidative stress, insulin resistance, abnormal protein processing and cognitive decline, occur across these. Based on the presence of shared mechanisms and signalling pathways in these seemingly distinct diseases, one could hypothesize that an effective treatment for one disorder could prove beneficial in the others. Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1)-based anti-diabetic drugs have drawn particular attention as an effective new strategy to not only regulate blood glucose but also to reduce apoptotic cell death of pancreatic beta cells in T2DM. Evidence supports a neurotrophic and neuroprotective role of GLP-1 receptor (R) stimulation in an increasing array of cellular and animal neurodegeneration models as well as in neurogenesis. Herein, we review the physiological role of GLP-1 in the nervous system, focused towards the potential benefit of GLP-1R stimulation as an immediately translatable treatment strategy for acute and chronic neurological disorders.
The endocannabinoid (eCB) system is involved in processes as diverse as control of appetite, perception of pain and the limitation of cancer cell growth and invasion. The enzymes responsible for eCB breakdown are attractive pharmacological targets, and fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitors, which potentiate the levels of the eCB anandamide, are now undergoing pharmaceutical development. 'Drugable' selective inhibitors of monoacylglycerol lipase, a key enzyme regulating the levels of the other main eCB, 2-arachidonoylglycerol, were however not identified until very recently. Their availability has resulted in a large expansion of our knowledge concerning the pharmacological consequences of monoacylglycerol lipase inhibition and hence the role(s) played by the enzyme in the body. In this review, the pharmacology of monoacylglycerol lipase will be discussed, together with an analysis of the therapeutic potential of monoacylglycerol lipase inhibitors as analgesics and anticancer agents.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE The histamine H(3) receptor was identified as the autoreceptor of brain histaminergic neurons. After its cloning, functional H(3) receptor isoforms generated by a deletion in the third intracellular loop were found in the brain. Here, we determined if this autoreceptor was the long or the short isoform. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH We hypothesized that the deletion would affect H(3) receptor stereoselectivity. The effects of the enantiomers of two chiral ligands, N()-methyl--chloromethylhistamine (N() Me-ClMeHA) and sopromidine, were investigated on cAMP formation at the H(3(445)) and H(3(413)) receptor isoforms, common to all species. They were further compared with their effects at autoreceptors. They were also compared on [(35)S]GTP[S] binding to membranes of rat cerebral cortex, striatum and hypothalamus, the richest area in autoreceptors. KEY RESULTS The stereoselectivity of N() Me-ClMeHA enantiomers as agonists was similar at the H(3(413)) receptor isoform and autoreceptors, but lower at the long isoform. While (S) sopromidine did not discriminate between the isoforms, (R) sopromidine was an antagonist at the H(3(413)) receptor isoform and autoreceptors, but a full agonist at the long isoform. In rat brain, stereoselectivity of N() Me-ClMeHA was higher in the hypothalamus than in cerebral cortex or striatum, whereas the opposite pattern was found for sopromidine. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS The pharmacological profiles of H(3) receptor isoforms differed markedly, showing that the function of autoreceptors was fulfilled by a short isoform, such as the H(3(413)) receptor. Development of drugs selectively targeting autoreceptors might enhance their therapeutic efficacy and/or decrease incidence of side effects.
The past 20 years have seen a remarkable development of neuroimaging methodologies that allow fine-tuned examination of abnormalities in the structure and function of neural circuitry, supporting cognition and emotion in individuals with psychiatric disorders. This editorial highlights the potential of neuroimaging to address major challenges in psychiatric clinical practice.
Focal motor seizures are characterized by transient motor behaviour that occurs simultaneously with paroxystic activity in the controlateral motor cortex. The implication of the basal ganglia has already been shown for generalized seizure but the propagation pathways from the motor cortex towards the basal ganglia during focal motor seizures are largely unknown. With a better knowledge of those pathways, a therapeutic modulation for reducing drug resistant motor epilepsy could be considered. Here, we recorded single-unit activities and local field potentials in the basal ganglia of two Macaca fascicularis in which acute focal motor seizures were induced by the injection of penicillin over the arm motor cortex territory. Each neuron was characterized using its mean firing rate and its type of firing pattern during interictal periods and seizures. Time-frequency analyses of local field potentials and electroencephalographic signals were used to assess dynamic changes occurring during seizure at a larger spatial level. The firing rate of neurons of input stages of basal ganglia (subthalamic nucleus and putamen) and those from the external part of the globus pallidus were significantly higher during seizures as compared to interictal periods. During seizures, the proportion of oscillatory neurons in subthalamic nucleus (71%), external globus pallidus (45%) and putamen (53%) significantly increased in comparison to interictal periods. Rhythmic activity was synchronized with ictal cortical spikes in external globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus, but not in the putamen which oscillated faster than motor cortex. In contrast, no significant modification of the firing rate of the output stages of basal ganglia (internal part of the globus pallidus, substantia nigra pars reticulata) could be found during seizures. The local field potentials of subthalamic nucleus and external globus pallidus changed abruptly at the onset of the seizure, showing synchronization with the cortical activity throughout the seizure. In putamen, the synchronization appeared only by the end of seizures and for the two output structures, despite some increase of the oscillatory activity, the synchronization with the cortex was not significant. Our results suggest that the subthalamo-(external)-pallidal pathway is the main subcortical route involved during ictal motor seizures. Surprisingly, ictal activity did not propagate to the output structure of basal ganglia in that model. This finding may be important for clinical decisions of targeting when considering anti-epileptic neuromodulation in human beings suffering from disabling, drug resistant motor epilepsy.
Although progressive supranuclear palsy is defined by its akinetic rigidity, vertical supranuclear gaze palsy and falls, cognitive impairments are an important determinant of patients' and carers' quality of life. Here, we investigate whether there is a broad deficit of modality-independent social cognition in progressive supranuclear palsy and explore the neural correlates for these. We recruited 23 patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (using clinical diagnostic criteria, nine with subsequent pathological confirmation) and 22 age- and education-matched controls. Participants performed an auditory (voice) emotion recognition test, and a visual and auditory theory of mind test. Twenty-two patients and 20 controls underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging to analyse neural correlates of social cognition deficits using voxel-based morphometry. Patients were impaired on the voice emotion recognition and theory of mind tests but not auditory and visual control conditions. Grey matter atrophy in patients correlated with both voice emotion recognition and theory of mind deficits in the right inferior frontal gyrus, a region associated with prosodic auditory emotion recognition. Theory of mind deficits also correlated with atrophy of the anterior rostral medial frontal cortex, a region associated with theory of mind in health. We conclude that patients with progressive supranuclear palsy have a multimodal deficit in social cognition. This deficit is due, in part, to progressive atrophy in a network of frontal cortical regions linked to the integration of socially relevant stimuli and interpretation of their social meaning. This impairment of social cognition is important to consider for those managing and caring for patients with progressive supranuclear palsy.
Although frontal dysexecutive disorders are frequently considered to be due to working memory deficit, this has not been systematically examined and very little evidence is available for impairment of working memory in frontal damage. The objective of this study was to examine the components of working memory, their anatomy and the relations with executive functions in patients with stroke involving the frontal or posterior cortex. The study population consisted of 29 patients (frontal: n=17; posterior: n=12) and 29 matched controls. Phonological loop (letter and word spans, phonological store; rehearsal process), visuospatial sketchpad (visuospatial span) and the central executive (working memory span, dual task and updating process) were examined. The group comparison analysis showed impairment in the frontal group of: (i) verbal spans (P&lt;0.03); (ii) with a deficit of the rehearsal process (P=0.006); (iii) visuospatial span (P=0.04); (iv) working memory span (P=0.001) that disappeared after controlling for verbal span and (v) running memory (P=0.05) unrelated to updating conditions. The clinical anatomical correlation study showed that impairment of the central executive depended on frontal and posterior lesion. Cognitive dysexecutive disorders were observed in 11/20 patients with central executive deficit and an inverse dissociation was observed in two patients. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis indicated that cognitive dysexecutive disorders had the highest ability to discriminate frontal lesions (area under curve=0.844, 95% confidence interval: 0.74-0.95; P=0.0001; central executive impairment: area under curve=0.732, 95% confidence interval: 0.57-0.82; P=0.006). This study reveals that frontal lesions induce mild impairment of short-term memory associated with a deficit of the rehearsal process supporting the role of the frontal lobe in this process; the central executive depends on lesions in the frontal lobe and posterior regions accounting for its low frequency and the negative results of group studies. Finally, the frontal dysexecutive syndrome cannot be attributed to central executive impairment, although it may contribute to some dysexecutive disorders.
Damage to the corticospinal tract is a leading cause of motor disability, for example in stroke or spinal cord injury. Some function usually recovers, but whether plasticity of undamaged ipsilaterally descending corticospinal axons and/or brainstem pathways such as the reticulospinal tract contributes to recovery is unknown. Here, we examined the connectivity in these pathways to motor neurons after recovery from corticospinal lesions. Extensive unilateral lesions of the medullary corticospinal fibres in the pyramidal tract were made in three adult macaque monkeys. After an initial contralateral flaccid paralysis, motor function rapidly recovered, after which all animals were capable of climbing and supporting their weight by gripping the cage bars with the contralesional hand. In one animal where experimental testing was carried out, there was (as expected) no recovery of fine independent finger movements. Around 6 months post-lesion, intracellular recordings were made from 167 motor neurons innervating hand and forearm muscles. Synaptic responses evoked by stimulating the unlesioned ipsilateral pyramidal tract and the medial longitudinal fasciculus were recorded and compared with control responses in 207 motor neurons from six unlesioned animals. Input from the ipsilateral pyramidal tract was rare and weak in both lesioned and control animals, suggesting a limited role for this pathway in functional recovery. In contrast, mono- and disynaptic excitatory post-synaptic potentials elicited from the medial longitudinal fasciculus significantly increased in average size after recovery, but only in motor neurons innervating forearm flexor and intrinsic hand muscles, not in forearm extensor motor neurons. We conclude that reticulospinal systems sub-serve some of the functional recovery after corticospinal lesions. The imbalanced strengthening of connections to flexor, but not extensor, motor neurons mirrors the extensor weakness and flexor spasm which in neurological experience is a common limitation to recovery in stroke survivors.
This article aims to reintroduce two classic papers on motor control published in Brain in 1968, in which Lawrence and Kuypers reported their systematic studies of the effects of lesions to the corticospinal system (Lawrence and Kuypers, 1968a), and subsequently to the descending brainstem pathways (Lawrence and Kuypers, 1968b) in the Old World macaque monkey. They showed that the capacity for independent movements of the digits was permanently lost after a complete, bilateral lesion of the corticospinal system. These studies also revealed that the brainstem pathways contribute to fundamentally different aspects of motor control, with one set of pathways (the ventromedial system) involved in the control of head, trunk and girdle movements, while the other, lateral set of fibres control movements of the extremity such as reach and grasp. There is still much to learn today from these papers. However, an important part of their scientific legacy, the films illustrating the different cases, has long been unavailable. Much of this filmed material is now made available again in video format accessible on the Brain web site, complete with supplementary notes and histological detail. This article summarizes this newly available material for these classic papers in Brain.
Morality is among the most sophisticated features of human judgement, behaviour and, ultimately, mind. An individual who behaves immorally may violate ethical rules and civil rights, and may threaten others' individual liberty, sometimes becoming violent and aggressive. In recent years, neuroscience has shown a growing interest in human morality, and has advanced our understanding of the cognitive and emotional processes involved in moral decisions, their anatomical substrates and the neurology of abnormal moral behaviour. In this article, we review research findings that have provided a key insight into the functional and clinical neuroanatomy of the brain areas involved in normal and abnormal moral behaviour. The 'moral brain' consists of a large functional network including both cortical and subcortical anatomical structures. Because morality is a complex process, some of these brain structures share their neural circuits with those controlling other behavioural processes, such as emotions and theory of mind. Among the anatomical structures implicated in morality are the frontal, temporal and cingulate cortices. The prefrontal cortex regulates activity in subcortical emotional centres, planning and supervising moral decisions, and when its functionality is altered may lead to impulsive aggression. The temporal lobe is involved in theory of mind and its dysfunction is often implicated in violent psychopathy. The cingulate cortex mediates the conflict between the emotional and the rational components of moral reasoning. Other important structures contributing to moral behaviour include the subcortical nuclei such as the amygdala, hippocampus and basal ganglia. Brain areas participating in moral processing can be influenced also by genetic, endocrine and environmental factors. Hormones can modulate moral behaviour through their effects on the brain. Finally, genetic polymorphisms can predispose to aggressivity and violence, arguing for a genetic-based predisposition to morality. Because abnormal moral behaviour can arise from both functional and structural brain abnormalities that should be diagnosed and treated, the neurology of moral behaviour has potential implications for clinical practice and raises ethical concerns. Last, since research has developed several neuromodulation techniques to improve brain dysfunction (deep brain stimulation, transcranial magnetic stimulation and transcranial direct current stimulation), knowing more about the 'moral brain' might help to develop novel therapeutic strategies for neurologically based abnormal moral behaviour.
Hippocampal sclerosis (HS) is a common and often asymmetric neuropathological finding among elderly persons who experience progressive memory loss, but its cause is unknown and it is rarely diagnosed during life. In order to improve both understanding and diagnosis of late-life HS, bilateral hippocampi and cerebral hemispheres were reviewed in 130 consecutive autopsy cases drawn from a longitudinal study of subjects with subcortical ischemic vascular dementia (IVD), Alzheimer disease (AD) and normal aging. HS was found in 31 of 130 cases (24.5%). Of these, 45% were bilateral, 32% left-sided, and 23% right-sided. The majority of HS cases involved the entire rostral-caudal extent of the hippocampus. However, in 7 cases HS was focal in nature and was only found at or anterior to the lateral geniculate nucleus. In 77% of cases, HS was accompanied by other types of pathology ('mixed' HS), but in 23% of cases it was the sole neuropathologic finding ('pure' HS). TDP-43-positive cytoplasmic inclusions were found in dentate granule cells in 93% of all HS cases, 55% of AD cases with no HS, but 0% of IVD cases with no HS. MRI hippocampal volumes were significantly lower in bilateral HS compared to AD (p &lt; 0.001) and in unilateral HS cases compared to cases with intact hippocampi (p &lt; 0.001). Since HS may occur unilaterally in approximately a quarter of cases, its prevalence may be underestimated if only one cerebral hemisphere is examined. The presence of TDP-43 inclusions in HS cases, regardless of accompanying pathologies (e.g., AD, IVD, FTLD), is consistent with an underlying neurodegenerative pathogenetic mechanism. Further studies are warranted to determine whether greater severity of hippocampal atrophy on MRI may assist the clinical differentiation of HS from AD.

The glycoprotein, CD200, is primarily expressed on neurons and its cognate receptor CD200R is expressed principally on cells of the myeloid lineage, including microglia. The interaction of CD200 with its receptor plays a significant role in maintaining microglia in a quiescent state and therefore a decrease in CD200 expression in brain is associated with evidence of microglial activation. Conversely, activation of CD200R, for example using a CD200 fusion protein (CD200Fc), should result in a decrease in microglial activation. Here we assessed the effect of delivery of CD200Fc intrahippocampally on microglial activation and on long-term potentiation (LTP) in perforant path-granule cell synapses in young and aged rats. We hypothesized that the age-related changes in microglial activation would be attenuated by CD200Fc resulting in an improved ability of aged rats to sustain LTP. The data indicate that expression of markers of microglial activation including major histocompatibility complex Class II (MHCII) and CD40 mRNA, as well as MHCII immunoreactivity, were increased in hippocampus of aged, compared with young, rats and that these changes were associated with a deficit in LTP; these changes were attenuated in hippocampal tissue prepared from aged rats which received CD200Fc. Microglial activation and a deficit in LTP have also been reported in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated rats and, here, we report that these changes were also attenuated in CD200Fc-treated animals. Thus the negative impact of microglial activation on the ability of aged and LPS-treated rats to sustain LTP is ameliorated when CD200R is activated by CD200Fc.
In several models of aging, microglia become more inflammatory and reactive to immune challenges. For example, peripheral LPS injection causes exaggerated microglial activation associated with prolonged sickness and depressive-like behavior in aged BALB/c mice. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which age-related amplified microglial activation was associated with reduced sensitivity to the anti-inflammatory and M2 promoting cytokines interleukin (IL)-10 and IL-4. In initial studies with adult mice, LPS induced a time-dependent increase in M1 and M2 mRNA profiles in microglia. Furthermore, peripheral LPS injection markedly increased surface expression of IL-4 receptor-alpha (IL-4R), but not IL-10 receptor-1 (IL-10R1) on microglia. In BV-2 cells, IL-4, but not IL-10, re-directed LPS-activated microglia towards an M2 phenotype. Based on these findings, comparisons of M1 and M2 activation profiles, induction of IL-4R, and sensitivity to IL-4 were determined in microglia from adult (3-4 mo) and aged (18-22 mo) mice. In aged microglia, LPS promoted an exaggerated and prolonged M1 and M2 profile compared to adults. Moreover, IL-4R protein was not increased on aged microglia following LPS injection. To determine the consequence of impaired IL-4R upregulation, adult and aged mice were injected with LPS and activated microglia were then isolated and treated ex vivo with IL-4. While ex vivo IL-4 induced an M2 profile in activated microglia from adult mice, activated microglia from aged mice retained a prominent M1 profile. These data indicate that activated microglia from aged mice are less sensitive to the anti-inflammatory and M2-promoting effects of IL-4.
In this study, event related potentials (ERPs) were used to investigate the extent to which dyslexics (aged 9-13 years) differ from normally reading controls in early ERPs, which reflect prelexical orthographic processing, and in late ERPs, which reflect implicit phonological processing. The participants performed an implicit reading task, which was manipulated in terms of letter-specific processing, orthographic familiarity, and phonological structure. Comparing consonant- and symbol sequences, the results showed significant differences in the P1 and N1 waveforms in the control but not in the dyslexic group. The reduced P1 and N1 effects in pre-adolescent children with dyslexia suggest a lack of visual specialization for letter-processing. The P1 and N1 components were not sensitive to the familiar vs. less familiar orthographic sequence contrast. The amplitude of the later N320 component was larger for phonologically legal (pseudowords) compared to illegal (consonant sequences) items in both controls and dyslexics. However, the topographic differences showed that the controls were more left-lateralized than the dyslexics. We suggest that the development of the mechanisms that support literacy skills in dyslexics is both delayed and follows a non-normal developmental path. This contributes to the hemispheric differences observed and might reflect a compensatory mechanism in dyslexics.
A number of human brain areas showing a larger response to faces than to objects from different categories, or to scrambled faces, have been identified in neuroimaging studies. Depending on the statistical criteria used, the set of areas can be overextended or minimized, both at the local (size of areas) and global (number of areas) levels. Here we analyzed a whole-brain factorial functional localizer obtained in a large sample of right-handed participants (40). Faces (F), objects (O; cars) and their phase-scrambled counterparts (SF, SO) were presented in a block design during a one-back task that was well matched for difficulty across conditions. A conjunction contrast at the group level {(F-SF) and (F-O)} identified six clusters: in the pulvinar, inferior occipital gyrus (so-called OFA), middle fusiform gyrus (so-called FFA), posterior superior temporal sulcus, amygdala, and anterior infero-temporal cortex, which were all strongly right lateralized. While the FFA showed the largest difference between faces and cars, it also showed the least face-selective response, responding more to cars than scrambled cars. Moreover, the FFA's larger response to scrambled faces than scrambled cars suggests that its face-sensitivity is partly due to low-level visual cues. In contrast, the pattern of activation in the OFA points to a higher degree of face-selectivity. A BOLD latency mapping analysis suggests that face-sensitivity emerges first in the right FFA, as compared to all other areas. Individual brain analyses support these observations, but also highlight the large amount of interindividual variability in terms of number, height, extent and localization of the areas responding preferentially to faces in the human ventral occipito-temporal cortex. This observation emphasizes the need to rely on different statistical thresholds across the whole brain and across individuals to define these areas, but also raises some concerns regarding any objective labeling of these areas to make them correspond across individual brains. This large-scale analysis helps understanding the set of face-sensitive areas in the human brain, and encourages in-depth single participant analyses in which the whole set of areas is considered in each individual brain.
Since the discovery of &quot;face cells&quot; in the early 1980s, single-cell recording experiments in non-human primates have made significant contributions toward the elucidation of neural mechanisms underlying face perception and recognition. In this paper, we review the recent progress in face cell studies, including the recent remarkable findings of the face patches that are scattered around the anterior temporal cortical areas of monkeys. In particular, we focus on the neural representations of facial identity within these areas. The identification of faces requires both discrimination of facial identities and generalization across facial views. It has been indicated by some laboratories that the population of face cells found in the anterior ventral inferior temporal cortex of monkeys represent facial identity in a manner which is facial view-invariant. These findings suggest a relatively distributed representation that operates for facial identification. It has also been shown that certain individual neurons in the medial temporal lobe of humans represent view-invariant facial identity. This finding suggests a relatively sparse representation that may be employed for memory formation. Finally, we summarize our recent study, showing that the population of face cells in the anterior ventral inferior temporal cortex of monkeys that represent view-invariant facial identity, can also represent learned paired associations between an abstract picture and a particular facial identity, extending our understanding of the function of the anterior ventral inferior temporal cortex in the recognition of associative meanings of faces.
The locus ceruleus is among the earliest affected brain regions in Parkinson's disease (PD) showing Lewy body pathology and neuronal loss. To improve our understanding of the pathogenesis of PD, we performed the first proteomic analysis ever of post-mortem locus ceruleus tissue of six pathologically confirmed PD patients, and six age- and gender-matched non-neurological controls. In total 2495 proteins were identified, of which 87 proteins were differentially expressed in the locus ceruleus of PD patients compared with controls. The majority of these differentially expressed proteins are known to be involved in processes that have been implicated in the pathogenesis of PD previously, including mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, protein misfolding, cytoskeleton dysregulation and inflammation. Several individual proteins were identified that have hitherto not been associated with PD, such as regucalcin, which plays a role in maintaining intracellular calcium homeostasis, and isoform 1 of kinectin, which is involved in transport of cellular components along microtubules. In addition, pathway analysis suggests a pathogenetic role for aminoacyl-tRNA-biosynthesis. These findings indicate that the proteome of the locus ceruleus of PD patients and non-neurological controls provides data that are relevant to the pathogenesis of PD, reflecting both known and potentially novel pathogenetic pathways.
Mechanisms underlying shock-induced conditioned fear - a paradigm frequently used to model posttraumatic stress disorder, PTSD - are usually studied shortly after shocks. Some of the brain regions relevant to conditioned fear were activated in all the c-Fos studies published so far, but the overlap between the activated regions was small across studies. We hypothesized that discrepant findings were due to dynamic neural changes that followed shocks, and a more consistent picture would emerge if consequences were studied after a longer interval. Therefore, we exposed rats to a single session of footshocks and studied their behavioral and neural responses one and 28 days later. The neuronal activation marker c-Fos was studied in 24 brain regions relevant for conditioned fear, e.g. in subdivisions of the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, hypothalamic defensive system, brainstem monoaminergic nuclei and periaqueductal gray. The intensity of conditioned fear (as shown by the duration of contextual freezing) was similar at the two time-points, but the associated neuronal changes were qualitatively different. Surprisingly, however, Multiple Regression Analyses suggested that conditioned fear-induced changes in neuronal activation patterns predicted the duration of freezing with high accuracy at both time points. We suggest that exposure to electric shocks is followed by a period of plasticity where the mechanisms that sustain conditioned fear undergo qualitative changes. Neuronal changes observed 28 days but not 1 day after shocks were consistent with those observed in human studies performed in PTSD patients.
The study of gene expression has undergone a transformation in the past decade as the benefits of the sequencing of the human genome have made themselves felt. Increasingly, genome wide approaches are being applied to the analysis of gene expression in human disease as a route to understanding the underlying pathogenic mechanisms. In this review, we will summarise current state of gene expression studies of the brain in Parkinson's disease, and examine how these techniques can be used to gain an insight into aetiology of this devastating disorder.
The current state of human genetic studies is both a marvel and a morass. A marvel in that with the completion of the human genome sequence, projects that used to take years now take months or weeks; however, this creates a wealth of data concomitant to a black hole of meaning. In terms of the well used analogy: the human genome sequence is a library in an ancient language with no Rosetta stone. Researchers have readily exploited the human genome map and thousands of candidate gene studies for a multitude of diseases have been performed. However, many of those studies have found that the variants associated with disease risk are not obvious coding changes. The question now becomes: what do these associations mean? One approach to the downstream mapping of associations is to use additional information to map which variant might truly be causative of risk and what that risk variant is doing. This review will summarize the current state of both data set collection and analysis for the understanding of DNA variants and their downstream effects on transcripts and proteins. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Transcriptome'.





Semantic processing of verbal and visual stimuli has been investigated in semantic violation or semantic priming paradigms in which a stimulus is either related or unrelated to a previously established semantic context. A hallmark of semantic priming is the N400 event-related potential (ERP)--a deflection of the ERP that is more negative for semantically unrelated target stimuli. The majority of studies investigating the N400 and semantic integration have used verbal material (words or sentences), and standardized stimulus sets with norms for semantic relatedness have been published for verbal but not for visual material. However, semantic processing of visual objects (as opposed to words) is an important issue in research on visual cognition. In this study, we present a set of 800 pairs of semantically related and unrelated visual objects. The images were rated for semantic relatedness by a sample of 132 participants. Furthermore, we analyzed low-level image properties and matched the two semantic categories according to these features. An ERP study confirmed the suitability of this image set for evoking a robust N400 effect of semantic integration. Additionally, using a general linear modeling approach of single-trial data, we also demonstrate that low-level visual image properties and semantic relatedness are in fact only minimally overlapping. The image set is available for download from the authors' website. We expect that the image set will facilitate studies investigating mechanisms of semantic and contextual processing of visual stimuli.
Dehydration is a powerful stimulus causing disequilibrium in homeostasis of water and electrolytes resulting from depletion in total body water. Most studies have focused on domestic and laboratory animals; however, the study of desert animals allows improved understanding about water balance and resistance to dehydration and associated behavioral changes, including those related to voluntary movements. Meriones shawi (Shaw's Jird) is a desert rodent characterized by its resistance to long periods of thirst that can extend for several months. In the present study, M. shawi were subjected to water deprivation for 1month. We used tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry (TH: the key enzyme of catecholamine biosynthesis) to evaluate the effects of prolonged dehydration on the dopaminergic system in both substancia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area (SNpc and VTA), which are the main sources of dopamine input to several brain areas; the immunolabelling was performed also in both the medial forebrain bundle and the caudate putamen (striatum). In addition, the open-field test was used to evaluate the effect of dehydration on locomotor activity in M. shawi. The results showed an increase in TH immunolabelling in both SNpc and VTA following 1month of dehydration compared to control levels. The same results were obtained with fibers in both MFB and striatum. This augmentation of TH immunoreactivity was accompanied by noticeable changes in locomotor activity behavior of Meriones, the recording test shows the hyperactivity of animals which is probably caused by dehydration. Overall, the results indicate that dehydration is able to increase dopaminergic neurotransmission, which might be involved in generating hyperactivity in this desert animal.

Neuropathic pain often fails to respond to conventional pain management procedures. here we review the aetiology of neuropathic pain as would result from peripheral neuropathy or injury. We show that inflammatory mediators released from damaged nerves and tissue are responsible for triggering ectopic activity in primary afferents and that this, in turn, provokes increased spinal cord activity and the development of 'central sensitization'. Although evidence is mounting to support the role of interleukin-1, prostaglandins and other cytokines in the onset of neuropathic pain, the clinical efficacy of drugs which antagonize or prevent the actions of these mediators is yet to be determined. basic science findings do, however, support the use of pre-emptive analgesia during procedures which involve nerve manipulation and the use of anti-inflammatory steroids as soon as possible following traumatic nerve injury.


The transcription factor RE1 silencing transcription factor (REST) is lost in approximately 20% of breast cancers. Although it is known that these RESTless tumors are highly aggressive and include all tumor subtypes, the underlying tumorigenic mechanisms remain unknown. In this study, we show that loss of REST results in upregulation of LIN28A, a known promoter of tumor development, in breast cancer cell lines and human breast tumors. We found that LIN28A was a direct transcriptional target of REST in cancer cells and that loss of REST resulted in increased LIN28A expression and enhanced tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo, effects that were dependent on heightened LIN28A expression. Tumors lacking REST expression were locally invasive, consistent with the increased lymph node involvement observed in human RESTless tumors. Clinically, human RESTless breast tumors also displayed significantly enhanced LIN28A expression when compared with non-RESTless tumors. Our findings therefore show a critical role for the REST-LIN28A axis in tumor aggression and suggest a causative relationship between REST loss and tumorigenicity in vivo.
Human copper transporter 1 (hCTR1) is the major high affinity copper influx transporter in mammalian cells that also mediates uptake of the cancer chemotherapeutic agent cisplatin. A low resolution structure of hCTR1 determined by cryoelectron microscopy was recently published. Several protein structure simulation techniques were used to create an all-atom model of this important transporter using the low resolution structure as a starting point. The all-atom model provides new insights into the roles of specific residues of the N-terminal extracellular domain, the intracellular loop, and C-terminal region in metal ion transport. In particular, the model demonstrates that the central region of the pore contains four sets of methionine triads in the intramembranous region. The structure confirms that two triads of methionine residues delineate the intramembranous region of the transporter, and further identifies two additional methionine triads that are located in the extracellular N-terminal part of the transporter. Together, the four triads create a structure that promotes stepwise transport of metal ions into and then through the intramembranous channel of the transporter via transient thioether bonds to methionine residues. Putative copper-binding sites in the hCTR1 trimer were identified by a program developed by us for prediction of metal-binding sites. These sites correspond well with the known effects of mutations on the ability of the protein to transport copper and cisplatin.
Mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake plays a fundamental role in the regulation of energy production and cell survival. Under physiological conditions, mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake occurs by a uniport mechanism driven electrophoretically by the membrane potential created by the respiratory chain. The activity and the biochemical properties of the mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU) were extensively characterized for decades but the molecular identity of the channel has remained elusive. Here, we review the recent discovery of the mitochondria Ca(2+) uniporter that represents a groundbreaking result for the molecular understanding of mitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis and will provide insight into the role of mitochondrial Ca(2+) deregulation in the pathogenesis of human disorders.
Mitochondria possess a sophisticated array of Ca(2+) transport systems reflecting their key role in physiological Ca(2+) homeostasis. With the exception of most yeast strains, energized organelles are endowed with a very fast and efficient mechanism for Ca(2+) uptake, the ruthenium red (RR)-sensitive mitochondrial Ca(2+) uniporter (MCU); and one main mechanism for Ca(2+) release, the RR-insensitive 3Na(+)-Ca(2+) antiporter. An additional mechanism for Ca(2+) release is provided by a Na(+) and RR-insensitive release mechanism, the putative 3H(+)-Ca(2+) antiporter. A potential kinetic imbalance is present, however, because the V(max) of the MCU is of the order of 1400nmol Ca(2+)mg(-1) proteinmin(-1) while the combined V(max) of the efflux pathways is about 20nmol Ca(2+)mg(-1) proteinmin(-1). This arrangement exposes mitochondria to the hazards of Ca(2+) overload when the rate of Ca(2+) uptake exceeds that of the combined efflux pathways, e.g. for sharp increases of cytosolic [Ca(2+)]. In this short review we discuss the hypothesis that transient opening of the Ca(2+)-dependent permeability transition pore may provide mitocondria with a fast Ca(2+) release channel preventing Ca(2+) overload. We also address the relevance of a mitochondrial Ca(2+) release channel recently discovered in Drosophila melanogaster, which possesses intermediate features between the permeability transition pore of yeast and mammals.
Nogo-A is originally identified as an inhibitor of axon regeneration from the CNS myelin. Nogo-A is mainly expressed by oligodendrocytes, and also by some neuronal subpopulations, particularly in the developing nervous system. Although extensive studies have uncovered regulatory roles of Nogo-A in neurite outgrowth inhibition, precursor migration, neuronal homeostasis, plasticity and neurodegeneration, its cell-autonomous functions in neurons are largely uncharacterized. Here, we show that HIV-1 trans-activating-mediated amino-Nogo-A protein transduction into cultured primary cortical neurons achieves an almost complete neuroprotection against oxidative stress induced by exogenous hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Endogenously expressed neuronal Nogo-A is significantly downregulated upon H(2)O(2) treatment. Furthermore, knockdown of Nogo-A results in more susceptibility to acute oxidative insults and markedly increases neuronal death. Interacting with peroxiredoxin 2 (Prdx2), amino-Nogo-A reduces reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation to exert neuroprotective effects. Structure-function mapping experiments reveal that, out of NiG-20, a novel region comprising residues 290-562 of amino-Nogo-A is indispensable for preventing oxidative neuronal death. Moreover, mutagenesis analysis confirms that cysteine residues 424, 464 and 559 are involved in the inhibition of ROS generation and neuroprotective role of amino-Nogo-A. Our data suggest that neuronal Nogo-A might play a cell-autonomous role in improving neuronal survival against oxidative insult through interacting with Prdx2 and scavenging of ROS.

Almost 30 years ago, neuropeptide Y (NPY) was discovered as a sympathetic co-transmitter and one of the most evolutionarily conserved peptides abundantly present all over the body. Soon afterward, NPY's multiple receptors were characterized and cloned, and the peptide's role in stress was first documented. NPY has proven to be pivotal for maintaining many stress responses. Most notably, NPY is known for activating long-lasting vasoconstriction in many vascular beds, including coronary arteries. More recently, NPY was found to play a role in stress-induced accretion of adipose tissue which many times can lead to detrimental metabolic changes. It is however due to its prominent actions in the brain, one of which is its powerful ability to stimulate appetite as well as its anxiolytic activities that NPY became a peptide of importance in neuroscience. In contrast, its actions in the rest of the body, including its role as a stress mediator, remained, surprisingly underappreciated and not well understood. Our research has focused on that other, &quot;peripheral&quot; side of NPY. In this review, we will discuss those actions of NPY on the cardiovascular system and metabolism, as they relate to adaptation to stress, and attempt to both distinguish NPY's effects from and integrate them with the effects of the classical stress mediators, glucocorticoids, and catecholamines. To limit the bias of someone (ZZ) who has viewed the world of stress through the eyes of NPY for over 20 years, fresh insight (DH) has been solicited to more objectively assess NPY's contributions to stress-related diseases and the body's ability to adapt to stress.
Much evidence supports that oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease. Herein, we studied the compensatory/adaptive mechanisms involved in 3-thiomethyl-5,6-(diphenyl)-1,2,4-triazine and 3-thiomethyl-5,6-(dichlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazine neuroprotection. We found that these compounds could counteract H(2)O(2)-induced rupture of neurite outgrowth in differentiated PC12 cells. In addition, we found that pretreatment of cells with triazine derivatives could modulate the expression of heat shock proteins Hsp70, Hsp90, and Hsp32 in H(2)O(2)-treated PC12 cells. These compounds could also increase nuclear level of stress sensing transcription factor, NF-E2 related factor 2, which contributes to redox homeostasis and cell survival following stress. As a result, the elevated levels of glutamylcysteine synthetase, glutathione peroxidase-1, and glutathione, as well as superoxide dismutase and catalase, increased cellular antioxidant capacity. Studying the relation between structure and activity of these compounds will pave the way for exploiting preventive and/or therapeutic strategies for the management of oxidative stress-mediated disorders.
After central nervous system (CNS) trauma, axons have a low capacity for regeneration. Regeneration failure is associated with a muted regenerative response of the neuron itself, combined with a growth-inhibitory and cytotoxic post-injury environment. After spinal cord injury (SCI), resident and infiltrating immune cells (especially microglia/macrophages) contribute significantly to the growth-refractory milieu near the lesion. By targeting both the regenerative potential of the axon and the cytotoxic phenotype of microglia/macrophages, we may be able to improve CNS repair after SCI. In this review, we discuss molecules shown to impact CNS repair by affecting both immune cells and neurons. Specifically, we provide examples of pattern recognition receptors, integrins, cytokines/chemokines, nuclear receptors and galectins that could improve CNS repair. In many cases, signaling by these molecules is complex and may have contradictory effects on recovery depending on the cell types involved or the model studied. Despite this caveat, deciphering convergent signaling pathways on immune cells (which affect axon growth indirectly) and neurons (direct effects on axon growth) could improve repair and recovery after SCI. Future studies must continue to consider how regenerative therapies targeting neurons impact other cells in the pathological CNS. By identifying molecules that simultaneously improve axon regenerative capacity and drive the protective, growth-promoting phenotype of immune cells, we may discover SCI therapies that act synergistically to improve CNS repair and functional recovery.
Inflammation is considered to be an important contributor to secondary damage after spinal cord injury (SCI). This secondary damage leads to further exacerbation of tissue loss and functional impairments. The immune responses that are triggered by injury are complex and are mediated by a variety of factors that have both detrimental and beneficial effects. In this review, we focus on the diverse effects of the phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) superfamily and the downstream pathways that generate a large number of bioactive lipid mediators, some of which have pro-inflammatory and demyelinating effects, whereas others have anti-inflammatory and pro-resolution properties. For each of these lipid mediators, we provide an overview followed by a discussion of their expression and role in SCI. Where appropriate, we have compared the latter with their role in other neurological conditions. The PLA(2) pathway provides a number of targets for therapeutic intervention for the treatment of SCI and other neurological conditions.
Compelling evidence exists that neural stem cell-based therapies protect the central nervous system (CNS) from chronic inflammatory degeneration, such as that occurring in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and stroke. It was first assumed that stem cells directly replace lost cells but it is now becoming clearer that they might be able to protect the nervous system through mechanisms other than cell replacement. In immune-mediated experimental demyelination and stroke, transplanted neural stem/precursor cells (NPCs) are able to mediate efficient bystander myelin repair and axonal rescue. This is dependent on multiple capacities that transplanted NPCs exhibit within specific microenvironments after transplantation. However, a comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms by which NPCs exert their therapeutic impact is lacking. Here we will review some of the most recent evidence--and discuss some of the likely mechanisms--that support the remarkable capacity of NPCs to cross-talk with endogenous cells and to remodel the injured nervous system when applied as novel therapeutic regimes. We foresee that the exploitation of the innate mechanisms regulating these modalities of cell-to-cell communication has realistic chances of revolutionizing most of the actual understanding of stem cell biology and its application to regenerative medicine and CNS repair.
During developmental critical periods, external stimuli are crucial for information processing, acquisition of new functions or functional recovery after CNS damage. These phenomena depend on the capability of neurons to modify their functional properties and/or their connections, generally defined as &quot;plasticity&quot;. Although plasticity decreases after the closure of critical periods, the adult CNS retains significant capabilities for structural remodelling and functional adaptation. At the molecular level, structural modifications of neural circuits depend on the balance between intrinsic growth properties of the involved neurons and growth-regulatory cues of the extracellular milieu. Interestingly, experience acts on this balance, so as to create permissive conditions for neuritic remodelling. Here, we present an overview of recent findings concerning the effects of experience on cellular and molecular processes responsible for producing structural plasticity of neural networks or functional recovery after an insult to the adult CNS (e.g. traumatic injury, ischemia or neurodegenerative disease). Understanding experience-dependent mechanisms is crucial for the development of tailored rehabilitative strategies, which can be exploited alone or in combination with specific therapeutic interventions to improve neural repair after damage.

Millions of people worldwide engage in online role-playing with their avatar, a virtual agent that represents the self. Previous behavioral studies have indicated that many gamers identify more strongly with their avatar than with their biological self. Through their avatar, gamers develop social networks and learn new social-cognitive skills. The cognitive neurosciences have yet to identify the neural processes that underlie self-identification with these virtual agents. We applied functional neuroimaging to 22 long-term online gamers and 21 nongaming controls, while they rated personality traits of self, avatar, and familiar others. Strikingly, neuroimaging data revealed greater avatar-referential cortical activity in the left inferior parietal lobe, a region associated with self-identification from a third-person perspective. The magnitude of this brain activity correlated positively with the propensity to incorporate external body enhancements into one's bodily identity. Avatar-referencing furthermore recruited greater activity in the rostral anterior cingulate gyrus, suggesting relatively greater emotional self-involvement with one's avatar. Post-scanning behavioral data revealed superior recognition memory for avatar relative to others. Interestingly, memory for avatar positively covaried with play duration. These findings significantly advance our knowledge about the brain's plasticity to self-identify with virtual agents and the human cognitive-affective potential to live and learn in virtual worlds.
Glutamate and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ligand D-serine are putative gliotransmitters. Here, we show by immunogold cytochemistry of the adult hippocampus that glutamate and D-serine accumulate in synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs) in the perisynaptic processes of astrocytes. The estimated concentration of fixed glutamate in the astrocytic SLMVs is comparable to that in synaptic vesicles of excitatory nerve terminals ( 45 and  55 mM, respectively), whereas the D-serine level is about 6 mM. The vesicles are organized in small spaced clusters located near the astrocytic plasma membrane. Endoplasmic reticulum is regularly found in close vicinity to SLMVs, suggesting that astrocytes contain functional nanodomains, where a local Ca(2+) increase can trigger release of glutamate and/or D-serine.
Face recognition is of major social importance and involves highly selective brain regions thought to be organized in a distributed functional network. However, the exact architecture of interconnections between these regions remains unknown. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify face-responsive regions in 22 participants and then employed diffusion tensor imaging with probabilistic tractography to establish the white-matter pathways between these functionally defined regions. We identified strong white-matter connections between the occipital face area (OFA) and fusiform face area (FFA), with a significant right-hemisphere predominance. We found no evidence for direct anatomical connections between FFA and superior temporal sulcus (STS) or between OFA and STS, contrary to predictions based on current cognitive models. Instead, our findings point to segregated processing along a ventral extrastriate visual pathway to OFA-FFA and another more dorsal system connected to STS and frontoparietal areas. In addition, early occipital areas were found to have direct connections to the amygdala, which might underlie a rapid recruitment of limbic brain areas by visual inputs bypassing more elaborate extrastriate cortical processing. These results unveil the structural neural architecture of the human face recognition system and provide new insights on how distributed face-responsive areas may work together.
The characterization of gray matter morphology of individual brains is an important issue in neuroscience. Graph theory has been used to describe cortical morphology, with networks based on covariation of gray matter volume or thickness between cortical areas across people. Here, we extend this research by proposing a new method that describes the gray matter morphology of an individual cortex as a network. In these large-scale morphological networks, nodes represent small cortical regions, and edges connect regions that have a statistically similar structure. The method was applied to a healthy sample (n = 14, scanned at 2 different time points). For all networks, we described the spatial degree distribution, average minimum path length, average clustering coefficient, small world property, and betweenness centrality (BC). Finally, we studied the reproducibility of all these properties. The networks showed more clustering than random networks and a similar minimum path length, indicating that they were &quot;small world.&quot; The spatial degree and BC distributions corresponded closely to those from group-derived networks. All network property values were reproducible over the 2 time points examined. Our results demonstrate that intracortical similarities can be used to provide a robust statistical description of individual gray matter morphology.
The acquisition of cell motility plays a critical role in the spread of prostate cancer (PC), therefore, identifying a sensitive step that regulates PC cell migration should provide a promising target to block PC metastasis. Here, we report that a mechanosensitive Ca(2+)-permeable cation channel (MscCa) is expressed in the highly migratory/invasive human PC cell line, PC-3 and that inhibition of MscCa by Gd(3+) or GsMTx-4 blocks PC-3 cell migration and associated elevations in [Ca(2+)](i). Genetic suppression or overexpression of specific members of the canonical transient receptor potential Ca(2+) channel family (TRPC1 and TRPC3) also inhibit PC-3 cell migration, but they do so by mechanisms other that altering MscCa activity. Although LNCaP cells are nonmigratory, they also express relatively large MscCa currents, indicating that MscCa expression alone cannot confer motility on PC cells. MscCa in both cell lines show similar conductance and ion selectivity and both are functionally coupled via Ca(2+) influx to a small Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel. However, MscCa in PC-3 and LNCaP cell patches show markedly different gating dynamics--while PC-3 cells typically express a sustained, non-inactivating MscCa current, LNCaP cells express a mechanically-fragile, rapidly inactivating MscCa current. Moreover, mechanical forces applied to the patch, can induce an irreversible transition from the transient to the sustained MscCa gating mode. Given that cancer cells experience increasing compressive and shear forces within a growing tumor, a similar shift in channel gating in situ would have significant effects on Ca(2+) signaling that may play a role in tumor progression.
Voltage-gated sodium selective ion channel Na(V)1.5 is expressed in the heart and the gastrointestinal tract, which are mechanically active organs. Na(V)1.5 is mechanosensitive at stimuli that gate other mechanosensitive ion channels. Local anesthetic and antiarrhythmic drugs act upon Na(V)1.5 to modulate activity by multiple mechanisms. This study examined whether Na(V)1.5 mechanosensitivity is modulated by local anesthetics. Na(V)1.5 channels were expressed in HEK-293 cells, and mechanosensitivity was tested in cell-attached and excised inside-out configurations. Using a novel protocol with paired voltage ladders and short pressure pulses, negative patch pressure (-30 mmHg) in both configurations produced a hyperpolarizing shift in the half-point of the voltage-dependence of activation (V(1/2a)) and inactivation (V(1/2i)) by about -10 mV. Lidocaine (50 M) inhibited the pressure-induced shift of V(1/2a) but not V(1/2i). Lidocaine inhibited the tonic increase in pressure-induced peak current in a use-dependence protocol, but it did not otherwise affect use-dependent block. The local anesthetic benzocaine, which does not show use-dependent block, also effectively blocked a pressure-induced shift in V(1/2a). Lidocaine inhibited mechanosensitivity in Na(V)1.5 at the local anesthetic binding site mutated (F1760A). However, a membrane impermeable lidocaine analog QX-314 did not affect mechanosensitivity of F1760A Na(V)1.5 when applied from either side of the membrane. These data suggest that the mechanism of lidocaine inhibition of the pressure-induced shift in the half-point of voltage-dependence of activation is separate from the mechanisms of use-dependent block. Modulation of Na(V)1.5 mechanosensitivity by the membrane permeable local anesthetics may require hydrophobic access and may involve membrane-protein interactions.
Mice lacking both the P2X2 and the P2X3 purinergic receptors (P2X-dblKO) exhibit loss of responses to all taste qualities in the taste nerves innervating the tongue. Similarly, these mice exhibit a near total loss of taste-related behaviors in brief access tests except for a near-normal avoidance of acidic stimuli. This persistent avoidance of acids despite the loss of gustatory neural responses to sour was postulated to be due to continued responsiveness of the superior laryngeal (SL) nerve. However, chemoresponses of the larynx are attributable both to taste buds and to free nerve endings. In order to test whether the SL nerve of P2X-dblKO mice remains responsive to acids but not to other tastants, we recorded responses from the SL nerve in wild-type (WT) and P2X-dblKO mice. WT mice showed substantial SL responses to monosodium glutamate, sucrose, urea, and denatonium-all of which were essentially absent in P2X-dblKO animals. In contrast, the SL nerve of P2X-dblKO mice exhibited near-normal responses to citric acid (50 mM) although responsiveness of both the chorda tympani and the glossopharyngeal nerves to this stimulus were absent or greatly reduced. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the residual avoidance of acidic solutions by P2X-dblKO mice may be attributable to the direct chemosensitivity of nerve fibers innervating the laryngeal epithelium and not to taste.
Over the last decade, psychopharmacologic treatments for pediatric anxiety disorders have been developed and increasingly subjected to randomized, controlled trials. The authors summarize the data concerning the use of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), atypical anxiolytics, and benzodiazepines. The extant data suggest that SSRIs--both as monotherapy and when combined with psychotherapy--are effective in the treatment of pediatric anxiety disorders. In addition, some TCAs and SNRIs are effective. However, randomized controlled trials do not suggest efficacy for benzodiazepines or the atypical anxiolytic, buspirone, for children and adolescents with anxiety disorders.

Sleep is regulated by circadian and homeostatic processes, but can be altered by infectious disease. During infection or exposure to inflammatory stimuli, such as bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), the duration and intensity of non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREMS), as measured by electoencephalogram (EEG) delta waves (.5-4 Hz), increase. These sleep alterations are hypothesized to conserve or redirect energy for immune system activation. Many vertebrates exhibit seasonal changes in immune function and sleep-wake cycle, and photoperiod (day length) serves as a reliable environmental cue. For example, winter is energetically demanding for most animals, and Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) adapted to short winter day lengths display reduced fever after LPS administration to presumably conserve energy. We hypothesized that short days increase the duration and intensity of NREMS after LPS challenge to create additional energy savings, despite evidence to the contrary that high fever is associated with increased NREMS. Male hamsters were housed under long (16 h light (L):8 h dark (D)) or short (8L:16D) day lengths, and chronically implanted with transmitters that recorded EEG and electromyogram (EMG) biopotentials simultaneously or core body temperature. After &gt;10 wks in photoperiod conditions, hamsters received an i.p. injection of LPS or saline (control), and vigilance states (duration and distribution of NREMS, rapid eye movement sleep (REMS), and wakefulness) and EEG delta power spectra (NREMS intensity) were assessed. As expected, LPS treatment increased the duration and intensity of NREMS compared to controls. Hamsters adapted to short photoperiods exhibited cumulatively larger increases in NREMS duration and EEG delta wave amplitude 0-8 h after LPS injection compared to long-day LPS-treated hamsters despite short-day attenuation of fever. These results suggest a seasonal decoupling of LPS-induced fever with sleep to promote energy conservation during predictable energy shortages. Ultimately, the combination of increased sleep and reduced fever could represent a suite of physiological adaptations that increase the probability of surviving winter.
Corpus Hippocraticum, a collection of Hippocratic writings, is considered to be the first written monument of rationale medicine. This article focuses on a series of ancient Hellenic words which are cited in Hippocratic passages and have been adopted in current head and brain terminology either invariably, i.e., keeping their original meaning, or as component parts of newly formed terms. This study aims to demonstrate first that the deeper roots of current neuroanatomical terminology spread in Hippocratic writings and second, that ancient Hellenic remains a living language that would probably ever continue to play a catalytic role in the formation of neuroanatomical glossary by providing accurate, emblematic, and functional terms.



Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a debilitating and frequently fatal central nervous system (CNS) demyelinating disease caused by JC virus (JCV), for which there is currently no effective treatment. Lytic infection of oligodendrocytes in the brain leads to their eventual destruction and progressive demyelination, resulting in multiple foci of lesions in the white matter of the brain. Before the mid-1980s, PML was a relatively rare disease, reported to occur primarily in those with underlying neoplastic conditions affecting immune function and, more rarely, in allograft recipients receiving immunosuppressive drugs. However, with the onset of the AIDS pandemic, the incidence of PML has increased dramatically. Approximately 3 to 5% of HIV-infected individuals will develop PML, which is classified as an AIDS-defining illness. In addition, the recent advent of humanized monoclonal antibody therapy for the treatment of autoimmune inflammatory diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS) and Crohn's disease has also led to an increased risk of PML as a side effect of immunotherapy. Thus, the study of JCV and the elucidation of the underlying causes of PML are important and active areas of research that may lead to new insights into immune function and host antiviral defense, as well as to potential new therapies.



Stabbing headache is a relatively rare type of chronic &quot;primary&quot; headache with distinctive features with respect to more common forms of paroxysmal headache, such as cluster headache and trigeminal neuralgia. Drug treatment is empirical because of the lack of knowledge on the pathophysiology of stabbing headache. We examined 26 patients recruited over 10 years, who met the diagnostic criteria for stabbing headache. Interestingly, more than half of these patients had autoimmune disorders, including multiple sclerosis, Sjgren's disease, Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Behet's disease, autoimmune vasculitis, and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. We speculate that stabbing headache may develop as a result of neuroinflammation and, at least in some cases, may be an epiphenomenon of focal demyelinating lesions of the upper or lower brain stem.




A deficit in the ability to experience pleasure (anhedonia) is one of the core symptoms of depression. However, therapy to date has predominantly focused on understanding elevations in negative emotion experience in depression and relatively neglected ways to reconnect individuals to positive experience. This article reviews current insights into blunted positivity in depression, evaluating evidence that depression leads to disturbances in anticipation (positive emotion experience when approaching a goal or a rewarding stimulus) and consummation (positive emotion experience when attaining a goal or rewarding stimulus), as well as impaired positive emotion recognition. The case is made that existing treatments are only partially effective and that therapy outcomes are likely to be improved by focusing on augmenting positivity, capitalizing on emerging insights from positive affective neuroscience. Existing and emerging therapeutic techniques that may aid the promotion of positivity are critiqued, and some suggestions for future research and clinical practice are outlined.
Previous research has shown that plantar fascia and Achilles tendon thickness is increased in diabetes. The aims of present study were to assess whether tendon changes can occur in the early stages of the disease and to evaluate the extent of the influence of body mass index (BMI). The study population included 51 recent-onset type II diabetic subjects, who were free from diabetic complications, divided according to BMI into three groups (normal weight, overweight, and obese). Eighteen non-diabetic, normal-weight subjects served as controls. Plantar fascia and Achilles tendon thickness was measured by means of sonography. The groups were well balanced for age and sex. In all the diabetic subjects, plantar fascia and Achilles tendon thickness was increased compared to the controls (p &lt; 0.001, p = 0.01, p = 0.003, respectively). A significant relationship was found between plantar fascia thickness and BMI values (r = 0.749, p &lt; 0.0001), while the correlation between BMI and Achilles tendon was weaker (r = 0.399, p = 0.004). This study shows that plantar fascia and Achilles tendon thickness is increased in the early stages of type II diabetes and that BMI is related more to plantar fascia than Achilles tendon thickness. Further longitudinal studies are needed to evaluate whether these early changes can overload the metatarsal heads and increase the stress transmitted to plantar soft tissues, thus representing an additional risk factor for foot ulcer development.
Reboxetine is a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (NaRI), the first drug of a new antidepressant class. Reboxetine has been approved for the treatment of Major Depression in many European countries, but the application for approval was rejected in the United States. It has been found useful in Narcolepsy, ADHD, Panic Attack Disorder, treatment of depression in patients with Parkinson' s Disease. Moreover reboxetine has been proposed as an effective and safe therapeutic option for Cocaine Dependence Disorder. Despite a large number of studies have documented that reboxetine was equally effective in treating major depressive illness compared to other antidepressants, recent reports argue reboxetine to be ineffective and potentially harmful for the treatment of acute depression. Aim of the present review is to summarize and discuss the last literature findings, comparing risks and benefits of reboxetine usage in everyday clinical practice.
Neonatal sepsis is common and is a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Vancomycin is the preferred treatment of several neonatal staphylococcal infections. The aim of this study was to review published data on vancomycin pharmacokinetics in neonates and to provide a critical analysis of the literature. A bibliographic search was performed using PubMed and Embase, and articles with a publication date of August 2011 or earlier were included in the analysis. Vancomycin pharmacokinetic estimates, which are different in neonates compared with adults, also exhibit extensive inter-neonatal variability. In neonates, several vancomycin dosing schedules have been proposed, mainly based on age (i.e., postmenstrual and postnatal), body weight or serum creatinine level. Other covariates [e.g., extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), indomethacin or ibuprofen, and growth restriction] of vancomycin pharmacokinetics have been reported in neonates. Finally, vancomycin penetrates cerebrospinal fluid (range = 7-42%). Renal function drives vancomycin pharmacokinetics. Because either age or weight is the most relevant covariate of renal maturation, these covariates should be considered first in neonatal vancomycin dosing guidelines and further adjusted by renal dysfunction indicators (e.g., ECMO and ibuprofen/indomethacin). In addition to the prospective validation of available dosing guidelines, future studies should focus on the relevance of therapeutic drug monitoring and on the value of continuous vancomycin administration in neonates.

The study of neuronal adaptations induced by opiate drugs is particularly relevant today given their widespread prescription and nonprescription use. Although much is known about the acute actions of such drugs on the nervous system, a great deal of work remains to fully understand their chronic effects. Here, we focus on longer-lasting adaptations that occur in two catecholaminergic brain regions that mediate distinct behavioral actions of opiates: ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopaminergic neurons, important for drug reward, and locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic neurons, important for physical dependence and withdrawal. We focus on changes in cellular, synaptic, and structural plasticity in these brain regions that contribute to opiate dependence and addiction. Understanding the molecular determinants of this opiate-induced plasticity will be critical for the development of better treatments for opiate addiction and perhaps safer opiate drugs for medicinal use.
Within the last two decades, genomics and bioinformatics have profoundly impacted our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of Parkinson's disease (PD). From the description of the first PD gene in 1997 until today, we have witnessed the emergence of new technologies that have revolutionized our concepts to identify genetic mechanisms implicated in human health and disease. Driven by the publication of the human genome sequence and followed by the description of detailed maps for common genetic variability, novel applications to rapidly scrutinize the entire genome in a systematic, cost-effective manner have become a reality. As a consequence, about 30 genetic loci have been unequivocally linked to the pathogenesis of PD highlighting essential molecular pathways underlying this common disorder. Herein we discuss how neurogenomics and bioinformatics are applied to dissect the nature of this complex disease with the overall aim of developing rational therapeutic interventions.
Calcium imaging is a technique in which Ca(2+)-binding molecules are loaded into live cells and as they bind Ca(2+) they &quot;indicate&quot; the concentration of free calcium through a change in either the intensity or the wavelength of light emitted (fluorescence or bioluminescence). There are several possible methods for loading synthetic Ca(2+) indicators into subcellular compartments, including topical application of membrane-permeant Ca(2+) indicators, forward-filling of dextran conjugates, and direct injection. Calcium imaging is a highly informative technique in neurobiology because Ca(2+) is involved in many neuronal signaling pathways and serves as the trigger for neurotransmitter release. This article describes the forward-filling of dextran-conjugated indicators at the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ). This technique is particularly well suited for imaging changes in cytosolic Ca(2+) as dextran conjugation prevents compartmentalization of the Ca(2+) indicator. The major drawback is that the nerves must be severed at the start of the loading process, several hours before nerve terminals are ready to examine.
Calcium imaging is a technique in which Ca(2+)-binding molecules are loaded into live cells and as they bind Ca(2+) they &quot;indicate&quot; the concentration of free calcium through a change in either the intensity or the wavelength of light emitted (fluorescence or bioluminescence). There are several possible methods for loading synthetic Ca(2+) indicators into subcellular compartments, including topical application of membrane-permeant Ca(2+) indicators, forward-filling of dextran conjugates, and direct injection. Calcium imaging is a highly informative technique in neurobiology because Ca(2+) is involved in many neuronal signaling pathways and serves as the trigger for neurotransmitter release. This article describes the topical application of Ca(2+) indicators at the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ). This loading technique is simple to execute and yields data quickly. The drawback is that the data can be difficult to interpret, primarily because it is difficult to ascertain which cellular and subcellular compartment(s) are loaded (e.g., muscle, nerve, or glia; cytosol, mitochondrion, or endoplasmic reticulum).
Calcium imaging uses optical imaging techniques to measure the concentration of free calcium [Ca(2+)] in live cells. It is a highly informative technique in neurobiology because Ca(2+) is involved in many neuronal signaling pathways and serves as the trigger for neurotransmitter release. The technique relies on loading Ca(2+) indicators into cells, measuring the quantity and/or wavelength of the photons emitted by the Ca(2+) indicator, and interpreting these data in terms of [Ca(2+)]. There are several possible methods for loading synthetic Ca(2+) indicators into subcellular compartments, for example, topical application of membrane-permeant Ca(2+) indicators, forward-filling of dextran conjugates, and direct injection. These techniques are applicable to calcium imaging at the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ), and are also readily adaptable to Drosophila embryo and adult preparations.
This protocol describes a technique for high-resolution chloride imaging of living cells using a quinoline-based chloride (Cl(-)) indicator dye, MQAE (N-[6-methoxyquinolyl] acetoethyl ester). Bath-applied to acute brain slices, MQAE provides high-quality labeling of neuronal cells and their processes. In living anesthetized mice, cortical cells are labeled using the multicell bolus loading procedure. In combination with two-photon microscopy, this procedure enables in vivo visualization of cell bodies of neurons and astrocytes as well as some astrocytic processes and allows one to monitor changes in the intracellular chloride concentration in dozens of individual cells.
Considerable evidence has accumulated that structural changes in dendritic spines and their synapses are associated with adaptive functional changes in cortical circuits, such as during circuit refinement in young animals and in learning and memory in adults. Understanding the mechanisms of circuit plasticity requires detailed investigation of the structural dynamics of dendritic spines and how they are regulated by neural activity and sensory experience. Studying the dynamic localization of synaptic proteins in dendritic spines and how their stabilization and exchange rates influence spine structural plasticity is also important. This protocol describes imaging approaches to study synaptic protein dynamics in dendritic spines of the rodent cerebral cortex. It gives a strategy for generating photoactivatable green fluorescent protein (PA-GFP)-tagged synaptic proteins and in vitro and in vivo transfection methods for coexpression of these proteins with a spectrally separable cell-filling marker (DsRed-Express). Methods for tracking synaptic protein localization using photoactivation and time-lapse imaging of PA-GFP in spiny pyramidal neuron dendrites are given. A discussion of imaging hardware and software preferences is also included. The methods described here can be used to study the dynamic processes underlying spine synapse development during the formation and plasticity of neural circuits in the mammalian brain.
The alphaviruses Semliki Forest virus and Sindbis virus have been used frequently as expression vectors in vitro and in vivo. Usually, these systems consist of replication-deficient vectors that require a helper vector for packaging of recombinant particles. Replication-proficient vectors have also been engineered. Alphaviral vectors can be used as nucleic-acid-based vectors (DNA and RNA) or infectious particles. High-titer viral production is achieved in &lt;2 d. The broad host range of alphaviruses facilitates studies in mammalian and nonmammalian cell lines, primary cells in culture, and in vivo. The strong preference for expression in neuronal cells has made alphaviruses particularly useful in neurobiological studies. Unfortunately, their strong cytotoxic effect on host cells, relatively short-term transient expression patterns, and the reasonably high cost of viral production remain drawbacks. However, novel mutant alphaviruses have showed reduced cytotoxicity and prolonged expression. Membrane proteins (which are generally difficult to express at high levels in recombinant systems) have generated high yields and facilitate applications in structural biology. Alphaviruses have also been applied in vaccine development and gene therapy. This protocol describes the production of recombinant alphaviral vectors. The SFV- and SIN-based expression systems apply two vectors for recombinant particle production. In addition to the RNA-based vectors described here, DNA vectors with cytomegalovirus or other RNA polymerase type II promoters can be used for direct plasmid DNA transfections. Cotransfection of SFV-based pSCA expression and pSCA helper vectors generates recombinant viral particles.
Ca(2+) indicators can be loaded into a Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ) preparation using several methods, including topical application of membrane-permeant Ca(2+) indicators, forward-filling of dextran conjugates, and direct injection. This article describes how such an NMJ preparation loaded with Ca(2+) indicator is set up for imaging of the muscle fiber during stimulation of its innervating nerve cell. A simple protocol is provided for collecting and analyzing a set of imaging data, together with the sequence of calculations involved in image analysis. The change in the intensity of the Ca(2+) indicator must be quantified to obtain an estimate of the change in the concentration of free Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)]). The change in intensity is conventionally represented as the expression &quot;F/F.&quot; Simply put, this is the change in fluorescence intensity relative to the resting fluorescence intensity. If the K(D) of the Ca(2+) indicator is in excess of the maximum value of [Ca(2+)] during the response, then F/F is considered to be linearly related to [Ca(2+)]. In practice, F/F is calculated for each image using a simple algorithm ([F(stim) - F(rest)]/F(rest)), where F(stim) is the intensity of the Ca(2+) indicator in each image, and F(rest) is the intensity before nerve stimulation. Finally, various options for building a Ca(2+)-imaging rig are considered.
Calcium imaging is a technique in which Ca(2+)-binding molecules are loaded into live cells and as they bind Ca(2+) they &quot;indicate&quot; the concentration of free calcium through a change in either the intensity or the wavelength of light emitted (fluorescence or bioluminescence). There are several possible methods for loading synthetic Ca(2+) indicators into subcellular compartments, including topical application of membrane-permeant Ca(2+) indicators, forward-filling of dextran conjugates, and direct injection. Calcium imaging is a highly informative technique in neurobiology because Ca(2+) is involved in many neuronal signaling pathways and serves as the trigger for neurotransmitter release. This article describes the direct injection of Ca(2+) indicators at the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ). This technique allows rapid loading of most Ca(2+) indicators, but there are drawbacks in that it is a difficult technique to master and requires additional electrophysiological equipment. Also, Ca(2+) indicators that are easily injected are usually susceptible to compartmentalization.
To date, nearly 35.6 million people world wide live with dementia, and the situation is going to get worse by 2050 with 115.4 million cases.(1) In the western world, the prevalence for dementia in people over the age of 60 is greater than 5% and two thirds are due to Alzheimer disease,(2) (-) (5) the most common form of dementias.  Alzheimer disease (AD), first described as &quot;presenile dementia&quot; by the German psychiatrist and neuropathologist Alois Alzheimer in 1906,(6) is a devastating disease characterized by progressive cognitive deterioration, as well as impairments in behavior, language, and visuospatial skills.(7) Furthermore, Alzheimer discovered the presence of intraneuronal tangles and extracellular amyloid plaques in the diseased-damaged brain, the hallmarks of Alzheimer disease.
Breathing movements have been demonstrated in the fetuses of every mammalian species investigated and are a critical component of normal fetal development. The classic sheep preparations instrumented for chronic fetal monitoring determined that fetal breathing movements (FBMs) occur in aggregates interspersed with long periods of quiescence that are strongly associated with neurophysiological state. The fetal sheep model also provided data regarding the neurochemical modulation of behavioral state and FBMs under a variety of in utero conditions. Subsequently, in vitro rodent models have been developed to advance our understanding of cellular, synaptic, network, and more detailed neuropharmacological aspects of perinatal respiratory neural control. This includes the ontogeny of the inspiratory rhythm generating center, the preBtzinger complex (preBtC), and the anatomical and functional development of phrenic motoneurons (PMNs) and diaphragm during the perinatal period. A variety of newborn animal models and studies of human infants have provided insights into age-dependent changes in state-dependent respiratory control, responses to hypoxia/hypercapnia and respiratory pathologies.
Computational models of the neural control system for breathing in mammals provide a theoretical and computational framework bringing together experimental data obtained from different animal preparations under various experimental conditions. Many of these models were developed in parallel and iteratively with experimental studies and provided predictions guiding new experiments. This data-driven modeling approach has advanced our understanding of respiratory network architecture and neural mechanisms underlying generation of the respiratory rhythm and pattern, including their functional reorganization under different physiological conditions. Models reviewed here vary in neurobiological details and computational complexity and span multiple spatiotemporal scales of respiratory control mechanisms. Recent models describe interacting populations of respiratory neurons spatially distributed within the Btzinger and pre-Btzinger complexes and rostral ventrolateral medulla that contain core circuits of the respiratory central pattern generator (CPG). Network interactions within these circuits along with intrinsic rhythmogenic properties of neurons form a hierarchy of multiple rhythm generation mechanisms. The functional expression of these mechanisms is controlled by input drives from other brainstem components,including the retrotrapezoid nucleus and pons, which regulate the dynamic behavior of the core circuitry. The emerging view is that the brainstem respiratory network has rhythmogenic capabilities at multiple levels of circuit organization. This allows flexible, state-dependent expression of different neural pattern-generation mechanisms under various physiological conditions,enabling a wide repertoire of respiratory behaviors. Some models consider control of the respiratory CPG by pulmonary feedback and network reconfiguration during defensive behaviors such as cough. Future directions in modeling of the respiratory CPG are considered.


Self-inflicted eye injuries are rare but a devastating consequence of a serious mental disorder. Bilateral self-enucleation also known as oedipism has been documented in ancient texts and myths. Various biologic, psychologic, and social theories have been put forward to explain this rare phenomenon. In this report, we describe a case of oedipism, which highlights the influence of sociocultural factors on the psychopathology in acute transient psychotic disorder.
Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) affects 25% of older African Americans and predicts progression to Alzheimer's disease. An extensive epidemiologic literature suggests that cognitive, physical, and/or social activities may prevent cognitive decline. We describe the methods of a randomized clinical trial to test the efficacy of Behavior Activation to prevent cognitive decline in older African Americans with the amnestic multiple domain subtype of MCI. Community Health Workers deliver 6 initial in-home treatment sessions over 2-3 months and then 6 subsequent in-home booster sessions using language, materials, and concepts that are culturally relevant to older African Americans during this 24 month clinical trial. We are randomizing 200 subjects who are recruited from churches, senior centers, and medical clinics to Behavior Activation or Supportive Therapy, which controls for attention. The primary outcome is episodic memory as measured by the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised at baseline and at months 3, 12, 18, and 24. The secondary outcomes are general and domain-specific neuropsychological function, activities of daily living, depression, and quality-of-life. The negative results of recent clinical trials of drug treatments for MCI and Alzheimer's disease suggest that behavioral interventions may provide an alternative treatment approach to preserve cognition in an aging society.
For more than a century the research on Motor Neuron Disease (MND) has been dominated by a tension between the concept of a selective, purely motor degeneration and a growing realisation of the high frequency and importance of cognitive symptoms that can culminate in dementia. The present paper aims at integrating these two, seemingly mutually exclusive interpretations of the disease. It is proposed that the cognitive and motor symptoms in MND are due to the same selective neurodegenerative process, spreading along the lines of functional connections in the nervous system. Accordingly, the most impaired aspects of cognitive function are those with the closest functional links to the motor system, a pattern explaining a disproportionate impairment of verb and action processing in this disease. The dementia associated with MND can be interpreted as the fifth major clinical presentation of MND, alongside bulbar, thoracic, upper and lower limb presentation. It follows the same rules of disease progression as other presentations, spreading contiguously from region to region, with a predominantly caudal direction. Accordingly, dementia tends to precede other presentations and is often followed by bulbar symptoms. We believe that the presented model contributes to a more accurate concept of MND, integrating cognitive and motor features within the same disease mechanism. At the same time it highlights the importance of MND for cognitive neuroscience and, in particular, for theories of embodied cognition.
Converging evidence indicates that the processing of some aspects related to the phonetic and the semantic components of language is tightly associated with both the perceptual and the motor neural systems. It has been suggested that mirror neurons contribute to language understanding by virtue of a neurophysiological response matching perceptual linguistic information onto corresponding motor plans. This proposal has sometimes been extended to advocate that the language competence as a whole, including syntax, may be ascribed to this kind of perceptuo-motor mappings. This position paper examines what kinds of empirical and theoretical challenges such general mirror neuron language accounts need to face in order to proof their validity--challenges that we think have not been adequately addressed yet. We highlight that the most important limitation is constituted by the fact that some core defining properties of human language, at the phonetic, semantic, and especially at the syntactic level, are not transparent to the bodily senses and thus they cannot be the direct source of mirror neuron perceptuo-motor matching.
Over the last decade, there has been an increasing body of work that explores whether sensory and motor information is a necessary part of semantic representation and processing. This is the embodiment hypothesis. This paper presents a theoretical review of this work that is intended to be useful for researchers in the neurosciences and neuropsychology. Beginning with a historical perspective, relevant theories are placed on a continuum from strongly embodied to completely unembodied representations. Predictions are derived and neuroscientific and neuropsychological evidence that could support different theories is reviewed; finally, criticisms of embodiment are discussed. We conclude that strongly embodied and completely disembodied theories are not supported, and that the remaining theories agree that semantic representation involves some form of convergence zones (Damasio, 1989) and the activation of modal content. For the future, research must carefully define the boundaries of semantic processing and tackle the representation of abstract entities.
To further investigate the neural substrates of lexical and conceptual knowledge of actions, we administered a battery of six tasks to 226 brain-damaged patients with widely distributed lesions in the left and right cerebral hemispheres. The tasks probed lexical and conceptual knowledge of actions in a variety of verbal and non-verbal ways, including naming, word-picture matching, attribute judgments involving both words and pictures, and associative comparisons involving both words and pictures. Of the 226 patients who were studied, 61 failed one or more of the six tasks, with four patients being impaired on the entire battery, and varied numbers of patients being impaired on varied combinations of tasks. Overall, the 61 patients manifested a complex array of associations and dissociations across the six tasks. The lesion sites of 147 of the 226 patients were also investigated, using formal methods for lesion-deficit statistical mapping and power analysis of lesion overlap maps. Significant effects for all six tasks were found in the following left-hemisphere regions: the inferior frontal gyrus; the ventral precentral gyrus, extending superiorly into what are likely to be hand-related primary motor and premotor areas; and the anterior insula. In addition, significant effects for 4-5 tasks were found in not only the regions just mentioned, but also in several other left-hemisphere areas: the ventral postcentral gyrus; the supramarginal gyrus; and the posterior middle temporal gyrus. These results converge with previous research on the neural underpinnings of action words and concepts. However, the current study goes considerably beyond most previous investigations by providing extensive behavioral and lesion data for an unusually large and diverse sample of brain-damaged patients, and by incorporating multiple measures of verb comprehension. Regarding theoretical implications, the study provides new support for the Embodied Cognition Framework, which maintains that conceptual knowledge is grounded in sensorimotor systems.
Each year between 10 000 and 12 000 spinal cord injuries occur in the United States. Once injured, many of these patients will receive a portion of their care in an intensive care unit (ICU), where their treatment will begin. Harborview Medical Center in Seattle, Washington, provides comprehensive care to approximately 60 to 70 cervical spinal cord injuries each year. Because of many factors such as hemodynamic instability, pulmonary complications, and risk of infection, patients with cervical spinal cord injuries can spend up to 2 or more weeks in the ICU before they transfer to a rehabilitation unit. To achieve optimal outcomes, it is imperative that members of the interdisciplinary team work together in a consistent, goal-oriented, collaborative manner. This team includes physicians, nurses, respiratory therapists, physical and occupational therapists, speech pathologists, dieticians, and rehabilitation psychologists. An individual plan is developed for each patient and rehabilitation starts in the ICU as soon as the patient is medically stable. This article will highlight the management strategies used in the neuroscience ICU at Harborview Medical Center and will include a case study as an example of the typical experience for our patients with high cervical cord injury.
The neurosurgical intensive care unit staff at Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, Washington, had a strong desire to implement strategies to lower temperatures in their patients with brain injury because the patients with elevated temperatures often have lower Glasgow Coma Scores. In addition, neurologic improvement was demonstrated when high temperatures were lowered. Hospital policy dictated that temperatures be allowed to climb to more than 38.5C before treatment because this temperature was used as the trigger for culture collection every 24 hours. The expressed rationale was that temperature management would obscure the trigger and infections would be missed. Thus, the investigators wanted to determine whether temperature elevation was a reliable indicator of infection. A quality improvement tool was developed, and the patient populations to be evaluated were those admitted with the diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage, arteriovenous malformation, or traumatic brain injury. The number of times each patient was cultured and whether he or she was cultured because of temperature, a white blood cell count elevation, or clinical indicators were tracked. Findings showed that the use of temperature as a screening indicator for infection produced few positive cultures and that the practice of daily cultures yielded few positive results generally. Conclusions made from the data were that temperature is not an accurate indicator of infection in these patients with brain injury and fever management would not adversely impact infection identification. Policy within the Neuroscience intensive care unit was changed to reflect these findings.

Although antiretrovirals are the mainstay of therapy against HIV infection, neurological complications associated with the virus continue to hamper quality of life of the infected individuals. Drugs of abuse in the infected individuals further fuel the epidemic. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated that abuse of cocaine resulted in acceleration of HIV infection and the progression of NeuroAIDS. Cocaine has not only been shown to play a crucial role in promoting virus replication, but also has diverse but often deleterious effects on various cell types of the CNS. In the neuronal system, cocaine exposure results in neuronal toxicity and also potentiates gp120-induced neurotoxicity. In the astroglia and microglia, cocaine exposure leads to up-regulation of pro-inflammatory mediators such as cytokines and chemokines. These in turn, can lead to neuroinflammation and transmission of toxic responses to the neurons. Additionally, cocaine exposure can also lead to leakiness of the blood-brain barrier that manifests as enhanced transmigraiton of leukocytes/monocytes into the CNS. Both in vitro and in vivo studies have provided valuable tools in exploring the role of cocaine in mediating HIV-associated neuropathogenesis. This review summarizes previous studies on the mechanism(s) underlying the interplay of cocaine and HIV as it relates to the CNS.
Physiologically appropriate levels of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are likely important to varied aspects of CNS function. In particular, these enzymes may contribute to neuronal activity dependent synaptic plasticity and to cell mobility in processes including stem cell migration and immune surveillance. Levels of MMPs may, however, be substantially increased in the setting of HIV infection with methamphetamine abuse. Elevated MMP levels might in turn influence integrity of the blood brain barrier, as has been demonstrated in published work. Herein we suggest that elevated levels of MMPs can also contribute to microglial activation as well as neuronal and synaptic injury through a mechanism that involves cleavage of specific cell and synaptic adhesion molecules.


Oncolytic virotherapy with mutants derived from Herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 1 exhibit significant antitumor effects in preclinical models. Several mutants have now been tested in clinical trials for a variety of cancer types, and all have been found to be safe. While there have been hints of antitumor efficacy with prolonged survival in some cases compared with historical controls, dramatic responses have been elusive. We review the clinical experience published to date and discuss some of the biologic factors that may be limiting for virus infection and spread, as well as new strategies currently under development to enhance antitumor efficacy.
Habit formation refers to the process by which goal-directed behavior becomes automatized and less sensitive to changes in the value of the goal. It has clear relevance for our understanding of skill learning and addiction. Recent studies have begun to reveal the neural substrates underlying this process. This unit summarizes what is known about the experimental methods used, and provides a protocol for generating and assessing habit formation in mice.
Time-lapse imaging of neurofilaments in axons of cultured nerve cells has demonstrated that these cytoskeletal polymers move along microtubule tracks in both anterograde and retrograde directions, powered by microtubule motors. The filaments exhibit short bouts of rapid intermittent movement interrupted by prolonged pauses, and the average velocity is slow because they spend most of their time pausing. Here, we show that axonal neurofilaments are also very flexible and frequently exhibit complex and dynamic folding and unfolding behaviors while they are pausing. Remarkably, however, when the filaments move in a sustained manner, we find that they always adopt an unfolded, that is, fully extended configuration, and this applies to movement in both anterograde and retrograde directions. Given the flexibility of neurofilament polymers and the apparent ease with which they can fold back on themselves, the fact that they move in a fully extended configuration suggests that moving neurofilaments may be pulled from their leading end. Thus, we speculate that motors may bind to the leading ends of neurofilaments polymers during both anterograde and retrograde motion.
Axonal growth cones turn away from repulsive guidance cues. This may start with reduced protrusive motility in the region the growth cone leading margin that is closer to the source of repulsive cue. Using explants of E7 chick temporal retina, we examine the effects of two repulsive guidance cues, ephrin-A2 and slit3, on retinal ganglion cell growth cone protrusive activity, total F-actin, free F-actin barbed ends, and the activities (phosphorylation states) of actin regulatory proteins, ADF/cofilin and ezrin, radixin, moesin (ERM) proteins. Ephrin-A2 rapidly stops protrusive activity simultaneously with reducing F-actin, free barbed ends and the activities of ADF/cofilin and ERM proteins. Slit3 also stops protrusion and reduces the activities of ADF/cofilin and ERM proteins. We interpret these results as indicating that repulsive guidance cues inhibit actin polymerization and actin-membrane linkage to stop protrusive activity. Retrograde F-actin flow withdraws actin to the C-domain, where F-actin bundles interact with myosin II to generate contractile forces that can collapse and retract the growth cone. Our results suggest that common mechanisms are used by repulsive guidance cue to disable growth cone motility and remodel growing axon terminals.
Flexible rule-guided behavior develops gradually, and requires the ability to remember the rules, switch between them as needed, and implement them in the face of competing information. Our goals for this study were twofold: first, to assess whether these components of rule-guided behavior are separable at the neural level, and second, to identify age-related differences in one or more component that could support the emergence of increasingly accurate and flexible rule use over development. We collected event-related fMRI data while 36 children aged 8-13 and adults aged 20-27 performed a task that manipulated rule representation, rule switching, and stimulus incongruency. Several regions - left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), left posterior parietal cortex, and pre-supplementary motor area - were engaged by both the rule representation and the rule-switching manipulations. These regions were engaged similarly across age groups, though contrasting timecourses of activation in left DLPFC suggest that children updated task rules more slowly than did adults. These findings support the idea that common networks can contribute to a variety of executive functions, and that some developmental changes take the form of changes in temporal dynamics rather than qualitative changes in the network of brain regions engaged.
In recent years the number of functional neuroimaging studies on adolescence has exploded. These studies have led to important new insights about the relation between functional brain development and behavior. However, special consideration is warranted when working with adolescents. In this review, we review variables, including pubertal stage, sleep patterns and pregnancy, which are particularly relevant for developmental cognitive neuroscience studies involving adolescents. Consideration of the unique challenges associated with adolescence will help the growing field of developmental neuroimaging standardize procedures and will eventually facilitate interpretation across studies.
Under some conditions 4- and 5-year-old children can differentially process sounds from attended and unattended locations. In fact, the latency of spatially selective attention effects on auditory processing as measured with event-related potentials (ERPs) is quite similar in young children and adults. However, it is not clear if developmental differences in the polarity, distribution, and duration of attention effects are best attributed to acoustic characteristics, availability of non-spatial attention cues, task demands, or domain. In the current study adults and children were instructed to attend to one of two simultaneously presented soundscapes (e.g., city sounds or night sounds) to detect targets (e.g., car horn or owl hoot) in the attended channel only. Probes presented from the same location as the attended soundscape elicited a larger negativity by 80 ms after onset in both adults and children. This initial negative difference (Nd) was followed by a larger positivity for attended probes in adults and another negativity for attended probes in children. The results indicate that the neural systems by which attention modulates early auditory processing are available for young children even when presented with nonverbal sounds. They also suggest important interactions between attention, acoustic characteristics, and maturity on auditory evoked potentials.


The extent to which characteristic adolescent behaviors are associated with pubertal changes or driven by more general, puberty-independent developmental alterations is largely unknown. Using physiological and hormonal markers of puberty, this experiment characterized pubertal timing across adolescence and examined the relationships among these variables and novelty-directed behaviors. Males and females were tested for response to novelty at P28, P32, P36, P40, P44, P48, and P75, and examined for balano-preputial skinfold separation and sperm presence (males) or vaginal opening (females), followed by blood collection for hormonal assessments. Despite earlier pubertal maturation in females, with maturation generally completed by P36 in females and P44 in males, novelty-directed behavior peaked at P32 and P36 in both sexes, and was unrelated to pubertal measures. These data support the suggestion that the ontogenetic peak in this behavior during adolescence is not notably puberty dependent.
Four studies using a computerized paradigm investigated whether children's imitation performance is content-specific and to what extent dependent on other cognitive processes such as trial-and-error learning, recall, and observational learning. Experiment 1 showed that 3-year-olds could successfully imitate what we call novel cognitive rules (e.g., first  second  third), which involved responding to 3 different pictures whose spatial configuration varied randomly from trial to trial. However, these same children failed to imitate what we call novel motor-spatial rules (e.g., up  down  right), which involved responding to 3 identical pictures that remained in a fixed spatial configuration from trial to trial. Experiment 2 showed that this dissociation was not due to a general difficulty in encoding motor-spatial content, as children successfully recalled, following a 30-s delay, a new motor-spatial sequence that had been learned by trial and error. Experiment 3 replicated these results and further demonstrated that 3-year-olds can infer a novel motor-spatial sequence following observation of a partially correct and partially incorrect response-a dissociation between imitation and observational learning (or emulation learning). Finally, Experiment 4 presented 3-year-olds with &quot;familiar&quot; motor-spatial sequences that involved making a linear response (e.g., left  middle  right) as well as &quot;novel&quot; motor-spatial sequences (e.g., right  up  down) used in Experiments 1-3 that were nonlinear and always involved a change in direction. Children had no difficulty imitating familiar motor-spatial sequences but again failed to imitate novel motor-spatial sequences. These results suggest that there may be multiple, dissociable imitation learning mechanisms that are content-specific. More importantly, the development of these imitation systems appears to be independent of the operations of other cognitive systems, including trial and error learning, recall, and observational learning.
Across all languages studied to date, audiovisual speech exhibits a consistent rhythmic structure. This rhythm is critical to speech perception. Some have suggested that the speech rhythm evolved de novo in humans. An alternative account--the one we explored here--is that the rhythm of speech evolved through the modification of rhythmic facial expressions. We tested this idea by investigating the structure and development of macaque monkey lipsmacks and found that their developmental trajectory is strikingly similar to the one that leads from human infant babbling to adult speech. Specifically, we show that: (1) younger monkeys produce slower, more variable mouth movements and as they get older, these movements become faster and less variable; and (2) this developmental pattern does not occur for another cyclical mouth movement--chewing. These patterns parallel human developmental patterns for speech and chewing. They suggest that, in both species, the two types of rhythmic mouth movements use different underlying neural circuits that develop in different ways. Ultimately, both lipsmacking and speech converge on a ~5 Hz rhythm that represents the frequency that characterizes the speech rhythm of human adults. We conclude that monkey lipsmacking and human speech share a homologous developmental mechanism, lending strong empirical support to the idea that the human speech rhythm evolved from the rhythmic facial expressions of our primate ancestors.
Successful axon pathfinding requires both correct patterning of tissues, which will later harbor axonal tracts, and precise localization of axon guidance cues along these tracts at the time of axon outgrowth. Retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons grow towards the optic disc in the central retina, where they turn to exit the eye through the optic nerve. Normal patterning of the optic disc and stalk and the expression of guidance cues at this choice point are necessary for the exit of RGC axons out of the eye. Sonic hedgehog (Shh) has been implicated in both patterning of ocular tissue and direct guidance of RGC axons. Here, we examine the precise spatial and temporal requirement for Hedgehog (Hh) signaling for intraretinal axon pathfinding and show that Shh acts to pattern the optic stalk in zebrafish but does not guide RGC axons inside the eye directly. We further reveal an interaction between the Hh and chemokine pathways for axon guidance and show that cxcl12a functions downstream of Shh and depends on Shh for its expression at the optic disc. Together, our results support a model in which Shh acts in RGC axon pathfinding indirectly by regulating axon guidance cues at the optic disc through patterning of the optic stalk.
By serving as the sole output of the cerebellar cortex, integrating a myriad of afferent stimuli, Purkinje cells (PCs) constitute the principal neuron in cerebellar circuits. Several neurodegenerative cerebellar ataxias feature a selective cell-autonomous loss of PCs, warranting the development of regenerative strategies. To date, very little is known as to the regulatory cascades controlling PC development. During central nervous system development, the proneural gene neurogenin 2 (Neurog2) contributes to many distinct neuronal types by specifying their fate and/or dictating development of their morphological features. By analyzing a mouse knock-in line expressing Cre recombinase under the control of Neurog2 cis-acting sequences we show that, in the cerebellar primordium, Neurog2 is expressed by cycling progenitors cell-autonomously fated to become PCs, even when transplanted heterochronically. During cerebellar development, Neurog2 is expressed in G1 phase by progenitors poised to exit the cell cycle. We demonstrate that, in the absence of Neurog2, both cell-cycle progression and neuronal output are significantly affected, leading to an overall reduction of the mature cerebellar volume. Although PC fate identity is correctly specified, the maturation of their dendritic arbor is severely affected in the absence of Neurog2, as null PCs develop stunted and poorly branched dendrites, a defect evident from the early stages of dendritogenesis. Thus, Neurog2 represents a key regulator of PC development and maturation.
In the developing skeleton, dermal bone morphogenesis includes the balanced proliferation, recruitment and differentiation of osteoblast precursors, yet how bones acquire unique morphologies is unknown. We show that Hedgehog (Hh) signaling mediates bone shaping during early morphogenesis of the opercle (Op), a well characterized dermal bone of the zebrafish craniofacial skeleton. ihha is specifically expressed in a local population of active osteoblasts along the principal growing edge of the bone. Mutational studies show that Hh signaling by this osteoblast population is both necessary and sufficient for full recruitment of pre-osteoblasts into the signaling population. Loss of ihha function results in locally reduced proliferation of pre-osteoblasts and consequent reductions in recruitment into the osteoblast pool, reduced bone edge length and reduced outgrowth. Conversely, hyperactive Hh signaling in ptch1 mutants causes opposite defects in proliferation and growth. Time-lapse microscopy of early Op morphogenesis using transgenically labeled osteoblasts demonstrates that ihha-dependent bone development is not only region specific, but also begins exactly at the onset of a second phase of morphogenesis, when the early bone begins to reshape into a more complex form. These features strongly support a hypothesis that dermal bone development is modular, with different gene sets functioning at specific times and locations to pattern growth. The Hh-dependent module is not limited to this second phase of bone growth: during later larval development, the Op is fused along the dysmorphic edge to adjacent dermal bones. Hence, patterning within a module may include adjacent regions of functionally related bones and might require that signaling pathways function over an extended period of development.
Donation after cardiac death has always presented ethical concerns among health care providers. As advanced practice nurses and critical care nurses, it is our responsibility to ensure that health care providers and families are educated about the process and that we remain advocates for the potential donors. This article reviews the donation after cardiac death process, provides a donation after cardiac death hypothetical case report and its outcome, and addresses the ethical concerns associated with donation after cardiac death from both opponents' and proponents' points of view. It will also discuss the benefits of obtaining a palliative care consult and the roles of the advanced practice nurse in the care of the potential donor.


The differential association of hypoandrogenism in men and hyperandrogenism in women with insulin resistance and obesity suggests that androgens may exert sex-specific effects on adipose and other tissues, although the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Moreover, recent studies also suggest that rodents and humans may respond differently to androgen imbalance. To achieve better insight into clinically relevant sex-specific mechanisms of androgen action, we used nonhuman primates to investigate the direct effects of gonadectomy and hormone replacement on white adipose tissue. We also employed a novel ex vivo approach that provides a convenient framework for understanding of adipose tissue physiology under a controlled tissue culture environment. In vivo androgen deprivation of males did not result in overt obesity or insulin resistance but did induce the appearance of very small, multilocular white adipocytes. Testosterone replacement restored normal cell size and a unilocular phenotype and stimulated adipogenic gene transcription and improved insulin sensitivity of male adipose tissue. Ex vivo studies demonstrated sex-specific effects of androgens on adipocyte function. Female adipose tissue treated with androgens displayed elevated basal but reduced insulin-dependent fatty acid uptake. Androgen-stimulated basal uptake was greater in adipose tissue of ovariectomized females than in adipose tissue of intact females and ovariectomized females replaced with estrogen and progesterone in vivo. Collectively, these data demonstrate that androgens are essential for normal adipogenesis in males and can impair essential adipocyte functions in females, thus strengthening the experimental basis for sex-specific effects of androgens in adipose tissue.


Although the technical and human resources for epilepsy care and classification are located largely in high income countries, most people with epilepsy reside in developing regions of the world. Advances over the past two decades in the clinical and basic neurosciences have transformed epilepsy care and largely drive the present need for a revised epilepsy classification. These advances have been mirrored by new knowledge about epilepsy in tropical, resource limited settings. A nonhierarchical, multidimensional approach to classification that includes dimensions that can be ascertained in, and are relevant to, resource-limited settings is needed. Such a classification system could be designed for relevance at tertiary care settings in developed regions as well as primary health care settings in developing regions. Insights from the global use of such a classification approach would also offer opportunities to gain complementary information regarding epilepsy across a broad range of settings and could provide new insights into epilepsy and epileptogenesis. Failure to develop a classification inclusive of the developing world would exclude 80% of the epilepsies globally.
Epilepsy classification is close to the heart of every clinician because it affects every consultation. Acceptance of change to fundamental concepts is difficult and implementation of new ideas requires considerable effort. It is therefore not surprising that the 2010 Organization of the epilepsies has evoked much passion and its fair share of criticism and controversy. Debate has been positive and has already led to modifications and gradual acceptance of the new framework. Although classification will never be perfect and continues to evolve with increasing knowledge, the time for updating our thinking to reflect current concepts and scientific understanding is well and truly here. Ongoing discussion will help to further mature the new organization.

This monograph summarizes one of the sessions of the XI Workshop on Neurobiology of Epilepsy (WONOEP), and provides a critical review of the current state of the field. Speakers and discussants focused on several broad topics: (1) the coexistence of inflammatory processes encompassing several distinct signal-transduction pathways with the epileptogenic process; (2) evidence for the contribution of specific inflammatory molecules and processes to the onset and progression of epilepsy, as well as to epilepsy-related morbidities including depression; (3) the complexity and intricate cross-talk of the pathways involved in inflammation, and the discrete, often opposite roles of a given mediator in neurons versus other cell types. These complexities highlight the challenges confronting the field as it aims to define inflammatory molecules as promising targets for epilepsy prevention and treatment.


The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway regulates cell growth, differentiation, proliferation, and metabolism. Loss-of-function mutations in upstream regulators of mTOR have been highly associated with dysplasias, epilepsy, and neurodevelopmental disorders. These include tuberous sclerosis, which is due to mutations in TSC1 or TSC2 genes; mutations in phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) as in Cowden syndrome, polyhydramnios, megalencephaly, symptomatic epilepsy syndrome (PMSE) due to mutations in the STE20-related kinase adaptor alpha (STRADalpha); and neurofibromatosis type 1 attributed to neurofibromin 1 mutations. Inhibition of the mTOR pathway with rapamycin may prevent epilepsy and improve the underlying pathology in mouse models with disrupted mTOR signaling, due to PTEN or TSC mutations. However the timing and duration of its administration appear critical in defining the seizure and pathology-related outcomes. Rapamycin application in human cortical slices from patients with cortical dysplasias reduces the 4-aminopyridine-induced oscillations. In the multiple-hit model of infantile spasms, pulse high-dose rapamycin administration can reduce the cortical overactivation of the mTOR pathway, suppresses spasms, and has disease-modifying effects by partially improving cognitive deficits. In post-status epilepticus models of temporal lobe epilepsy, rapamycin may ameliorate the development of epilepsy-related pathology and reduce the expression of spontaneous seizures, but its effects depend on the timing and duration of administration, and possibly the model used. The observed recurrence of seizures and epilepsy-related pathology after rapamycin discontinuation suggests the need for continuous administration to maintain the benefit. However, the use of pulse administration protocols may be useful in certain age-specific epilepsy syndromes, like infantile spasms, whereas repetitive-pulse rapamycin protocols may suffice to sustain a long-term benefit in genetic disorders of the mTOR pathway. In summary, mTOR dysregulation has been implicated in several genetic and acquired forms of epileptogenesis. The use of mTOR inhibitors can reverse some of these epileptogenic processes, although their effects depend upon the timing and dose of administration as well as the model used.

Tetanus neurotoxin (TeNT) is a metalloprotease that cleaves the synaptic protein VAMP/synaptobrevin, leading to focal epilepsy. Although this model is widely used in rats, the time course and spatial specificity of TeNT proteolytic action have not been precisely defined. Here we have studied the biochemical, electrographic, and anatomic characteristics of TeNT-induced epilepsy in mouse visual cortex (V1). We found that VAMP cleavage peaked at 10 days, was reduced at 21 days, and completely extinguished 45 days following TeNT delivery. VAMP proteolysis was restricted to the injected V1 and ipsilateral thalamus, whereas it was undetectable in other cortical areas. Electrographic epileptiform activity was evident both during and after the time window of TeNT effects, indicating development of chronic epilepsy. Anatomic analyses found no evidence for long-term tissue damage, such as neuronal loss or microglia activation. These data show that TeNT reliably induces nonlesional epilepsy in mouse cortex. Due to the excellent physiologic knowledge of the visual cortex and the availability of mouse transgenic strains, this model will be useful for examining the network and cellular alterations underlying hyperexcitability within an epileptic focus.
The objectives of the study were to translate and adapt the Subjective Handicap of Epilepsy (SHE) instrument to Brazilian Portuguese and to determine its psychometric properties for the evaluation of quality of life in patients with epilepsy. A sample of 448 adult patients with epilepsy with different clinical profiles (investigation, preoperative period, postoperative period, and drug treatment follow-up) was evaluated with the SHE and the Epilepsy Surgery Inventory (ESI-55). Exploratory factorial analysis demonstrated that four factors explained 60.47% of the variance and were sensitive to discriminate the different clinical groups, with the preoperative group having the poorest quality of life. Internal consistency ranged from 0.92 to 0.96, and concurrent validity with the ESI-55 was moderate/strong (0.32-0.70). Test-retest reliability was confirmed, with an ICC value of 0.54 (2 days), 0.91 (7 days), and 0.97 (30 days). The SHE had satisfactory psychometric qualities for use in the Brazilian population, similar to those of the original version. The instrument seems to be more adequate in psychometric terms for the postoperative and drug treatment follow-up groups, and its use should be encouraged.
The ketogenic diet is now an established treatment in children for drug resistant epilepsy. Although in use for almost 100 years, it has taken time for us to determine an evidence base to verify its use in these children. However, increasing research both from a clinical and basic science perspective as well as a wide clinical interest has now enabled its use throughout the world. This aside, there remains lack of resources to guarantee its availability to all those who may be suitable. It is also now quite clear that it may have benefit in wider areas of neurology beyond epilepsy, specifically in metabolic disorders where glucose cannot be used as a primary energy source.
ATP and adenosine are purines that play dual roles in cell metabolism and neuronal signaling. Acting at the A(1) receptor (A(1)R) subtype, adenosine acts directly on neurons to inhibit excitability and is a powerful endogenous neuroprotective and anticonvulsant molecule. Previous research showed an increase in ATP and other cell energy parameters when an animal is administered a ketogenic diet, an established metabolic therapy to reduce epileptic seizures, but the relationship among purines, neuronal excitability and the ketogenic diet was unclear. Recent work in vivo and in vitro tested the specific hypothesis that adenosine acting at A(1)Rs is a key mechanism underlying the success of ketogenic diet therapy and yielded direct evidence linking A(1)Rs to the antiepileptic effects of a ketogenic diet. Specifically, an in vitro mimic of a ketogenic diet revealed an A(1)R-dependent metabolic autocrine hyperpolarization of hippocampal neurons. In parallel, applying the ketogenic diet in vivo to transgenic mouse models with spontaneous electrographic seizures revealed that intact A(1)Rs are necessary for the seizure-suppressing effects of the diet. This is the first direct in vivo evidence linking A(1)Rs to the antiepileptic effects of a ketogenic diet. Other predictions of the relationship between purines and the ketogenic diet are discussed. Taken together, recent research on the role of purines may offer new opportunities for metabolic therapy and insight into its underlying mechanisms.
Despite intense and growing interest in studying the mechanisms of ketogenic diet (KD) action, and recently published studies implicating novel molecular interactions with metabolic substrates, there nevertheless remains the pragmatic and scientific challenge of sustaining continued research in this field. This is in part a consequence of limited research funding and perhaps skepticism regarding the ultimate need to understand underlying mechanisms, particularly when clinical studies have increasingly validated the efficacy of the KD and its variants. After a decade and a half of more concerted laboratory efforts to understand KD mechanisms, it would be prudent to ask - what has all this scientific research really taught us? In this regard, it is instructive to compare and contrast laboratory research in dietary approaches for epilepsy with that traditionally used to screen for potential antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). In this review, lessons learned from AED development are applied to the more recent experimental findings and approaches attempting to link metabolic changes induced by the KD to neuronal and network excitability in the brain.

Heterozygous in-frame mutations (p.E2207del and p.R2308_M2309dup) in the -II subunit of spectrin (SPTAN1) were recently identified in two patients with intellectual disability (ID), infantile spasms (IS), hypomyelination, and brain atrophy. These mutations affected the C-terminal domain of the protein, which contains the nucleation site of the / spectrin heterodimer. By screening SPTAN1 in 95 patients with idiopathic ID, we found a de novo in-frame mutation (p.Q2202del) in the same C-terminal domain in a patient with mild generalized epilepsy and pontocerebellar atrophy, but without IS, hypomyelination, or other brain structural defects, allowing us to define the core phenotype associated with these C-terminal SPTAN1 mutations. We also found a de novo missense variant (p.R566P) of unclear clinical significance in a patient with non-syndromic ID. These two mutations induced different patterns of aggregation between spectrin subunits in transfected neuronal cell lines, providing a paradigm for the classification of candidate variants.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a successful surgical therapy used to treat the disabling symptoms of movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease. It involves the chronic stimulation of disorder-specific nuclei. However, the mechanisms that lead to clinical improvements remain unclear. Consequently, this slows the optimization of present-day DBS therapy and hinders its future development and application. We used a computational model to calculate the distribution of electric potential induced by DBS and study the effect of stimulation on the spiking activity of a subthalamic nucleus (STN) projection neuron. We previously showed that such a model can reveal detailed spatial effects of stimulation in the vicinity of the electrode. However, this multi-compartmental STN neuron model can fire in either a burst or tonic mode and, in this study, we hypothesized that the firing mode of the cell will have a major impact on the DBS-induced effects. Our simulations showed that the bursting model exhibits behaviour observed in studies of high-frequency stimulation of STN neurons, such as the presence of a silent period at stimulation offset and frequency-dependent stimulation effects. We validated the model by simulating the clinical parameter settings used for a Parkinsonian patient and showed, in a patient-specific anatomical model, that the region of affected tissue is consistent with clinical observations of the optimal DBS site. Our results demonstrated a method of quantitatively assessing neuronal changes induced by DBS, to maximize therapeutic benefit and minimize unwanted side effects.
A key pathology in the development of Parkinson's disease is the occurrence of persistent beta oscillations, which are correlated with difficulty in movement initiation. We investigated the network model composed of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and globus pallidus (GP) developed by A. Nevado Holgado et al. [(2010) Journal of Neuroscience, 30, 12340-12352], who identified the conditions under which this circuit could generate beta oscillations. Our work extended their analysis by deriving improved analytic stability conditions for realistic values of the synaptic transmission delay between STN and GP neurons. The improved conditions were significantly closer to the results of simulations for the range of synaptic transmission delays measured experimentally. Furthermore, our analysis explained how changes in cortical and striatal input to the STN-GP network influenced oscillations generated by the circuit. As we have identified when a system of mutually connected populations of excitatory and inhibitory neurons can generate oscillations, our results may also find applications in the study of neural oscillations produced by assemblies of excitatory and inhibitory neurons in other brain regions.
There is a vast (and rapidly growing) amount of experimental and clinical data of the nervous system at very diverse spatial scales of activity (e.g. from sub-cellular through to whole organ), with many neurological disorders characterized by oscillations in neural activity across these disparate scales. Computer modelling and the development of associated mathematical theories provide us with a unique opportunity to integrate information from across these diverse scales of activity; leading to explanations of the potential mechanisms underlying the time-evolving dynamics and, more importantly, allowing the development of new hypotheses regarding neural function that may be tested experimentally and ultimately translated into the clinic. The purpose of this special issue is to present an overview of current integrative research in the areas of epilepsy, Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia, where multidisciplinary relationships involving theory, experimental and clinical research are becoming increasingly established.
The caudal branches of the superior temporal sulcus (cSTS) have been difficult to characterize because of the considerable degree of morphological variability across individuals. Leading atlases of the human brain are inconsistent with each other in terms of the number of branches identified and the nomenclature used to refer to them. Examination of the magnetic resonance images (MRIs) of 45 human brains (90 hemispheres) demonstrates three branches of the cSTS that ascend into the inferior parietal lobule: an anterior branch (cSTS1), a central branch (cSTS2) and a posterior branch (cSTS3). The cSTS1 is found immediately posterior to the ascending limb of the Sylvian fissure, followed by the cSTS2, and then the last branch, cSTS3, at the parieto-occipital junction. The temporal part of the STS joins most frequently with the cSTS2 (approximately 60% of cases), the cSTS1 (approximately 30% of cases) and least frequently with the cSTS3 (approximately 10% of cases). At the temporo-occipital junction, there is another sulcus that is related to the STS, the ventral anterior occipital sulcus (AOCS-v), a sulcus that has been functionally linked to area MT/v5 in the human brain. While the STS may appear to join AOCS-v from the surface of the brain, it can be established from examination of the depth of the sulci that they are not continuous. The variability in location of each one of the cSTS branches is expressed quantitatively in the MNI standard proportional stereotaxic space.
Cholecystokinin (CCK-) positive basket cells form a distinct class of inhibitory GABAergic interneurons, proposed to act as fine-tuning devices of hippocampal gamma-frequency (30-90 Hz) oscillations, which can convert into higher frequency seizure activity. Therefore, CCK-basket cells may play an important role in regulation of hyper-excitability and seizures in the hippocampus. In normal conditions, the endogenous excitability regulator neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been shown to modulate afferent inputs onto dentate gyrus CCK-basket cells, providing a possible novel mechanism for excitability control in the hippocampus. Using GAD65-GFP mice for CCK-basket cell identification, and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we explored whether the effect of NPY on afferent synapses to CCK-basket cells is modified in the hyper-excitable dentate gyrus. To induce a hyper-excitable state, recurrent seizures were evoked by electrical stimulation of the hippocampus using the well-characterized rapid kindling protocol. The frequency of spontaneous and miniature excitatory and inhibitory post-synaptic currents recorded in CCK-basket cells was decreased by NPY. The excitatory post-synaptic currents evoked in CCK-basket cells by optogenetic activation of principal neurons were also decreased in amplitude. Interestingly, we observed an increased proportion of spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic currents with slower rise times, indicating that NPY may inhibit gamma aminobutyric acid release preferentially in peri-somatic synapses. These findings indicate that increased levels and release of NPY observed after seizures can modulate afferent inputs to CCK-basket cells, and therefore alter their impact on the oscillatory network activity and excitability in the hippocampus.

Autoimmune autonomic ganglionopathy (AAG) is a rare disorder that presents with pandysautonomia typically in middle age and elderly patients. AAG is typically associated with serum autoantibodies that bind to the alpha-3 subunit of the ganglionic acetylcholine receptor (3-AChR Ab). We report a 13 year old girl who presented with gut pseudo-obstruction, bladder dysfunction and dilated pupils unresponsive to pilocarpine. She had positive 3-AChR Ab plus other autoantibodies suggesting an autoimmune diathesis. Our patient was initially resistant to steroid therapy but responded to the addition of azathioprine resulting in a near complete clinical remission. We conclude that pandysautonomia associated with 3-AChR Ab can occur in children and has multi-organ involvement.
Neuropathic pain is strongly associated with mood disorders like anxiety and depression. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) plays a prominent role in these disorders as it is up-regulated in limbic structures such as the amygdala, upon experimentally induced neuropathy. This review discusses recent literature on the role of CRF in pain processing and highlights the amygdala as a potential hot spot in supraspinal descending pain control. Many studies have demonstrated analgesic effects of CRF following local and systemic administration, but more recently also hyperalgesic effects were shown upon endogenous amygdalar CRF increase or by blocking the CRF type 1 receptor (CRFR1). On the basis of the reviewed literature, we postulate a central mechanism for pain control in which the amygdala plays a critical role by switching on and off chronic pain. In this mechanism, upon pain stimuli, CRFR1 in the amygdala is activated by CRF to induce hyperalgesia. When the activated CRFR1 is internalized (pain initiation), it triggers the translocation of the cytoplasmic CRF type 2 receptor (CRFR2) to the plasma membrane. Here, CRFR2 can be recruited by either high (pharmacological) concentrations of CRF or by endogenous CRFR2 ligands, the urocortins, leading to analgesia (pain termination). This on-off switching of pain is completed by redistribution of the CRF receptors to their initial activity state. We furthermore propose that in neuropathic pain, this mechanism is dysregulated and causes a state of permanent hyperalgesia, and present an integrative (patho)physiological model for the way disturbed CRF receptor signalling in the amygdala could initiate neuropathic pain.


Homer proteins are associated with both dopaminergic and glutamatergic function. In addition, these proteins are implicated in many signal transduction pathways that are also putative targets of the mood stabilizers lithium and valproate (VPA). This study investigated the effect of in vivo chronic administration of therapeutically-relevant doses of lithium and VPA on the expression of the inducible (Homer1a and ania-3) and constitutive (Homer1b/c) isoforms of the Homer1 gene in rat brain, and of two other Homer-related genes: Inositol 1,4,5 trisphosphate receptor (IP3R) and Shank. Homer1b/c was significantly decreased in cortex by VPA, and in striatal and accumbal subregions by both lithium and VPA. Both mood stabilizers reduced Homer1b/c expression in the dorsolateral caudate-putamen, while only VPA decreased gene expression in all other striatal subregions. Shank and IP3R were downregulated by both mood stabilizers in the cortex. Neither chronic lithium nor VPA affected Homer immediate-early genes. These results suggest that lithium and VPA similarly modulate the expression of structural postsynaptic genes with topographic specificity in cortical and subcortical regions. Thus, Homer may represent an additional molecular substrate for mood stabilizers, and a potential link with dopaminergic function.
A number of compounds aimed at improving cognition in schizophrenia have failed to demonstrate efficacy in Phase 2 clinical trials. Translational studies using biomarkers in surrogate populations, such as schizotypy, could be used to assess the efficacy of novel compounds. In this study, we aimed to validate the sensitivity and inter-site reliability of cognitive biomarkers (working memory (N-back), spatial working memory (SWM) and verbal fluency (VF) tasks) to detect the schizotypy phenotype and its reversal by psychotropic drugs. Healthy volunteers scoring high or average on a schizotypal personality measure (122 in each group) were randomized to receive a single dose of risperidone, amisulpride, nicotine or placebo in a double-blind, between-subject design. We found evidence for a poorer performance on N-back and VF tasks in the high schizotypy group, replicating previous research. This effect was counteracted by amisulpride on N-back: it improved working memory in high schizotypy group but impaired the controls. A similar pattern was seen in SWM and VF. We interpret this finding in the light of the dopamine enhancing action of amisulpride when given in low doses. In contrast, risperidone impaired both groups and nicotine had a beneficial effect for the low baseline performers only. These effects were consistent across sites. These data demonstrates the utility of biomarkers in detecting the effect of schizotypy and its reversal by drugs that enhance dopamine and cholinergic function. Studies using similar design could help the early assessment of potential of compounds designed to improve cognition in schizophrenia.

Oceanic threespine sticklebacks have repeatedly and independently evolved new morphologies upon invasions of freshwater habitats. A consistent derived feature of the freshwater form across populations and geography is a shape change of the opercle, a large early developing facial bone. We show that the principal multivariate axis describing opercle shape development from the young larva to the full adult stage of oceanic fish matches the principal axis of evolutionary change associated with relocation from the oceanic to freshwater habitat. The opercle phenotype of freshwater adults closely resembles the phenotype of the bone in juveniles. Thus, evolution to the freshwater condition is in large part by truncation of development; the freshwater fish do not achieve the full ancestral adult bone shape. Additionally, the derived state includes dissociated ontogenetic changes. Dissociability may reflect an underlying modular pattern of opercle development, and facilitate flexibility of morphological evolution.
Chronic alcohol abuse results in a variety of pathological effects including damage to the brain. The causes of alcohol-induced brain pathology are presently unclear. Several mechanisms of pathogenicity of chronic alcoholism have been proposed, including accumulation of DNA damage in the absence of repair, resulting in genomic instability and death of neurons. Genomic instability is a unified genetic mechanism leading to a variety of neurodegenerative disorders. Ethanol also likely interacts with various metabolic pathways, including one-carbon metabolism (OCM). OCM is critical for the synthesis of DNA precursors, essential for DNA repair, and as a methyl donor for various methylation events, including DNA methylation. Both DNA repair and DNA methylation are critical for maintaining genomic stability. In this review, we outline the role of DNA damage and DNA repair dysfunction in chronic alcohol-induced neurodegeneration.
The VESPA (visual-evoked spread spectrum analysis) method estimates the impulse response of the visual system using a continuously varying stimulus. It has been used recently to address both basic cognitive and neurophysiologic questions as well as those surrounding clinical populations. Although the components of the average VESPA response are highly reminiscent of the early components of the visual-evoked potential (VEP) when measured over midline occipital locations, the two responses are acquired in different ways and, thus, they cannot be regarded as being equivalent. To further characterize the relationship between the VESPA and the VEP and the generative mechanisms underlying them, we recorded EEG from 31 subjects in response to checkerboard-based VEP and VESPA stimuli. We found that, across subjects, the amplitudes of the VEP C1 component and the VESPA C1 component were highly correlated, whereas the VEP P1 and the VESPA P1 bore no statistical relationship. Furthermore, we found that C1 and P1 amplitudes were significantly correlated in the VESPA but not in the VEP. We believe these findings point to the presence of common generators underlying the VESPA C1 and the VEP C1. We argue further that the VESPA P1, in light of its strong relationship to the VESPA C1, likely reflects further activation of the same cortical generators. Given the lack of correlation between the VEP P1 and each of these three other components, it is likely that the underlying generators of this particular component are more varied and widespread, as suggested previously. We discuss the implications of these relationships for basic and clinical research using the VESPA and for the assessment of additive-evoked versus phase-reset contributions to the VEP.
Stimulation of vestibular receptors elicits distinct changes in blood flow to the forelimb and hindlimb, showing that the nervous system has the capacity to produce changes in sympathetic outflow which are specific for a particular region of the body. However, it is unclear whether the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), the primary region of the brainstem that regulates sympathetic outflow to vascular smooth muscle, has the appropriate connectivity with sympathetic preganglionic neurons to generate anatomically patterned responses. To make this determination, the retrograde fluorescent tracer Fast Blue was injected into the T(4) spinal cord segment of cats, which regulates upper body blood flow, whereas Fluoro-Ruby was injected into the T(10) segment to label projections to a region of the spinal cord that regulates lower body blood flow. More neurons were single-labeled by a particular tracer (92 %) than were double labeled by both tracers (8 %), supporting the notion that the RVLM can regulate sympathetic outflow from a limited number of spinal cord segments. Since a large fraction of RVLM neurons that control sympathetic outflow in rodents contain epinephrine, we additionally determined whether the tracer-labeled cells were immunopositive for the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), which participates in the synthesis of catecholamines. Double labeling by the two tracers injected into the spinal cord was more common for TH-immunopositive neurons than for the general population of RVLM neurons: 19 % of the TH-positive cells contained both Fast Blue and Fluoro-Ruby, 30 % contained one of the tracers, and 51 % were not labeled by either tracer. Furthermore, many spinally projecting neurons in close proximity to the RVLM catecholaminergic neurons (41 % of the population) were not immunopositive for TH, suggesting that feline RVLM is neurochemically heterogeneous.
Age-related changes in the levels of major intracellular calcium buffers are known to occur in different parts of the mammalian brain, including the central auditory pathway. In the present study, we evaluate with immunohistochemistry and the western blot technique the effect that aging has on the calbindin- and calretinin-expressing system of neurons in the higher structures of the central auditory pathway, in the inferior colliculus (IC), medial geniculate body (MGB) and auditory cortex (AC) of two rat strains, the slowly aging Long-Evans and the fast aging Fischer 344. Interestingly, the age-related changes demonstrated a similar character regardless of the rat strain. In the IC of young animals, the majority of calbindin and calretinin immuno-reactive (CB and CR-ir) cells were found in the dorsal and external cortices and only sparse positive cells were present in the central nucleus of the IC. With aging, the number of CB-ir and CR-ir neurons decreased significantly in both the dorsal and external cortices. Furthermore, these declines were accompanied by an age-related reduction in the mean volumes of CB- and CR-ir neuronal somas. In the MGB of young rats, CB-ir neurons were present in abundant numbers in both the dorsal and ventral subdivisions, while CR-ir neurons were practically absent in this structure. With aging, the number and mean volume of CB-ir cells in the ventral subdivision of the MGB were significantly decreased. In comparison with the IC and MGB, age-related numerical and volumetric declines of both CB-ir and CR-ir neurons in the AC were less pronounced. Western blot protein analysis revealed a pronounced age-related decline in the levels of calbindin in both strains and in all examined brain regions. In contrast, the decline in calretinin levels with aging was less prominent, with a significant decline only in the IC of both strains. The observed age-related changes in the calbindin- and calretinin-expressing systems may contribute significantly to the deterioration of hearing function known as central presbycusis.
Serum Cu levels rise with age and high Cu/Zn ratios are linked with multiple-cause mortality in the elderly. The relationships of these parameters to measures of musculoskeletal health and frailty have not yet been analyzed. We used inductively coupled mass spectrometry to assess serum levels of Cu and Zn and probed for relationships between serum Cu levels and the Cu/Zn ratio with specific measures of bone, physical and overall health in a cohort of 144 frail elderly men. Subjects were divided into quintiles based on serum metal levels and comparisons for functional measures were made between the reference (middle) group and the low and high groups. Subjects' serum metal values were normally distributed. We found significant correlations between high Cu/Zn ratios and deficits in femoral bone mineral density, measures of speed and strength, muscle mass and hematocrit. High Cu/Zn ratios were also correlated with decreased triglycerides and increased reliance on ADL assistance. This study identifies specific deficits associated with high Cu/Zn ratios that span multiple organ systems and supports earlier studies indicating that serum Cu levels and the Cu/Zn ratio may serve as useful predictive biomarkers for poor health in the elderly.
Huntington Disease (HD) is a devastating neurological disorder characterized by progressive deterioration of psychiatric, motor, and cognitive function. Purkinje cells (PCs), the output neurons of the cerebellar cortex, have been found to be vulnerable in multiple CAG repeat disorders, but little is known about the involvement of PC dysfunction in HD. To investigate possible PC abnormalities, we performed quantitative real time PCR, Western blot analysis, and immunohistochemistry experiments to explore the changes in PC markers in the R6/2 mouse model of severe HD. There were reductions in the transcript and protein levels of the calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin and calbindin, as well as the enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase 67. Immunohistochemistry supported these results, with the most substantial changes occurring in the PC layer. To determine whether the reductions in PC marker expression were due to cell loss, we performed stereology on both presymptomatic and end-stage R6/2 mice. Stereological counts indicated a significant reduction in PC number by end-stage but no change in presymptomatic animals (4 weeks of age). To assess cellular function prior to cell loss and symptom onset, we measured spontaneous firing in PCs from 4-week old animals and found a striking deficit in PC firing as indicated by a 57% decrease in spike rate. Interestingly, huntingtin inclusions were not widely observed in PCs until 12 weeks of age, indicating that soluble huntingtin and/or abnormalities in other cell types may contribute to PC dysfunction. Considering the roles for PCs in motor control, these data suggest that early PC dysfunction potentially contributes to motor impairment in this model of HD.
Acute ischemic stroke triggers complex neurovascular, neuroinflammatory and synaptic alterations. Aspirin and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), an omega-3 essential fatty acid family member, have beneficial effects on cerebrovascular diseases. DHA is the precursor of neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1), which downregulates apoptosis and, in turn, promotes cell survival. Here we have tested the effect of aspirin plus DHA administration and discovered the synthesis of aspirin-triggered NPD1 (AT-NPD1) in the brain. Then we performed the total chemical synthesis of this molecule and tested in the setting of 2h middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) in Sprague-Dawley rats. Neurological status was evaluated at 24h, 48 h, 72 h, and 7 days. At 3h post-stroke onset, an intravenous administration of 333 g/kg of AT-NPD1 sodium salt (AT-NPD1-SS) or methyl-ester (AT-NPD1-ME) or vehicle (saline) as treatment was given. On day 7, ex vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brains was conducted on 11.7 T MRI. T2WI, 3D volumes, and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps were generated. In addition, infarct volumes and number of GFAP (reactive astrocytes), ED-1 (activated microglia/macrophages) and SMI-71-positive vessels were counted in the cortex and striatum at the level of the central lesion. All animals showed similar values for rectal and cranial temperatures, arterial blood gases, and plasma glucose during and after MCAo. Treatment with both AT-NPD1-SS and AT-NPD1-ME significantly improved neurological scores compared to saline treatment at 24h, 48 h, 72 h and 7 days. Total lesion volumes computed from T2WI images were significantly reduced by both AT-NPD1-SS and AT-NPD1-ME treatment in the cortex (by 44% and 81%), striatum (by 61% and 77%) and total infarct (by 48% and 78%, respectively). Brain edema, computed from T2WI in the cortex (penumbra) and striatum (core), was elevated in the saline group. In contrast, both AT-NPD1 decreased water content in the striatum on day 7. 3D volumes, computed from T2WI, were dramatically reduced with both AT-NPD1 and the lesion was mostly localized in the subcortical areas. Treatment with both AT-NPD1-SS and AT-NPD1-ME significantly reduced cortical (by 76% and 96%), subcortical (by 61% and 70%) and total (69% and 84%, respectively) infarct volumes as defined by histopathology. In conclusion, a novel biosynthetic pathway that leads to the formation of AT-NPD1 mediator in the brain was discovered. In addition, administration of synthetic AT-NPD1, in either its sodium salt or as the methyl ester, was able to attenuate cerebral ischemic injury which leads to a novel approach for pharmaceutical intervention and clinical translation.
Clinical trials have provided proof of principle that new dopamine neurons isolated from the developing ventral midbrain and transplanted into the denervated striatum can functionally integrate and alleviate symptoms in Parkinson's disease patients. However, extensive variability across patients has been observed, ranging from long-term motor improvement to the absence of symptomatic relief and development of dyskinesias. Heterogeneity of the donor tissue is likely to be a contributing factor in the variable outcomes. Dissections of ventral midbrain used for transplantation will variously contain progenitors for different dopamine neuron subtypes as well as different neurotransmitter phenotypes. The overall impact of the resulting graft will be determined by the functional contribution from these different cell types. The A9 substantia nigra pars compacta dopamine neurons, for example, are known to be particularly important for motor recovery in animal models. Serotonergic neurons, on the other hand, have been implicated in unwanted dyskinesias. Currently little knowledge exists on how variables such as donor age, which have not been controlled for in clinical trials, will impact on the final neuronal composition of fetal grafts. Here we performed a birth dating study to identify the time-course of neurogenesis within the various ventral midbrain dopamine subpopulations in an effort to identify A9-enriched donor tissue for transplantation. The results show that A9 neurons precede the birth of A10 ventral tegmental area dopamine neurons. Subsequent grafting of younger ventral midbrain donor tissue revealed significantly larger grafts containing more mitotic dopamine neuroblasts compared to older donor grafts. These grafts were enriched with A9 neurons and showed significantly greater innervation of the target dorso-lateral striatum and DA release. Younger donor grafts also contained significantly less serotonergic neurons. These findings demonstrate the importance of standardized methods to improve cell therapy for Parkinson's disease and have significant implications for the generation and selectivity of dopamine neurons from stem cell based sources.
Cognitive impairment is common in patients with chronic kidney disease. Brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptors modulate cognitive functions, such as learning and memory. Pharmacological cholinergic enhancement is useful in patients with cognitive dysfunction. The major nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes in the brain are heteromeric 42 and homomeric 7 receptors. To study the involvement of neuronal acetylcholine receptors in cognitive impairment in uremic rats, bilateral nephrectomy was performed. 24 weeks after nephrectomy, memory was assessed using the one trial step-down inhibitory avoidance test. Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the brain were studied by radioligand binding, immunoprecipitation, Western blot and sucrose gradient experiments. We demonstrated that rats with severe renal failure show disorders of short term memory. Long term memory was not altered in these rats. The number of functional 42 heteromeric neuronal nicotinic receptors was decreased in the brains of rats with severe renal failure. There was a significant correlation between the degree of renal impairment and the number of heteromeric nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the brain. The down-regulation of functional 42 receptors in the brains of rats with severe renal failure was not due to a reduction of 4 or 2 subunit proteins. The number of 7 homomeric neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors was not altered. These findings may have important clinical significance for the management of cognitive impairment in patients with chronic kidney disease.
Introduction: The past decade has seen an explosion of functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies in neuroscience. As the technology progresses, it is now possible to carry out longitudinal studies using functional MRI. Such studies can be used to understand the progression of mental and neurological disorders and the effectiveness of different treatments by obtaining direct measures of brain activity as well as markers of tissue health and connectivity. Areas covered: We review six popular neuroimaging tools that can be used for longitudinal studies: blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD)-weighted imaging, BOLD-based functional connectivity, arterial spin labeling, dynamic R2* imaging, voxel-based morphometry, and diffusion tensor imaging. Expert opinion: Each of these techniques is targeted to probe a specific feature of brain function or brain structure and can reveal important information about the progression of a pathological condition. We anticipate that in the near future, the MRI techniques discussed here may become standard tools in clinical use and will not be used for research purposes only.
Cognitive remediation (CR) is an increasingly studied behavioral intervention for improving illness-linked cognitive deficits in schizophrenia, with considerable promise for improving the disease outcome when offered in concert with other therapies. We present findings from a comprehensive, critical review of the extant literature on CR for schizophrenia. Conclusions from six meta-analyses presented to date are summarized, and existing CR interventions are categorized into three major classes: restorative, strategy-based and hybrid approaches. The crucial elements and empirical support for each class are presented. Studies of predictors of treatment response suggest that attention, motivation and clinician expertise, along with the measures of 'brain reserve', are key features of a positive treatment response. Lastly, findings from studies of neuroimaging indicate that CR is accompanied by structural and functional neural changes in key frontal and temporal brain regions.
Movement disorders are one of the most rapidly growing fields of neurology from both the clinical and neurobiological perspectives. Despite many recent advances in genetic, pathogenetic, clinical and therapeutic fields, several shortcomings remain in the diagnostic and therapeutic realms, with a plethora of challenges threatening further advances. Aimed at recognizing and bridging these knowledge gaps, the 2nd International Conference on Knowledge Gaps in Parkinson's Disease and Other Movement Disorders was held last February in Santa Margherita Ligure, Italy, with the support of the Movement Disorder Society and the Italian Association for Parkinson's Disease and Extrapyramidal Disorders. The 3-day symposium, which was attended by approximately 300 clinicians and researchers from around the world, gathered around 27 leading young and senior clinical scientists, each of whom addressed the field's main knowledge gaps and brainstormed on how to bridge or minimize their impact. This meeting report summarizes the topics that gathered the most attention from the speakers and the audience.
Long-term oral therapy with levodopa is associated with the development of motor uctuations and dyskinesia in a large percentage of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Motor complications are associated with a number of non-motor symptoms and have a negative impact on disability and quality of life. There are three therapeutic options available for the management of patients at this advanced stage: high frequency deep brain stimulation, continuous subcutaneous infusion of apomorphine, and continuous intestinal infusion of levodopa/carbidopa. On the basis of published data and in consideration of the risk-benet prole of current therapeutic strategies, we here propose an algorithm to help clinicians select the most suitable treatment option for patients with advanced PD.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a technique developed to non-invasively investigate the integrity of human motor corticospinal tracts. Over the last three decades, the use of stimulation paradigms including single-pulse TMS, paired-pulse TMS, repetitive TMS, and integration with EEG and functional imaging have been developed to facilitate measurement of cortical excitability.Through the use of these protocols, TMS has evolved in-to an excellent tool for measuring cortical excitability.TMS has high sensitivity in detecting subtle changes in cortical excitability, and therefore it is also a good measure of disturbances associated with brain disorders. In this review, we appraise the current literature on cortical excitability studies using TMS in neurological disorders.We begin with a brief overview of current TMS measures and then show how these have added to our understand-ing of the underlying mechanisms of brain disorders.

HIV enters the brain during the early stages of initial infection and can result in a complicated array of diverse neurological dysfunctions. While neuronal injury and loss are at the heart of neurological decline and HIV-associated neuropathology, HIV does not productively infect neurons and the effects of HIV on neurons may be described as largely indirect. Viral proteins released from infected cells in the CNS are a well-characterized source of neuronal toxicity. Likewise, host-derived inflammatory cytokines and chemokines released from infected and/or activated glial cells can damage neurons, as well. Newly identified host-virus interactions and the current state of our knowledge regarding HIV-associated neuronal toxicity will be addressed in this review. Aspects of HIV-associated neurotoxic mechanisms, patterns of neuronal damage, viral effects on neurotrophic signaling, clade variations and comorbid substance abuse will be discussed. Recent advances in our understanding of the impact of HIV infection of the CNS on neuronal dysfunction and cell death will also be highlighted.
Inappropriate stepping in response to unexpected balance perturbations is more prevalent in older people and in those at risk of falling. This study examined responses to force-controlled waist pulls in young and older people, and sought to identify physiological and cognitive correlates of the force threshold for stepping. 242 older (79.74.2 years) and 15 young (29.55.3 years) adults underwent waist pull perturbations and assessments of physiological and neuropsychological functioning, general health and falls efficacy. Perturbation force that induced stepping, stepping strategy and number of steps were measured. The older group withstood less forceful perturbations with a feet-in-place strategy, compared to young. Likewise, older adults with high falls risk withstood less force than those with low risk. After controlling for body weight and gender, sway and lower limb strength were independent predictors of anterior stepping thresholds, reaction time was an independent predictor of posterior thresholds, and executive functioning and lower limb strength were independent predictors of the lateral thresholds. These results suggest that balance, strength and agility training, in addition to cognitive exercises may enhance the ability to withstand unexpected balance perturbations and reduce the risk of falls in older people.
Measurements from force plates were investigated to identify the life-span developmental course of dynamic balance control during gait initiation across adulthood. Center of pressure (CoP) data of the initial weight shift onto the supporting foot in the mediolateral (CoP(x)) direction were tauG analyzed, investigating the hypothesis that tau of the CoP(x) motion gap ((CoPx)) is tau-coupled onto an intrinsic tauG-guide ((G)), by maintaining the relation (CoPx)=K(G), for a constant K. Participants were in their twenties, forties, sixties, and eighties. As regression analysis suggested a strong linear relationship between (CoPx) and (G), an investigation of the regression slope as an estimate of the coupling constant K in the tau-coupling equation was justified. Mean K values increased significantly with age from 0.40, 0.47, 0.67, to 0.79, suggesting that control of dynamic balance deteriorates from participants in their twenties making touch contact (K0.5) to participants in their sixties and eighties colliding with the boundaries of the base of support (K&gt;0.5). The findings may prove useful as a measure for testing prospective balance control, a helpful tool for early detection of elderly people at increased risk of falling.

Neuropeptide Y and its related peptides PYY and PP (pancreatic polypeptide) are involved in feeding behavior, regulation of the pituitary and the gastrointestinal tract, and numerous other functions. The peptides act on a family of G-protein coupled receptors with 4-7 members in jawed vertebrates. We describe here the NPY system of the Western clawed frog Silurana (Xenopus) tropicalis. Three peptides, NPY, PYY and PP, were identified together with six receptors, namely subtypes Y1, Y2, Y4, Y5, Y7 and Y8. Thus, this frog has all but one of the ancestral seven gnathostome NPY-family receptors, in contrast to mammals which have lost 2-3 of the receptors. Expression levels of mRNA for the peptide and receptor genes were analyzed in a panel of 19 frog tissues using reverse transcriptase quantitative PCR. The peptide mRNAs had broad distribution with highest expression in skin, blood and small intestine. NPY mRNA was present in the three brain regions investigated, but PYY and PP mRNAs were not detectable in any of these. All receptor mRNAs had similar expression profiles with high expression in skin, blood, muscle and heart. Three of the receptors, Y5, Y7 and Y8, could be functionally expressed in HEK-293 cells and characterized with binding studies using the three frog peptides. PYY had the highest affinity for all three receptors (K(i) 0.042-0.34 nM). Also NPY and PP bound to the Y8 receptor with high affinity (0.14 and 0.50 nM). The low affinity of NPY for the Y5 receptor (100-fold lower than PYY) differs from mammals and chicken. This may suggest a less important role of NPY on Y5 in appetite stimulation in the frog compared with amniotes. In conclusion, our characterization of the NPY system in S. tropicalis with its six receptors demonstrates not only greater complexity than in mammals but also some interesting differences in ligand-receptor preferences.
Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP) is an autosomal dominant congenital disorder characterized by progressive heterotopic bone formation. Currently, no definitive treatment exists for FOP. The activin receptor type IA / activin-like kinase 2 (ACVR1/ALK2) gene has been identified as the responsible gene for FOP, and disease-associated ALK2 mutations have been found. Chemical inhibitors to the pathogenic ALK2 receptors are considered possible medical agents for FOP, but their adverse effects on normal ALK2 and other receptors cannot be excluded. Here we describe another treatment strategy for FOP using allele-specific RNA interference (ASP-RNAi), and show modified small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) conferring allele-specific silencing against disease-causing ALK2 mutants found in FOP, without affecting normal ALK2 allele. Thus, the siRNAs presented here may become novel therapeutic agents for FOP, and their induced ASP-RNAi may pave the way for the achievement of radical treatment of FOP and/or for the relief of its severe symptoms.
Rabies virus glycoprotein (RVG) can pseudotype lentiviral vectors, although at a lower efficiency to that of vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein (VSVG). Transduction with VSVG-pseudotyped vectors of rodent central nervous system (CNS) leads to local neurotropic gene transfer, whereas with RVG-pseudotyped vectors additional disperse transduction of neurons located at distal efferent sites occurs via axonal retrograde transport. Attempts to produce high-titre RVG-pseudotyped lentiviral vectors for preclinical and clinical trials has to date been problematic. We have constructed several chimeric RVG/VSVG glycoproteins and found that a construct bearing the external/transmembrane domain of RVG and the cytoplasmic domain of VSVG shows increased incorporation onto HIV-1 lentiviral particles and has increased infectivity in vitro in 293T cells and in differentiated neuronal cell lines of human, rat and murine origin. Stereotactic application of vector pseudotyped with this RVG/VSVG chimera in the rat striatum resulted in efficient gene transfer at the site of injection showing both neuronal and glial tropism. Distal neuronal transduction in the substantia nigra, thalamus and olfactory bulb via retrograde axonal transport also occurs after intrastriatal administration of chimera-pseudotyped vectors at similar levels to that observed with a RVG-pseudotyped vector. This is the first report of distal transduction in the olfactory bulb. The enhanced pseudotyping with this envelope should enable easier production of higher-titre pseudotyped lentiviral vectors that exhibit efficient local and dispersed neuronal transduction in the CNS.
Vasopressin is a neuropeptide that has been strongly implicated in the development and evolution of complex social relations and cognition in mammals. Recent studies in voles have shown that polymorphic variation in the promoter region of the arginine vasopressin V1a receptor gene (avpr1a) is associated with different dimensions of sociality. In humans, variation in a repetitive sequence element in the 5' flanking region of the AVPR1A, known as RS3, have also been associated with variation in AVPR1a gene expression, brain activity and social behavior. Here, we examined the association of polymorphic variation in this same 5' flanking region of the AVPR1A on subjective ratings of personality in a sample of 83 chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Initial analyses indicated that 34 females and 19 males were homozygous for the short allele, which lacks RS3 (DupB(-/-)), while 18 females and 12 males were heterozygous and thus had one copy of the long allele containing RS3 (DupB(+/-)), yielding overall allelic frequencies of 0.82 for the DupB(-) allele and 0.18 for the DupB(+) allele. DupB(+/+) chimpanzees were excluded from the analysis because of the limited number of individuals. Results indicated no significant sex difference in personality between chimpanzees homozygous for the deletion of the RS3-containing DupB region (DupB(-/-)); however, among chimpanzees carrying one allele with the DupB present (DupB(+/-)), males had significantly higher dominance and lower conscientiousness scores than females. These findings are the first evidence showing that the AVPR1A gene plays a role in different aspects of personality in male and female chimpanzees.
Eukaryotic circadian clocks include transcriptional/translational feedback loops that drive 24-h rhythms of transcription. These transcriptional rhythms underlie oscillations of protein abundance, thereby mediating circadian rhythms of behavior, physiology, and metabolism. Numerous studies over the last decade have used microarrays to profile circadian transcriptional rhythms in various organisms and tissues. Here we use RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to profile the circadian transcriptome of Drosophila melanogaster brain from wild-type and period-null clock-defective animals. We identify several hundred transcripts whose abundance oscillates with 24-h periods in either constant darkness or 12 h light/dark diurnal cycles, including several noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) that were not identified in previous microarray studies. Of particular interest are U snoRNA host genes (Uhgs), a family of diurnal cycling noncoding RNAs that encode the precursors of more than 50 box-C/D small nucleolar RNAs, key regulators of ribosomal biogenesis. Transcriptional profiling at the level of individual exons reveals alternative splice isoforms for many genes whose relative abundances are regulated by either period or circadian time, although the effect of circadian time is muted in comparison to that of period. Interestingly, period loss of function significantly alters the frequency of RNA editing at several editing sites, suggesting an unexpected link between a key circadian gene and RNA editing. We also identify tens of thousands of novel splicing events beyond those previously annotated by the modENCODE Consortium, including several that affect key circadian genes. These studies demonstrate extensive circadian control of ncRNA expression, reveal the extent of clock control of alternative splicing and RNA editing, and provide a novel, genome-wide map of splicing in Drosophila brain.

Emerging evidence points to monocarboxylates as key players in the pathophysiology of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) with hippocampal sclerosis (mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, MTLE). Monocarboxylate transporters (MCTs) 1 and 2, which are abundantly present on brain endothelial cells and perivascular astrocyte endfeet, respectively, facilitate the transport of monocarboxylates and protons across cell membranes. Recently, we reported that the density of MCT1 protein is reduced on endothelial cells and increased on astrocyte plasma membranes in the hippocampal formation in patients with MTLE and in several animal models of the disorder. Because the perivascular astrocyte endfeet comprise an important part of the neurovascular unit, we now assessed the distribution of the MCT2 in hippocampal formations in TLE patients with (MTLE) or without hippocampal sclerosis (non-MTLE). Light microscopic immunohistochemistry revealed significantly less perivascular MCT2 immunoreactivity in the hippocampal formation in MTLE (n = 6) than in non-MTLE (n = 6) patients, and to a lesser degree in non-MTLE than in nonepilepsy patients (n = 4). Immunogold electron microscopy indicated that the loss of MCT2 protein occurred on perivascular astrocyte endfeet. Interestingly, the loss of MCT2 on astrocyte endfeet in MTLE (n = 3) was accompanied by an upregulation of the protein on astrocyte membranes facing synapses in the neuropil, when compared with non-MTLE (n = 3). We propose that the altered distribution of MCT1 and MCT2 in TLE (especially MTLE) limits the flux of monocarboxylates across the blood-brain barrier and enhances the exchange of monocarboxylates within the brain parenchyma.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a widely used animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS), an inflammatory, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). EAE pathogenesis involves various cell types, cytokines, chemokines, and adhesion molecules. Given the complexity of the inflammatory response in EAE, it is likely that many immune mediators still remain to be discovered. To identify novel immune mediators of EAE pathogenesis, we performed an Affymetrix gene array screen on the spinal cords of mice at the onset stage of disease. This screening identified the gene encoding lipocalin 2 (Lcn2) as being significantly upregulated. Lcn2 is a multi-functional protein that plays a role in glial activation, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) stabilization, and cellular iron flux. As many of these processes have been implicated in EAE, we characterized the expression and role of Lcn2 in this disease in C57BL/6 mice. We show that Lcn2 is significantly upregulated in the spinal cord throughout EAE and is expressed predominantly by monocytes and reactive astrocytes. The Lcn2 receptor, 24p3R, is also expressed on monocytes, macrophages/microglia, and astrocytes in EAE. In addition, we show that EAE severity is increased in Lcn2(-/-) mice as compared with wild-type controls. Finally, we demonstrate that elevated levels of Lcn2 are detected in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in MS and in immune cells in CNS lesions in MS tissue sections. These data indicate that Lcn2 is a modulator of EAE pathogenesis and suggest that it may also play a role in MS.
Pannexins (Panx1, 2, and 3) comprise a group of proteins expressed in vertebrates that share weak yet significant sequence homology with the invertebrate gap junction proteins, the innexins. In contrast to the other vertebrate gap junction protein family (connexin), pannexins do not form intercellular channels, but at least Panx1 forms nonjunctional plasma membrane channels. Panx1 is ubiquitously expressed and has been shown to form large conductance (500 pS) channels that are voltage dependent, mechanosensitive, and permeable to relatively large molecules such as ATP. Pharmacological and knockdown approaches have indicated that Panx1 is the molecular substrate for the so-called &quot;hemichannel&quot; originally attributed to connexin43 and that Panx1 is the pore-forming unit of the P2X(7) receptor. Here, we describe, for the first time, conductance and permeability properties of Panx1-null astrocytes. The electrophysiological and fluorescence imaging analyses performed on these cells fully support our previous pharmacological and Panx1 knockdown studies that showed profoundly lower dye uptake and ATP release than wild-type untreated astrocytes. As a consequence of decreased ATP paracrine signaling, intercellular calcium wave spread is altered in Panx1-null astrocytes. Moreover, we found that in astrocytes as in Panx1-expressing oocytes, elevated extracellular K(+) activates Panx1 channels independently of membrane potential. Thus, on the basis of our present findings and our previous report, we propose that Panx1 channels serve as K(+) sensors for changes in the extracellular milieu such as those occurring under pathological conditions.
Gap junctions (GJs) are vital for oligodendrocyte survival and myelination. In order to examine how different stages of inflammatory demyelination affect oligodendrocyte GJs, we studied the expression of oligodendrocytic connexin32 (Cx32) and Cx47 and astrocytic Cx43 in the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) mouse model of multiple sclerosis (MS) induced by recombinant myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein. EAE was characterized by remissions and relapses with demyelination and axonal loss. Formation of GJ plaques was quantified in relation to the lesions and in normal appearing white matter (NAWM). During acute EAE at 14 days postimmunization (dpi) both Cx47 and Cx32 GJs were severely reduced within and around lesions but also in the NAWM. Cx47 was localized intracellularly in oligodendrocytes while protein levels remained unchanged, and this redistribution coincided with the loss of Cx43 GJs in astrocytes. Cx47 and Cx32 expression increased during remyelination at 28 dpi but decreased again at 50 dpi in the relapsing phase. Oligodendrocyte GJs remained reduced even in NAWM, despite increased formation of Cx43 GJs toward lesions indicating astrogliosis. EAE induced in Cx32 knockout mice resulted in an exacerbated clinical course with more demyelination and axonal loss compared with wild-type EAE mice of the same backcross, despite similar degree of inflammation, and an overall milder loss of Cx47 and Cx43 GJs. Thus, EAE causes persistent impairment of both intra- and intercellular oligodendrocyte GJs even in the NAWM, which may be an important mechanism of MS progression. Furthermore, GJ deficient myelinated fibers appear more vulnerable to CNS inflammatory demyelination.
Differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) into mature oligodendrocytes is a prerequisite for remyelination after demyelination, and impairment of this process is suggested to be a major reason for remyelination failure. Diosgenin, a plant-derived steroid, has been implicated for therapeutic use in many diseases, but little is known about its effect on the central nervous system. In this study, using a purified rat OPC culture model, we show that diosgenin significantly and specifically promotes OPC differentiation without affecting the viability, proliferation, or migration of OPC. Interestingly, the effect of diosgenin can be blocked by estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist ICI 182780 but not by glucocorticoid and progesterone receptor antagonist RU38486, nor by mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist spirolactone. Moreover, it is revealed that both ER-alpha and ER-beta are expressed in OPC, and diosgenin can activate the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in OPC via ER. The pro-differentiation effect of diosgenin can also be obstructed by the ERK inhibitor PD98059. Furthermore, in the cuprizone-induced demyelination model, it is demonstrated that diosgenin administration significantly accelerates/enhances remyelination as detected by Luxol fast blue stain, MBP immunohistochemistry and real time RT-PCR. Diosgenin also increases the number of mature oligodendrocytes in the corpus callosum while it does not affect the number of OPCs. Taking together, our results suggest that diosgenin promotes the differentiation of OPC into mature oligodendrocyte through an ER-mediated ERK1/2 activation pathway to accelerate remyelination, which implicates a novel therapeutic usage of this steroidal natural product in demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS).
Golli myelin basic proteins are necessary for normal myelination, acting via voltage and store-dependent Ca(2+) entry at multiple steps during oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) development. To date nothing is known regarding the role of golli proteins in demyelination or remyelination events. Here the effects of golli ablation and overexpression in myelin loss and recovery were examined using the cuprizone (CPZ) model of demyelination/remyelination. We found severe demyelination in the corpus callosum (CC) of golli-overexpressing mice (JOE) during the CPZ treatment, which was accompanied by an increased number of reactive astrocytes and activation of microglia/macrophages. During demyelination of JOE brains, a significant increase in the number of proliferating OPCs was found in the CC as well as in the subventricular zone, and our data indicate that these progenitors matured and fully remyelinated the CC of JOE animals after CPZ withdrawal. In contrast, in the absence of golli (golli-KO mice) delayed myelin loss associated with a smaller immune response, and a lower number of OPCs was found in these mice during the CPZ treatment. Furthermore, incomplete remyelination was observed after CPZ removal in large areas of the CC of golli-KO mice, reflecting irregular recovery of the oligodendrocyte population and subsequent myelin sheath formation. Our findings demonstrate that golli proteins sensitize mature oligodendrocytes to CPZ-induced demyelination, while at the same time stimulate the proliferation/recruitment of OPCs during demyelination, resulting in accelerated remyelination.
This report introduces a system for the objective physiological classification of single-unit activity in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) of anesthetized CBA/129 and CBA/CaJ mice. As in previous studies, the decision criteria are based on the temporal properties of responses to short tone bursts that are visualized in the form of peri-stimulus time histograms (PSTHs). Individual unit types are defined by the statistical distribution of quantifiable metrics that relate to the onset latency, regularity, and adaptation of sound-driven discharge rates. Variations of these properties reflect the unique synaptic organizations and intrinsic membrane properties that dictate the selective tuning of sound coding in the AVCN. When these metrics are applied to the mouse AVCN, responses to best frequency (BF) tones reproduce the major PSTH patterns that have been previously demonstrated in other mammalian species. The consistency of response types in two genetically diverse strains of laboratory mice suggests that the present classification system is appropriate for additional strains with normal peripheral function. The general agreement of present findings to established classifications validates laboratory mice as an adequate model for general principles of mammalian sound coding. Nevertheless, important differences are noted for the reliability of specialized endbulb transmission within the AVCN, suggesting less secure temporal coding in this high-frequency species.
The avian basilar papilla (BP) is a likely homolog of the auditory sensory epithelium of the mammalian cochlea, the organ of Corti. During mammalian development Fibroblast growth factor receptor-3 (Fgfr3) is known to regulate the differentiation of auditory mechanosensory hair cells (HCs) and supporting cells (SCs), both of which are required for sound detection. Fgfr3 is expressed in developing progenitor cells (PCs) and SCs of both the BP and the organ of Corti; however its role in BP development is unknown. Here we utilized an in vitro whole organ embryonic culture system to examine the role of Fgf signaling in the developing avian cochlea. SU5402 (an antagonist of Fgf signaling) was applied to developing BP cultures at different stages to assay the role of Fgf signaling during HC formation. Similar to the observed effects of inhibition of Fgfr3 in the mammalian cochlea, Fgfr inhibition in the developing BP increased the number of HCs that formed. This increase was not associated with increased proliferation, suggesting that inhibition of the Fgf pathway leads to the direct conversion of PCs or supporting cells into HCs, a process known as transdifferentiation. This also implies that Fgf signaling is required to prevent the conversion of PCs and SCs into HCs. The ability of Fgf signaling to inhibit transdifferentiation suggests that its down-regulation may be essential for the initial steps of HC formation, as well as for the maintenance of SC phenotypes.
Aim: A systematic review of neuroscience articles on the emotional states of fear, anxiety, and pain to understand how emotional response is linked to the visual characteristics of an image at the level of brain behavior.Background: A number of outcome studies link exposure to visual images (with nature content) to improvements in stress, anxiety, and pain perception. However, an understanding of the underlying perceptual mechanisms has been lacking. In this article, neuroscience studies that use visual images to induce fear, anxiety, or pain are reviewed to gain an understanding of how the brain processes visual images in this context and to explore whether this processing can be linked to specific visual characteristics.Conclusions: The amygdala was identified as one of the key regions of the brain involved in the processing of fear, anxiety, and pain (induced by visual images). Other key areas included the thalamus, insula, and hippocampus. Characteristics of visual images such as the emotional dimension (valence/arousal), subject matter (familiarity, ambiguity, novelty, realism, and facial expressions), and form (sharp and curved contours) were identified as key factors influencing emotional processing. The broad structural properties of an image and overall content were found to have a more pivotal role in the emotional response than the specific details of an image. Insights on specific visual properties were translated to recommendations for what should be incorporated-and avoided-in healthcare environments.
Kroly Schaffer (1864-1939) was a Hungarian neurologist who distinguished himself through original discoveries in human neuropathology. At the beginning of his scientific carrier, he described the cellular and fiber structure of the hippocampus, earning him a high reputation in neuroscience. Schaffer (1892) described the so-called &quot;collateral fiber system&quot; that connects the CA3 and CA1 regions of the hippocampus, known today as Schaffer collaterals. To decipher the history of this well-known eponym, we review Schaffer's original German publication and follow the impact of his research in the contemporary literature.
Although there is evidence that nicotinic acetylcholine (Ach) receptors are influenced by ceramides, we do not currently know whether or not these sphingolipids can also regulate the muscarinic subtypes of Ach receptors. Using the whole-cell patch technique, we demonstrated that the effectiveness of the muscarinic receptor agonist pilocarpine, in enhancing spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents in CA1 pyramidal cells, was completely abolished in hippocampal slices pre-exposed to the ceramide-generating enzyme sphingomyelinase (SMase). Western blot experiments, performed with biotinylated hippocampal membranes, showed that this electrophysiological defect possibly relies on the loss of M1 muscarinic Ach receptors at the cell surface. However, the effect appears to be relatively specific as the cell-surface expression of M4 muscarinic receptors was not found to be impacted by SMase treatment. Interestingly, we observed that G protein-coupled receptor kinases 2 and -arrestin1/2 interactions with M1-immunoprecipitated proteins were substantially augmented in SMase-treated slices and that the reduction of cell-surface M1 muscarinic receptor expression generated was completely suppressed by the muscarinic antagonist atropine. Collectively, our data suggest that selective internalization of M1 muscarinic receptors can be accentuated in neurons subjected to high ceramide levels. The potential physiopathological implications of this finding are presented.
The hippocampus is necessary for the normal formation of enduring declarative memories, but its role in cognitive processes spanning short intervals is less well understood. Within the last decade, several reports have described modest behavioral deficits in medial temporal lobe (MTL)-lesion patients when they perform tasks that do not seem likely to rely on enduring memory. An intriguing but sparsely-tested implication of such results is that the MTL is involved in the online representation of information, possibly of an associative/relational nature, irrespective of delay. We administered several tests that simultaneously presented all information necessary for accurate responses to a group of MTL-lesion patients with severe declarative memory deficits but otherwise normal cognition, and to matched brain-damaged and healthy comparison participants. MTL-lesion patients performed less well than either comparison group in the Hooper Visual Organization Test, and several patients performed outside the normal range on the Overlapping Figures Test. A novel follow-up borrowing characteristics of the Overlapping Figures Test revealed impaired identification of novel items by MTL-lesion patients when target items were obscured by distracters, and two additional novel tests of fragmented object identification further implicated the hippocampus/MTL in the integration of information across very brief intervals. These findings suggest that MTL structures including the hippocampus contribute similarly to cognition irrespective of timescale.
Hippocampal theta rhythms in vivo are modulated by a synchronizing projection from the medial septum (MS) and a desynchronizing input from the median raphe nucleus (MRn) of the brainstem. Inactivation of the MS suppresses theta rhythms while inactivation of the median raphe produces persistent theta. However, different pathways arise from within the MS and the median raphe and therefore different brain states could be facilitated by different forms of median raphe or septohippocampal inputs. Here, we found in urethane anesthetized rats that suppression of outputs from the MRn with procaine leads to persistent hippocampal theta as previously reported. The discharge properties of hippocampal theta-related cells recorded during both spontaneously occurring theta and MRn 8-OH-DPAT-induced theta did not differ significantly. This persistent theta was abolished by inactivation of the MS with either procaine or atropine sulfate. Selective inactivation of serotonergic median raphe outputs with the 5-HT-1A agonist (8-OH-DPAT) induced theta that was also abolished by medial septal inactivation using procaine. Thus, persistent theta following complete median raphe inactivation or selective serotonergic inactivation arises from a median raphe to MS pathway. However, 8-OH-DPAT infusions into the median raphe together with atropine infusions in the MS did not abolish theta activity. These data suggest that the non-serotonergic (possibly glutamatergic) median raphe projections to the MS can facilitate the generation of hippocampal theta in the absence of medial septal cholinergic tone. These results demonstrate that dissociable neuronal pathways in the median raphe-MS-hippocampal circuit promote different brain states (theta or non-theta) and a median raphe non-serotonergic (likely glutamatergic) system may serve a separate function from the ascending serotonergic raphe projection in the regulation of hippocampal network activity.
To compare the response of the medial amygdala and central amygdala to juvenile social subjugation (JSS), we used unbiased stereology to quantify the immediate early gene product Fos in prepubertal rats after aggressive or benign social encounters or handling. We estimated the overall number of neurons and the proportion of Fos immunoreactive neurons in the posterodorsal (MePD) and posteroventral medial amygdala (MePV) and the central amygdala (CeA). Experience elicited Fos in a sex- and hemisphere-dependent manner in the MePD. The left MePD was selective for JSS in both sexes, but the right MePD showed a specific Fos response to JSS in males only. In the MePV, irrespective of hemisphere or sex, JSS elicited the greatest amount of Fos, benign social experience elicited an intermediate level, and handling the least. None of the experiential conditions elicited significant levels of Fos in the CeA. We found a previously unreported sex difference in the number of CeA neurons (M&gt;F) that was highly significant and a strong trend toward a sex difference (M&gt;F) in the MePD. These data show that the posterior MeA subnuclei are more responsive to JSS than to benign social interaction, that sex interacts with hemispheric laterality to determine the response of the MePD to JSS and that the MePV responds to social experience and JSS. Taken together, these findings support the hypothesis that juvenile rats process JSS in a sex-specific manner.


Many of the influences of estrogens and progestins on the brain and behavior are mediated by estrogen receptors and progestin receptors, acting as transcriptional regulators. The homologous and heterologous regulation of the concentrations of these receptors by cognate hormones is well established. However, although they were discovered and characterized based on their binding to cognate hormone and their role in transcriptional regulation, steroid hormone receptors have a more complex role and serve many more functions than originally suspected. First, besides being regulated by steroid hormones, the intracellular concentrations of brain steroid hormone receptors are regulated by neurotransmitters, a pathway by which stimuli from the environment, including from conspecific animals, can modulate the concentration of particular steroid hormone receptors in subsets of cells. Further, besides being activated by cognate steroid hormones, the receptors can be activated by a variety of neurotransmitters and phosphorylation pathways, providing a route through which environmental stimulation can activate steroid-receptor-dependent functions in specific cells. In addition, the transcription factor, estrogen receptor-, produced from the estrogen receptor- gene, can be modified to be targeted to membranes, where it can signal via kinase pathways. Finally, developmental experiences, such as particular stressors during the pubertal period, can permanently remodel the brain's response to ovarian hormones, most likely by long-term changes in regulation of the receptors mediating those responses. In addition to their function in responding to cognate ligand, it is now more appropriate to think of steroid hormone receptors as integrators of a wide variety of signaling pathways.
Steroid hormones modulate a wide array of physiological processes including development, metabolism, and reproduction in various species. It is generally believed that these biological effects are predominantly mediated by their binding to specific intracellular receptors resulting in conformational change, dimerization, and recruitment of coregulators for transcription-dependent genomic actions (classical mechanism). In addition, to their cognate ligands, intracellular steroid receptors can also be activated in a &quot;ligand-independent&quot; manner by other factors including neurotransmitters. Recent studies indicate that rapid, nonclassical steroid effects involve extranuclear steroid receptors located at the membrane, which interact with cytoplasmic kinase signaling molecules and G-proteins. The current review deals with various mechanisms that function together in an integrated manner to promote hormone-dependent actions on the central and sympathetic nervous systems.
Many researchers have noted that the functional architecture of the human brain is relatively invariant during task performance and the resting state. Indeed, intrinsic connectivity networks (ICNs) revealed by resting-state functional connectivity analyses are spatially similar to regions activated during cognitive tasks. This suggests that patterns of task-related activation in individual subjects may result from the engagement of one or more of these ICNs; however, this has not been tested. We used a novel analysis, spatial multiple regression, to test whether the patterns of activation during an N-back working memory task could be well described by a linear combination of ICNs delineated using Independent Components Analysis at rest. We found that across subjects, the cingulo-opercular Set Maintenance ICN, as well as right and left Frontoparietal Control ICNs, were reliably activated during working memory, while Default Mode and Visual ICNs were reliably deactivated. Further, involvement of Set Maintenance, Frontoparietal Control, and Dorsal Attention ICNs was sensitive to varying working memory load. Finally, the degree of left Frontoparietal Control network activation predicted response speed, while activation in both left Frontoparietal Control and Dorsal Attention networks predicted task accuracy. These results suggest that a close relationship between resting-state networks and task-evoked activation is functionally relevant for behavior, and that spatial multiple regression analysis is a suitable method for revealing that relationship.
The neurophysiological underpinnings of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) are not well understood. To understand the relationship between the fMRI blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal and neurophysiology across large areas of cortex, we compared task related BOLD change during simple finger movement to brain surface electric potentials measured on a similar spatial scale using electrocorticography (ECoG). We found that spectral power increases in high frequencies (65-95 Hz), which have been related to local neuronal activity, colocalized with spatially focal BOLD peaks on primary sensorimotor areas. Independent of high frequencies, decreases in low frequency rhythms (&lt;30 Hz), thought to reflect an aspect of cortical-subcortical interaction, colocalized with weaker BOLD signal increase. A spatial regression analysis showed that there was a direct correlation between the amplitude of the task induced BOLD change on different areas of primary sensorimotor cortex and the amplitude of the high frequency change. Low frequency change explained an additional, different part of the spatial BOLD variance. Together, these spectral power changes explained a significant 36% of the spatial variance in the BOLD signal change (R(2) = 0.36). These results suggest that BOLD signal change is largely induced by two separate neurophysiological mechanisms, one being spatially focal neuronal processing and the other spatially distributed low frequency rhythms.
The cerebellum is a key area for movement control and sensory-motor plasticity. Its medial part is considered as the exclusive cerebellar center controlling the accuracy and adaptive calibration of saccadic eye movements. However, the contribution of other zones situated in its lateral part is unknown. We addressed this question in healthy adult volunteers by using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). The double-step target paradigm was used to adaptively lengthen or shorten saccades. TMS pulses over the right hemisphere of the cerebellum were delivered at 0, 30, or 60 ms after saccade detection in separate recording sessions. The effects on saccadic adaptation were assessed relative to a fourth session where TMS was applied to Vertex as a control site. First, TMS applied upon saccade detection before the adaptation phase reduced saccade accuracy. Second, TMS applied during the adaptation phase had a dual effect on saccadic plasticity: adaptation after-effects revealed a potentiation of the adaptive lengthening and a depression of the adaptive shortening of saccades. For the first time, we demonstrate that TMS on lateral cerebellum can influence plasticity mechanisms underlying motor performance. These findings also provide the first evidence that the human cerebellar hemispheres are involved in the control of saccade accuracy and in saccadic adaptation, with possibly different neuronal populations concerned in adaptive lengthening and shortening. Overall, these results require a reappraisal of current models of cerebellar contribution to oculomotor plasticity.
The cingulum bundle is a white matter fiber bundle in the human brain that is believed to be implicated in various neurological and psychiatric diseases. Subtle disease-related differences in metabolite concentrations in the cingulum tracts that may underlie these diseases may be detected using MR spectroscopic information. However, to date, limited signal to noise and lack of spatial resolution have prevented a reliable and reproducible measurement of metabolites in the cingulum bundle in vivo. Here we propose a new method that combines MR spectroscopic imaging at 7 T with fiber tracking to select only those MR spectroscopy voxels that are actually part of the cingulum bundles. The spectra of the selected spectroscopy voxels are processed per voxel and then combined yielding one spectrum at high spectral resolution for each cingulum bundle. In this way sensitivity is increased, as large parts of the cingulum are included while partial volume effects with both gray matter and white matter from other tracts is kept to a minimum. Three healthy volunteers were scanned to assess the feasibility of the method. For all three healthy volunteers spectra for the left and right cingulum tracts were computed, partial volume fractions calculated and metabolite fractions were quantified yielding similar results suggesting that tract-based MR spectroscopy allows us to study metabolic concentrations of individual white matter fiber bundles with high sensitivity and high specificity.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the protective effects of the mitochondria-targeted antioxidant catalase (MCAT) and lifespan extension in mice that express amyloid beta (A). Using immunoblotting and immunostaining analyses, we measured the production of full-length amyloid precursor protein (APP), soluble APP, C-terminal fragments CTF99 and CTF83, monomeric and oligomeric A, A deposits and beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), in different stages of disease progression in MCAT/APP and APP mice. Using quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and immunostaining analyses, we studied the expression of catalase, BACE1, the Alzheimer's disease (AD) markers, synaptophysin, APP, neprilysin, insulin-degrading enzymeand transthyretin in MCAT, APP, MCAT/APP and wild-type (WT) mice. Using the high pressure liquid chromatography analysis of 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine, we measured oxidative DNA damage in the cerebral cortical tissues from MCAT, APP, MCAT/APP and WT mice. We found that the APP transgenic mice that carried the human MCAT gene lived 5 months longer than did the APP mice. We also found that the overexpression of MCAT in the brain sections from the MCAT/APP transgenic mice significantly correlated with a reduction in the levels of full-length APP, CTF99, BACE1, A levels (40 and 42), A deposits and oxidative DNA damage relative to the brain sections from the APP mice. Interestingly, we found significantly increased levels of soluble APP and CTF83 in the MCAT/APP mice, relative to the APP mice. These data provide direct evidence that oxidative stress plays a primary role in AD etiopathology and that in MCAT mice express A, MCAT prevents abnormal APP processing, reduces A levels and enhances A-degrading enzymes in mice at different ages, corresponding to different stages of disease progression. These findings indicate that mitochondria-targeted molecules may be an effective therapeutic approach to treat patients with AD.
Understanding the mechanisms that control processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) to produce amyloid- (A) peptide represents a key area of Alzheimer's disease research. Here, we show that siRNA-mediated loss of calsyntenin-1 in cultured neurons alters APP processing to increase production of A. We also show that calsyntenin-1 is reduced in Alzheimer's disease brains and that the extent of this reduction correlates with increased A levels. Calsyntenin-1 is a ligand for kinesin-1 light chains and APP is transported through axons on kinesin-1 molecular motors. Defects in axonal transport are an early pathological feature in Alzheimer's disease and defective APP transport is known to increase A production. We show that calsyntenin-1 and APP are co-transported through axons and that siRNA-induced loss of calsyntenin-1 markedly disrupts axonal transport of APP. Thus, perturbation to axonal transport of APP on calsyntenin-1 containing carriers induces alterations to APP processing that increase production of A. Together, our findings suggest that disruption of calsyntenin-1-associated axonal transport of APP is a pathogenic mechanism in Alzheimer's disease.

Morning hypertension is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, particularly stroke. However, the optimal time at which to take antihypertensive medication to treat morning hypertension remains unclear. We prospectively enrolled elderly patients (over 65 years old) with morning hypertension who had suffered an ischemic stroke (or strokes). Additional treatments (one of six arms) were randomly administered for 10 weeks in the morning, in the evening or at bedtime (n=15 for each time point/medication). The patients measured their blood pressure and heart rate at home for 14 days prior to the intervention and for the final 14 days, and recorded the data in a blood pressure diary. The patients' urinary albumin/creatinine ratios were evaluated before and after the 10-week intervention. A total of 270 patients were enrolled in this study (mean age: 75.65.8 years; female/male ratio: 125/145). Their morning and evening systolic blood pressures were significantly decreased after following any of the study medication dosing schedules (P&lt;0.001). However, the reductions in the differences between the morning and evening systolic blood pressures were significant only when the medication was taken in the evening or at bedtime (P&lt;0.001 with repeated measures analysis of variance). Furthermore, the recovery rate from morning hypertension was also higher when the medication was taken in the evening (40.0%) or at bedtime (45.6%), rather than in the morning (22.2%; P=0.003 with the (2)-test). Antihypertensive medication taken in the evening or at bedtime is the most effective in treating morning hypertension when the patient adheres to the medication regimen.
Obstructive sleep apnea, a condition resulting in chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH), is an independent risk factor for stroke and dementia, but the mechanisms of the effect are unknown. We tested the hypothesis that CIH increases cerebrovascular risk by altering critical mechanisms regulating cerebral blood flow thereby lowering cerebrovascular reserves. Male C57Bl6/J mice were subjected to CIH (10% O(2) for 90 seconds/room air for 90 seconds; during sleep hours) or sham treatment for 35 days. Somatosensory cortex blood flow was assessed by laser Doppler flowmetry in anesthetized mice equipped with a cranial window. CIH increased mean arterial pressure (from 742 to 833 mm Hg; P&lt;0.05) and attenuated the blood flow increase produced by neural activity (whisker stimulation; -392%; P&lt;0.05) or neocortical application of endothelium-dependent vasodilators (acetylcholine response: -413%; P&lt;0.05). The cerebrovascular dysfunction was associated with oxidative stress in cerebral resistance arterioles and was abrogated by free radical scavenging or NADPH oxidase inhibition. Furthermore, cerebrovascular dysfunction and free radical increase were not observed in mice lacking the NOX2 subunit of NADPH oxidase. CIH markedly increased endothelin 1 in cerebral blood vessels, whereas cerebrovascular dysfunction and oxidative stress were abrogated by neocortical application of the endothelin type A receptor antagonist BQ123. These data demonstrate for the first time that CIH alters key regulatory mechanisms of the cerebral circulation through endothelin 1 and NADPH oxidase-derived radicals. The ensuing cerebrovascular dysfunction may increase stroke risk in patients with sleep apnea by reducing cerebrovascular reserves and increasing the brain's susceptibility to cerebral ischemia.
Electrically evoked compound action potentials (ECAPs) are widely used to study the excitability of the auditory nerve and stimulation properties in cochlear implant (CI) users. However, ECAP detection can be difficult and very subjective at near-threshold stimulation levels or in spread of excitation measurements. In this study, we evaluated the statistical properties of the background noise (BN) and the postaverage residual noise (RN) in ECAP measurements in order to determine an objective detection criterion. For the estimation of the BN and the RN, a method currently used in auditory brainstem response measurements was applied. The potential benefit of using weighted (Bayesian) averages was also examined. All estimations were performed with a set of approximately 360 ECAP measurements recorded from five human CI users of the CII or HiRes90K device (advanced bionics). Results demonstrated that the BN was normally distributed and the RN decreased according to the square root of the number of averages. No additional benefit was observed by using weighted averaging. The noise was not significantly different either at different stimulation intensities or across recording electrodes along the cochlea. The analysis of the statistical properties of the noise indicated that a signal-to-noise ratio of 1.7 dB as a detection criterion corresponds to a false positive detection rate of 1% with the used measurement setup.
In hybrid magnetic resonance-positron emission tomography (MR-PET) studies with the Siemens 3T MR-BrainPET scanner an instantaneous reduction of the PET sensitivity was observed during execution of certain MR sequences. This interference was investigated in detail with custom-made as well as standard clinical MR sequences. The radio-frequency pulses, the switched gradient fields and the constant magnetic field were examined as the relevant parameters of the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system as well as the air temperature within the PET detectors. Our investigation comprised the analysis of the analog PET signals, the total count rates, the geometric distribution of the count rate reduction within the BrainPET detector as well as reconstructed images. The fast switching magnetic field gradients were identified to distort the analog PET detector signals. The measured count rate reduction was found to be less than 3%, but only up to 2% in the case of echo planar imaging sequences, as applied in functional MRI. For clinical sequences routinely used in hybrid MR-BrainPET measurements, a correction method has been designed, implemented, and evaluated .
Although the cochlear implant (CI) is widely considered the most successful neural prosthesis, it is essentially an open-loop system that requires extensive initial fitting and frequent tuning to maintain a high, but not necessarily optimal, level of performance. Two developments in neuroscience and neuroengineering now make it feasible to design a closed-loop CI. One development is the recording and interpretation of evoked potentials (EPs) from the peripheral to the central nervous system. The other is the embedded hardware and software of a modern CI that allows recording of EPs. We review EPs that are pertinent to behavioral functions from simple signal detection and loudness growth to speech discrimination and recognition. We also describe signal processing algorithms used for electric artifact reduction and cancellation, critical to the recording of electric EPs. We then present a conceptual design for a closed-loop CI that utilizes in an innovative way the embedded implant receiver and stimulators to record short latency compound action potentials ( ~1 ms), auditory brainstem responses (1-10 ms) and mid-to-late cortical potentials (20-300 ms). We compare EPs recorded using the CI to EPs obtained using standard scalp electrodes recording techniques. Future applications and capabilities are discussed in terms of the development of a new generation of closed-loop CIs and other neural prostheses.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is the brain-specific capillary barrier that is critical for preventing toxic substances from entering the central nervous system (CNS). In contrast to vessels of peripheral organs, the BBB limits the exchange of inflammatory cells and mediators under physiological and pathological conditions. Clarifying these limitations and the role of chemokines in regulating the BBB would provide new insights into neuroprotective strategies in neuroinflammatory diseases. Because there is a paucity of in vitro BBB models, however, some mechanistic aspects of transmigration across the BBB still remain largely unknown. In this review, we summarize current knowledge of BBB cellular components, the multistep process of inflammatory cells crossing the BBB, functions of CNS-derived chemokines, and in vitro BBB models for transmigration, with a particular focus on new and recent findings.
Neural-specific autoantibodies have been documented and their diagnostic utility validated in diseases affecting the neuraxis from cerebral cortex to the somatic, autonomic, and enteric nervous system and skeletal muscle. These neurological disorders occur both idiopathically and in a paraneoplastic context. Molecular identification of the antigens has expedited development of confirmatory and high-throughput tests for serum and cerebrospinal fluid, which permit early diagnosis and reveal the underlying molecular pathogenic mechanisms. The autoantibodies are classifiable on the basis of antigen location: intracellular (nuclear or cytoplasmic) or plasma membrane. Immunohistopathological studies of patients' biopsied and autopsied tissues suggest that effector T cells mediate the autoimmune neurological disorders for which defining autoantibodies recognize intracellular antigens. Antigens within intact cells are inaccessible to circulating antibody, and the associated neurological deficits rarely improve with antibody-depleting therapies. Tumoricidal therapies may arrest neurological progression, but symptom reversal is rare. In contrast, autoantibodies specific for plasma membrane antigens have pathogenic potential, and the associated neurological deficits are often amenable to antibody-depleting immunotherapy, such as plasma exchange and anti-B-cell monoclonal antibody therapy. These reversible neurological disorders are frequently misdiagnosed as neurodegenerative. The focus of this review is the immunobiology, pathophysiology, and clinical spectrum of autoimmune neurological disorders accompanied by neural-specific IgGs.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a disabling autoimmune disease of the central nervous system, which affects approximately 0.1% of the population with variable degrees of severity. Disease susceptibility is jointly determined by genetic predisposition and environmental contribution. However, as only a handful of genetic risk factors have been investigated beyond initial genome-wide association studies and environmental factors are largely unidentified, the exact mechanism of how these associations interact remains speculative. Our current understanding of this complex and heterogeneous disease has been advanced by experimental data obtained from animal modeling, with particular focus on the mouse MS model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Manipulation of the mouse genome to study genetic risk factors has largely proved informative, but it also has limitations. Integration effects of transgene insertion, gene copy number, and expression variation, as well as differences in regulatory elements between mouse and human, are some of the hurdles faced when using such models to understand human gene variants in mice. Furthermore, as the list of MS disease-associated genetic variants continues to increase, so does the demand to find new approaches to study them. A new generation of humanized mice aims to tighten the gap between mouse and human, such that MS-associated genetic variants can be modeled more physiologically and systematically.




Neurocognitive assessments are useful to determine the locus of insult as well as functional capacities of patients on treatment. In psychiatry, neurocognitive assessment is useful in the identification of brain lesions, evaluation of cognitive deterioration over time, and advancement of theories regarding the neuroanatomical localization of symptoms. Neurocognitive models provide a bridging link between brain pathology and phenomenology. They provide a useful framework to understand the pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders, bringing together isolated findings in behavioral, neuroimaging, and other neurobiological studies. This review will discuss neurocognitive model of three disorders - schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and obsessive compulsive disorder - by incorporating findings from neurocognitive, neuroimaging, and other biological studies.

Pain catastrophizing has been described for more than half a century which adversely affects the pain coping behavior and overall prognosis in susceptible individuals when challenged by painful conditions. It is a distinct phenomenon which is characterized by feelings of helplessness, active rumination and excessive magnification of cognitions and feelings toward the painful situation. Susceptible subjects may have certain demographic or psychological predisposition. Various models of pain catastrophizing have been proposed which include attention-bias, schema-activation, communal-coping and appraisal models. Nevertheless, consensus is still lacking as to the true nature and mechanisms for pain catastrophizing. Recent advances in population genomics and noninvasive neuroimaging have helped elucidate the known determinants and neurophysiological correlates behind this potentially disabling behavior.

Extrapyramidal signs include increased motor tone, changes in the amount and velocity of movement, and involuntary motor activity. They include two groups of signs and related disorders: hypokinetic (similar to Parkinson's disease) and hyperkinetic (similar to Huntington's disease). This article covers some of the neuroscience behind extrapyramidal disorders, the relevance of extrapyramidal signs in the major psychiatric disorders, the major extrapyramidal movement disorders, and how to elicit extrapyramidal signs.




Human pterygium is made up of chronic proliferative fibro-vascular tissue growing on the ocular surface. This disease exhibits both degenerative and hyperplastic properties. Some fibroangiogenic factors have recently been shown to play a potential role in fibrovascular diseases via the angiogenesis process. The aim of this study is to evaluate VEGF, TGF- and PGE expression in the epithelial, endothelial and stromal cells of human pterygium and normal conjunctiva in order to determine whether these factors participate in the development of pterygium. Ten specimens from patients with pterygium and two normal conjunctivas (cadavers) were analyzed by immunohistochemistry using specific antibodies against these growth factors. The technique used was ABC/HRP (Avidin complexed with biotinylated peroxidase). Immunoreactivity of VEGF was significantly increased in the epithelium, vascular endothelium and stromal cells in primary pterygium as compared with normal conjunctiva. A moderate expression of TGF- in the pterygium was observed in the epithelial and stromal layers. On the contrary, immunolabeling of this growth factor in the human normal conjunctiva was weak. PGE was strongly expressed in the epithelium of patients with pterygium, as in control conjunctival tissues, and the immunolabeling was moderate in the stroma from the same patients. Our results suggest that these growth factors may contribute to the progression of primary pterygium by increasing angiogenesis, thus leading to the formation of new blood vessels from the pre-existing vasculature. We conclude that VEGF, TGF- and PGE may be potential therapeutic targets in the treatment of this disease although proof of this evidence requires further studies.
The Inventory of Callous-Unemotional (CU) Traits (ICU) is a self-report questionnaire which was developed to measure the affective features of psychopathy in children and adolescents. Previous studies reported both support and difficulties with this promising new measure. The present study investigated the psychometric and discriminating qualities of the Dutch questionnaire across different groups by examining its structure, distribution and correlates. The ICU was administered to young clinical offenders (detained, N=127), healthy controls (community, N=172), non-clinical offenders (not detained, N=42) and an externalizing non-offender group (under treatment for behavioral problems, N=42). The age range for all groups was 13-20years. Since confirmatory factor analysis of models from earlier research did not yield an acceptable fit, exploratory factor analysis was conducted. Five factors were extracted: Lack of Conscience, Uncaring, Unemotional, Callousness and Lack of Empathy. The results indicated moderate to good test-retest stability and adequate internal consistency. CU traits correlated well with measures of conduct problems and aggression, indicating a good criterion and convergent validity. Results indicate weak associations with expert (Psychopathy Checklist: Youth Version, PCL:YV) and informant (Antisocial Process Screening Device, APSD) measures of psychopathic traits. Although groups could be differentiated on a statistical basis, no meaningful distinction based on CU traits alone was possible. Results of this study cast doubt on the validity of the current ICU. Suggestions are made for improvement.
This paper presents and discusses the views and attitudes of juvenile delinquents regarding the implications of genomics and neurobiology research findings for the prevention and treatment of antisocial behavior. Scientific developments in these disciplines are considered to be of increasing importance for understanding the causes and the course of antisocial behavior and related mental disorders. High expectations exist with regard to the development of more effective prevention and intervention. Whether this is a desirable development does not only depend on science, but also on the ethical and social implications of potential applications of current and future research findings. As this pilot study points out, juvenile delinquents themselves have rather mixed views on the goals and means of early identification, prevention and treatment. Some welcome the potential support and help that could arise from biologically informed preventive and therapeutic measures. Others, however, reject the very goals of prevention and treatment and express worries concerning the risk of labeling and stigmatization and the possibility of false positives. Furthermore, interventions could aim at equalizing people and taking away socially disapproved capacities they themselves value. Moreover, most juvenile delinquents are hardly convinced that their crime could have been caused by some features of their brain or that a mental disorder has played a role. Instead, they provide social explanations such as living in a deprived neighborhood or having antisocial friends. We suggest that the hopes and expectations as well as the concerns and worries of juvenile delinquents are relevant not only for genomics and neurobiology of antisocial behavior, but also for prevention and intervention measures informed by social scientific and psychological research. The range of patterns of thought of juvenile delinquents is of great heuristic value and may lead to subsequent research that could further enhance our understanding of these patterns.
Deficits in information processing speed are among the most commonly reported impairments in multiple sclerosis (MS) and are generally assessed by evaluating mean-level performance on time-limited tests. However, this approach to assessing performance ignores potential within-subject differences in MS patients that may be useful for characterizing cognitive difficulties in MS. An alternative method of measuring performance is by examining the degree of within-subject variability, termed intra-individual variability (IIV). Intra-individual variability provides information about the characteristics of a person's performance over time and may provide novel information about cognitive functioning in MS. This study examined IIV in performance on the Computerized Test of Information Processing (CTIP) using two within-subject variability methods: individual standard deviation and coefficient of variation. Eighteen females with relapsing-remitting MS and 18 healthy female controls completed the CTIP. Consistent with previous research, MS patients demonstrated slower overall mean performance on the CTIP compared with controls, with patients becoming increasingly slower than controls as cognitive demands increased across the tasks. Furthermore, MS patients demonstrated greater IIV as measured by individual standard deviations on all subtests of the CTIP, even with mean-level group differences as well as practice and learning effects controlled. These between-group differences were not found when the coefficient of variation, a more coarse measure of within-subject variability, was used. Intra-individual variability was also found to be a better predictor of neurologic status than mean-level performance. These results suggest that IIV may provide unique insight into cognitive functioning in MS.
Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) shows stepwise progression over decades. The multifocal weakness usually remains asymmetric, confined to distal limb muscles, while sparing cranial, phrenic, and sensory nerves. One electrophysiological hallmark is partial motor conduction block (CB) at sites not exposed to compression; whether CB is an essential feature remains debatable. High titer of anti-GM1 antibodies is found with figures usually between 40% and 50% of patients. Intravenous immuneglobulin (IVIg) is effective in almost 80%, but plasmapheresis and steroids are not. The condition is reported as lethal exceptionally, mimicking motor neuron diseases (MND). We have studied two patients who failed to respond to treatment and who died with respiratory failure; one of the two had high titer of IgM antibody to the ganglioside GM1. Our cases confirm that great attention should be paid in order to define the borderland between MMN and MND and the entity of their clinical and electrophysiological overlaps.
